-- Treasuries Fall as Employment Gains Cast Doubt on Fed’s Low-Rate Policy
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-04T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/treasuries-fall-as-employment-gains-cast-doubt-on-fed-s-low-rate-policy.html
Treasuries declined after the U.S.
jobless rate unexpectedly fell to the lowest in three years,
raising skepticism about Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s extended low-rate policy and limiting demand for the
safety of U.S. debt.  Yields on 30-year bonds  reached  the highest level in more
than a week as the economy added more jobs in January than
forecast, easing concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is stalling the
U.S. recovery. The difference between yields on 10-year notes
and the inflation-indexed securities of the same maturity
touched the widest since October. The U.S. will sell $72 billion
in notes and bonds next week.  “The pressure is on the back end of the market,” said
 Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “There are fears of
inflation and fears Bernanke won’t be able to stop the inflation
he thinks he can. This back-up makes it more palpable to buy the
auctions. Those are nice concessions.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose three basis points
for the week, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.92 percent in  New
York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in November 2021 fell 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 22/32. The yield advanced as much as
13 basis points yesterday, the largest intraday gain since Nov.
10.  A drop of more than three points in 30-year bonds yesterday
pushed yields up as much as 16 basis points to 3.16 percent, the
 highest level  since Jan. 25. The yield was up six basis points
during the week. Five-year note yields set a record low of
0.6960 percent yesterday before the jobs data were released.  Market Measure  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities touched 2.19 percentage points
yesterday, the widest since Oct. 28. The so-called break-even
rate, which reflects the outlook among traders for consumer
prices, averaged 2.03 percentage points during the past five
years.  “The bond bulls are shaking in their boots,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura Holdings
Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the
Fed. “The rates market is not just driven by the Fed. It’s
driven by the path of the economy. Investors won’t take these
low rates for longer if the economic numbers continue to post as
well as they have. Investors get fearful of inflation.”  A Fed  measure  of perceived risk associated with extending
debt maturities, the so-called term premium, rose to 0.7 percent
yesterday, after tumbling Feb. 2 to negative 0.79 percent, the
most expensive level ever. A negative reading represents
overvalued levels and indicates investors are demanding premiums
below what’s considered fair value.  Three Auctions  The U.S. will sell $32 billion in three-year notes, $24
billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in 30-year bonds on
three consecutive days beginning Feb. 7. The sizes are the same
sold in each refunding month since November 2010. The auctions
will raise $22.4 billion of new cash as maturing securities held
by the public total $49.6 billion.  The U.S. previously auctioned three-year notes on Jan. 10
at the highest demand on record. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of notes
offered was 3.73, the highest since at least 1993, when the
government began releasing the data. The notes drew a yield of
0.37 percent, almost the record low of 0.334 percent reached at
the sale in September. The three-year note traded yesterday at
0.32 percent.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee unanimously
recommended that the government allow for its auctions of bills
to price at negative yields “as soon as logistically
practical,” according to the group’s Jan. 31 report to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Borrowing Advice  The 13-member committee, which includes representatives
from five primary dealer firms as well as investment companies
including BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co.,
said “that flooring interest rates at zero, or capping issuance
proceeds at par, was prohibiting proper market function.”  The U.S. will auction bills maturing from four weeks to one
year on Feb. 6 and Feb. 7.  Volatility in the Treasury market is at almost an eight-
month low. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which
measures price swings based on options, closed Feb. 2 at 70.2,
the lowest since July 2007 and less than the five-year average
of 111.8.  Bond Returns  Treasuries returned 0.3 percent in 2012 as of Feb. 2,
versus 2.2 percent for company debt, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  U.S. debt  securities fell yesterday after the Labor
Department said employers added 243,000 jobs in January after an
increase of 203,000 positions in the previous month. The median
forecast of 89 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 140,000 jobs. The jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent.  Gains in employment in January were broad-based, including
manufacturing, construction, temporary help agencies, accounting
firms, restaurants and retailers.  “It’s a solid report all around,” said  Tom Porcelli ,
chief U.S. economist in New York at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC
Capital Markets , a primary dealer. “In some ways it removes
some of the negative sentiment that had been building toward the
economic backdrop. It’s certainly encouraging.”  At a meeting last month, the Fed pledged to keep its
interest rate almost zero until late 2014.  Bernanke on Feb. 7 will testify to the Senate Budget
Committee on the economic outlook and the federal budget
situation. Bernanke said after a two-day policy meeting Jan. 24-
25 that the central bank is considering additional asset
purchases to boost growth after extending its pledge to keep
 interest rates  low through at least late 2014.  The central bank purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing that
ended in June. The Fed is in the process of  replacing  $400
billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  