-- Russia’s UN Veto Gives Syria ‘License to Kill’
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-02-05T12:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/russia-s-un-veto-on-syria-measure-gives-assad-license-to-kill-.html
Failure by the  United Nations 
Security Council to deliver global condemnation of  Syria  gives
President Bashar al-Assad room to continue his 11-month
crackdown on protesters.  While 13 countries in the 15-member Security Council voted
yesterday to adopt a proposal by Western and Arab countries to
end the bloodshed,  Russia  used its veto to block the draft
resolution against its top Mideast ally. Taking Russia’s lead,
China also cast a veto.  Assad stands to benefit from the collapse of the resolution
a day after reports that security forces killed 330 people in
the city of Homs, one of the bloodiest attacks since protests
began last March. This is the second time Russia has blocked
attempts at the UN to hold Assad accountable for a conflict that
the UN says has killed more than 5,400 people.  The veto gives Assad a “license to kill,” Qatari Minister
of State for  Foreign Affairs  Khalid Al Attiyah said today at a
security conference in Munich. “Yesterday was a sad day,” he
said. “This is exactly what we feared.”  Syrian Ambassador Bashar al-Jafari told the council after
the vote that the “killing was carried out by terrorist
opposition to send you a misleading message in an attempt to
influence the vote.”  ‘Doomed Regime’  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said Syria’s
government was bound to fall and that the UN will return to the
subject of violence in Syria. “This is a doomed regime, as well
as a murdering regime,” Hague told  Sky News . “There’s no way
it can get its credibility back.”  Syrian rebels killed nine soldiers in fighting overnight in
Idlib, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said
in an e-mailed statement today. Twenty-one soldiers were wounded
and four military vehicles were damaged, the group said.  Syria halted operations at a sugar refinery in the central
city of Homs due to security conditions,  Al Arabiya  television
reported today without saying where it obtain the information.  At least 330 civilians were killed and more than 1,600
wounded as Syrian forces shelled the city of Homs with mortars
and artillery Feb. 3, Al-Jazeera reported, citing activists. The
death toll in Syria yesterday increased by 95, including 39 in
Homs, Al Arabiya reported, citing activists.  Russian Isolation  A measure of Russia’s growing isolation is that  South
Africa  and  India , which had abstained in an October vote on
Syria that was vetoed by Russia and China, yesterday broke ranks
and sided with Arab and European nations.  Both countries took issue with Russia’s claims that
concessions made by Arab and European Union negotiators in the
final draft could still be interpreted as calls for an Assad
ouster.  “We thought we had a consensus text” and that “everyone
was agreed,” Indian Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri said in an
interview. The Russians wanted “another three days time but
with the spiraling violence the council was not in the mood to
countenance delayed action.”  For both Russia and  China  to veto the resolution after the
regime’s assault on Homs and after Arab and Western allies
diluted the resolution “effectively means they were helping
Assad play for time and ensure his rule,” according to Andrew J. Tabler, Syrian expert and fellow at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy.  Weapons Sales  Russia sells Syria weapons and has its only military base
outside the former  Soviet Union  in the Syrian port of Tartus.  The Russian Ambassador to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said
that, while he “would certainly agree tragic events are
happening” in Syria, his country had “made an honest effort.”
He said the  Arab League , which in November imposed sanctions on
Assad, “shall not count on the Council” for endorsement of a
plan that imposes a timeline on when Assad should leave.  China said it voted against the resolution because the
declaration may further complicate events in Syria.  Any move to “put undue emphasis on pressuring the Syrian
government, prejudge the result of the dialogue or impose any
solution” won’t help resolve the Syrian issue, China’s Ministry
of Foreign Affairs said in a statement posted on its website
today.  Russia’s alignment with Syria may put at stake the
Kremlin’s relationship with oil-rich Gulf States led by Qatar
that asked the  Security Council  to endorse their plan to
convince Assad to delegate his powers to a deputy to pave way
for elections.  Before votes were cast, Russia announced that Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov would visit Damascus on Feb. 7 to hold
talks with Assad. Lavrov will be accompanied by Mikhail Fradkov,
head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, the Foreign Ministry
said in a statement posted on its website today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  