-- Saudi Shares Gain for Ninth Day on Home Loans Agreement, U.S. Employment
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-02-04T13:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/saudi-shares-gain-for-ninth-day-on-home-loans-agreement-u-s-employment.html
Saudi Arabian shares extended gains
for a ninth day after a local bank signed a deal to accelerate
home loans and the U.S. jobless rate slid to the lowest level in
three years, boosting the outlook for the global economy.  Bank Albilad (ALBI) , the kingdom’s second-smallest bank by market
value, jumped the most in more than eight months.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) ,
the largest publicly traded lender by assets, gained for a third
day.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, reached its highest close in more than
three weeks.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rallied 1.1 percent to 6,733.68
at the 3:30 p.m. close in  Riyadh , trimming earlier gains of as
much as 1.7 percent. The gauge rose for a ninth day, the longest
winning stretch since the nine days that ended Feb. 22, 2010.
The 150-member measure has extended this year’s climb to 4.9
percent.  “Banking shares are leading the index driven by a deal
signed last week that will help accelerate real-estate lending
in the kingdom,” said Turki Fadaak, head of research at Riyadh-
based Albilad Investment Co. Riyadh-based Albilad signed an
agreement with the  Real Estate Development Fund  to help
accelerate home loans in the Arab Peninsula’s most populous
country,  al-Sharq al-Awsat  reported on Feb. 2.  Albilad climbed 6.7 percent, the biggest increase since May
10, to 24 riyals, after surging as much as 10 percent, the
maximum fluctuation allowed in a trading session.  Al Rajhi 
contributed the most to  the index’s rally , adding 2.1 percent,
to 74 riyals. The stock has gained 3.1 percent in the past three
days.  U.S. Employment  “Positive employment figures out of the U.S. are one of
the factors driving trading today,” said Asim Bukhtiar, head of
research at Riyad Capital.  U.S. payrolls increased by 243,000 last month, the most
since April and exceeding the 140,000 median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  unemployment rate  dropped
to 8.3 percent, the lowest level since February 2009, bolstering
the fortunes of the world’s largest economy, which is still
recovering from a recession that started in 2008.  “Turnover has also steadily increased to recent record
levels on speculation that announcement on foreign ownership may
be forthcoming soon,” Bukhtiar said. About 502 million  shares 
were traded on the Tadawul today, compared with a six-month
daily average of 215 million shares.  Sabic advanced 0.8 percent to 94.75 riyals, its highest
close since Jan. 10. The Riyadh-based company is in talks with
Egypt’s Industrial Development Authority to build a
petrochemicals plant in Egypt, Cairo-based Al Masry Al Youm
reported, citing Ismail el-Nagdy, the authority’s chairman.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
that opens on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  