-- Niinistoe Wins Finnish Presidential Vote
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-02-05T18:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/sauli-niinistoe-favored-to-win-finland-s-presidential-election.html
Sauli Niinistoe, the candidate of the
ruling National Coalition Party, won today’s Finnish
presidential run-off election as the Nordic nation showed its
support for his group’s pro- Europe  policies.  The 63-year-old former finance minister beat his opponent
Pekka Haavisto of the Green League with 64 percent of the votes
to 36 percent, broadcaster YLE projected as 81.7 percent of the
ballots were counted. Haavisto conceded defeat in an interview
on YLE TV1.  “I suppose I have to begin to believe this,” Niinistoe
said in an interview on YLE TV1 after seeing the projection.  Niinistoe may need to gird Finns for austerity measures
with the northernmost euro nation heading for its second
recession in four years as the debt crisis weighs on demand.
Saddled with Europe’s fastest aging population, Finns are
tightening their belts amid a fourth consecutive  budget deficit .  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  plans 1.16 billion euros
($1.5 billion) of spending cuts and 1.1 billion euros in tax
increases this year to plug the shortfall, estimated at 1.4
percent of gross domestic product.  “Niinistoe is running on a platform of economic realism,”
said Tuomo Martikainen, professor emeritus in political science
at the University of Helsinki. “He’s mainly concerned with how
to boost Finland’s economy and ensure it withstands the crisis.
Haavisto speaks more on human rights.”  Soini Defeat  Niinistoe won 37 percent of votes in the first round last
month, defeating candidates such as Timo Soini, the head of
“The Finns” party, who has called for Finland to exit the
euro.  Finland , one of four remaining AAA rated countries in the
bloc, has threatened to derail efforts to solve the crisis,
including demanding collateral to provide emergency funds to
 Greece .  Finland’s first woman president, Tarja Halonen, is stepping
down after a limit of two six-year terms.  The president is the head of state, while the prime
minister runs the government. Presidential powers include
steering foreign policy in cooperation with the government,
appointing top civil servants such as the central bank governor
and commanding the armed forces. Bank of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen’s second and final term ends in July 2018 and his
successor may be named by the new president.  After constitutional amendments have shifted the balance to
the government, the greatest power lies in the prestige and
authority of the position, Martikainen said.  “The president can use his position to influence public
opinion,” Martikainen said. “Rhetorical clout is a significant
method of wielding power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  