-- South Africa’s ANC Party Upholds Charges Against Malema Strengthening Zuma
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/south-africa-s-anc-upholds-malema-charges-strengthening-zuma.html
Julius Malema, the leader of the
youth league of South  Africa ’s ruling African National Congress,
lost a bid to overturn charges that led to his suspension from
the party, increasing President  Jacob Zuma ’s chances of winning
a second term as party leader.  Malema, 30, was cast out of the ANC for five years on Nov.
10, after a disciplinary committee found he brought the party
into disrepute by calling for the ouster of the government of
neighboring Botswana and insulting ANC leaders. An appeals
panel, led by businessman  Cyril Ramaphosa , upheld the charges
yesterday, while judging that Malema could appeal against the
severity of his sentence.  The ANC is due to hold elections in December, and Malema
has been pushing for Zuma to be replaced as party leader by his
deputy Kgalema Motlanthe. The youth leader, who remained an ANC
member while the appeal was pending, may be unable to use ANC
platforms to campaign once suspended.  “President Zuma has come out looking a little bit stronger
than he was before,” Mari Harris, a political analyst at Ipsos
Markinor, a Johannesburg-based research company, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “ Julius Malema  has overestimated his
support, both in the country and in the party.”  Discipline  Malema and five other youth league officials who were
disciplined for breaking party rules may argue for lighter
sentences because they weren’t given the opportunity to present
mitigating arguments, Ramaphosa said yesterday in Johannesburg.
The disciplinary panel, which must hear their case within 14
days, may decide to impose even harsher sentences, he said.  The decision on when Malema’s suspension will take effect
“resides within the leading structures of the ANC,” Jackson
Mthembu, a party spokesman, said by phone.  The appeals panel overruled a finding that league officials
had purposefully disrupted a meeting where Zuma was present. It
dismissed the youth league’s claims that the disciplinary
proceedings were procedurally flawed and that the officials who
oversaw them were biased.  “Substantively Malema is still the loser,”  Aubrey Matshiqi , a political analyst at the Helen Suzman Foundation in
Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. “The verdict against
him has not changed.”  Malema, who has publicly ridiculed Zuma, has lobbied the
ANC to adopt a policy of nationalizing mines, banks and land in
Africa’s biggest economy. Chief executives of the largest
companies operating in South Africa, including  Anglo American
Plc (AGL)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , have warned the policy threat
may deter investment.  The league, which helped Zuma oust Thabo Mbeki as ANC
leader in 2007, successfully pressured the ruling party to study
the viability of nationalization. In October last year, Malema
led thousands of young supporters on a 62-kilometer (39-mile)
march between Johannesburg and Pretoria, calling for
nationalization and jobs. A quarter of  South Africa ’s workforce
is  unemployed .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  