-- World’s Largest Sugar Refinery Will Buy More Sweetener From India in 2012
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-04T10:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-04/world-s-largest-sugar-refinery-will-buy-more-sweetener-from-india-in-2012.html
Al Khaleej  Sugar Co., the world’s
largest sugar refinery based in Dubai, will expand purchases of
sugar from India in the first half of this year, according to
Jamal Al Ghurair, managing director of the company.  The refinery has already bought 80,000 metric tons of the
sweetener from India, the world’s second-largest producer, and
that number may climb to as much as 100,000 tons in the next two
weeks, Al Ghurair said in an interview in Dubai before the
opening of an annual conference organized by Kingsman SA, a
Lausanne, Switzerland-based broker and researcher. Al Khaleej
last tapped Indian supplies three to four years ago, he said.  “Normally we buy sugar from Brazil and we continue to buy
sugar from Brazil, but from time to time, when  India  comes out
with raw sugar, we buy it,” Al Ghurair said in the interview.
“We get a better deal and this is a product that is available
in the market so we try to make use of it because of the
proximity of the logistics between India and the Emirate.”  India is exporting sugar for a second year this season as
domestic supplies exceed demand. Production there will rise 6.2
percent to 28.3 million tons in the season ending Sept. 30, data
from the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  show. A panel of
ministers may consider permits for shipment of another 1 million
tons on Feb. 7 after clearing a similar quantity in November,
according to an official with direct knowledge of the talks, who
declined to be identified because the plan hasn’t been
announced.  $20 a Ton  Buying Indian sugar is about $20 a ton cheaper than
purchasing the sweetener from  Brazil , according to Al Ghurair.
The Indian sugar, which is different from the traditional raw-
sugar, will be used to make the white, or refined, variety, he
said. The refinery has no plans to purchase sugar from  Thailand ,
the world’s second-largest exporter.  “Thai sugar is not competitive to bring to us,” he said.
The quality of the sugar produced in Thailand is “not fit to
use in the refinery.”  Al Khaleej has installed capacity to produce 6,000 tons a
day and plans to purchase 2 million tons of raw sugar this year,
Al Ghurair said. About 80 percent to 85 percent will come from
Brazil, he said. The recent switch to Indian sugar is a “small
dent” to the share of Brazilian sweetener the refinery buys
annually.  EU Supplies  The Dubai-based refinery is operating at about 60 percent
of the total capacity as large supplies of white sugar from the
European Union are readily available in the market, he said. For
refiners in general, profitability is limited even as the  white
sugar’s premium  over the raw is near $100 a ton, up from $88 a
ton at the end of last year, according to Al Ghurair. That is
because sugar for March delivery is more expensive than May-
delivered sweetener, he said.  “You are buying the March and you are selling the May. You
lose $40 on that, so in reality it’s not $100 but $60,” he said
referring to the white premium. “Right now we are having a lot
of European white sugar hitting the world market and as soon as
this disappears the dynamics will change.”  European Union sugar production is forecast to jump 18
percent to 18.26 million tons in the 2011-12 season, more than a
previous forecast of 17.83 million tons, data from the European
Commission published on Jan. 13 show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 