-- 
Axelrod Says ‘Pure Politics’ May Undermine Economic Stimulus

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/-pure-politics-threatens-economic-progress-obama-strategist-axelrod-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s upcoming
job stimulus plan and proposals to curb the national debt are
endangered by politics, said  David Axelrod , campaign strategist
for the president’s re-election effort.  The failure to reach bipartisan consensus is due to “pure
politics,” Axelrod said in an interview that aired yesterday on
 CNN ’s “State of the Union.” Republican strategists such as
 Karl Rove  countered on other news shows that Obama’s policies
are falling short and jeopardizing his chances of winning a
second term.  “The only thing that keeps us from acting on many of these
things is pure politics,” Axelrod said. “The fact that we
can’t agree to extend a payroll tax cut for working Americans is
bewildering to me, and the only explanation is politics.”  Obama plans to announce steps next month to stimulate the
economy as U.S. unemployment measures 9.1 percent and banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  have lowered economic growth forecasts
for next year.  The economy is sputtering three years into Obama’s term in
part because of tax cuts passed under President  George W. Bush 
and the cost of two wars that began during the Republican’s
administration, said Axelrod.  Lowering the  unemployment rate  has eluded Obama because his
efforts to stimulate growth continue to falter, said Karl Rove,
the former top strategist to Bush.  “His policies have utterly failed,” Rove said of Obama
yesterday on the “Fox News Sunday” program.  Bad Policy  Obama’s re-election is at risk because of growing voter
disenfranchisement,  Ed Gillespie , a former Republican national
committee chairman, said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “The biggest threat to his re-election is the growing
sense that this president may be in over his head,” said
Gillespie. “You’re starting to see that take root with voters,
especially independent voters.”  Obama “can complain about bad luck. The reality is it’s
bad policy,” he said.  The president’s job approval rating was 40 percent in a
Gallup daily tracking poll taken Aug. 14-16 after earlier
hitting 39 percent, the lowest since he took office.
Congressional approval was at 13 percent, tying an all-time low,
in a Gallup Aug. 11-14 poll.  Still, Obama’s re-election effort raised more than $86
million in the quarter ending June 30, eclipsing the combined
haul of the 2012 Republican field.  Benefit Cuts  Obama will lay out proposals for “modest” benefit
reductions in programs such as Medicare to pare the deficit in
the long term, while pressing Republicans to extend a 2
percentage-point payroll tax cut set to expire at the end of
this year, Axelrod said.  The president will also push for funding of road projects,
bridges, education and research to create jobs and reinforce
longer-term economic competitiveness, he said.  Obama’s 10-day vacation, which began Aug. 19 on  Martha’s
Vineyard ,  Massachusetts , is sending “not the right signal” to
voters, Gillespie said yesterday on the CBS show.  “I don’t begrudge the president for taking some time with
his family and taking a vacation, I’m sure it’s got to be
exhausting wrecking an economy as big as the  United States ,”
Gillespie said.  Also yesterday, Republican presidential candidate and
former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. criticized his rivals for
the nomination in an interview on ABC’s “This Week. He said
they showed ‘‘zero leadership’’ during the debate over raising
the U.S. debt ceiling.  Huntsman also said Texas Governor Rick Perry’s comments
casting doubt on the theory of evolution and the human role in
global warming were a ‘‘serious problem’’ that may lose
Republican voters.  ‘‘I wouldn’t necessarily trust any of my opponents right
now,’’ Huntsman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  