-- 
‘The Help’ Rises to No. 1 Film With $20 Million in Sales

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-22T23:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/-the-help-rises-to-no-1-at-box-office-with-20-5-million-in-ticket-sales.html
The civil rights-era drama “The
Help” rose to No. 1 in its second weekend in U.S. and Canadian
theaters, taking in $20 million for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks Studios SKG.  The film, about the tension between black maids and their
white employers in 1960s Mississippi, displaced “Rise of the
Planet of the Apes,”  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. The film from  News Corp. (NWSA)  slipped to
second after two weeks in first place.  “The Help,” based on the Kathryn Stockett novel, has
generated $71.3 million since it opened on Aug. 10. The film is
the third from Disney to reach first place in box-office sales
this year, following “Cars 2” and “Pirates of the Caribbean:
On Stranger Tides.” Disney is distributing the film for
DreamWorks Studios.  “‘The Help’ is the perfect example of a word-of-mouth
film, where success is built upon people telling their friends
about it and social networking about it,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of the box-office division of
Hollywood.com.  “The Help” stars  Emma Stone  as an aspiring journalist who
writes about the experiences of black maids in racially
segregated  Mississippi . The film explores relations between
middle-class white women and the blacks who work in their homes.  ‘Spy Kids’  Octavia Spencer and Viola Davis co-star as the black women
who cope with mixed emotions caring for their employers’ white
children while enduring insults from the mothers.  “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” the prequel to the 1968
classic, had $16.1 million in receipts. The movie revives the
franchise that began with the original film about a world where
apes dominate humans. Six previous movies have generated $691.3
million in domestic ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo ,
an industry tracker.  The film stars  James Franco  and has taken in $133.6 million
in the U.S. and  Canada  since it opened Aug. 5.  Weinstein Co.’s “Spy Kids: All the Time in the World,”
one of four movies opening this past weekend, finished third
with $11.6 million. The movie is the fourth in the series of
children’s movies by “Sin City” director  Robert Rodriguez .  In the latest film, distributed by Dimension Films,  Jessica Alba  stars as a retired spy who juggles motherhood and marriage
after being called back to service. The children join the action
after learning about their stepmother’s past. Danny Trejo co-
stars as Uncle Machete.  ‘Conan’  Two other films making their debuts rounded out the top
five.  “Conan The Barbarian,” a remake of the 1982 film that
launched  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s film career, finished fourth
with $10 million. The film follows the warrior, inspired by the
character created by Robert E. Howards, as he seeks to avenge
the massacre of his village. His mission grows into a quest to
battle a supernatural evil.  “Fright Night,” a remake of the 1985 motion picture, was
fifth with sales of $8.1 million. In the film a teenager, played
by Anton Yelchin, is convinced that a new neighbor portrayed by
 Colin Farrell  is a vampire.  The romantic drama “One Day” also opened this past
weekend with $5.1 million to finish ninth. In the film,  Anne Hathaway  plays a working-class British woman who falls for a
wealthy charmer played by Jim Sturgess. The movie is from  Focus
Features , part of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 3.5 percent to
$106.4 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have declined 4.1 percent to $7.13
billion, while attendance is down 5.1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Aug.
19 through today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  