-- 
Apple, Samsung Seeking to Build on Minor Victories on EU Galaxy Tablet Ban

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-08-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/apple-samsung-seek-to-build-on-victories-on-eu-galaxy-tab-ban.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. both won temporary victories in the German case over tablet
computer sales in the European Union. They will try to turn the
court’s conflicted position to their advantage when judges hear
oral arguments over the Korean company’s product this week.  The Dusseldorf Regional Court on Aug. 9 granted Apple, the
maker of the iPad, a sales ban against Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1
tablet in 26 of the 27 EU member countries, only to then scale
back its effects a week later over jurisdictional doubts. The
backtracking indicates the court is open to revising the rulings
it made under time constraints, said Alexander Bulling, a patent
attorney at law firm Dreiss in Stuttgart.  “Nothing is finally decided yet, and we will have to see
how the judges see the case after reviewing all arguments,”
said Bulling, who isn’t involved in the case.  Samsung’s dispute with its rival -- and biggest customer --
across three continents is undermining the company’s ability to
compete in a tablet market that’s forecast to rise to
$53 billion by 2015. If the ban were in place until January,
Samsung may miss out on sales of as many as 500,000 Galaxy
tablets, or about 10 percent of its estimated total for the
year, said  Neil Mawston , a London-based analyst at  Strategy
Analytics .  Courts in EU member states can issue orders against certain
forms of intellectual-property violations that cover the whole
region. Whether that allows a German court to issue a ban beyond
its national borders against a company headquartered outside
 Europe  has became a point of argument since Samsung opposed the
injunction. The German judges decided not to impose that part of
the ruling until after an Aug. 25 hearing.  Germany, Korea  While it’s clear Apple can sue Samsung’s German unit for
pan-European relief, it’s trickier with the Korean parent, said
Magnus Hirsch, an IP lawyer at SKW Schwarz in  Frankfurt  who
represents clients in similar suits in  Germany .  “You can sue a non-EU-based company if it has a subsidiary
here,” said Hirsch. “But Samsung’s German unit was set up as
an independent company so it probably doesn’t count.”  Apple may also be able to invoke case law saying a German
court has jurisdiction over foreign companies that violate EU-
wide intellectual property protections if they are part of a
chain of violators along with a Germany-based company, he said.  Apple must protect its intellectual property when other
companies are stealing its ideas, the company said in an e-
mailed statement, reiterating previous comments on the dispute.  Member States  If the iPad maker can’t convince the judges to back the
pan-EU ban, it can try to sue in each EU member state, as it has
already done in the Netherlands. It may also seek an EU-wide
injunction in a Spanish court, where the agency that registered
the intellectual property is based.  “Samsung is very committed to make its mobile-
communication devices available on the market,” said Katja
Meincke, a spokeswoman for the Suwon, South Korea-based company.
“That’s why we look forward to claim our intellectual property
rights at the Aug. 25 hearing.”  Apple said in court papers that German computer magazines
had already published reviews of the Galaxy device, showing its
introduction was imminent.  While Apple risks damage claims if it loses the dispute in
the end, the iPad maker may not be afraid of that.  “The amount of damages in these cases isn’t easy to
gauge,” said Timo Ehmann, an intellectual property lawyer in
Munich. “Apple most likely has balanced that risk against the
value it takes from preserving its singular status in the tablet
market for as long as possible.”  Apple Revenue  The iPad was the second-biggest source of Apple’s
$28.6 billion in second quarter revenue, behind the iPhone.  Apple provided its iPad, as well as a Galaxy device, to the
court for review. The judges are likely to issue a ruling within
three weeks of the hearing, court spokesman Peter Schuetz said.  Beyond the jurisdiction hurdle, Cupertino, California-based
Apple may have a problem with the strength of its protection.  Apple won the temporary halt because it relied on a so-
called EU design, registered with the  European trademarks and
designs office  in Alicante,  Spain . It is generally easier to
revoke an EU design than its equivalent in the U.S., a so-called
design patent, Bulling said.  “A registered community design can only prevail if the
form is new, meaning it hasn’t been made available to the public
or used before,” Bulling said. “If you look at the design
Apple filed, it reminds you of things we well know: a picture
frame or a mirror -- some people even say it looks like a slice
of toast.”  ‘Very Odd’  It’s up to competitors and other interested parties to
oppose a design’s validity. Bulling said it was “very odd”
Samsung hadn’t done so before because the design was filed in
2004 and the design register is public.  Protected designs can’t force competitors to make bad
products, said Ehmann, who isn’t involved in the case and hasn’t
compared the two devices.  “A tablet is flat and has a touch screen. It’s difficult
to picture how you can make one that looks fundamentally
different,” he said.  The German case against Samsung is: LG Dusseldorf, 14c O
194/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 