-- 
Assad Rejects ‘Colonialist’ U.S. Call to Quit, Plans Parliament Elections

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-08-21T21:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/assad-rejects-colonialist-u-s-call-to-quit-plans-parliament-elections.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
rejected U.S. and European demands that he step down and pledged
to schedule parliamentary elections by February as well as
conduct a review of the constitution.  Assad, in an interview on state television from Damascus
yesterday, called the U.S. and European nations “colonialist
Western countries” that want to infringe on  Syria ’s
sovereignty. He raised the specter of Western military action
against Syria.  “We don’t permit any country in the world, near or far, to
interfere,” Assad said. “Any military action against Syria
will have many more implications than they can bear.”  Assad’s comments prompted demonstrations in the capital
Damascus and its suburbs, Al Arabiya television reported. Syrian
police fired at protesters in the suburbs of Dariya and Kissweh
and in the city of Homs, the news organization said, citing
activists.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in a coordinated move with
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and European Union
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , issued a statement on
Aug. 18 saying Assad should step down and let Syrians chart
their own political future.  The European Union followed a day later with an agreement
to broaden sanctions against the regime, including preparing for
a ban on the import of Syrian  crude oil  into the bloc, according
to an e-mailed statement on Aug. 19.  2,400 Killed  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began in mid-March after
revolts ousted the leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt  and sparked a
conflict in  Libya .  More than 2,400 people have been killed since the protests
started, according to the Damascus-based Arab Organization for
Human Rights and the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria. More than 500 members of the security forces have died
since the unrest began, the government has said.  Assad said yesterday that security had improved and that
Syrian forces had foiled efforts to undermine Syria.  “We have recently made security achievements which we have
not announced yet in order to ensure their success,” he said in
the interview broadcast by the Damascus-based Syrian Arab News
Agency.  Assad, who succeeded his father as president after his
death in 2000, has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots. Anyone proven to have committed an offense against a
Syrian citizen, whether civilian or military, will be held
accountable, he said yesterday.  ‘Lost Credibility’  This was the fourth time Assad addressed the country since
the unrest started. In June, he called for a national dialogue
that may lead to constitutional amendments and new laws. In
April, he said the lack of a connection between the government
and its people had created popular anger.  “Assad has lost credibility with the U.S., the Arab states
and the Europeans,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research
at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military
Analysis. “His commitment to reform is all talk.”  Since Assad told UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on Aug.
18 that security operations had stopped, the government has
maintained its crackdown. Thirteen people died Aug. 20 in
clashes, with most of the deaths in the city of Homs, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human
Rights, said in a phone interview from Damascus, the capital.  Firing on Protesters  Government forces fired on protesters Aug. 20 in the Homs
governorate and Daraa, according to Merhi. At least 40 people
were killed on Aug. 19 in Damascus, Homs and Daraa, the area
where the revolt against Syria’s president began, according to
the  website  of the National Organization for Human Rights in
Syria.  Armed groups killed 12 members of the security forces on
Aug. 19 in Damascus, Homs and Idlib, the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency reported. Security forces in the al-Ramel al-Janoubi
neighborhood in the coastal city of Latakia seized machine guns,
hand grenades and explosives, the  news service  reported.  Obama’s declaration was his first explicit call for Assad
to give up power since the uprising started. He also signed an
executive order freezing any Syrian government assets in the
U.S. and banning the import to the U.S. of petroleum products of
Syrian origin. The order prohibits people in the U.S. from doing
business with Syria.  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors
from Syria earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in  Washington  at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 