-- 
Australia to Create U.S.-Style Budget Office to Advise Lawmakers

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-21T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/australia-to-create-u-s-style-budget-office-to-advise-lawmakers.html
Australia  will create an independent
parliamentary budget office to provide federal lawmakers with
research and advice on the cost of their policies, mirroring
similar bodies in the U.S. and  Canada .  The government will introduce legislation into parliament
this week to create the institution, which will cost A$24.9
million ($25.9 million) over four years to run, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The office will “promote greater understanding in the
community about the budget and fiscal policy,” Swan said.  An Australian version of the U.S. Congressional Budget
Office aims to give voters an independent assessment of policies
and their impact on the nation’s finances. Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose government relies on support from independent
lawmakers, this month called on the opposition Liberal-National
coalition to explain how it would fund promises that include
scrapping her mining and carbon taxes.  The opposition, which disputed a Treasury department
analysis of its policies before last year’s federal election,
supports the creation of the PBO. Former opposition leader and
now shadow communications spokesman,  Malcolm Turnbull , urged the
government to establish the office in 2009.  “We want an independent source,” opposition Finance
spokesman Andrew Robb told the Melbourne Age newspaper last
month. “I’d expect next time there will be no debate over our
costings.”  Budget ‘Black Hole’  Gillard, whose government trails opposition leader  Tony Abbott  in opinion polls, has sought to intensify pressure on his
pledge to scrap her mining and carbon taxes, saying it creates a
“ black hole ” in the budget.  Australia expects to raise about A$27.8 billion in three
years by making polluters pay an initial charge of A$23 per ton
of carbon dioxide from July 2012, increasing the price by 2.5
percent a year, plus inflation until the tax gives way to a cap-
and-trade system in 2015. Gillard announced the proposal July 10.  The government has also proposed a 30 percent levy on  iron
ore  and coal profits from July 2012 that is forecast to raise
A$7.7 billion in its first two years.  Opposition to the taxes is likely to reemerge this week
with a planned protest by truck drivers in Canberra today. The
National Road Freighters  Association , which has organized the
so-called “convoy of no confidence” protest, says about 11
convoys from across the nation are headed to the capital to call
for a fresh federal election.  “The public feel ripped off by this government and I’m not
surprised that people are converging on Canberra to register
their protest,” Abbott told Network Ten in a television
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  