-- 
Lawyers Use Tape Measures to Find Libya War-Crimes Evidence

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-22T08:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/lawyers-armed-with-tape-measures-seek-libya-war-crimes-evidence.html
Husain Mufta stands amid the rubble
of a toppled minaret on the roof of Misrata’s Hamid mosque
wielding what he considers his most powerful weapon in the six-
month battle by rebel forces against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  -- a tape measure.  Mufta, 57, is part of a team of local lawyers compiling
evidence for what they hope will be war-crimes prosecutions
against Qaddafi and his subordinates. He uses the tape measure
to catalog the damage that brought the minaret down in the
Mediterranean coastal town about 130 miles east of Tripoli.  “Some are in this war with guns,” said Mufta, a former
High Court advocate in Misrata. “We fight through the law.”  The  International Criminal Court  issued arrest warrants for
Qaddafi, his son Saif Al-Islam and intelligence chief Abdullah
al-Senussi on June 27, accusing them of war crimes and crimes
against humanity related to the killing, injuring, detention and
imprisonment of civilians during anti-government protests that
began in February.  The lawyers in rebel-held Misrata are conducting a parallel
investigation, hoping the results will one day form part of
proceedings, either at the ICC or, should the opposition
National Transitional Council secure power, a Libyan  war-crimes 
process. They also say they want to bolster the rule-of-law that
the rebel council has promised will form the bedrock of a new
government if it overthrows Qaddafi.  The ICC is holding talks with the council about the
surrender of Saif Al-Islam to the court, Fadi El-Abdallah, a
spokesman of The Hague-based ICC, said by telephone today.  Evidence Needed  Lawyers from Mufta’s group, the Human Rights Activists
Association, say the devastation at the mosque and nearby
Tripoli Street, with its burned-out apartment buildings and
shattered shops, in itself isn’t enough to support allegations
of war crimes. Instead, they must offer evidence showing the
minaret was demolished when civilians were in the area and that
rebels who later battled government troops for control of the
city weren’t responsible.  “Ninety-nine percent is no good,” said Khalid Alwafi, a
35-year-old defense attorney.  The lawyers say their measurements indicate tank shells
brought the minaret down and this is confirmed by cell-phone
footage they say was shot on March 24 showing seven shells
hitting the tower before it falls.  Rape Cases  Destroying a minaret with tank fire in a civilian area
violates provisions in the four Geneva Conventions concerning
protection of noncombatants and damage to religious objects,
Mufta said.  While their material is untested in a court, Mufta said
he’s confident his 131-member team of lawyers, criminal
investigators, forensics specialists and a mathematician used
for ballistics calculations can make a case.  Most sensitive for investigators are allegations of rape.
Hamida Karwad, one of four female lawyers on the team, says she
has met rape victims from parts of Misrata occupied in March and
April by government forces.  “We have cases already,” said Karwad, 35, adding her main
challenge is gaining the trust of victims who insist on
anonymity. “Some people, you need to explain every step. At the
end of this report you have to sign it. Some people say OK. Some
say no.”  As to what happens with the information they gather, the
investigators say it will be up to the new government they hope
succeeds Qaddafi.  “We gather the evidence, we find the witnesses,” Mufta
said. “We want to see justice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  