-- 
Bain Agrees to Buy Software Maker MYOB From Archer Capital, Beating Sage

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-08-22T15:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/bain-capital-will-buy-australian-software-maker-myob-for-undisclosed-sum.html
Bain Capital  LLC agreed to buy MYOB
Pty Ltd., an Australian maker of business-management software,
for an undisclosed sum as it seeks to benefit from faster-
growing Asia-Pacific economies.  Boston-based Bain will buy a majority stake in MYOB from
buyout firms  Archer Capital  and HarbourVest Partners LLC, the
companies said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The deal is
valued at about A$1.2 billion ($1.2 billion), according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be named
because the information isn’t public.  Bain is investing in Australia after successfully
announcing its sale of a similar Italian company this month.
MYOB, an acronym for Mind Your Own Business, was acquired by
Archer in 2009 for A$382 million and is  Australia ’s largest
independent software vendor, according to the statement. MYOB
software is used by more than one million small businesses in
Australia and  New Zealand , according to its  website .  “MYOB is a first-class company with an attractive
valuation,” Walid Sarkis, a managing director at Bain, said in
the statement. “It has been the leader in the financial
software space for small and medium-sized enterprises in
Australasia for a very long time. The growth potential in this
market is strong, with a growing trend of entrepreneurs starting
up their own businesses.”  Executives of MYOB will keep a stake in the Melbourne-based
company, the statement said.  TeamSystem Deal  Bain acquired  TeamSystem  SpA, an Italian business
management software group in 2004, and this month said it will
sell the company to HgCapital, a London-based private-equity
firm, for about 565 million euros ($809 million), including
debt. According to Bain, TeamSystem has doubled revenue and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
since its takeover.  MYOB adds to Bain’s portfolio of business-services
companies, including WorldPay, which processes electronic
payments; Suntel, a Japanese communications-equipment provider;
and Brakes Group, a food distributor in the U.K. and  France .  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO) , a U.K. software provider
that said in May that it was approached by private-equity funds
including Bain and Advent International Corp., today said it
ended takeover discussion and will instead resume a share
buyback program.  On Aug. 19, people with knowledge of the matter said  Sage
Group Plc (SGE) , the U.K.’s biggest software maker, was close to
buying MYOB for about A$1.3 billion.  Technology Deals  Sage, which has made at least 10 purchases since 2008, has
said acquisitions are “back on the agenda.” Sage rose as much
as 2.5 percent to 241.8 pence and traded at 241.2 pence at 3:52
p.m. in  London . The stock has fallen 4.7 percent since it said
on Aug. 16 that it is considering buying MYOB.  “Since acquiring the business in February 2009, we have
worked with management to refocus MYOB’s operations and have
invested significant capital,”  Andrew Gray , a partner at Archer
Capital, said in the statement. That has almost doubled “the
business’s earnings base,” he said.  Archer Capital was advised by UBS AG while Morgan Stanley
worked for Bain Capital.  In the past five years, there were more than 970 takeovers
of European software companies, amounting to over $31 billion in
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was
 SAP AG (SAP) ’s 2008 purchase of Business Objects SA. Buyers have paid
a median multiple of 10.8 times the targets’ earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on 70
deals.  Last month, Paris-based  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  completed the
purchase of Prosodie SA, a maker of software for e-commerce and
telecommunications in a deal valued at 382 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  