-- 
BBB Borrowers’ Yields Slip to Record Low as Bond Sales Slide: Japan Credit

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-08-22T02:57:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/bbb-borrowers-yields-slip-to-record-low-as-bond-sales-slide-japan-credit.html
The decline in the benchmark rate
for BBB rated borrowers to a record low and relative yields at
the narrowest in five months may urge borrowers including All
Nippon Airways Co. and Acom Co. to tap the market.  The extra yield investors demand to own bonds rated the
lowest investment grade instead of government debt fell to 47
basis points on Aug. 19, the lowest spread since March 21,
according to  Japan  Securities Dealers Association prices on
Bloomberg. Average yields on five-year bonds rated BBB fell to
0.78 percent on Aug. 19, the lowest since Bloomberg started
collecting the data in 1997.  Demand for riskier debentures is rising as the withdrawal
from the market of nuclear-plant operators after the March
disaster pushes Japan’s corporate bond sales to the lowest in
five years. Mizuho Trust Banking & Co.’s Credit Spread Strategy
fund, the country’s top-performing bond fund, earlier this month
said it will invest in lower-rated corporate bonds.  “This isn’t about fundamentals but rather plain supply and
demand -- the money managers simply have little choice,” said
Fumihide Goto, a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS AG. “The investors
would prefer more yield from BBB bonds, but everyone is chasing
the few available deals and the spread continues to tighten.”  Sales of corporate bonds fell 60 percent to 976 billion yen
($12.7 billion) in the three months through June 30, compared
with a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest quarterly amount since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1999.  BBB Sales  In July, companies rated BBB by risk assessors Rating and
Investment Information Inc. and Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd.
sold 89 billion yen worth of bonds, the most since December,
when they issued 109 billion yen worth of debt, according to
Bloomberg data.  Acom, which was downgraded to BBB+ from A- by R&I in
December 2010, raised 48 billion yen in three bond issues since
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, according to the data. The
consumer finance company may sell more debt, spokesman Masayuki
Miyauchi said.  “There is demand in the market, so given the right term,
interest and spread our strategy is to issue bonds
aggressively,” Miyauchi said. He declined to elaborate.  The Tokyo-based company has 115 billion yen in bonds due in
the 12 months to October 2012, Bloomberg data showed. Acom
reported 97.4 billion yen in cash and near cash items in the
quarter ended June 30.  Cash Holdings  Excluding financial companies, members of the Topix Index
amassed a combined 59 trillion yen in cash holdings, Bloomberg
data show. That’s a 27 percent increase from three years ago.  “The market is awash in capital, while at the same time
companies are hoarding cash,” said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a Tokyo-
based senior  fund manager  who helps oversee 82 billion yen at
Asahi Life Asset Management Co., in a telephone interview.
“Investors looking for yield have to consider BBB bonds.”  Hankyu Hanshin Holdings Inc. (9042)  plans to sell 10 billion yen
worth of five-year bonds, according to an on Aug. 19 statement
from Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. The spread on the
railway operator’s bond last issue, announced on the day of the
quake, more than doubled to 37 basis points on Aug. 18.  All Nippon Airways, rated BBB+ by R&I, has 20 billion yen
in bonds due this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Asia ’s
largest publicly listed carrier, which last sold debt in April
2010, plans to use its more than 30 billion yen in cash for
repayment, said spokesman Ryosei Nomura.  “The disaster has tipped the demand and supply balance in
the  bond market  and we are seeing a trend for narrowing spread,
especially for BBB rated companies,” Nomura said. He declined
to comment on plans to issue bonds.  Utility Debt  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the eighth-biggest issuer of
corporate bonds last year, was downgraded to below investment
grade on May 30 by  Standard & Poor’s  after the reactor meltdown
at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Kansai Electric  Power Co., Japan’s second-largest operator
of nuclear reactors, and regional power provider Kyushu Electric
Power Co. pulled bond sales in June amid concern about safety
and compensation liabilities. Kansai Electric’s 2.17 percent
bonds due July 2016 yielded 0.71 percent on Aug. 19, from 0.676
percent the day of the quake, according to JSDA prices on
Bloomberg.  The utilities, which comprise about 20 percent of
outstanding corporate bonds, retired a net 835 billion yen worth
of debt since the quake, according to Bloomberg data. If
refinanced, the bonds would have accounted for 23 percent to the
 debt market  in the period, Bloomberg calculations show.  BBB Vs AAA  The extra yield investors demand to own five-year bonds
rated BBB by R&I, rather than AAA rated notes, reached 26.7
basis points on Aug. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread versus AA rated debt narrowed to 10.6
basis points, the lowest since July 22.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 10-year bond slid half
a basis point to 0.98 percent on Aug. 19 in Tokyo, the lowest
this year, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the largest
inter-dealer debt broker.  Mizuho Trust’s fund is increasing its allocations to
riskier notes following Standard & Poor’s unprecedented
downgrade of U.S. credit coupled with the European sovereign
debt crisis, the fund’s manager Nobumasa Mizutani said in an
interview on Aug. 10. Credit Spread Strategy is the biggest
among 396 yen-denominated funds that invest in Japanese
corporate bonds managed by investors based in Japan, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P’s downgrade of U.S. credit and  Europe ’s sovereign debt
troubles sparked a sell-off in stocks and corporate bonds this
month. Treasuries, the Swiss franc and gold jumped.  Yen’s Strength  The yen reached a post-World War II high of 75.95 versus
the dollar in New York trading on Friday, spurring speculation
the  Bank of Japan  will move to weaken the currency. The yen
retreated to as low as 77.21 per dollar in Tokyo today and
traded at 76.80.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps rose
6 basis points to 139.5 on Aug. 19, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. The risk gauge advanced from 98 a day
before the earthquake, the data show.  Contracts to insure Japanese government debt against
default for five years rose 3.5 basis points to 107.5 on Aug.
19, according to the latest CMA prices.  Credit-default swap contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in  Tokyo  at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  