-- 
Biden Raises Human Rights While Assuring China on Treasuries

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-21T19:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/biden-raises-human-rights-while-assuring-china-u-s-treasuries-are-safe.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  repeated a
reassurance to Chinese leaders that their investment in U.S. 
Treasuries is safe, while warning that curtailing freedoms in 
Asia’s largest economy could hinder growth and stifle innovation.  “I know that some in China believe that greater freedoms
threaten economic progress by undermining social stability,”
Biden said in remarks at Sichuan University in Chengdu yesterday
on the final day of his trip to China. “I believe history has
shown the opposite to be true.”  Biden’s remarks followed his three days in Beijing, where
he told Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  on Aug. 19 that China has
nothing to fear when it comes to its investment in U.S.
Treasuries. China’s Treasury holdings of $1.17 trillion, while
down from their high of $1.18 trillion in October, have
increased for the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The U.S. and China have followed different paths, Biden
said yesterday. While China has embraced parts of a free market
system it has also resisted political openness and the state has
kept its hold on economic affairs, he said.  “Prosperity peaks when governments foster both free
enterprise and free exchange of ideas, that liberty unlocks a
people’s full potential and in its absence unrest festers,” he
said.  S&P Downgrade  Biden’s visit was scheduled before the first-ever downgrade
of  U.S. debt  by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5 and that issue has
dominated public interactions between the vice president and
Chinese leaders. A day after S&P cut U.S. debt to AA+ from AAA,
China’s official Xinhua News Agency said the U.S. government
must realize it can no longer “borrow its way out of messes of
its own making.” China is the biggest single foreign owner of
U.S. debt.  “The Chinese people should take solace,” Biden said in
the southwestern Chinese city. “You’re safe.” During his visit
to Beijing, Biden had told Wen: “We appreciate and welcome your
concluding that the  United States  is such a safe haven because
we appreciate your investment in U.S. Treasuries.” Biden said
he wanted to make clear “that you have nothing to worry about
in terms of their viability.”  ‘In Trouble’  Biden, who is on a three-nation, nine-day trip to  Asia ,
struck a harder tone on trade during his final day in China,
saying “we’re in trouble” when U.S. investors can’t have fully
owned subsidiaries of their companies operate in many sectors in
China and are “entirely excluded from competing in other
sectors.” Those are “restrictions that no other major economy
imposes on us or anyone else so broadly.”  Biden also said China and the U.S. must work together on
nuclear weapons proliferation, particularly in  North Korea  and
 Iran .  On Aug. 19, Biden held a roundtable discussion in Beijing
with about 20 U.S. and Chinese business leaders, including Coca-
Cola Co. Chief Executive Muhtar Kent. China’s undervalued
exchange rate, opening up the Chinese market to U.S. exports,
and protecting intellectual property rights are top concerns for
U.S. companies.  J. Stapleton Roy, director of the Kissinger Institute on
 China  and the U.S. ambassador to China from 1991 to 1995 said
the U.S. cannot afford to press China too much on trade.  ‘Wrong Direction’  “If we move to restrict trade this would be the
counterpart to the Smoot Hawley tariff in the Great Depression
which had an enormous negative impact,” Roy said in an
interview. “Trade protectionism as a way of dealing with our
trade imbalance with China would be a step in the wrong
direction.”  Roy said the Chinese will naturally want to let their
currency appreciate more to help them deal with inflation.  “There’s a built in corrective factor” in the U.S.-China
relationship, he said. Because it’s so “immensely important to
both countries” when it becomes too strained leaders will work
to improve it.  Biden, who arrived in Beijing on Aug. 17, must have fielded
a barrage of questions from Chinese officials about U.S. debt
during private meetings, said Elizabeth Economy, director of
Asia studies at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .  She said top on the list would have been: “What’s the long
term game plan and can China rely on the United States not to
try to basically destroy the value of China’s holdings?”  Main Point  Administration officials insist that the main point of the
vice president’s visit is to get to know his counterpart China’s
Vice President Xi Jinping, the man most likely to replace
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in 2013.  Xi came to Chengdu from Beijing and traveled with Biden to
Dujiangyan, a city in Sichuan Province where tens of thousands
of people were killed by an earthquake in May 2008.  Biden stopped by an English class at the Dujiangyan
Qingchengshan High School yesterday, where Cisco Systems Inc.
had donated electronic white boards and LCD televisions
following the temblor. Biden, who was dressed in shirtsleeves
along with Xi, took questions from a group of about 30 students
while at the school.  “We have no reason to fear one another,” Biden said,
referring to the sometimes strained relationship between the
U.S. and China.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  