-- 
German Stocks Close Little Changed; EON Rises as BMW Declines

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-22T16:02:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/bmw-daimler-volkswagen-lufthansa-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks were little changed,
with the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  closing at the lowest level since
February 2010, as gains in utilities offset declines in
carmakers.  EON AG advanced 3.6 percent as BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research recommended  Germany ’s largest utility.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  led European carmakers lower,
each falling more than 2 percent.  The DAX slipped 6.22, or 0.1 percent, to 5,473.78 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge fell 8.6 percent last
week as concern escalated that the global economy is slowing and
as the leaders of the euro area failed to restore investor
confidence. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also lost 0.1 percent today.  “Fundamentals are not that bad,” said Matthias Jasper,
head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “I would be on
the cautious side, but it’s a pretty good level to make a small
entry.”  The DAX is trading at about 8.3 times the estimated
earnings of its companies, the cheapest since October 2008,
according to Bloomberg data.  The  Federal Reserve  holds its annual symposium in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , this weekend. This time last year Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  hinted that the U.S. central bank might embark on a
second round of asset purchases, kicking off a 28 percent rally
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that ended in a three-year
high on April 29.  Treasury Yields  Record-low yields on Treasuries show traders expect
Bernanke to signal the bank will begin a third program of bond
buying to boost the economy. Barclays Plc said 10-year yields
indicate traders have priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of
Treasury purchases by the Fed. Citigroup Inc. said current rates
can only be justified by more bond buying or assuming the
economy will shrink by 2 percent.  “The market is expecting another round of asset purchases
and it will come,” said Jasper in a phone interview today.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  resisted calls for common
euro-area borrowing. Speaking in an interview with ZDF
television from the chancellery in Berlin yesterday, she said
bringing in euro bonds at this time would further undermine
economic stability.  EON climbed 3.6 percent to 14.52 euros as BofA Merrill
Lynch upgraded its recommendation on the company’s shares to
“buy” from “neutral.” Competitor  RWE AG (RWE)  climbed 1.5 percent
to 25.61 euros.  ‘Upside Risks’  “We believe the upside risks of both earnings and multiple
expansion are not appropriately reflected in EON’s share
price,” London-based analysts Christopher Kuplent and Paul Rogers wrote in a report today.  BMW and Daimler, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars,
slumped 4.2 percent to 50.09 euros and 2.2 percent to 33.96
euros, respectively. Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s
largest carmaker, slipped 2.6 percent to 101.80 euros.  QSC AG jumped 4.9 percent to 2.07 euros after Platow Brief
newsletter reported that KKR & Co. has sounded out the German
telecommunications provider. A merger of QSC with KKR’s Versatel
would make sense, Platow reported, without citing anyone.  Deutsche Euroshop AG (DEQ)  advanced for the first time in three
days, rising 4.9 percent to 26.75 euros. UBS AG raised its
recommendation on the shopping-center owner to “buy” from
“neutral.”  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  jumped 16 percent to 2.84 euros, the largest
advance since 2008.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Ryanair Holdings Plc,
and EasyJet Plc are among carriers that may take over some
routes from Air Berlin after the company said last week that it
would cut itineraries and ground planes to stem mounting losses,
Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing spokesmen and a
spokeswoman for the airlines. Lufthansa and EasyJet said today
that they don’t expect to pick up any of the routes soon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  