-- 
Shell’s Arrow Makes A$520 Million Bid to Acquire Bow Energy

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-08-22T07:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/bow-energy-receives-proposal-from-arrow-energy-at-a-1-48-share.html
Arrow Energy Ltd., owned by  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and PetroChina Co., offered about A$520 million
($540 million) for  Bow Energy Ltd. (BOW) , seeking more resources to
underpin a proposed liquefied natural gas project in Australia.  Arrow, a coal-seam gas explorer and producer in Queensland
state, offered A$1.48 a share in cash, Brisbane-based Bow said
today in a statement. That’s 67 percent more than Bow’s price of
88.5 cents in Sydney trading on Aug. 19. The shares surged 60
percent today to A$1.415 at the 4:10 p.m. close.  The bid “does significantly undervalue the stock compared
with where we think it should be,” said  Andrew Williams , a
Melbourne-based oil and gas analyst at RBC Capital Markets, who
has a price target of A$1.75 on Bow’s shares. “It still leaves
scope for upside and more play to come.”  Arrow plans a fourth LNG venture on Queensland’s  Curtis
Island , following approvals for more than $50 billion in rival
developments led by  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
to meet rising demand in  Asia . Bow has been the subject of
takeover speculation since Santos, Australia’s third-largest oil
and gas producer, agreed last month to pay about A$730 million
to buy the shares in  Eastern Star Gas Ltd. (ESG)  it didn’t already own.  Bow has been in talks to supply gas to the companies
developing the LNG projects in Queensland as it targets a more
than fivefold gain in reserves by next year, Chief Executive
Officer John De Stefani said in an Aug. 3 interview. Bow
increased its proven and probable reserves to 238 petajoules
last month and aims to reach 1,250 petajoules in 2012, enough
gas to support an LNG plant producing 1 million metric tons of
the fuel annually over 20 years, De Stefani said.  ‘LNG Opportunity’  The offer values Bow at about 6 Australian cents a
gigajoule of gas reserves that may be recoverable, 33 percent
less than the price Santos agreed to pay for Eastern Star and
the amount Shell and PetroChina paid last year for Arrow, John Young, a Melbourne-based analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group,
estimated today. Those deals valued the targets at 9 cents a
gigajoule, he said.  “Bow is still working to demonstrate conversion to 2P
reserves,” from proven, probable and possible reserves,
“whereas Arrow and Eastern Star were probably more advanced,”
Young said, adding he thinks a rival bid is unlikely.  Dart Energy Ltd. (DTE) , a Sydney-listed company developing coal
bed methane resources in countries including Australia, rose 6.7
percent to 56 cents in Sydney, the most in four months.  Exoma
Energy Ltd. (EXE) , a natural gas explorer in Queensland, climbed 21
percent to 14.5 cents in Sydney, the most since July 1.  A transaction with Bow would help Arrow increase the size
of its first two LNG processing units, Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Faulkner said today in a statement. Arrow initially plans
to produce 4 million tons of LNG a year from each of the first
two units, the company said this month.  ‘Complementary’ Businesses  Shell is “quite happy” to wait to develop the Arrow LNG
project as costs to develop ventures rise,  Peter Voser , chief
executive officer of The Hague-based company, told analysts in
July. Arrow expects a final  investment decision  to proceed with
its development in late 2013, Faulkner said in June.  “Shell’s public statements indicate that they didn’t mind
being last, and they were willing to wait,” RBC’s Williams said.
“Now it looks as though they may want to accelerate it. It’s a
clear signal there is an LNG opportunity out there.”  Bow recommends that shareholders take no action at this
stage, the company said in the statement.  “It makes sense for both companies to explore business
opportunities given the proximity of both companies’ coal-seam
gas assets and the complementary nature of our businesses,”
Arrow’s Faulkner said. “Arrow has the technical capability,
capital resources and guaranteed market that may assist Bow
Energy realize the potential of its assets.”  Conoco and Sydney-based partner  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  last
month approved the first phase of a $20 billion project in
Queensland. Santos said in January its venture would cost $16
billion, while BG in October said it would invest $15 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 