-- 
Bruce Willis Sees China Future as Hollywood Eyes Cinema Boom

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:39:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/bruce-willis-sees-future-in-china-as-1-000-screens-a-year-lure-hollywood.html
Bruce Willis ’s mob hit-man travels
to the future in next year’s movie “Looper.” Thanks to backing
from Beijing’s  DMG Entertainment , that future is in  China .  DMG funded the production on condition the location was
moved from  France  and a role was included for Chinese star Xu
Qing. The requirements weren’t just to tap China’s burgeoning
cinema audience. With the changes, the movie now qualifies as a
Chinese co-production, exempting it from the nation’s 20-film-
per year import quota and allowing backers to keep three times
as much in box office receipts.  “We are trying to be relevant to a significant market,”
said DMG Chief Executive Officer Dan Mintz by telephone from
Beijing. “The industry is growing like a rocket ship.”  Looper is one of a rising wave of Sino-U.S. productions as
Hollywood looks to expand in a market that’s adding more than
1,400 cinema screens a year. The 2010 remake of “Karate Kid,”
starring Jackie Chan and  Jaden Smith , was produced by Sony’s
Columbia Tristar and state-owned China Film Group. Fox
Searchlight and Beijing-based IDG China Media teamed up for
“Snow Flower and the Secret Fan,” which lists Wendi Deng
Murdoch as an executive producer.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and Universal
Studios Inc. have made Chinese co-productions.  “Everyone is coming in to join the bandwagon,” says Hong
Kong-based Bill Kong, who co-produced the 2000 hit “Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon,” directed by Ang Lee. “Ten years ago if
you made $3 million in China you would be jumping up and down.
“Today it’s more like one or two hundred million.”  Rising Receipts  Box office receipts in China grew 64 percent last year to
10.2 billion yuan ($1.6 billion), according to the State
Administration of Radio, Film and Television. While that’s still
a fraction of the $10.6 billion receipts in the U.S., according
to  Box Office Mojo , it’s one of the biggest potential growth
markets for Hollywood. U.S. ticket sales fell 0.3 percent in
2010.  China’s cinema-building will more than double the number of
screens by 2015, from 6,200 at the end of 2010, says Mintz. At
the end of 2009, the U.S. had 39,233 screens, up from 36,435 in
2004, according to the National Association of Theater Owners.  In many of the new cinemas, the Hollywood influence is
visible at more than the box office. On a recent Thursday at the
9-screen Wanda Cinema in downtown Beijing, opened in 2006, fans
lined up in the marble-floored lobby for 160 yuan ($25) tickets
to “Transformers 3” or the latest Harry Potter film in 3-D
Imax. They bought Starbucks coffees or popcorn and Coke
overlooked by murals of  Fred Astaire  and the Empire State
Building.  3-D Gains  China is now the second-largest market for Mississauga,
Ontario-based  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , maker of digital projection and sound
equipment. The number of Imax theaters in China will rise to 85
this year, from 40 at the end of 2010, Richard Gelfond, chief
executive, said in a July 25  news release .  New cinemas and rising wealth have lifted potential revenue
for filmmakers in China as much as 25-fold.  James Wang  said he
and his older brother Dennis made their first movie, a comedy
called “Party A, Party B,” when western films were first
allowed in the mid 1990s. It earned $4 million, “a blockbuster
at the time,” he said.  Last year the 41-year-old chief executive of  Huayi Brothers
Media Corp. (300027) , China’s largest independent film producer, released
“Aftershock”, a Feng Xiaogang film about the 1976 Tangshan
earthquake. It made $105 million.  Part of what changed the industry was the government’s
realization that China could help spread the nation’s culture
abroad by limiting the entry of foreign movies and encouraging
made-in-China joint productions.  Hollywood Help  “China is keen on promoting its soft power,” Shen Dingli,
professor at the Center for American Studies at  Shanghai ’s Fudan
University said in a telephone interview. Joint productions
serve “the political purpose to promote our culture and systems
with Hollywood’s competence.”  The government offered tax breaks to cinema builders and
encouraged private funds to invest in cultural industries, said
Kong. One fund, Xi’an Qujiang Film and TV Investment Group,
hired Antoine Fuqua, director of Oscar-winning Training Day, to
make a romantic drama set in the 8th Century Tang Dynasty.  DMG is raising $300 million for a fund to help U.S. film
franchises qualify as co-productions in China. “The problem is
they make money in China and cannot collect it,” said Mintz.
“We are building a door to bring them in.”  Imported films get as little as 13.5 percent of box-office
receipts, compared with 47 percent for a co-production.  ‘Mummy 3’  Kong turned “Mummy 3” into a co-production with  Universal
Studios  and China Film Group four years ago. “It wasn’t a great
movie, but it utilized a big American franchise in China,” he
said. “The time will come when there are more.”  The growing Chinese market is spawning other joint ventures.
Huayi’s Wang teamed up with Thomas Tull, founder of Burbank,
California-based Legendary Pictures whose hits include “The
 Dark Knight ” and “The Hangover” to start Legendary East,
which will make films in China targeting international and local
audiences.  Legendary will raise $220.5 million in a deal that will see
Hong Kong-based Paul Y. Engineering Group Ltd. take a 50 percent
stake in Legendary, Paul Y said yesterday in a statement.  Relativity Media, the West Hollywood-based producer of
“Cowboys & Aliens,” agreed On Aug. 14 to make and distribute
movies in China with Beijing-based Huaxia Film Distribution Co.  Not all deals will pan out, says Nansun Shi, who sits on the
board of Beijing-based Bona Film Group, which listed on  Nasdaq 
in December. “This kind of growth is unprecedented anywhere in
the world,” says Shi. “Many, many films are burned and do not
make money.”  ‘Avatar’ Success  Getting the formula right isn’t easy. U.S. hits such as
“Avatar” and “Transformers 2” were box office successes in
China, with “Avatar” becoming the country’s biggest grossing
film, taking $216 million in ticket sales. By contrast, the
Chinese version of “High School Musical,” made by Huayi with
Disney in 2010, earned less than one million yuan ($155,000)
because Chinese audiences don’t like musicals, says Wang.  There’s also the censorship. All scripts in China must be
approved by state censors before shooting begins. Explicit sex,
excessive violence and themes that cast the communist party or
government in a negative light are banned, leading to an
abundance of historical epics and martial arts films.  “The censorship is a problem for all outsiders,” says
John Chong, chief executive of Hong Kong-based  Media Asia Group ,
which is making “1911,” a film directed by and starring  Jackie
Chan  to be released later this year. “We make a lot of costume
films.”  Even if the film succeeds in China, it may fail abroad. The
2006 movie “Curse of the Golden Flower,” starring Gong Li and
made by Edko and  Sony Pictures Classics , cost $30 million,
earned $35 million in China, and had minimal sales outside, said
Kong.  “We are only mortals and will continue to look for that
thin line that separates what pleases the western world and what
pleases China,” said Kong. “There is no magic formula.”  To contact the writers of this story:
Frederik Balfour in  Hong Kong  at 
 Fbalfour@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at   bokeson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 