-- 
Canadian Jet-Crash Survivors in Stable Condition as Officials Probe Cause

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-21T14:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/canadian-first-air-737-plane-crash-near-resolute-bay-kills-12-of-15-aboard.html
The three survivors of a passenger
jet crash in a remote section of the Canadian Arctic are in
stable condition as officials investigate what caused the
accident that killed 12 people aboard a First Air Boeing 737.  Two of the survivors, a 7-year-old girl and a 48-year-old
man, were taken to an Ottawa hospital for treatment, the  Royal
Canadian Mounted Police  said in an e-mailed statement today. A
23-year-old woman remained hospitalized in Iqaluit, Nunavut.  First Air, an airline collectively owned by 9,000 Inuit of
northern Quebec, said yesterday the 737-200 carrying 15 people
crashed near Resolute Bay, about 370 miles from the  North Pole 
in sparsely populated tundra. The charter aircraft was en route
from Yellowknife,  Northwest Territories , with 15 passengers and
crew when it crashed about 12:50 p.m. local time.  The plane lost contact with air controllers about 10
minutes prior to the crash and five miles from the Resolute Bay
airport, First Air said. The company has yet to identify who had
chartered the flight. The  RCMP  statement said the names of the
dead are being withheld pending notification of next of kin.  Four crew were among the 15 aboard, First Air said. The
aircraft’s two pilots were among the dead, Captain Lee Moak,
president of the Air Line Pilots Association, International,
said in an online  statement  via Twitter.  The Transportation Safety Board had seven investigators
already on the ground as part of military exercises, and they
were sent to the scene of the crash, spokesman Chris Krepski
said. The flight recorders have been located and will be
returned to the board’s labs in Ottawa, he said.  Military Assistance  Members of the Canadian Forces who were on military
exercises in Resolute Bay, which is about 2,100 miles northwest
of  Montreal , assisted in the rescue.  The weather was about 8 degrees Celsius (46 degrees
Fahrenheit) and cloudy at the time of the crash, Captain Andrew
Hennessy said by phone from Resolute Bay. “It’s not an easy
thing to deal with by any stretch,”  he said.  The Canadian Forces suspended the training operation,
called  Nanook , and will assist the Canadian Transportation
Safety Board, the lead investigator on the crash, Hennessy said.
Operation Nanook is annual exercise conducted in the Arctic by
about 1,100 army, navy and air force members, running from Aug.
4 to Aug. 26, according to the Department of National Defence
website.  Military doctors and nurses set up a medical station
Hennessy near the scene, Hennessy said.  The crash and the military exercise in the same place were
“sheer coincidence,” Krepski said. “Resolute Bay is a very
remote and isolated area.”  Small Hill  Witnesses told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. that the
plane crashed into a small hill and broke into pieces.  The CBC reported one of the dead and one survivor were
granddaughters of Aziz Kheraj, owner of the South Camp Inn in
Resolute Bay. Kheraj said in a telephone interview he “wasn’t
making any statements at this time.”  “I am deeply saddened by news of this tragic plane crash
near Resolute Bay,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a
statement. His office said the prime minister is scheduled to
visit  Canada ’s northern territories this week.  Scott Bateman , First Air chief executive officer, will hold
a news conference in Yellowknife today at 1 p.m. local time, the
company said in a statement. The RCMP has recovered two black
boxes from the scene and is sending six forensics officers to
help identify the dead and investigate the accident, RCMP
Constable Angelique Dignard said in an e-mail.  215 People  Resolute Bay , which sits on the south coast of Cornwallis
Island in Canada’s Arctic, was named for HMS Resolute, one of
the ships that went in search of the lost expedition of Sir John
Franklin in 1850, according to the Nunavut tourism Web site. The
community had a population of about 215 in the 2001 census, the
town’s website said.  First Air is a wholly owned unit of Makivik Corp., which
oversees money paid out to Canadian Inuit under land claims
agreements. The carrier is owned by 9,000 Inuit of northern
 Quebec  via Makivik, according to the company’s  website .  First Air operates passenger and cargo flights between 30
communities in the Canadian Arctic and larger cities such as
Ottawa and Montreal. It has a fleet of about 20 planes,
including four Boeing 737-200, and its aircraft are also used
for mineral and scientific exploration and aerial surveys.  Boeing will assist with the investigation into the crash,
the Chicago-based firm said in an online  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Toronto at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  