-- 
Chart: Fears Make Gold Expensive Versus Oil

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-08-21T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/chart-fears-make-gold-expensive-versus-oil.html
Investors should “lighten up” on
gold and buy more crude oil because the risk of a global
economic slowdown is overstated, said  James Paulsen , the chief
investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that an ounce of gold buys about
23 barrels of oil, the most since March 2009. The metal reached
a record $1,881.40 an ounce on Aug. 19 amid mounting concern
that the economy is faltering. On Aug. 9, crude dropped below
$80 a barrel to the lowest price since September 2010.  “Investors should go through their portfolios and take
advantage of people’s fear and the rush to safe-haven assets by
lightening up on those safe-haven assets and buying all the
stuff people have thrown out of the window,” Paulsen, who helps
oversee about $340 billion, said in a telephone interview from
 Minneapolis . “The price difference is quite striking. Play that
spread. You’ll be pretty happy six months from now.”  Gold may drop “a couple hundreds of dollars” when “we
find out the economy is going to do better than we feared” by
the end of September, Paulsen said. “The markets are medicating
themselves, getting the stuff they need to reaccelerate,
including lower  mortgage rates , lower energy cost, a weaker
dollar and a surge in  money supply .”  While gold will “participate in” the commodity rally over
a longer term as the global economy rebounds and the dollar
weakens, oil will do better, he said. “Gold is expensive
relative to many commodities right now.”  Gold futures for December delivery gained 6.3 percent last
week to close at $1,852.20 on the Comex in  New York . The metal
has advanced 30 percent in 2011, after posting annual gains for
10 straight years. Crude-oil futures are down 10 percent this
year, closing on Aug. 19 at $82.26 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  