-- 
Contact Energy Gains as CEO Signals Earnings May Beat Estimates

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-22T05:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/contact-energy-profit-falls-on-new-zealand-s-stagnant-electricity-demand.html
Contact Energy Ltd. (CEN) , New Zealand’s
largest publicly traded power company, rose to a three-week high
in Wellington after management signaled earnings may beat
analysts’ forecasts.  The stock reversed earlier losses after outlook comments
from Chief Executive Officer Dennis Barnes on a conference call
with analysts, according to Andrew Harvey-Green, who follows the
company at Forsyth Barr in Wellington.  “He was giving a clear signal to analysts to bump up their
forecasts if they want to be in line with the company’s
thinking,” said Harvey-Green, who was on the call.  Contact shares rose as much as 3.4 percent to NZ$5.19, the
highest since July 25, after earlier falling 2 percent when the
company reported a drop in net income for the full year ended
June 30. The shares were at NZ$5.16 as of the 5 p.m. market
close in Wellington.  Analysts expect earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortization and the change in value of financial
instruments will rise to about NZ$520 million ($426 million) in
the year ending June 30, 2012, from NZ$441 million in the year
through June 2011, Barnes said on a conference call with
reporters today.  The consensus forecasts “probably swing a little bit to
the left,” he said, without providing further details.  Net income declined to NZ$150.3 million from NZ$154.7
million a year earlier, the Wellington-based company said.
Analysts had forecast annual profit of NZ$157.5 million.  “Demand has been stagnant due to a combination of a mild
winter, the Christchurch earthquakes and continued subdued
economic conditions,” Barnes said in a statement.  The earthquake in February wrecked homes and closed the
central business district in the nation’s second-largest city.
Temperatures in May, the start of the  New Zealand  winter, were
the warmest on record and June recordings were above average,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  