-- 
Czech Cabinet May Cut 2012 GDP Forecast, Prepare Savings Steps

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-08-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/czech-cabinet-may-cut-2012-gdp-forecast-prepare-savings-steps.html
The Czech government may need
savings measures to meet its 2012  budget-deficit  target because
the euro region’s debt crisis will probably lead to slower
economic growth, Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said.  The Cabinet may cut its 2012 forecast from the ministry’s
July estimate of 2.5 percent, fueled by exports that account for
about 70 percent of the economy, he said on public television
yesterday. The outlook is higher than the 2.3 percent estimate
that served as the basis for calculating the 2012 state budget.
The ministry plans to curb the budget deficit to 105 billion
koruna ($6.2 billion) next year from 135 billion koruna in 2011.  “When there is a sharp slowdown, especially in euro-area
countries, that nobody had any idea about a quarter ago, then
there is a 99 percent probability that it will be reflected” in
the forecast as well, Kalousek said in a debate on the Prague-
based public Czech Television yesterday. “Our analytical
department is working on it now.”  The budget plan is a part of Premier Petr Necas’s effort to
reduce the broader public finance shortfall and debt after
assembling the largest parliamentary majority since independence
in 1993. The government’s pledge to cut the fiscal gap to less
than the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP helped Czech
bonds outperform debt of other eastern EU members in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the Czech Republic’s benchmark five-year bond
fell 18 basis points in the past year, compared with a 4 basis-
point decline in  Poland ’s and a 48 basis-point increase in
 Hungary ’s, Bloomberg data show.  Identifying Risks  The  Finance Ministry  will identify risks to the GDP
forecast and prepare savings measures the government should take
if budget revenue falls short of projections due to slower
economic growth next year, Kalousek said.  The Czech economy’s recovery is dependent on demand for its
products, including Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car parts, in
western  Europe . Consumption has been damped by government
measures cutting the budget deficit and a slow improvement in
the job market as unemployment has stayed above 8 percent for
two years.  Second-quarter economic growth weakened to 2.4 percent from
2.8 percent, the first slowdown since the  Czech Republic  exited
a recession at the start of 2010, mirroring the slump in the
euro area, the country’s main trading partner.  The central bank in  Prague  cut GDP forecast for next year
to 2.2 percent, from 2.8 percent, in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  