-- 
Business Equipment Demand Probably Fell: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-21T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/demand-for-most-durable-goods-probably-fell-on-concern-u-s-economy-waning.html
Companies probably ordered less
equipment in July as concern grew that the U.S. recovery was
coming to a halt, economists said before reports this week.  Bookings for durable goods excluding transportation fell
0.5 percent after rising 0.4 percent in June, according to the
median forecast of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Commerce Department figures Aug. 24. Two days later,
data from the same agency may show the economy grew even less in
the second quarter than previously estimated.  A 16 percent plunge in stocks since July 22 reflects a loss
of confidence that may prompt companies and consumers to cut
back even more. Attention will shift to  Ben S. Bernanke  on Aug.
26 to see whether the Federal Reserve chief lays out tools
the central bank is likely to use should the economy need
another dose of stimulus to avert a recession.  “Businesses are very cautious given all the uncertainty
and slowing demand,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “Any
further weakness in the manufacturing sector will undermine the
integrity of the recovery.”  Total orders for long-lasting goods, including the volatile
transportation category, climbed 2.1 percent last month, the
durables report will also show, according to the survey median.  The figures may reflect a rebound in production at vehicle
makers following supply disruptions caused by the earthquake in
 Japan , and a jump in bookings for aircraft. Chicago-based  Boeing
Co. (BA) , the world’s largest aerospace company, said it received 115
orders in July, up from 48 a month earlier.  Stocks Slump  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which
includes companies like Deere & Co., has plunged 26 percent from
the end of June to Aug. 19, while the broader S&P 500 gauge has
declined 15 percent.  Round Rock , Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-largest
personal-computer maker, trimmed sales projections for this
year, citing uncertain demand and slower spending on PCs and
consumer technology.  “It’s clear that the demand environment is weaker and a
bit more uncertain,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said
on a conference call Aug. 16. The U.S. consumer business “has
gotten weaker for sure,” and federal contracts are taking
longer to close, while markets like China and  India  are growing,
he said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  on Aug. 9
pledged to keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at
least mid-2013. Growth is “considerably slower” than
anticipated, the FOMC said in a statement. Officials “discussed
the range of policy tools” available and are “prepared to
employ those tools as appropriate.”  Bernanke Speech  Bernanke will speak on Aug. 26 at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual conference for global central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . He used the gathering last year to hint at a second
round of so-called quantitative easing, in which the Fed
purchased $600 billion of Treasuries from November 2010 to June.  A Commerce Department report the same day may show gross
domestic product grew at a 1.1 percent annual pace in the April
to June quarter, down from the 1.3 percent estimated last month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  The dimming outlook for manufacturing now is a concern as
much of the growth last quarter came from corporate investment
and trade, while  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy, stagnated.  Confidence Shaken  Household spending may slow further as pessimism about the
job market grows. A report on Aug. 26 may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment
slumped to 56, the lowest level since November 2008, from 63.7
the prior month, economists predicted.  Housing remains the laggard in the economy.  New-home sales 
were unchanged at a 312,000 annual rate in July, the Bloomberg
survey median showed. The Commerce Department’s figures are due
Aug. 23. Purchases of previously owned houses, which account for
the bulk of the market, fell last month to the weakest pace
since November, the National Association of Realtors reported on
Aug. 18.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  