-- 
Deutsche Bank Says Four Employees, Securities Unit Indicted in South Korea

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-08-22T02:09:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/deutsche-bank-says-four-employees-securities-unit-indicted-in-south-korea.html
Four  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employees and
its South Korean brokerage face a trial over a one-day stock
rout in November that wiped $27 billion in value from the Asian
nation’s equity market.  The Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office decided to
charge the German bank’s employees and Deutsche Securities Korea
Co. on Aug. 19 for manipulating stock prices and making “unfair”
profits, according to a statement posted on the prosecutors’
website today. The lender denied wrongdoing in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “This shows prosecutors and regulators’ determination
against unfair trading,” said Nam Gilnam, head of derivatives
at  Korea Capital Market Institute , a Seoul-based researcher.
“Foreign investors might take a more cautious approach to the
South Korean market after seeing how this case goes. It’s a blow
to Deutsche Bank’s operations as well as to its reputation.”  The Financial Services Commission said in February that
five of the Frankfurt-based lender’s employees conspired to
manipulate the market, causing the Kospi Index to plunge in the
last 10 minutes of trading on Nov. 11. Deutsche Bank was banned
from trading shares and derivatives for its own account for six
months from April 1, the heaviest penalty imposed on any
securities company in  Korea .  Better Cooperation  South Korean prosecutors said they will seek better
cooperation with overseas regulators and judicial officials so
they can hold foreigners responsible for stock market-related
crimes, according to the statement. Prosecutors began their
investigation at the request of the FSC in February.  “It’s regrettable that the Seoul  Central District
Prosecutors’ Office  has decided to charge its local Korean
brokerage unit, Deutsche Securities Korea,” the bank said in the
statement. “DSK denies the charges, which will be defended. DSK
did not authorize or condone any breach of market regulation.”  Deutsche Bank wasn’t indicted and its operations in South
Korea aren’t affected, said the lender, which didn’t elaborate
on the charges against its employees and broker unit.  The bank statement didn’t identify the four indicted
employees. They are either suspended or on administrative leave
and aren’t now involved in bank activities, according to
yesterday’s statement.  Increased Scrutiny  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  dropped 2.7 percent on Nov. 11, prompting
the regulators to limit the number of equity derivative
contracts investors can hold. Scrutiny of equity-market swings
has heightened globally since a 20-minute drop in U.S. equities
in May 2010 briefly erased $862 billion of market value.  Five Deutsche Bank employees in  Hong Kong ,  New York  and
South Korea conspired to manipulate the market by selling 2.44
trillion won worth of shares in the last minutes of trading on
Nov. 11 to gain from “speculative” derivatives positions built
in advance, South Korean financial regulators said on Feb. 23.
The actions were intended to drive down the Kospi Index and gave
Deutsche Bank 45 billion won of “unfair” profit, they said.  The German lender on June 13 appealed against a court order
freezing some of its assets, Gong Do Il, a spokesman for the
Seoul Central District Court, said on July 14. The bank said
June 9 that a preservation order on some assets was granted by a
court at the request of prosecutors and without Deutsche Bank’s
arguments being heard.  Six-Month Ban  The six-month ban was the first business suspension of any
foreign brokerage in  South Korea  since the Financial Supervisory
Service was set up in 1999, according to FSS data. The
supervisory service is a privately funded agency that enforces
policies set by government regulator FSC.  Korea Exchange Inc. , the nation’s bourse operator, on Feb.
25 fined Deutsche Bank’s local brokerage a record 1 billion won
for violating exchange rules.  The government will take steps on any violation of rules to
ensure the financial market is transparent and trustworthy, FSC
Chairman Kim Seok Dong told reporters in February.  The Financial Supervisory Service started a new system to
improve monitoring on unfair trading in the  capital market  so it
can swiftly uncover and respond to any unfair activities, the
regulator said last week in a statement on its website.  Under tightened rules on South Korean derivatives holdings,
announced by the Financial Services Commission on Jan. 11,
institutional investors are allowed a maximum 10,000 futures and
options contracts in any “speculative” transaction, starting
from March 7. Previously there were no limits on options, while
institutions were limited to holding 7,500 futures contracts and
individuals could hold 5,000.  Deutsche Securities Korea had 115 employees as of March 31
and posted a full-year profit of 27.1 billion won in the year
ended March, according to the company’s  filing  to the FSS on
June 29. The brokerage had revenue of 120 billion won in the
previous year, with sales from suspended businesses accounting
for about 9 percent of the total, the company said on March 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  