-- 
Egypt’s Shares Retreat on Israel Border Violence, Global Growth Concern

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-08-21T14:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/dubai-stocks-fall-most-in-week-lead-gulf-drop-on-global-recovery-concern.html
Egypt ’s stocks fell to the lowest in
almost two weeks, leading declines in the  Middle East , as
tensions escalated with Israel after a deadly border incident
last week and concern deepened the global recovery is slowing.  Al Arafa Investments & Consulting, a Cairo-based clothing
manufacturer that uses Israeli products, sank the most in almost
two weeks.  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) , Egypt’s biggest
publicly traded builder, fell 3.3 percent. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  lost
3.2 percent, the biggest decline since Aug. 9, to 4,593.39 at
the 1:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of
stocks in the Persian Gulf retreated 0.8 percent.  Egypt demanded Israel apologize for the deaths of three
Egyptian policemen who were killed after militants crossed
 Israel ’s southern border and opened fire on cars and buses.
Equity markets slumped worldwide last week, sending the MSCI
All-Country World Index to the lowest level in almost a year
after reports signaled the global economy is stalling.  “The negative global backdrop and the killings on the
Israeli border” are driving shares lower, said Wafik Dawood,
director of institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments
Securities. “The main fear is the escalation” in tensions, he
said.  Al Arafa decreased 3.7 percent to 52 cents. The company
benefits from manufacturing in Qualified Industrial Zones, known
as QIZ, allowing it duty-free access to the U.S. market provided
its products have Israeli input. Orascom Construction fell the
most since Aug. 9 to 244.17 Egyptian pounds.  Arab League   Israel’s TA-25 Index gained 1.3 percent after falling as
much as 4 percent. The Arab League condemned the Israeli attack
at a meeting today, while protesters demonstrated outside the
Israeli embassy in Cairo.  The nation’s government bonds fell the most in a week,
sending the yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit up
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.53 percent in
Tel Aviv.  The border incidents, which also left eight Israelis
dead, have been followed by a round of Israeli airstrikes on
Gaza and rocket fire from Gaza into Israel. The bloodshed
between the two sides is the worst since at least April and has
raised the possibility of a more extensive Israeli military
operation in the seaside strip controlled by Hamas. The Islamic
group has denied involvement in the attacks.  Oil prices fell 3.7 percent to $82.26 a barrel last week in
 New York . The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council,
including the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  Benchmark gauges in Dubai,  Abu Dhabi ,  Kuwait  and Qatar
dropped the most since Aug. 9, losing more than 1 percent. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slipped 0.3 percent, extending
yesterday’s 2.6 percent decline.  U.S. Economy  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks tumbled 5.9
percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 6.3 percent Aug. 18
through 19. Reports showed jobless claims rose in the world’s
largest economy and Philadelphia-area manufacturing shrank by
the most since 2009, while investors speculated that European
banks lack sufficient capital.  Persian Gulf markets are trading lower on the “back of
global markets worsening over the weekend,” said  Haissam Arabi ,
chief executive officer at Gulfmena Alternative Investments in
Dubai. “The correlation will continue for some time, although
at some point that should change as our fundamentals are
entirely different.”  -- With assistance from Alaa Shahine in Dubai. Editors: Stephen
Kirkland, Shanthy Nambiar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  