-- 
El-Erian Joins With Feldstein-Fels on Prospect of New Core Euro

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-08-22T07:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/el-erian-joining-feldstein-fels-on-prospect-of-euro-evolving-into-new-core.html
The euro area may need to shrink to
survive.  As its sovereign-debt crisis nears a third year and rescue
efforts fail to stop the rot in financial markets, economists
from Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian to
Harvard’s  Martin Feldstein  say ensuring the euro’s existence may
require members to leave the 17-nation currency region.  The result would be what El-Erian, Pimco’s Newport Beach,
California-based chief executive officer, calls a “smaller,
much better integrated, fiscally strong euro zone.” While
leaders such as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  consistently
rule out that option, El-Erian told “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  on Aug. 17 that they eventually may embrace it
over the fiscal union required to maintain the status quo.  “We’ve been warned by European policy makers never to
underestimate their commitment to economic and monetary union,
but that can also be interpreted as perhaps them, in the end,
choosing quality over quantity,” said Stephen Jen, managing
partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP, an investment and advisory
firm in London. “Political commitments to resolving the crisis
cannot be infinite. We can’t have all the chips on the table.”  That the euro’s membership is even in debate is testament
to the failure of its leaders to snuff out a debt turmoil that
began in  Greece  in late 2009 before spreading to Portugal and
Ireland. It now threatens Italy and Spain and this month has
jolted France.  Europe ’s Woes  So far the rescue bill includes 365 billion euros ($524
billion) in official loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, the
creation of a 440 billion euro rescue fund and 96 billion euros
in bond buying by the  European Central Bank .  Investor concern that the turmoil will drag on was evident
last week amid fear the global economic expansion is running out
of energy, in part because of Europe’s woes. The Euro Stoxx 50
sank for a fourth week, falling 6 percent, and the cost of
insuring against default on European sovereign and corporate
debt rose. Questions about the ability of European banks to fund
themselves pushed the price of insuring their senior bonds
against default above the level when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed in 2008.  “Politicians have to have a game plan and get in front of
the market, but unfortunately I don’t see any readiness to do so
as they are frightened of thinking the unthinkable,” said David Marsh, co-chairman of the Official Monetary and Financial
Institutions Forum, a London-based research group, and author of
“The Euro: The Battle for the New Global Currency.”  ‘Economic Liability’  El-Erian isn’t alone in questioning the number of nations
using the euro, which grew from 11 in 1999. Feldstein, a
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
warned in a  1998 paper  that monetary union would prove an
“economic liability.” He has long said the single currency
could falter because divergent economies couldn’t fit under one
monetary roof and nations such as Greece could take a
“holiday” from it.  Any exit would occur “by mutual consent,” Feldstein said
by e-mail today.  “Even if  Germany  and the others are willing to pay the
cost of avoiding a default, they would not solve the longer-term
problem of Greece and Portugal trade deficits and their
inability to be competitive without a gradual adjustment of
their currency,” he said. “So they would have to keep
borrowing to finance their trade deficits and there would be
perpetual debt problems.”  ‘Scary Story’  Joachim Fels, Morgan Stanley’s London-based chief
economist, wrote at the outbreak of the crisis in April 2010
that Germany “might conclude” it would be “better off with a
harder but smaller currency union” comprising only countries
that share its support for  price stability . Nobel laureate Paul Krugman said in an Aug. 18 interview in Stockholm that there is
more than a 50 percent chance Greece will leave and 10 percent
odds of  Italy  following.  “It’s a scary story,” said Krugman, who three months ago
put the risk of Italy and Spain being forced to leave the common
currency at 1 percent.  The euro initially was envisaged as the currency for a band
of northern European economies led by France and Germany. The
project swelled when then-German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and
French President  Francois Mitterrand  decided in the early 1990s
that broader membership would deliver deeper economic
integration.  Rallying Cry  Even as the inflation-sensitive Bundesbank shuddered at
opening the door to the deficit-prone southern European nations,
Kohl turned the group into a political tool by declaring he
wanted “the greatest possible number of countries” in the
bloc. That was a rallying call for Italy,  Spain  and Portugal to
meet the economic targets required for membership in 1999 and
Greece two years later.  Once in -- and perhaps even before, given that Greece later
admitted it had fudged its budget math to win entry -- countries
started to break the fiscal curbs. Every year since Greece began
using the euro, it has failed to keep its  budget deficit  below
the required 3 percent of gross domestic product. Germany and
France weakened the rulebook when they, too, failed to meet the
standards.  The euro area is far from the optimum currency zone
outlined by Nobel laureate Robert Mundell, proving instead to be
a collection of disparate economies amassed under the same
currency and interest rate.  Economic Divergence  Societe Generale SA economist  Klaus Baader  says growth
rates in the region have never been so divergent under the euro
as they are now, with a standard deviation of more than 3
percent. Debt varied from 143 percent of GDP in Greece to
Estonia’s 7 percent last year, while unemployment is 21 percent
in Spain and 4 percent in Austria.  And while ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet once cheered
the convergence in bond yields toward Germany’s, Greece now pays
14 percentage points more than Germany to borrow for 10 years
and Portugal pays 8 percentage points more.  Growth differentials and the likelihood that countries will
prove unwilling to continue bailouts will mean a break-up of the
euro by 2013, the London-based  Centre for Economics and Business
Research  said in a June report. It predicted average growth from
2011 to 2015 of 1.2 percent for Italy, 1 percent for Spain and
0.6 percent for Portugal, while Greece contracts 0.5 percent.  ‘Necessary Steps’  Europe’s leaders are refusing so far to countenance the
idea of slimming down. Defending the single currency means
taking ‘the necessary steps to do so,” Merkel said last week at
a summit with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who expressed
“absolute determination.”  Trichet said June 13 that leaving
the euro is “not a working assumption” for any government.
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said in a July 19
interview that Greece assumes the crisis is “something that we
are going to get through.”  The meeting between Sarkozy and Merkel shows that the major
euro nations “want to do everything” to keep Greece in the
currency area, “so I am seeing a bigger chance of that,”
billionaire investor George Soros told Hungarian news portal
hvg.hu last week.  That’s because the advantages of being bound together, such
as easier trade and a deeper single market, still outweigh the
disadvantages, said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . The Maastricht Treaty that created
the euro also lacks an escape hatch through which a country can
abandon or be forced out of the euro region.  Speculative Attacks  For now, the likely fallout on economies and bank balance
sheets from an exit is enough for officials to keep pumping
money into the so-called periphery, said  Joerg Kraemer ,
Commerzbank AG chief economist in Frankfurt. Among the risks:
Banks could be pounded by speculative attacks and suffer losses,
financial markets could be roiled by investor uncertainty, the
core countries that remain might lose trade as the new euro
surges, weaker members could face pressure to quit, too, and the
departed could be locked out of markets and suffer insolvencies
as their new currency slides.  “Excluding a country would be chaotic, so to avoid
difficulties, politicians are likely to stick with the
bailouts,” Kraemer said.  That will require even more money and unity than they’ve
provided so far, says Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist in
London at Jefferies International Ltd. Governments need to at
least triple the size of their euro-area-wide rescue facility
and consider issuing joint debt, he said. Merkel and Sarkozy
rejected these initiatives last week, choosing instead to
promote ideas already in the works, such as national balanced-
budget amendments and a financial-transactions levy.  Cheaper Currency  Economists also disagree on which countries would leave.
Greece and perhaps Portugal may decide financial stability and
the bailouts aren’t enough to compensate for the continued
austerity and bet it would be easier to write down debt, spur
exports and improve competitiveness with a cheaper currency.  AAA-rated members such as Finland also may come under
domestic pressure for a rethink of their own if they find
themselves dispatching continued dollops of cash to the debt-
stricken nations such as Greece, Callow said.  The euro-skeptic True Finns won record backing in April
elections, making them Finland’s third biggest party. Creating a
U.S. level of integration would force Germany to transfer 3.5
percent of GDP compared with the 0.7 percent it contributes to
the current EU budget, economists at Nomura International Plc in
London estimate.  “Sometime in the next two years, we probably will see an
exit as it becomes increasingly impossible for the euro to
overcome its internal contradictions,” Marsh said. “It’s like
cutting off a gangrenous leg to preserve the body.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  