-- 
Emerging-Market Bonds Show Ratings Don’t Matter as Debt Rallies Like Bunds

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-22T21:57:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/emerging-market-bonds-show-ratings-don-t-matter-as-debt-rallies-like-bunds.html
For the first time in five years,
emerging-market debt is breaking its link with riskier assets
and trading in sync with securities investors deem the safest.  Gains in local-currency debt of developing nations sent
yields on the benchmark index to a nine-month low even as bonds
of similarly-rated U.S. companies fell this month and the value
of global stocks tumbled by $6.8 trillion on concern the economy
may stall. Yields have diverged from the VIX index, known as the
fear gauge for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index, for the first
time since May 2006 and are moving in line with Treasuries by
the most in five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we get a period of lower global growth, emerging-
market local bond yields will continue to rally,”  Michael Gomez , the Munich-based co-head of emerging markets at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which oversees $1.3 trillion
including the world’s biggest bond fund, said in an Aug. 17
interview on Bloomberg Radio. “That’s a good place to be.”  While developing-nation bonds sank with stocks and junk-
rated company debt as investors retreated from riskier assets in
October 2008 and May 2010, fund managers are now treating
sovereign debt of  Indonesia  and Turkey as havens, similar to
U.S. and German securities.  This month’s 2.2 percent gain in the JPMorgan GBI-EM Global
Diversified Index of local-currency emerging-market bonds
compares with a 3.3 percent rally in Bank of America Corp.’s
gauge of Treasuries and a 4.3 percent drop in Barclays Plc’s
index of U.S. high-yield notes.  Ratings Logic  The advance in emerging-market debt is another sign of the
countries’ growing clout in world financial markets and shows
investors are looking past the analysis of ratings companies
such as Standard & Poor’s, which ranks Turkey and Indonesia BB+,
one level below investment grade.  Turkish local-currency bonds gained 2.6 percent this month,
while Indonesian debt increased 1.9 percent and Brazilian bonds,
rated BBB+ by S&P, the third-lowest investment grade, gained 3.4
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Ratings are not logical,” said Jeremy Brewin, who helps
manage about $3.6 billion in emerging-market debt at Aviva
Investors in London. Both Indonesia and  Turkey  deserve
investment-grade debt ratings as long as the U.S. and some
European nations grow faster than recession levels, he said.  Investor Confidence  The governments of Indonesia and Turkey, which can impose
taxes or print money to repay their debts, are rated at BB+ for
local-currency bonds, the same level by S&P as Birmingham,
Alabama-based lender Regions Financial Corp. The bank’s 5.75
percent notes due June 2015 have retreated 6.1 percent this
month while the shares tumbled 34 percent on concern earnings
will drop as the economy slows. Turkey has a BB rating from S&P
on its foreign-currency debt.  Treasuries have rallied 2.2 percent since S&P downgraded
the U.S. to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The ratings company, along
with Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings -- which both
affirmed their top rankings on the U.S. this month -- engaged in
a “race to the bottom” to assign top grades to mortgage-backed
securities at the request of the banks that paid them in 2006
and 2007, helping to cause the global financial crisis,
according to a report released by a Senate panel in April.  The sovereign borrowers viewed by investors as most
creditworthy are rallying this month after worse-than-estimated
U.S. economic data, the unprecedented downgrade of America’s top
debt rating and signs that  Europe ’s most-indebted countries may
struggle to repay obligations shook investor confidence.  Lower Debt Burden  Developing nations have cut government debt to 34 percent
of gross domestic product from 36 percent in 2009 and 49 percent
at the start of the decade, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Gross debt in advanced countries has climbed to
103 percent of GDP from 93 percent two years ago and 73 percent
in 2000, according to the Washington-based fund. Emerging
economies will expand 6.6 percent this year, compared with 2.2
percent in developed nations, IMF forecasts show.  The developing world has learned from past crises “to
tremendously improve their balance sheets,” said Gomez, whose
$9.5 billion  Pimco Emerging Local Bond Fund (PELBX)  beat 86 percent of
its peers this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The debt
of  Brazil , Mexico and  South Africa  is “attractive,” he said.  The 120-day correlation between yields on the JPMorgan GBI-
EM index and the VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, dropped to minus 0.1 last week, from
0.5 in May 2010, when a divided response by European leaders on
how to solve the debt crisis spurred speculation that Greece and
 Portugal  may default, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Lowest Correlation’  The correlation between the GBI-EM index and 10-year
Treasuries has climbed to 0.3 from minus 0.2 in May 2010, the
data show. A correlation of 1 indicates they move in lockstep,
while a value of zero shows there’s no link and a reading of
minus 1 shows they move in opposite directions.  “Local-currency debt generally speaking has got the lowest
correlation with risk,” said Natalia Gurushina, the New York-
based director of emerging-market strategy at Roubini Global
Economics, the consulting firm founded by New York University
professor Nouriel Roubini.  While emerging-market bonds are rallying, the gains haven’t
matched those of Treasuries and German bunds. The yield on the
JPMorgan GBI-EM index dropped to 6.37 percent last week, the
lowest level since November 2010, from 6.76 percent at the end
of July. The rate on U.S. 10-year notes has declined to 2.12
percent from 2.80 percent on July 29, while the yield on bunds
sank to 2.15 percent from 2.54 percent.  Weaker Currencies  The extra yield on emerging-market dollar bonds over
Treasuries increased 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage point,
this month to 367, compared with a weekly average of 408 during
the past decade, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  For U.S.-based investors, advances in emerging-market debt
were eroded as currencies weakened against the dollar. Brazil’s
real fell 3.1 percent this month, while the Russian ruble
depreciated 5.2 percent and  Poland ’s zloty slid 4.2 percent. The
rand lost 6.9 percent and  India ’s rupee fell 3.3 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index tumbled 11 percent
during the period. Russia’s Micex sank 15 percent and India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index dropped 10 percent. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 15 percent.  “We are still in a world where if things go sour everybody
goes and buys bunds and Treasuries,”  Luis Costa , an emerging-
market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by phone on
Aug. 16. “You don’t go ‘Oh my God, the world is coming to an
end, let me buy Polish bonds.’”  Biggest Reserves  When global credit markets froze in 2008, yields on the
GBI-EM index rose to a record 9.73 percent, mirroring the VIX’s
surge to an all-time high of 81. Brazil has experienced boom-
and-bust cycles of inflation, currency devaluations and
interest-rate swings since the end of military government in
1985. Russia defaulted on $40 billion of ruble debt. Asian
nations such as Indonesia suffered currency crises in the 1990s.  The three countries have spent the past decade building up
foreign-exchange reserves, with combined holdings of $932
billion, in part to prevent larger swings in their currencies.
 China  has $3.2 trillion of reserves, the world’s top holdings.  Investors added money to emerging-market local currency
bond funds during the past two weeks even as they exited
positions in global high-yield debt, according to data compiled
by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global. The
emerging debt funds lured $381 million in the two weeks ended
Aug. 17, compared with $8.9 billion of outflows from global
high-yield funds, EPFR said.  Rates Outlook  “More and more asset allocators are deciding to put that
in emerging markets as a safe haven bet,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who
helps manage about $7 billion in emerging-market debt at
Aberdeen Asset Management in London, said in an Aug. 19 phone
interview.  Falling expectations for global economic growth and
inflation are boosting the appeal of fixed-income investments,
said  Murat Toprak , the head of foreign exchange strategy for
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. Morgan Stanley cut its forecast for global expansion
this year on Aug. 18 to 3.9 percent from 4.2 percent. The S&P
GSCI Spot Index of commodities has retreated 16 percent from
this year’s high in April.  Dim Sum Debt  Yields on India’s benchmark 7.8 percent sovereign notes due
in April 2021 have dropped 19 basis points this month to 8.27
percent. Borrowing costs will probably fall to 8 percent by
year-end, according to Puneet Pal, a fund manager at UTI Asset
Management Co. in Mumbai. India’s index of wholesale prices
declined to 9.22 percent in July from 9.74 percent in April.  Yields on Brazilian benchmark fixed-rate bonds due in 2021
fell 65 basis points this month to 12.21 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The yield difference between inflation-linked
bonds and interest-rate futures, a gauge of investors’
expectations for annual inflation through 2013, has dropped to
544 basis points from 590 at the start of the month.  In China, the yield on yuan-denominated dim sum bonds sold
in  Hong Kong  has dropped by as much as 40 basis points since
November. The Ministry of Finance sold three-year notes at a 0.6
percent yield on Aug. 17 as part of a 20 billion yuan ($3.1
billion) offering. Debt of the same maturity was priced to yield
1 percent in November.  “In lots of countries where we had rate hike expectations
we have seen a de-pricing of those expectations and in several
markets we have even seen a shift from rate hikes to cuts,”
HSBC’s Toprak said in an Aug. 19 phone interview.  Pension Funds  Longer-term gains in emerging-market debt may be fueled by
increasing demand from pension funds and other large
institutional investors in the developed world, according to
Aberdeen’s Gutierrez.  Pension funds in Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development countries have “close to zero” allocations to
emerging-market fixed-income securities, JPMorgan said in a
November research note. Local investors hold as much as 85
percent of the debt, according to the report.  “Allocations still are very low compared to where they
should be,” Gutierrez said. “The amount of potential demand
structurally for the asset class remains very high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  