-- 
Merkel Says She Will Resist Market Pressure for Common Euro-Region Bonds

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-08-22T08:40:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/merkel-says-common-euro-area-bonds-would-bring-debt-union-not-stability.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
attempted to shut the door on common euro-area bonds as a means
to solve the debt crisis, saying that she won’t let financial
markets dictate policy.  Joint euro bonds would require European Union treaty
changes that would “take years” and might run afoul of
Germany’s constitution, Merkel said. While common borrowing
might arrive at some point in the “distant future,” bringing
in euro bonds at this time would further undermine economic
stability and so they “are not the answer right now.”  “At this time -- we’re in a dramatic crisis -- euro bonds
are precisely the wrong answer,” Merkel said in an interview
with ZDF television in Berlin yesterday. “They lead us into a
debt union, not a stability union. Each country has to take its
own steps to reduce its debt.”  Merkel has stepped up her opposition to euro bonds since
returning from her summer vacation last week, making resistance
to common European borrowing a campaign theme of Sept. 4
elections in her home state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
Investor calls for euro bonds intensified last week as concerns
about the debt crisis and a stuttering global economy drove
European stocks to their lowest in more than two years.  ‘We’re Unassailable’  “Politicians can’t and won’t simply run after the
markets,” Merkel said in the chancellery interview, her first
since returning from a three-week summer break. “The markets
want to force us to do certain things. That we won’t do.
Politicians have to make sure that we’re unassailable, that we
can make policy for the people.”  European stocks rose today, rebounding from a two-year low,
with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gaining as much as 1.1 percent.
German 10-year bunds fell, sending yields up 2 basis points to
2.12 percent at 10:35 a.m. in Berlin.  Pledges of 365 billion euros ($526 billion) in official
loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland, and 96 billion euros of
bond purchases by the  European Central Bank  have yet to fix the
finances of those countries or prevent speculative attacks on
Spain and  Italy .  National benchmark indexes fell in every western European
market except  Iceland  last week, with Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX) 
declining 8.6 percent. Compounding investor concerns, statistics
released Aug. 16 showed the German economy, Europe’s largest,
almost stalled in the second quarter.  Debt Reduction  “I see nothing that points to a recession in  Germany ,”
Merkel said. “But I see considerable long-term tasks ahead of
us that have to do with markets regaining confidence in Europe
and that have a lot to do with reducing debt.”  Merkel’s stance risks bringing her into conflict with the
European Commission, the European Union’s executive body, which
said Aug. 19 that it may present draft legislation on joint
euro-area bonds after completing a feasibility report.  She is also at odds with Germany’s main opposition Social
Democrats and their Green Party allies, both of which support
euro bonds even as polls suggest a majority of the German public
is against them. Germany would face extra costs of 47 billion
euros a year if it aligned  interest rates  with nations that pay
more to borrow, the Munich-based Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.
Merkel’s two coalition partners, the Free Democratic Party and
 Christian Social Union , spoke out against euro bonds in weekend
newspaper interviews.  ‘Inflation Community’  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  entered the fray
two days ago in his first public engagement since the summer
break, saying that the euro region would become an “inflation
community” if member countries decided to sell bonds jointly
without unifying their fiscal policies.  “Unless there is a single financial policy in the euro
area, there won’t be a single rate of interest” on debt sold,
Schaeuble said at an open doors event at the  Finance Ministry .  Schaeuble said that he’s prepared to cede sovereignty to
the EU to achieve political union, even if most other EU members
are not currently ready to do likewise, the Welt am Sonntag
newspaper cited him as saying in an interview published
yesterday. Schaeuble said he has no problem with the idea of a
European finance minister, according to the newspaper.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  sided with Germany and
 France , ruling out issuing common bonds as a cure for the debt
crisis at least until European economies and budgets are better
aligned.  With three countries drawing financial aid and national
debts ranging from 6.6 percent of gross domestic product in
 Estonia  to 142.8 percent in  Greece , this is the wrong time to
set up a single borrowing agency,  Van Rompuy  said in an Aug. 20
interview on  Belgium ’s RTBF radio.  Voting Seen  The German government aims to put changes to the European
rescue fund and a second round of financial aid for Greece to a
parliamentary vote on Sept. 23. That’s five days after a state
election in Berlin, the last of seven regional votes this year
which have seen Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  punished as voters
railed against public bailouts of indebted euro-area countries.  Merkel, who said that she’s confident of a majority to pass
the changes in parliament, called for the focus of Europe’s
crisis-fighting strategy to remain on tackling debt. Decades of
deficit spending in euro-area countries has turned the region
into a “debt union” that requires each country to slash debt
levels, she said.  “This is an arduous, difficult path that can’t be solved
in one fell swoop, for instance with euro bonds,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  