-- 
Euro Traders Believe in Trichet as ECB Bails Out EU Leaders

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-22T12:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/euro-traders-put-trust-in-trichet-after-merkel-sarkozy-disappoint-on-bonds.html
Foreign-exchange traders are putting
their faith in  Jean-Claude Trichet , betting the European Central
Bank President will save the euro from a collapse predicted by
everyone from George Soros to Paul Volcker.  While the region’s debt crisis now threatens Italy and
Spain after infecting Greece, Ireland and Portugal, the euro has
appreciated 1.6 percent this year against a basket of nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Only the Swiss franc has done better. The currency
shared by 17 countries gained last week as financial markets
were roiled by further evidence that the global economic
recovery is weakening.  The strength underscores confidence in Trichet’s ability to
prop up the currency until government officials reach a long-
term agreement to reduce the region’s expanding budget deficits
after  Greece , Ireland and Portugal had their credit ratings cut
to below investment grade. The ECB’s solution has been to buy
government bonds, driving yields lower, and then draining the
extra euros pumped into the financial system by the purchases
before it can spark inflation.  “A lot of people are scratching their heads and wondering
why the euro has been so resilient and it’s because the ECB
stepped in the market and took the pressure off the European
banking system,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of Americas G-10
currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New York, who
estimates the euro will end the year at $1.45. “That in turn
helped support the euro and is why the euro is on the cusp of
breaking $1.45 instead of on the cusp of breaking $1.40.”  Year-End Forecasts  The euro strengthened 1.1 percent last week to $1.4397, and
gained 2 percent to 1.1303 versus the franc. A Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index tracking the euro’s performance rose
to 99.9616 last week from 98.2357 at the end of 2010.  It has gained against every major currency except the Swiss
franc this year. Strategists have increased their year-end
forecast for the euro versus the dollar by 9.2 percent since
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trichet and his policy makers have bought  government bonds 
in an effort to contain borrowing costs before a plan by
European Union leaders goes into effect. EU leaders last month
proposed expanding the role of the 440 billion euro ($632
billion) European Financial Stability Facility -- the fund that
has helped bail out Greece, Ireland and Portugal -- to buy bonds
in the secondary markets, aid troubled banks and offer lines of
credit. The plan will go into effect after the parliaments of
member nations approve it.  Italian, Spanish Yields  ECB data show it bought 22 billion euros of government
bonds in the week ended Aug. 12. It purchased an undisclosed
amount last week. Besides buying debt, Trichet extended the
central bank’s unlimited lending to financial institutions
through year-end to ease financial market tensions.  Ten-year yields on Italian and Spanish bonds closed last
week at 4.93 percent and 4.97 percent, after surging as high as
6.4 percent and 6.5 percent in the first week of August.  Unlike the  Federal Reserve , the ECB mops up the extra
currency it creates through a program known as sterilization. It
does that by auctioning seven-day term deposits from banks. The
Fed’s $2.35 trillion in bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, went unsterilized, inflating the supply of dollars.  “The euro has held up exceptionally well, unbelievably
well,” said Lane Newman, director of foreign exchange at ING
Groep NV in New York. “The euro at times has done badly against
other currencies but it has held up very well against the dollar
because of the fact that now the ECB and the rest of the
European finance ministers put a backstop under it.”  Money Flows  Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest
custodial bank with more than $26 trillion in assets under
administration, has seen more money pouring into the euro by
some of its largest customers, said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing
director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston .  Flows were as much as 1 1/2 times higher last week than the
weekly average over the past year, according to Bank of New
York’s data, which is used by the  International Monetary Fund 
and the Bank of  Japan  in their analysis. Euro inflows in the
week through Aug. 12 were 95 percent greater than previous weeks
over the past two years, Morgan Stanley reported Aug. 15. The
firm’s clients were “very heavy buyers” in the past year, said
Calvin Tse, a London-based currency strategist at Morgan
Stanley.  Dollar Weakness  Rather than a referendum on the euro, the currency’s
strength may reflect the dollar’s weakness, according to  Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in Toronto.
Sutton expects the euro to strengthen to $1.50 this year as
lawmakers in the U.S. struggle to reach consensus on spending
cuts and a long-term budget plan.  “The expectation is that the  U.S. dollar  will weaken,
based on having a particularly loose monetary policy at the Fed
as well as having no credible plan in place nor a political will
to get one,” Sutton said.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the
first time ever Aug. 5, saying lawmakers failed to cut spending
enough to reduce record deficits. It kept the rating outlook at
“negative” and said further reductions are possible if
spending isn’t trimmed as much as agreed to by lawmakers.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their AAA
ranking for the debt of the U.S.  Not Enough  Steps taken by euro-area leaders to stem the region’s
sovereign-debt challenges may not be enough to sustain the
rally, according to BNY Mellon’s Shankar. German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy have stopped
short of supporting euro bonds, which would allow nations to
issue debt backed by all members of the region.  “A lot of hard decisions need to be taken and the policy
consensus is just not there,” Shankar said. “It’s almost like
the ECB is putting together a slew of fire-fighting measures,
but you still need a longer-term solution and that’s why the
specter of contagion continues to hang over the region.”  For all of the region’s fiscal troubles, the euro is still
14 percent stronger against the dollar than its average in the
past decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Governments across
the region, from Greece to  Spain , have implemented austerity
measures to bring down deficits.  Tougher Enforcement  In her Aug. 16 meeting with Sarkozy, Merkel highlighted the
need for tougher enforcement of deficit rules, including a
numerical annual debt-reduction target for countries with debt
over 60 percent of gross domestic product, the  euro zone ’s legal
limit. Greece’s debt-to-GDP was about 140 percent at the end of
2010, while Italy’s ratio was about 120 percent.  Currency analysts say the euro will end the year at $1.43,
according to the median estimate of 42 strategists in a
Bloomberg News survey. That compares with a year-end forecast of
$1.32 for the common currency at the beginning of 2011.  “If we see full follow-through on the commitments that are
being made in budgetary policies across the euro zone, that does
get us to a position of debt sustainability,” said Ray Attrill,
head of currency strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York. He
estimates the euro will rise to $1.55 by year-end.  While Merkel and Sarkozy have voiced opposition for joint
bond sales by euro-area nations, EU regulators may push for the
so-called euro bonds. Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the EU may
present draft legislation on euro bonds when completing a report
on the feasibility of common debt sales.  Soros, Volcker Warnings  The performance of the euro contrasts with sentiment a year
ago, when billionaire investor Soros and Volcker, the former
chairman of the Fed from 1979 until August 1987, warned that the
currency union was in danger of dissolving.  Some nations in the euro may need to take a “sabbatical”
while they resolve fiscal issues, Mohamed El-Erian, the chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., said
last week in a Bloomberg Television interview. Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco manages the world’s largest bond fund and
oversees about $1.34 trillion of assets.  The ECB’s two interest-rate increases this year have also
helped boost the euro. The central bank raised its benchmark
lending rate from 1 percent, where it was during the financial
crisis, to 1.5 percent to contain inflation.  In the U.S., the Fed has kept its rate at a record low zero
to 0.25 percent and said this month that it will maintain the
range at least through mid-2013 to spur the economy. The  Bank of
Japan  and  Bank of England  haven’t raised their rates since the
start of the 2008 financial crisis.  “Monetary policy has been significantly more dovish in the
U.S. versus  Europe ,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. He estimates the euro
will appreciate through the end of the year to $1.49. While
Europe’s debt crisis will take time to be resolved, ECB action
will help allay market concern, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  