-- 
Fed Data From 29,000 Pages Show Banks’ Bailout: Methodology

-- B y   P h i l   K u n t z
-- 
2011-08-22T12:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/fed-data-from-29-000-pages-show-banks-borrowings-methodology.html
To rank companies by how much they
borrowed from the U.S. Federal Reserve during the financial
crisis, Bloomberg News examined data the central bank was forced
to release about seven programs.  The  data  were extracted from 29,000 pages of documents and
18 Fed-prepared Microsoft Excel spreadsheets listing more than
21,000 transactions. The records were made public in batches on
Dec. 1, 2010, and March 31 and July 6 of this year. The Fed
released some of them under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and the rest
in responses to Freedom of Information Act requests by media
outlets including Bloomberg News and related federal court
orders. The data covered money borrowed from the central bank
from August 2007 through April 2010.  More than a dozen lending programs were deployed by the Fed
in response to the crisis. From those, Bloomberg News selected
the seven available to a broad set of banks, brokerage firms and
other companies. They included the Fed’s discount window, the
last-resort lender for troubled banks, and six temporary
measures: the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual
Fund Liquidity Facility; the Commercial Paper Funding Facility;
the Primary Dealer Credit Facility; the Term Auction Facility;
the Term Securities Lending Facility; and so-called single-
tranche open market operations.  (View the Bloomberg  interactive graphic  to chart the Fed’s
financial bailout.)  Many firms borrowed from two or more programs through
multiple subsidiaries, all disclosed separately in the Fed data.
The central bank didn’t detail how much each borrower had
outstanding from all programs on any given day, a measure of
vulnerability during the crisis.  Daily Total Balances  Bloomberg News combined the Fed’s loan data, including the
amounts, dates and payoff deadlines, into a master Excel file to
calculate daily total loan balances for each parent company.  Fed officials provided Bloomberg News with early payoff
dates for a handful of loans, which are reflected in the
analysis. Discount-window figures are based on daily
outstanding-balance reports. Reports for 18 business days were
missing from the Fed’s release. While money was likely owed
during those gaps, it wasn’t feasible to determine how much, so
discount-window balances were zeroed out for those days. As a
result, some companies’ daily totals show sudden dips and
spikes. In all other instances, the loans were assumed to have
been paid off on their due dates.  Emergency measures that targeted specific companies -- Bear
Stearns Cos.,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  -- were disclosed at the time and so
were excluded. Loans to these companies from the other seven
programs were included.  TSLF Loans  Loans from the TSLF program were included only after
borrowers exercised rights purchased from the TSLF Options
Program; options purchased but not used were excluded. The
Central Bank Liquidity Swap Lines, which lent dollars to foreign
central banks so they could in turn pass on the liquidity to
institutions operating in their own countries, were omitted
because the companies that ultimately got those funds haven’t
been disclosed.  The analysis includes 394 companies that took loans from at
least one of the six temporary programs and 13 more that were
among the top discount-window borrowers. About 1,600 additional
discount-window borrowers were excluded because their loan
balances averaged less than $20 million a day.  Abbreviated Names  The Fed data identified many borrowers using abbreviated
names. In many instances, different banks had similar or even
identical names. To differentiate the institutions and determine
their parents, identifying characteristics in the documents such
as cities and Fed districts were compared with Bloomberg’s
global database of companies and subsidiaries, which include
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.  Firms acquired during or after the financial crisis are
listed separately from their new parents. Loans to Merrill Lynch
& Co., for example, weren’t combined with those to Bank of
America, which purchased the New York-based brokerage on Jan. 1,
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Kuntz in  New York  at 
 pkuntz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 