-- 
Fed’s $1.2 Trillion Loan Lifelines Dwarfed TARP: Glossary

-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-08-22T12:29:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/fed-s-1-2-trillion-liquidity-lifelines-dwarfed-tarp-glossary.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve mounted an
unprecedented campaign to head off a depression by providing as
much as  $1.2 trillion  in public money to banks and other
companies from August 2007 through April 2010, exceeding the
$700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  (View the Bloomberg  interactive graphic  to chart the Fed’s
financial bailout.)  Here’s a breakdown of the facilities the central bank used
or created to combat the credit crunch:  Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity
Facility  The bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
September 2008 triggered losses at the world’s oldest money-
market mutual fund, the Reserve Primary Fund, threatening to
touch off an industrywide rout as investors began withdrawing
from other money funds.  To keep the funds from realizing losses as they liquidated
assets to meet customers’ redemption requests, the Fed created
the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund
Liquidity Facility, or AMLF, on Sept. 19, 2008. Under the
program, the Fed loaned money to banks so they could buy asset-
backed commercial paper -- collateralized bonds with a maturity
of 270 days or less -- from the money funds.  At its peak on Oct. 1, 2008, the program had $152.1 billion
of loans outstanding. Because the Fed agreed to make banks whole
for any losses as long as they bought eligible securities, the
program offered almost risk-free profit.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the biggest bank participant, borrowed and bought $111 billion
of securities under the program.  Commercial Paper Funding Facility  Three weeks after Lehman Brothers collapsed, companies that
financed themselves by selling commercial paper -- bonds with a
maturity of 270 days or less that are considered among the
safest investments because of their relatively short terms --
were frozen out of the market. The Fed unveiled the Commercial
Paper Funding Facility, or CPFF, on Oct. 7, 2008, to “help
provide liquidity to term funding markets.”  When the program began later that month, banks including
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Switzerland ’s  UBS AG (UBSN) 
participated. So did companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) , the
maker of light bulbs and jet engines, and bulldozer builder
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   Because non-banks usually aren’t eligible to borrow from
the Fed, central-bank officials had to invoke Section 13(3) of
the Federal Reserve law, which allows such loans “in unusual
and exigent circumstances.” By January 2009, the Fed had bought
$348 billion of commercial paper. The program wasn’t closed
until February 2010, with balances paid off two months later.  Discount Window  The Fed was created by Congress in 1913 after banking
panics in the late 1800s and early 1900s. The centerpiece of the
central bank’s plan to head off future crises was the discount
window, an emergency-lending program that could supply
institutions with cash if customers rushed to withdraw more
money than banks had in their vaults.  The program also could make up for funding gaps that might
occur if a lender’s own creditors decided not to refinance debt
coming due. Both U.S. banks and foreign banks with U.S. branches
are eligible to tap the program.  Until 2008, the record for discount-window borrowing was in
the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S.,
when all banks got a combined $46 billion of loans from the Fed.
As the biggest financial crisis in U.S. history loomed in August
2007, former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan reminded economists in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming : “Even if banks find that borrowing from
the discount window is not immediately necessary, the knowledge
that liquidity is available should help alleviate concerns about
funding.”  It didn’t work out that way. Bank creditors pulled their
funding en masse, and discount-window borrowing surged to a
record of $113.7 billion on Oct. 28, 2008. To get the money,
banks had to pay 0.25 to 0.5 percentage point more than the Fed
funds rate at which banks normally lend to each other on an
overnight basis. They also had to pledge collateral, ranging
from  government bonds  and investment-grade corporate bonds to
agricultural loans and commercial leases.  Primary Dealer Credit Facility  The philosophy underpinning last-resort lending programs
comes from Walter Bagehot, a 19th-century journalist and son of
a banker who argued that central banks could quell panics by
lending freely to worthy borrowers against good collateral. With
the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, or PDCF, the Fed began to
lower its standards for eligible borrowers and for the
collateral needed to secure the loans.  The program supplied liquidity to large brokerage firms,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS) 
Previously, the Fed had restricted emergency loans to banks
whose capital and loan quality were monitored by banking
regulators. Acceptable collateral under the new program included
 junk bonds  and stocks, off-limits at the discount window.  It was announced on March 16, 2008, the same day Bear
Stearns Cos. agreed to sell itself to JPMorgan in a government-
assisted transaction. The program peaked at $156 billion on
Sept. 29, 2008.  Single-Tranche Open Market Operations  Relative yields on mortgage-backed securities surged to the
highest in 22 years in March 2008, signaling reluctance by banks
to lend against assets perceived as riskier than the safest U.S.
Treasury bonds. To ease market strains, the Fed announced it
would make as much as $100 billion of loans to Wall Street firms
through auctions and accept mortgage bonds guaranteed by
government-sponsored Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as collateral.  The Fed didn’t need emergency authority to set up the
program, identified in internal documents as single-tranche open
market operations, or ST OMO, since it was structured as an
extension of operations used by the Fed to keep interbank
lending rates close to the central bank’s benchmark target.  The program had $80 billion of loans outstanding from April
30, 2008, through Jan. 6, 2009. One borrower, Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , took more than half of that, $45
billion, for the week beginning Aug. 27, 2008. The last auction
was Dec. 30, 2008, when one borrower, Goldman Sachs, got $200
million of loans at an interest rate of 0.01 percent.  Term Auction Facility  In December 2007, as subprime-mortgage losses spread and
banks grew reluctant to lend to each other, the Fed created the
Term Auction Facility, or TAF. The program, which provided
collateralized loans to banks, aimed to “help promote the
efficient dissemination of liquidity when the unsecured
interbank markets are under stress,” the Fed said in a press
release at the time.  Fed officials have since said that the real concern was
with the discount window, the central bank’s primary last-resort
lending program. Banks were loath to use it because they didn’t
want to be branded as weak, according to a January 2011 paper by
researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . To avoid
the problem, the central bank designed the TAF so  interest rates 
on the loans would be set through auctions rather than the fixed
penalty rate applied to discount-window loans.  The Fed increased the size of the auctions as liquidity
grew scarcer and more banks bid. The program peaked on Feb. 26,
2009, at $493 billion, more than four times the record for
discount-window borrowing.  Term Securities Lending Facility  In March 2008, as investors faced mounting losses related
to mortgage bonds, the Fed started a program that would allow
brokerage firms to temporarily relieve themselves of the
securities. Under the Term Securities Lending Facility, or TSLF,
the Fed allowed banks to swap mortgage bonds and other toxic
assets for U.S. Treasuries. Banks could then turn to the market
or to other Fed lending programs and pledge the Treasuries as
collateral for cash loans.  Lending fees were set through weekly auctions, and winning
bidders were awarded loans of Treasuries for 28-day periods. The
program was announced five days before Bear Stearns, Wall
Street’s top mortgage-bond underwriter for most of the 2000s,
almost collapsed and had to sell itself to JPMorgan. The fees
ranged from 0.3 percent initially to as high as 3.2 percent in
October 2008, following  Lehman Brothers ’ bankruptcy.  Banks including Citigroup and Bank of America, which
already had access to Fed emergency-lending programs such as the
discount window, got additional liquidity by tapping the TSLF
through their brokerage divisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 