-- 
Foster’s May Use Share Buyback to Blunt Appeal of SABMiller’s Hostile Bid

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-22T07:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/foster-s-may-use-share-buyback-to-blunt-appeal-of-sabmiller-s-hostile-bid.html
Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Pollaers , three months into the role, may tomorrow
announce plans for share buybacks to blunt the appeal of
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) ’s hostile takeover bid as profit drops.  Fosters, which reports full-year earnings tomorrow, may
return as much as A$1 billion ($1 billion) in capital to
shareholders, using cash from tax refunds and lower debt to
boost the share price, analysts at Citigroup Inc. said.  Australia’s biggest brewer is fending off SABMiller’s bid
and trying to stem market-share losses as natural disasters and
slumping consumer sentiment crimp the developed world’s widest
brewing profit margins. Pollaers, a former Australian Navy
weapons engineer who spent almost 20 years at spirits maker
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , is betting that spending more on brands and lowering
production costs will restore profit growth.  “He seems to be the right man in the right place,” said
 Theo Maas , who helps manage $5 billion of equities at Arnhem
Investment Management Pty. in Sydney. “He is managing in a very
difficult environment, and while it would be a lot easier to
just deliver strong numbers and say it only gets better, he
can’t.”  Earnings before items probably fell 7.7 percent to A$494
million in the 12 months ended June, according to the median
estimate of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Wine Writedowns  Foster’s shares fell 0.6 percent to A$4.90 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, matching SABMiller’s cash offer. The
stock has risen 7.2 percent so far in 2011, and has gained in
three of the past nine years.  Pollaers has been CEO of Foster’s since it completed the
spinoff of Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. in May, ending the
company’s 15-year involvement in wine that cost more than A$8
billion to build and resulted in about A$3 billion of
writedowns.  The company has refused to enter talks with SABMiller since
rejecting a bid on June 21, arguing the A$4.90 a share offer,
which will be reduced by the amount of any dividends paid,
“materially undervalues” the company.  Foster’s is worth about 12.3 times forward earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in a bid
situation, according to Citigroup, which recommends investors
“hold” their Foster’s shares.  Foster’s Valuation  SABMiller said in June the offer valued Foster’s at about
12.5 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization and stuck by that valuation last week. InBev NV
paid about 13.2 times Anheuser-Busch Cos. in the 2008 purchase,
the industry’s largest, that created Anheuser-Busch InBev NV,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SABMiller said Aug. 17 it would go directly to Foster’s
investors after the board declined to start negotiations.  “We are not saying we would never engage,” Pollaers said
in  Melbourne  on July 29. “The value put on the table there was
just so far away from reality, it wasn’t worth engaging.”  Pollaers wasn’t available for an interview before the
results release, said Andrew Butcher, a spokesman for Foster’s
external media adviser Butcher & Co.  “Foster’s is likely to increase the stakes on Aug. 23 with
its fiscal 2012 outlook commentary, requiring SABMiller to
increase its bid,” analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. led by
David Cooke, said in a Aug. 17 report. “We anticipate Foster’s
commentary will include detail on cost reduction programs and
 capital management .”  Foster’s net income will probably be A$714 million for the
year ended in June, according to the average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which included contributions
from Treasury. The company posted a loss of A$464 million in the
previous year on writedowns from the wine business.  Victoria Bitter  Foster’s has said it’s increasing advertising on brands
including Victoria Bitter,  Australia ’s best-selling beer, and
Pure Blonde and is paring the workforce at its Melbourne brewery
to cut costs.  “The company’s first beer-only result for 15 years will
likely be characterized by declines in both net sales revenue
and margins,” Andy Bowley, an analyst at Citigroup, wrote in an
Aug. 18 report. He rates the stock “hold.”  Prior to taking charge of the whole company, Pollaers ran
Foster’s domestic beer business for 13 months. He has a masters
of business administration through a joint program by INSEAD and
Sydney’s Macquarie University and has degrees in electrical
engineering and computer science, according to Foster’s  website .  He started at London-based Diageo, the maker of Johnnie
Walker scotch, in 1990 and had roles at the London-based company
including U.K. finance director, Australian head and President
of the Asia-Pacific region before joining Foster’s.  Operating Margin  The takeover offer from the maker of Miller Lite and
Grolsch will have to rise by about 6 percent to A$5.20 to
succeed, according to the median estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The failure of competing bidders to emerge, volatility in
world financial markets and the prospect of poor trading in
Australian beer in the six months to June, appear to have
strengthened SAB’s hand,” analysts at  Barclays Capital 
including Simon Hales wrote in an Aug. 18 note.  Foster’s beer operating margin, or earnings before interest
and taxes as a proportion of revenue, may fall to 37.5 percent
from 38.3 percent in their first decline in a decade, according
to Citigroup.  That’s still more than the 23.5 percent of SABMiller and
30.8 percent at AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer Slowdown  January’s flooding in Australia’s Queensland and Victoria
states, two of the nation’s three most populous, as well as the
February earthquake in  New Zealand ’s Christchurch sapped demand.
Australian consumer sentiment last month fell to the lowest
level since May 2009, according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and
Melbourne Institute survey.  “The value in Foster’s has always been about the longer-
term cash potential of the business and limited reinvestment
requirements,” Paul Van Meurs, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG
in Sydney, said in an Aug. 18 report. “While the consumer
environment undoubtedly has taken a turn for the worse in the
last few weeks in Australia, we find it hard to believe that
structural change has taken place during this period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  