-- 
From Lehman to London 2012, Field Hockey Goalkeeper Targets Olympic Gold

-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-08-21T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/from-lehman-bankruptcy-to-london-2012-hockey-player-targets-olympic-gold.html
As  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
collapsed, Nick Brothers was left ruing past decisions.  The  Great Britain  field-hockey goalkeeper had sacrificed a
chance to try out for the Beijing 2008 Olympic team to
concentrate on his banking career at Lehman, setting his sights
instead on the 2012  London  Games.  Brothers, who worked in the middle office supporting equity
derivative traders, watched from the bank’s  Canary Wharf  office
as the Olympic Park in east London was being built. On Sept. 15,
2008, when the 158-year-old firm crashed in the biggest
bankruptcy in history, Brothers worried that his Olympic
sacrifice was in vain.  “On the day Lehman went down, just after the Olympics had
finished, I thought I made the wrong decision,” said the 28-
year-old, who’s representing  England  this week in the European
championships in Germany. “That month my old team-mates were
visiting the Queen at  Buckingham Palace  while I was attached to
a firm that had just filed for bankruptcy. Sport became just a
hobby. Everything else in my life was threatened.”  Brothers had pulled out of the squad after the 2006  World
Cup , missing Beijing two years later where the British team came
fifth. “To play in both Games would have meant another six
years of training, and I had no real chance of progressing in my
professional career while continuing to play international
sport,” he said.  Change of Role  In 2010 that conflict was resolved.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
which had bought Lehman’s European, Middle East and African
equities and investment banking businesses, let Brothers move
into a part-time role as an equities derivatives analyst, allowing
him to combine his career and his sport.  “I’m in quite a fortunate position, mainly because I have
such a supportive employer,” said Brothers, who has represented
England and Great Britain more than 30 times. “I went to them
to say I was going to concentrate on hockey. I was going to
offer my resignation, but they were very understanding and
offered me the chance to change roles. I tend to train three to
five days a week, and on the rest days I go into the office.”  This year, Brothers was part of the Reading side that won
bronze in the Euro Hockey League, the first English club to get
a medal in the European competition. He’s targeting gold with
England this week at the EuroHockey Nations Championship in
Moenchengladbach,  Germany .  Brothers watched from the sidelines yesterday as the 2009
winner England, ranked fourth in the world behind  Australia ,
Germany and the Netherlands, began its title defense with a 4-2
win against Ireland. Today England plays its second group game
against the Netherlands, a side it beat 2-1 in the semifinals of
the 2009 tournament.  Potential Disappointment  “The Euros are a very big challenge for us,” Brothers
said before the tournament. “It’s the last big test before
London, the last time we’re playing the best teams for a trophy
in a high-pressure environment. We’re also all playing for our
places for the Olympics. The Great Britain squad has 25 in it
now but only 16 can play in London. We won’t know if we’re in
until the week before.”  Brothers says he’ll do “a lot of work on the field this
year, but perhaps not so much in the office.” Still, he’s sure
he’ll want to return to finance after London 2012, where the
Great Britain men’s team will aim to add to the four medals,
including one gold, it has won since the British Hockey Board
was formed in 1948.  “When London is done and dusted and we’ve hopefully been
successful, I can start full-time again in September 2012,” he
said. “ Investment banking  is the closest environment you can
get to professional sport without playing it. It’s much more
enjoyable to be outside running about, but it’s still great
going into the office knowing no two days will be the same.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  