-- 
Hamas Says It Has Informal Pact With Israel to End Rocket Fire, Reprisals

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-22T14:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/gaza-strip-militants-offer-cease-fire-if-israel-agrees-to-halt-air-strikes.html
Hamas said it reached an informal
accord with  Israel  to halt escalating violence and the Israeli
military said rocket fire on southern towns decreased by more
than three-quarters today.  “Hamas has reached an informal, implicit agreement with
Israel,” Razi Hamed, a senior Hamas official in Gaza, said by
telephone. “A preliminary accord was reached with the
Palestinian factions on the condition that Israel stop its
aggression,” Yasser Othman,  Egypt ’s envoy to the  West Bank ,
said by phone. “The next 24 hours will be a test.”  Eight mortar shells and rockets from Gaza hit Israel today,
down from 37 yesterday, when Israel’s air force struck Gaza
three times, an army spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously in
accordance with regulations. There were no air strikes today,
she said.  The latest round of violence was the worst bloodshed since
at least April. It began on Aug. 18, when gunmen killed eight
Israelis near the resort city of Eilat. Fourteen people were
killed in subsequent Israeli airstrikes on Gaza and one person
in Israel died during a rocket attack. Hamas has said it wasn’t
involved in the Aug. 18 attacks.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to comment on the cease-fire.  “The objectives of the operation were to prevent launching
of rockets on Israeli cities and to target those directly
involved in attacks on Israelis,” he said.  Recognize Israel  The Islamic Hamas movement seized control of Gaza from
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in
2007, ending a partnership government a year after winning
parliamentary elections. The group refuses to recognize Israel
or any prior agreements signed with it and is considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  “No one wants a major escalation now, not Israel, not
Hamas, and not the government of Egypt,” said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya
outside  Tel Aviv . “Hamas isn’t looking to give up Gaza any time
soon, and that means it needs to keep Gaza fairly quiet.”  The violence comes amid Israeli concern that Egyptian
security forces have been losing control of the border area
since the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Natural-
gas supplies to Israel, which receives about 40 percent of the
fuel from Egypt, were disrupted after four attacks on the
pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  Egyptian Policemen  Egypt has demanded that Israel apologize for the deaths of
three Egyptian policemen who were killed on Aug. 18 after
militants crossed the southern border and opened fire on cars
and buses. Israel is investigating the possibility its forces
inadvertently killed the Egyptians while shooting at the
attackers, said a military officer who declined to be
identified, citing regulations.  Israel and Egypt signed an accord in 1979 that called for
Israel to withdraw from Sinai, which it had seized in a 1967
war. The withdrawal was completed in 1982.  The benchmark TA-25 index was up 2.8 percent to 1109.34 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, its highest since Aug. 4. The
shekel strengthened less than 0.1 percent and was trading at
3.5755 shekels to the dollar at 4:30 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Israel’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment for five years, rose to 160
at 9 a.m. in  New York , the highest level in more than a week,
according to London prices from CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  