-- 
Gaza Rockets Hit South Israel; Arab League to Discuss Violence

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-08-21T18:31:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/gaza-militants-fire-20-rockets-into-israel-as-arab-league-prepares-to-meet.html
Militant Palestinian groups in the
 Gaza Strip , led by the ruling Hamas group, agreed to halt rocket
fire on Israeli southern cities on the condition Israel agrees
to halt all military activity against Gaza, a spokesman said.  “Hamas says it reached an agreement with factions to start
a cease-fire if Israel gives positive answers to our demand that
it stop all military operations,” the group’s spokesman Taher
al-Nounou said in a phone interview.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s spokesman,  Mark Regev , declined to comment when asked about the possible cease-
fire.  The Palestinian offer followed four days of violence in
which about 120 rockets and mortar shells hit Israel, causing
damage and killing one. Israeli airstrikes on Gaza left 14 dead.
The bloodshed, which started on Aug. 18 with attacks near the
resort city of Eilat that left eight Israelis dead, raised the
possibility of a more extensive Israeli operation in the
territory ruled by militant Islamic Hamas.  The  Arab League  met in Cairo today and said Israel has
committed “ war crimes ” in its attacks on Gaza. The UN Security
Council should take measures to stop the violence, Nabil El Arabi, secretary general of the Arab League, said in a press
conference in Cairo today.  Hamas seized control of Gaza from Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas’s Fatah party in 2007, ending a
partnership government a year after winning parliamentary
elections. The group refuses to recognize Israel or any prior
agreements signed with it and is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  Keeping Gaza Quiet  “Hamas is happy ruling Gaza and understands that it’s a
major asset,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya outside  Tel Aviv . “Hamas
isn’t looking to give up Gaza up any time soon and that means it
needs to keep Gaza fairly quiet.”  Abbas, who rules the  West Bank , has instructed his United
Nations envoy to ask the international body to recognize a
Palestinian state in September. Israel has said it is preparing
for the possibility of violent demonstrations along its
boundaries.  “No one wants a major escalation now, not Israel, not
Hamas, and not the government of  Egypt ,” Spyer said in a phone
interview.  Egyptian Border Security  The violence comes amid Israeli concern that Egyptian
security forces have been losing control of the border area
since the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Natural-
gas supplies to Israel, which receives about 40 percent of the
fuel from Egypt, were disrupted after four attacks on the
pipeline network between Feb. 5 and July 12.  Egypt has demanded that Israel apologize for the deaths of
three Egyptian policemen who were killed on Aug. 18 after
militants crossed the southern border and opened fire on cars
and buses. Israel is investigating the possibility its forces
inadvertently killed the Egyptians while shooting at the
attackers, said a military officer who declined to be
identified, citing regulations.  “I regret that Egyptian soldiers fell,” Israeli President
 Shimon Peres  said today, according to an e-mailed statement from
his office. “The peace with Egypt is strategic; both we and the
Egyptians have a supreme interest in preventing terrorism from
running amok.”  Israel  Regrets  Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  released an e-mailed statement
yesterday also expressing regret for the Egyptian deaths,
instructing the army to investigate the circumstances and then
to coordinate a separate inquiry with Egypt.  While Israel’s statement is a positive step, it doesn’t
meet the seriousness of the event or the anger of the Egyptian
people, Information Minister Osama Heikal said today. Egypt
earlier said it was withdrawing its ambassador to Israel until
an apology was made. There has been no notification from Egypt
that it was withdrawing its envoy, Israeli Foreign Ministry
spokesman Yigal Palmor said.  Israel and Egypt signed an accord in 1979 that called for
Israel to withdraw from Sinai, which it had seized in a 1967
war. The withdrawal was completed in 1982.  The TA-25 Index jumped 1.3 percent to 1,079.16 at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv, after earlier retreating as much as 4
percent. The measure has fallen 15 percent in the past month and
trades at 10 times estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of about 13
times over the past four years, the data show.  Israel’s credit-default swaps, or the cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment for five years, rose seven
basis points on Aug. 19 to 159, the highest level in a week,
according to London prices from CMA, which is owned by  CME Group
Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 