-- 
Libyan Rebels Control Most of Tripoli as Qaddafi Remains Elusive

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-22T21:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/libya-rebels-battle-qaddafi-troops-in-tripoli-say-they-hold-neighborhoods.html
Libyan rebels gained control of most
of Tripoli, the nation’s capital, as they and western leaders
declared an end to the the 42-year rule of  Muammar Qaddafi .  “The era of Qaddafi is over,” Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the
head of the rebel National Transitional Council, said today at a
news conference in the eastern city of Benghazi. He called on
rebel fighters to avoid reprisals, respect human rights and
treat prisoners of war well.  Still, Qaddafi himself remained elusive, and some loyalists
continued to fight. The rebels control 90 percent of the city,
U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters
in  Washington .  Rebels for a time held three of Qaddafi’s sons captured
during the advance into Tripoli, although one of them, Mohammed,
later escaped from house arrest, according to Al Jazeera.  “The Qaddafi regime is coming to an end, and the future of
Libya is in the hands of its people,” U.S. President  Barack Obama  said today.  “We have reports of regime elements threatening to
continue fighting,” Obama said from the vacation house where
he’s staying on  Martha’s Vineyard , Massachusetts. “Although
it’s clear that Qaddafi’s rule is over, he still has the
opportunity to reduce further bloodshed by explicitly
relinquishing power to the people of Libya.”  Obama promised aid to help Libya transition to a new
government. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton convened a
conference call from  New York  today with foreign ministers from
11 countries to discuss international aid, Nuland said.  ‘Without Conditions’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said that “Qaddafi must
stop fighting, without conditions -- and clearly show that he
has given up any claim to control  Libya .”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy said forces loyal to
Qaddafi should lay down their arms and reject his “cynical and
criminal blindness,” according to a statement released by the
Elysee Palace in Paris.  Brent oil tumbled as much as 3.2 percent in  London ,
narrowing its record premium to the main U.S. oil grade, on
speculation Libyan production will recover. Output from Libya,
which has the largest proven oil reserves of any African
country, dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels the nation pumped before the uprising
started.  Brent oil for October settlement dropped 48 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $108.14 a barrel at 3:02 p.m. in New York on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract has
climbed 14 percent this year.  Oil Prices  Crude oil for September delivery gained $1.86, or 2.3
percent, to settle at $84.12 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The September contract expires today.  Shares of European companies with business in Libya,
including Eni SpA and  Total SA (FP) , gained on the prospect of an end
to the conflict.  The uprising, inspired by the popular revolts that ousted
the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt, began in February and spread
from the eastern rebel stronghold of Benghazi. Until this month,
opposition fighters had struggled to take and hold government-
controlled territory.  Al Jazeera broadcast video of residents in Tripoli’s Green
Square singing national songs and firing into the air to
celebrate the rebels’ advance. Some raised the rebel flag and
others ripped up a poster of Qaddafi. Opposition forces took
control of the state television and radio headquarters, Arabiya
reported, shortly after state TV went off air.  ‘Hopeful Moment’  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said today he
will convene an “urgent” meeting on Libya’s future with the
heads of the  African Union , the  Arab League , the European Union
and a coalition of Islamic nations.  Ban, speaking to reporters in New York, said that the
meeting likely would be held Aug. 25 or 26 and that he is also
calling for a meeting of the  Security Council  to give the UN a
mandate to assist Libya’s transition to a new government.  “This is a hopeful moment,” Ban said.  “It is testimony
to the courage and determination of the Libyan people to seek a
free and democratic future.”  Besides the three sons captured by rebels, a fourth,
Mutassim, was inside the Bab Al Azizia compound,  Al Arabiya 
cited rebels as saying. A fifth, Khamis, led a column of
loyalist soldiers toward the city center where they clashed with
rebel fighters, it reported.  Qaddafi’s Sons  Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Islam, considered his heir to power,
was arrested in Tripoli, said Mohamad Al Akari, an adviser to
the National Transitional Council, the rebel governing body. The
 International Criminal Court  is in talks with the council about
the surrender of Saif al-Islam to the court, Fadi El-Abdallah,
spokesman for the ICC, said by telephone today from its
headquarters in The Hague.  Qaddafi’s eldest son, Mohammed, was arrested after rebels
stormed his house, according to  Al Jazeera , which later reported
he had escaped from house arrest. A third, Saadi, has been
detained, Al Arabiya said.  Muammar Qaddafi should be captured alive and put on trial
for crimes against the Libyan people, Abdel Jalil said.  “I think Qaddafi is still in the country, the fighters
will turn over every stone to find him, arrest him, and put him
in court,” Mahmoud Al-Nakou, Libyan charge d’affaires to the
U.K., said in a televised press conference in London today.  “We’ve been planning this for the past four, five
months,” Akari said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
After Tripoli’s fall, it will take about a week to clear out
pockets of Qaddafi defenders “to be sure we’re a safe city.”  NATO Monitoring  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization will continue to
deploy aircraft over Libya and monitor any remaining threats
from Qaddafi’s forces, an alliance official said by phone from
Brussels.  The fighting yesterday killed 376 and wounded more than
1,000 in Tripoli, according to Al Arabiya, citing unidentified
Libyan government officials.  Cameron told reporters that there was still “extremely
fierce” fighting in Tripoli and “there can be no complacency”
over the outcome. Cameron made his statement outside his
residence in central London after breaking off a vacation in
southwest England to chair a meeting of the National Security
Council.  The rebel advance on Tripoli followed weeks of stalemate.
Qaddafi has told his followers to keep fighting the rebels and
to resist the NATO air strikes.  ’Never Give Up’  “We will never give up,” he said in an audio statement
played on Libyan state television yesterday. “I am with you”
in Tripoli, he said, calling on local citizens and his tribesmen
to defend the city “until our last drop of blood.”  The rebel council will appoint a transitional government
after moving its headquarters to the capital from Benghazi, in
eastern Libya, Al-Nakou said. “Today, we start to rebuild
Libya. We look forward to building a democratic country.”  Besides restoring order, the rebel council was prepared to
quickly recover the country’s oil production for much-needed
income, Akari said. Except for the refinery at Brega, damage was
not major, he said.  “We’ve been in talks with Gaz de France, Total, BP, Eni,
Qatar Petroleum as well, to help us restore oil production as
soon as possible,” he said.  More Crude  The Libyan revolt, which began in February, has reduced the
availability of light, sweet crude oil, which can easily be
refined into high-value diesel and other fuels.  “The immediate reaction should be that you’ll see more
crude come onto the market” from Libya, said  Jonathan Barratt ,
a managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney,
who predicts crude in New York will average $100 a barrel this
year. “There is that potential for 1 million barrels to come
back on line soon.”  Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  has said it may take a year to get fields
back to full capacity. Shares of Eni, the biggest foreign
investor in Libya, Italy’s  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  and Paris-based Total
SA gained as rebels advanced. Rome-based Eni gained 6.3 percent,
the most in more than a year, to 13.27 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of Milan trading.  Other  oil companies  said today it may take time to restore
production.  “It is important that the political situation should
stabilize first and the legitimate leadership be established and
ministers appointed,” Ivan Gogolev, a spokesman at Gazprom
International, said by phone.  Arab foreign ministers, meeting tomorrow, will consider
recognizing the rebel council as a “legitimate representative”
of the Libyan people, Egypt’s Middle East News Agency reported,
citing Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  