-- 
Libya Rebels Battle Qaddafi Troops in Tripoli

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 
2011-08-21T10:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/libya-rebels-battle-qaddafi-troops-in-tripoli-claim-to-take-neighborhoods.html
Fighting raged in Tripoli as rebels
sought to free the capital from Muammar Qaddafi’s control, five
months after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization began
airstrikes in the north African nation.  Rebel fighters have been battling Qaddafi forces in most
parts of the city since yesterday, an opposition member who
identified herself as Asmaa told  Al Jazeera  television from
Tripoli. Rebels said they took control of Tajoura, an eastern
suburb, while fighting also occurred in the Souk Al-Jumma market
area, Al Jazeera said. NATO aircraft attacked Qaddafi’s Scud
missile launchers and residents received  text messages  urging
them to join the rebellion, the network said.  It was the first time the capital has seen street fighting,
a hospital worker who identified herself as Karen told the  BBC .
She said her hospital has been treating casualties from the
clashes. Explosions and gunfire could be heard as she spoke.  The rebel advance on Tripoli follows weeks of stalemate in
the conflict. Qaddafi, who seized power in the oil-rich country
in a 1969 coup, controls the capital and has told his followers
to keep fighting the rebels and to resist the NATO airstrikes.  “The collaborators with the West are moving from one town
to the next claiming control, but they are not in control, they
are escaping like rats,” Qaddafi said in an audio address
broadcast early today on Libyan television and carried by Al
Jazeera “People are kissing my picture. I am their leader, I am
their father.”  Saif Defiant  “The subject of surrendering or raising the white flag is
out of the question,” Saif Al-Islam Qaddafi, the leader’s son,
said in a recorded speech on Libyan television aired by  Al
Arabiya . “If you want peace we are ready and this is an
initiative for inside and outside” the country, he said.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Beth Gosselin said the
U.S. has seen press reports that Qaddafi and two sons have fled
the country “but we don’t have any confirmation.” The
department stands by previous statements by Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  “that it’s time for Qaddafi to go,” she said.  Last week, rebels from the besieged city of Misrata said
they captured the town of Zlitan, 150 kilometers (93 miles)
southeast of Tripoli, overcoming forces led by Qaddafi’s son
Khamis and linking up with other opposition fighters inside the
town. The rebels also approached Wadi Kam, a valley 140
kilometers west of Tripoli. Fighting left at least 31 rebels
dead and 137 wounded, medical officials in Misrata said.  Rebels also said they have taken Zawiya, west of the
capital, and Ghariyan to the south.  Battle for Zawiya  The rebels announced on Aug. 19 that had control of the  oil
refinery  at Zawiya and shut its supply to Tripoli while almost
encircling the outskirts of the capital. Rebels took the main
square while Qaddafi’s forces remain in the east of the city,
the  Associated Press  said yesterday.  Zawiya’s refinery has a capacity of 120,000 barrels a day
of oil, almost a third of  Libya ’s total. Libya’s biggest
refinery, at Ras Lanuf, which can produce 220,000 barrels daily,
stopped operating because of the fighting.  NATO jets bombed a number of targets in Tripoli yesterday,
including a military storage facility, a radar, and armed
vehicles, the alliance said in a statement today.  The  International Organization  of Migration is working to
evacuate foreigners, many of them Egyptians, who want to leave
Tripoli the Geneva-based agency said on Aug. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at
   barden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 