-- 
Midwest Heat Stunted Late-Planted Corn, Soy Crops, Huckabay Says

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-21T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/midwest-heat-stunted-late-planted-corn-soy-crops-huckabay-says.html
U.S. corn and soybean harvests may
be smaller than government forecasts after the hottest July
since 1955 stunted Midwest crop growth already delayed by late
planting, said  Roy Huckabay  at commodity broker Linn Group.  Evidence of diminished output will nowcome from the
weeklong Professional  Farmers  of America tour of 2,000 fields in
seven states that begins today, Huckabay said. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , which cut its production forecasts
for both crops on Aug. 11, probably will make further reductions
before farmers complete harvests in October and November, he
said.  “The crop tour will find more yield problems than the USDA
said because of the heat in July and the  drought  that has spread
into the heart of the Midwest in the past six weeks,” Huckabay,
an executive vice president, said by telephone from Chicago.
“We have a supply problem that is going to add to rising food
inflation.”  The condition of both crops has declined in the past two
months, government data show. Corn futures as of Aug. 19 were up
69 percent from a year earlier and soybeans gained 35 percent,
boosting costs for livestock producers and makers of food and
biofuels.  The 19th annual Pro Farmer tour will deploy about 100
analysts, grain traders, buyers and farmers as crop scouts to
survey fields in  Ohio ,  Indiana ,  Illinois , Iowa,  Nebraska ,  South
Dakota  and Minnesota. Corn-yield estimates and soybean-pod
counts will be reported daily and then incorporated into Pro
Farmer’s estimate on Aug. 26 for U.S. output.  Smaller Crop  “The crop tour covers a large swath of the Midwest, and
they are meticulous about their data collection, so there will
be a great deal of attention put on their findings and
observations,”  Diana Klemme , a director at Grain Service Corp.,
a consulting company and brokerage in Atlanta, said last week.
“I’ve seen too many photos and reports about the damage from
the heat and dryness not to expect a smaller corn crop.”  The USDA, after conducting a survey of farmers, cut its
corn-production forecast on Aug. 11 to 12.914 billion bushels
from 13.47 billion projected in July. Last year’s crop was
12.447 billion bushels. The yield estimate was cut to 153
bushels an acre from 158.7 bushels in July. In 2010, it was
152.8 bushels.  Soybean production will total 3.056 billion bushels, less
than the 3.225 billion predicted in July, the USDA said. In
2010, production was 3.329 billion.  “There are a lot of crops that may look good from the
road, but once you get into the field, the yield is very
disappointing,” said David Smoldt, a vice president of
operations at INTL FCStone Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa . “Even
with a global slowdown, the last thing people will stop buying
is food.”  Conditions Worsen  About 60 percent of the corn crop was in good or excellent
condition as of Aug. 14, compared with 70 percent on June 26 and
69 percent a year earlier, USDA data show. For soybeans, 61
percent got the top rating, down from 68 percent in June and 66
percent a year earlier.  Worsening conditions in July and August reflect the extreme
heat and increasing dryness in the Midwest, the largest growing
region, said Kyle Tapley, an agricultural meteorologist for
Rockville, Maryland-based MDA Information Systems Inc. Average
temperatures in the Midwest were as much as 8 degrees Fahrenheit
above normal in July, and farms from south-central  Minnesota  to
Ohio got less than a third of normal rain since July 1, he said.  Drought Damage  Severe drought centered in  Texas  also reduced yields in the
southern Great Plains and caused record agriculture losses of
$5.2 billion,  Texas A&M University  said last week. The tab for
all U.S. economic losses this year from floods, tornadoes and
heat waves has hit a record $35 billion, the  National Weather
Service  said Aug. 17.  The corn-ear size is determined early in the plant’s life
cycle, when Midwest flooding and cool temperatures stunted
growth, said Tapley, who will be sampling plants on this week’s
tour. Heat in July damaged corn reproduction, reducing the
number of kernels on each ear. Soybeans need rain in August to
develop pods and fill them with beans.  MDA cut its corn-crop forecast to 12.223 billion bushels on
Aug. 19 and said soybean production will fall to 2.967 billion,
based on weather conditions and satellite imagery, Tapley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  