-- 
Iran Judiciary Confirms 8-Year Jail Term for Held Americans

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-08-21T14:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/iran-judiciary-confirms-8-year-jail-term-for-detained-americans.html
Two U.S. nationals detained in  Iran 
for two years on illegal entry and espionage charges have been
sentenced to eight years in jail,  Iranian Students News Agency 
reported, citing the prosecutor in the case.  Josh Fattal  and  Shane Bauer , both 29, “have been sentenced
by the Revolutionary Court to each serve eight years,” Tehran
Prosecutor-General Abbas said today, according to the state-run
news service. He added that the two have 20 days to appeal the
sentence, the news service said.  The defendants have rejected both charges. Masoud Shafiei,
lawyer for the two, said in a phone interview that he would
“use all legal means during the allocated time to reclaim their
rights” after he was informed of the verdict by the court
today. The sentence includes five years for espionage and three
for illegal entry, Shafiei said.  Fattal and Bauer, who were detained July 31, 2009, say they
mistakenly wandered across the border from  Iraq  during a hiking
trip. The U.S. government has called for their release. The
men’s last hearing was held in Tehran on July 31 and Shafiei
subsequently said he hoped they would be released soon.  Fattal and Bauer “are innocent” and have been jailed for
over two years already, Shafiei said. “Even if they were
sentenced by the court, I expected the term not to go beyond
what they have already served.”  Families Appeal  Shane and Josh “have never posed any threat to the Islamic
Republic of Iran, its government or its people,” their families
wrote in an e-mailed statement today. “We appeal to the
authorities in Iran to show compassion and allow them to return
home to our families without delay.”  The two men’s detention is another point of contention
between Iran and the U.S., which accuses the Persian Gulf
country of seeking to build nuclear weapons. Iran rejects the
claim and says it needs the technology to secure energy for its
growing population.  In February 2010, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Iran
might be ready to exchange the detainees for Iranians held in
the U.S. The overture was dismissed by the State Department.  Sarah Shourd , a third U.S. national arrested with Shane and
Bauer and released in September on $500,000 bail, may face trial
in absentia, Jafari-Dolatabadi said. Shourd left the country
immediately after being freed for “humanitarian” reasons by
Iranian authorities.  Her file has been separated from the others and is still
open, Shafiei confirmed today.  Bauer is a freelance journalist and photographer, who got
engaged to Shourd while they were both in prison. Fattal is an
environmentalist who was visiting Damascus before they headed to
Iraq, according to  freethehikers.org , a website that was set up
to support their release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 