-- 
Israeli Stocks Decline to Two-Year Low on Global Slump, Egyptian Tensions

-- B y   S u s a n   L e r n e r
-- 
2011-08-21T16:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/israel-s-ta-25-stock-index-drops-to-2-year-low-on-global-slump-violence.html
Israel ’s benchmark stock index
rebounded on speculation declines were overdone given economic
fundamentals after shares slumped to the lowest intraday level
in almost two years.  Avner Oil Exploration-LP and Delek Drilling-LP, partners in
the Tamar and Leviathan natural-gas discoveries, climbed to the
highest in two weeks.  Strauss Group Ltd. (STRS) , the maker of food
products, gained for the first time in a week.  The TA-25 Index jumped 1.3 percent to 1,079.16 at the 4:30
p.m. close in Tel Aviv, after earlier retreating as much as 4
percent. The measure has fallen 15 percent in the past month and
trades at 10 times estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of about 13
times over the past four years, the data show.  “Investors think prices are very cheap at these levels
given local economic conditions,” said Ido Amarilo, head of
brokerage trading at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .
“Israel has underperformed global markets since declines began
so it could be an outperformer if there’s a global correction in
sentiment.”  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index have
declined 14 percent over the past month amid concern the global
economic recovery is faltering. Israeli economic growth was an
annualized 3.3 percent in the second quarter from a revised 4.7
percent in the first quarter, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said Aug. 16. Unemployment in May fell to 5.7
percent from 5.8 percent in April, the bureau said July 25.  Avner increased 5.3 percent to 1.854 shekels and Delek
Drilling advanced 6.2 percent to 10.30 shekels, the highest
since Aug. 4. Strauss rose 4.6 percent to 45.80 shekels.  Tension’s between Israel and  Egypt  escalated after three
Egyptian police officers were killed as Israel fought off an
attack near Eilat by terrorists it said came from Gaza. The
assaults have been followed by a round of Israeli airstrikes on
Gaza and rocket fire from Gaza into Israel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  