-- 
Italy’s Debt Burden May Balloon as Austerity Smothers Growth: Euro Credit

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-08-22T10:51:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/italy-s-debt-burden-may-balloon-as-austerity-smothers-growth-euro-credit.html
Italy ’s austerity drive, enacted in
exchange for European Central Bank bond purchases driving down
borrowing costs, may backfire as it chokes the economic growth
needed to ease Europe’s second-biggest debt burden.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s Cabinet approved 45.5
billion euros ($66 billion) in deficit reductions in Rome on
Aug. 12, the nation’s second austerity package in a month, to
balance the budget in 2013 and convince investors that Italy can
trim debt of about 120 percent of gross domestic product. That’s
the biggest ratio in Europe after  Greece , whose fiscal woes
sparked the sovereign crisis last year.  While the back-to-back packages aim to eliminate Italy’s
budget gap, spending cuts and tax increases risk damaging the
economy at a time when the global recovery is stumbling. The
measures, already in effect, require parliamentary approval that
starts today as Senate committees review the law before both
houses vote in September.  “There are clear downside risks to growth emanating from
such a sharp fiscal tightening profile, which could tip Italy’s
fragile economy into a recession,” said Vladimir Pillonca, an
economist at  Societe Generale  SA in London. That could “weaken
revenue growth and undermine the ongoing fiscal adjustment” in
the face of other challenges, such as “shocks to risk premiums
and/or interest rates.”  ECB Letter  Berlusconi rolled out the second package after ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  wrote to him demanding more
deficit measures in return for supporting the country’s bonds.
The ECB started buying Italian and Spanish bonds on Aug. 8,
helping push 10-year yields below 5 percent after they had
surged to euro-era records amid concern contagion from the debt
crisis had infected both countries.  Italy’s 10-year bond yields about 4.95 percent, and has
closed below 5 percent for four consecutive trading sessions.
Investors demand 281 basis points of extra yield to own the debt
rather than benchmark German bunds of similar maturity, down
from a euro-era record of 416 on Aug. 4.  The success of Italy’s austerity drive, which is also
expected to include structural moves to liberalize the labor and
services markets, hinges on growth matching Berlusconi’s
forecasts. That looks increasingly challenging as equity markets
from  Tokyo  to Milan plunge and economists revise down growth
predictions amid concern the global expansion is slowing and the
debt crisis will further damage Europe’s banking system.  Creating Stagnation  The government is “doing everything to create stagnation
-- all this austerity, all the cuts and little investment for
the future,”  Corrado Passera , chief executive officer of Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, the country’s second-biggest bank, said in a
speech today in Rimini, Italy.  Italy’s government expects economic growth of 1.3 percent
next year and 1.5 percent in 2013, according to the most recent
forecast in May. Tremonti said on Aug. 13 the government stands
by those targets, a view dismissed by several economists.  Giada Giani, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said
on Aug. 12 that GDP growth is likely “to slow to close to zero
in 2012 and 2013” in Italy, an outlook shared by Pillonca of
Societe Generale. Morgan Stanley analysts including Elga Bartsch
in London expect the austerity plans, coupled with slowing
global demand and tighter credit, to spark “an outright
recession next year” in Italy, according to an Aug. 18 note to
investors.  Rating Review  “If you go through this kind of fiscal adjustment, which
is absolutely tough, you are going to see private consumption
suffering,” said Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital 
in London. Lowering his Italian outlook, he said GDP is likely
to advance 0.7 percent next year from the previous projected
growth forecast of 1.1 percent.  Both  Standard & Poor’s , which grades Italy at A+, and
Moody’s Investors Service, which has an assessment of Aa2,
warned that Italy’s weak growth prospects would make it
difficult to cut a debt of 1.9 trillion euros in announcing
rating reviews in May and June, respectively. Growth in the
euro-region’s third-biggest economy has lagged behind the euro-
region average every year since 1995.  The euro region’s economic growth slowed in the second
quarter to 0.2 percent from the January-March period, when it
increased 0.8 percent. That was the worst performance in two
years. GDP in  Germany , the region’s biggest economy, rose just
0.1 percent in the second quarter, missing analysts’ 0.5 percent
estimate. Italy, the currency area’s third-biggest economy, grew
0.3 percent.  Primary Surplus  Stabilizing Italy’s debt ratio requires a primary surplus,
or the  budget surplus  minus interest paid on debt, of at least 3
percent, assuming an average financing cost of 5.5 percent,
according to Pillonca. The government’s forecast, which didn’t
include the effects of the latest austerity plan, sees a primary
surplus of 2.4 percent next year, which  Bank of Italy  Governor
 Mario Draghi  said on July 13 would be  Europe ’s biggest.  The goal of balancing the budget in 2013 is “achievable,
at least arithmetically,” when savings from the last austerity
moves are included, Pillonca said. Still, amid slowing economic
growth, “far-reaching structural reforms” will also be needed
to maintain “a high primary surplus on a consistent basis” to
begin driving down the debt ratio, he said.  Those overhauls, such as opening up closed professions and
giving companies more leeway in negotiating job contracts, are
“not ambitious enough” and may not be included in the final
package amid intense “lobbying pressure” to amend them, Nomura
International economists including Lavinia Santovetti in London
wrote in a note on Aug. 19.  Under the government’s worst-case scenario, the economy
will grow 0.8 percent in 2012 and 1 percent in 2013, with debt
staying at around 120 percent of GDP, according to the document
 published  in May. While Nomura still predicts marginal growth
for those two years, public debt will “balloon to 137 percent”
if Italy stops expanding in that period, Nomura said.  “Ultimately, all this means that one cannot rule out that
Italy may be forced to enact further fiscal adjustments down the
line,” Pillonca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in  Rome  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 