-- 
Kan Leaves Successor Facing ‘Impatient’ Japanese Irate Over Broken Pledges

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-08-22T07:13:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/kan-leaves-successor-facing-impatient-japanese-ired-over-broken-pledges.html
Naoto Kan  is set to depart this
month as Japan’s prime minister, leaving his party to choose a
successor who can restore public faith shattered by a nuclear
crisis and a procession of five leaders in as many years.  Parliament is scheduled to pass legislation this week that
Kan said in June was a condition for him to honor a pledge to
quit. His approval rating is below 20 percent over his handling
of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that left over 20,000
people dead or missing and caused the worst nuclear disaster
since Chernobyl.  Kan’s  Democratic Party of Japan , which will elect its third
leader since ending 50 years of one-party rule in 2009, has
failed to deliver on a pledge to revive a country burdened by
deflation, an aging population and the world’s largest debt. The
winner of the succession race, who will become prime minister,
will also have to cope with the threat that the yen’s rise to a
post-war high poses to an export-led recovery.  “The Japanese public is very impatient and disillusioned -
- they voted for massive reform and got only part of it,” said
Ellis Krauss, a professor of Japanese politics at the University
of  California ,  San Diego . “No new prime minister will have more
than a temporary mandate without real policy accomplishments.”  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada today said the
leadership election will take place on Aug. 29, based on the
premise that Kan will step down on Aug. 26. Whoever wins the
race will become prime minister because of the party’s majority
in the Diet’s lower house.  Top Contenders  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  and Agriculture Minister Michihiko Kano have indicated
they will run to succeed Kan. At the center of the leadership
vote will be the issue of whether to raise taxes for rebuilding
from the devastation. Japan plans to spend 19 trillion yen ($243
billion) over the next five years to rebuild, including 6
trillion yen Kan compiled in two stimulus packages.  Former Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara , who polls show is
the public’s preferred choice to be the next prime minister, has
not said whether he will run. He is considering entering the
race, Jiji News said today, citing unidentified DPJ members.  Noda supports raising taxes to pay for reconstruction as
well as doubling the  sales tax  to 10 percent by the middle of
the decade to help contain the debt burden. Kaieda and Kano have
yet to outline their tax positions.  Noda today reiterated that he is prepared to take “bold
action” when needed to stem gains in the yen, which on Aug. 19
rose as high as 75.95 per dollar, the strongest level since the
end of World War II. The government intervened on Aug. 4 as yen
gains threatened the competitiveness of exporters such as  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Corp.  Export Drop  Japan’s exports dropped a more-than-expected 3.3 percent in
July from a year earlier, and the economy contracted by an
annualized 1.3 percent in the third quarter, marking three
consecutive quarters of declines, reports last week said.  The Topix index dropped for a fourth day, falling 1.2
percent to its lowest level in more than two years. Japan’s 10-
year bond yields were little changed at 0.98 percent after last
week touching the lowest level since November as concerns global
growth sparked demand for the relative safety of government debt.  “The new prime minister has to convince the market he’s
going to normalize  Japan ’s fiscal status by increasing taxes,
which is obviously going to be very unpopular,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , Tokyo-based president of Fukoku Capital Management Inc.,
which has 600 billion yen in assets under management. “He also
has to decrease spending, which is also going to be very
unpopular.”  Diet Bills  The Diet this week will vote on two pieces of legislation:
a bill to subsidize renewable energy and another authorizing the
sale of deficit bonds to finance about 40 percent of this year’s
94.7-trillion yen budget.  Since defeating the Liberal  Democratic Party , which ruled
for more than 50 years, the DPJ has lost its majority in the
upper house and had two prime ministers: Kan and Yukio Hatoyama.
Kan has lasted 14 months, at least two months longer than his
four immediate predecessors.  Having lost control of the upper house, Kan abandoned plans
to increase the child stipend and put off plans to lower the
corporate tax. Major policy decisions by Kan’s successor “are
unlikely in the face of opposition control of the upper house,”
Krauss said.  Kan’s approval rating fell to 18 percent from 24 percent in
July, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published Aug. 8.
The paper surveyed 1,059 eligible voters and didn’t provide a
margin of error.  Maehara was the most popular choice to become the next
prime minister, with 21 percent support in the survey. Okada,
who hasn’t indicated he will run, had 10 percent and Noda had 5
percent, the poll showed. One voter in 5 had no preference.  “The public doesn’t care about who is elected, the key is
making decisions and getting results,” said Yusuke Ichikawa, an
economist at Mizuho Research Institute in  Tokyo . “The next
leader has to implement the government’s growth strategy, unite
the party and move forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  