-- 
Kinetic Concepts Said to Get ConvaTec Bid Topping Apax’s $5 Billion Offer

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-08-21T22:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/kinetic-concepts-said-to-get-convatec-bid-topping-apax-s-5-billion-offer.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , the wound-
care company that agreed last month to a $5 billion leveraged
buyout, received a higher takeover offer from competitor
ConvaTec Inc., said two people familiar with the offer.  ConvaTec, owned by private-equity firms  Nordic Capital  and
Avista Capital Partners LLC, has letters supporting the bid from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc., said the
people, who asked not to be identified because details aren’t
public. The letters say the banks are “highly confident”
financing for the transaction is available, the people said.  The rival offer is a bet on the resilience of the capital
markets, as costs for U.S. leveraged buyouts this month reached
the highest level since December. Last month’s $68.50-a-share
deal to take Kinetic private was already destined to be the
largest leveraged buyout since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008.  Apax Partners , a London-based private equity firm, and two
Canadian pension funds agreed July 12 to buy Kinetic for about
$6.5 billion, including assumed debt, and said they would borrow
as much as $5 billion to do so. Bank of America Corp., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley are helping finance the deal.  Under the terms of the agreement with the Apax group,
Kinetic could actively solicit other offers for 40 days, a
period that ends today at 11:59 p.m. in New York.  Kinetic Businesses  Kinetic, led by Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik,
received about 70 percent of its $2 billion in revenue from the
wound-treatment business last year. The company, based in  San
Antonio  and founded more than 30 years ago, also makes hospital
beds and tissue-regeneration products used in surgeries.  Kinetic fell 0.9 percent to $65.37 on the New York Stock
Exchange on Aug. 19. The shares have risen 56 percent this year.  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for Kinetic, didn’t immediately
return a phone call and e-mail today. Nimisha Savani, a
spokeswoman for Skillman, New Jersey-based ConvaTec, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office outside regular business
hours or an e-mail message.  Andrea Rachman , a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, and Mary Ann
Ranalli, of Jefferies, declined to comment. An Avista spokesman
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  Avista had been considering a joint bid for Kinetic with
Bain Capital LLC, which pulled out of talks, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. Those people said the
bidders were in financing talks with Deutsche Bank AG and
Citigroup Inc. as well as Goldman Sachs and Jefferies.  Stockholm-based Nordic and Avista bought ConvaTec from
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. for $4.1 billion in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  