-- 
North Korea’s Kim May Get Nuclear Talks Offer on Russia Trip

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-08-22T14:45:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/north-korea-s-kim-may-get-nuclear-talks-offer-on-russia-visit.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il 
travelled through Siberia for a meeting with Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  that may spur talks on the Asian state’s atomic
weapons program and advance a natural-gas pipeline deal.  The two leaders will hold talks this week in the Siberian
city of Ulan-Ude near the border with  Mongolia , according to
Russian state television. The Kremlin last week announced the
meeting without providing details. Kim, who crossed into Russia
in an armored train on Aug. 20, is making his first trip since
2002, when he met then-President  Vladimir Putin  in Vladivostok.  Russia is offering North Korea gas, electricity and railway
projects to induce the communist regime to restart nuclear non-
proliferation talks. The meeting with Medvedev aims to help end
a three-year hiatus in six-party negotiations that include  China 
and the U.S. on dismantling  North Korea ’s nuclear weapons
program, and boost Russia’s global image as a mediator.  “Russia wants to come out with an initiative to resolve
the Korean peninsula problem through massive economic
cooperation with North and South Korea,” said Alexander Lukin,
an Asia expert at the Moscow State Institute of International
Relations. Total investment may exceed $100 billion, he said.  Biden, Lee  Kim, who made a 24-day railway trip across Russia to meet
Putin in Moscow in 2001, is travelling on a 21-carriage train
with his personal Mercedes, the office of the presidential envoy
to the Russian far east region said on its website.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  sees Kim’s visit to
Russia as “positive,” Yonhap News reported, citing
presidential spokesman Park Jung Ha in Mongolia, where Lee is
visiting.  The Kim-Medvedev meeting comes after North Korea on Aug. 18
threatened to bolster its nuclear deterrent “both in quality
and quantity” after the U.S. and  South Korea  began two weeks of
military exercises. South and North Korea remain technically at
war after their 1950-1953 conflict ended in a cease-fire. North
Korea’s attacks on its southern neighbor have kept relations
tense.  South Korea’s military on Aug. 10 said it fired three
artillery rounds after hearing explosions coming from the North.
The north fired a second round into waters near Yeonpyeong
Island, which was the target of a deadly shelling in November,
Yonhap News reported.  Mount Geumgang  North Korea today demanded that South Korean personnel in
the Mount Geumgang tourism zone leave within 72 hours, saying
the South has “totally abandoned the protection of properties
and interests” in the joint project, the state-run Korean
 Central News Agency  said.  “ Russia  is trying to interest North Korea economically so
that in the future you can discuss how it can be tied with the
nuclear program,” said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow. “There should
be some deal that will have both economic and political
components.”  Russia is in separate talks with companies from North Korea
and South Korea to build a natural-gas pipeline to supply the
fuel to both countries, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on
Aug. 8. An agreement would allow Moscow,  Seoul  and Pyongyang to
provide political support for the pipeline project, he said.
Russia may also build a  power grid  along the proposed route.  South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan on Aug. 12 said
that North Korea would earn cash from transit revenue, while
South Korea would get access to cheaper imports of gas.  LNG Route Talks  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest importer of liquefied
natural gas, and Russian gas-export monopoly OAO Gazprom have
been trying to identify a supply route since at least 2003, when
they signed a cooperation accord. Other options include a
costlier and technically more challenging undersea pipeline and
liquefied or compressed natural-gas supplies.  State-run Korea Gas has said gas demand for the power
industry will grow 7.2 percent a year to 2015. South Korea,
which relies on imports for almost all of its energy needs,
imported 32.6 million metric tons of LNG last year, compared
with 25.8 million tons in 2009.  Moscow-based Gazprom wants to diversify away from  Europe  to
gain revenue from faster-growing Asian markets. The company
plans to sign a so-called road map to supply South Korea by
pipeline in the near future, it said on Aug. 5. Supplies may
start in 2017, Gazprom has said.  Russia may supply 10 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
South Korea, Interfax reported citing Lee Jong-kook, economy
minister at the country’s embassy in Moscow.  Russian Competition  The Russian pipeline may offer competition to the fuel
South Korea this month agreed to import from  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  and Total SA for $84 billion, Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said in Moscow Aug. 18, adding that the cost of the
pipeline hasn’t been calculated yet.  Russia has also proposed a railway project that would
connect the Trans-Siberian Railway to South Korea via North
Korea, opening up an “Iron Silk Road” that would cut shipping
costs of South Korean companies to Europe.  Last week Russia announced it is sending as much as 50,000
metric tons of wheat to North Korea as humanitarian aid, after
recent flooding in the country, which has suffered famine in the
past.  Still, Russia should be realistic about its ability to
wring concessions while advancing cooperation with North Korea,
said Lukin of the Moscow State Institute of International
Relations.  “You can’t conclude any agreements with this regime,”
Lukin said. “They will restart their program even if somehow
they announce today that they are ready to stop it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  