-- 
Holocaust-Fugitive Girl’s Art Brings Tears at Yad Vashem Show

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-21T21:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/holocaust-fugitive-girl-s-art-brings-tears-at-yad-vashem-show-interview.html
Israeli artist Maya Cohen-Levy is
speaking animatedly when she catches her breath and her eyes
fill with tears. She’s just noticed four colored sketches framed
on the wall in front of her -- drawn by her mother as a 12-year-
old hiding alone from the Nazis in a Polish widow’s cellar.  “This shook us up,” she says, recalling the story behind
the sketches, on display for the first time after being donated
to  Yad Vashem  Museum of Holocaust Art. “It’s like we were living
on the edge of a chasm and suddenly we had to look in.”  Renata Braun, who faced death if discovered by the Germans,
stayed in a basement in 1943 and 1944. While fugitives such as
 Anne Frank  wrote, Renata was calmly working with pencil, gouache
and watercolor. She copied photos of people she no longer saw
from the family album, and scenes from a book of the Polish epic
poem “Pan Tadeusz.” Each sketch is highly detailed and neatly
signed in the corner.  The pictures arrived this month at the museum in  Jerusalem 
after director  Yehudit Inbar  happened to notice a short mention
of the drawings made by Cohen-Levy during an interview with an
Israeli newspaper.  “I was so excited because there are no such finds like
this today from the Holocaust period, especially those of
children,” Inbar says of the day she came across the sketches
mentioned in the paper. “Children were hidden in very difficult
circumstances. An adult can save things, but a child? Here we
have a girl, a talented girl, and she saves these drawings and
takes them with her.”  Childhood Silence  Yad Vashem research led to testimony Braun gave between
1945 and 1947 that is kept in the  Jewish Historical Institute  in
 Poland , with a copy in the Yad Vashem archives. The documents
gave Cohen-Levy and her siblings their first peek into the
childhood of their mother, who died aged 38 after refusing to
speak for years about her past.  The children found the sketches -- which she only showed to
her husband once -- in an attic.  In the testimony, Braun describes life in Nazi-occupied
Poland, the arrests, fires and being forced to leave her
childhood home. She tells of how, once her parents finally
decided to reunite and flee, they failed to show up for a
meeting with the Polish woman who was hiding their daughter and
were presumed killed.  “I never heard from my parents again,” the testimony
says.  Death Camps  About 6 million European Jews were killed in the Holocaust
during World War II in a systematic Nazi campaign across  Europe 
that included random executions, plunder and death camps. There
are no accurate statistics on how many children survived, in
hiding or otherwise, although it is likely that the large
majority hidden in eastern Europe did not, Yad Vashem says,
citing historical evidence.  Braun’s seven drawings were on ordinary paper scraps, one
of them with musical notes written on the back. All were put on
permanent loan to the museum, though not all were in good enough
shape to be restored.  Curator Eliad Moreh attributes Braun’s survival, in part,
to her love of art.  “All alone, the young girl went back to the warmth of her
home, to what she had learned and it was the culture that gave
her the strength to continue,” Moreh says. “It is so strong
that it becomes her anchor.”  On the eve of World War II, Braun’s home city of  Lvov  was
the third-largest city in Poland and home to about 100,000 Jews,
most of whom were merchants, manufacturers and artisans.  Ghetto Killings  Between June 1941, when German forces entered the city, and
July 1944, when the Red Army took control, most of the Jews had
been killed, according to the Yad Vashem Encyclopedia of the
Ghettos during the Holocaust. The area is now Lviv in western
Ukraine.  “I always looked at Yad Vashem from afar, as a national
symbol, an institution, somehow not connected to me,” Cohen-
Levy says. “Now I see how, without these people, I wouldn’t
have a story.”  After the war, Braun moved to  Israel , changed her name to
Rina Levy, married, had three children, became an artist and
died in 1969. She didn’t speak of the time in hiding or the
Holocaust, says Cohen-Levy, a painter and sculptor.  “I was 13-and-a-half when she died,”  Cohen-Levy  says.
“All I can say is that she believed in art as if it was
something bigger than anything else.” Cohen-Levy’s father held
a canvas for her mother as she lay dying in bed just so she
could continue to paint. “In some way, I felt I had to continue
painting for her.”  To contact the writer on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 