-- 
Hong Kong’s Record Negative Interest Rates Fuel Yuan Demand: China Credit

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-08-22T05:18:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/hong-kong-record-negative-rates-fuel-yuan-demand-china-credit.html
Hong Kong bond yields are trailing
inflation by the most on record, spurring demand for yuan-
denominated assets as  China  makes it easier for the city’s
residents to invest in the securities.  The yield on the city’s two-year government debt fell to a
record 0.16 percent last week, from 0.64 percent at the start of
2011. That’s 5.44 percentage points less than the inflation rate,
the biggest gap in Bloomberg data going back to March 1998. Ten-
year yields fell 121 basis points this year to 1.66 percent.
China’s 10-year yield rose four basis points to 3.89 percent.
Hong Kong’s dollar is pegged to the greenback, which dropped 3.1
percent against the yuan this year.  The city’s investors are seeking to preserve their capital
at a time when global recovery jitters are pummeling stocks and
Barclays Plc predicts  Hong Kong  home prices will slide as much
as 30 percent by the end of 2013. Yuan deposits in Hong Kong
jumped six-fold in the year through June and investment options
are growing after China last week sold yuan debt in the city and
eased limits on buying securities in Shanghai and Shenzhen.  “All the perks China is giving Hong Kong come at a very
opportune time as there’s a global stocks rout and property
prices have already shot up a lot,” said  Steve Wang , head of
fixed-income research in Hong Kong at BOCI Securities, a unit of
Bank of China Ltd. “The yuan is a very stable currency with
steady gains and the credit quality of China’s sovereign debt is
improving.”  Dim Sum Sale  China’s government drew orders of 69 billion yuan ($10.8
billion) for 15 billion yuan of debt sold last week in Hong Kong,
paying the lowest yields on record even after inflation on the
mainland accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Three-year bonds were sold to finance companies with a 0.6
percent yield, five-year notes at 1.4 percent, seven-year debt
at 1.94 percent and 10-year securities at 2.36 percent. A 1.6
percent coupon was set for 5 billion yuan of two-year debt being
sold to individual investors this month in Hong Kong, where
inflation reached a three-year high of 5.6 percent in June.  China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , visiting Hong Kong at the
time of last week’s sale of so-called dim sum bonds, said
mainland companies will be able to sell 50 billion yuan of debt
in Hong Kong this year and that China’s qualified foreign
institutional investor program, known as QFII, will be expanded
to allow 20 billion yuan of funds in the city to be invested in
domestic securities.  Strengthening Yuan  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong amounted to a record 553.6
billion yuan at the end of June, up from 89.7 billion yuan a
year earlier, official figures show.  The yuan reached a 17-year high of 6.3820 per dollar on
Aug. 16 in Shanghai, and was trading at 6.3971 as of 1:07 p.m.
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It’s the best performing currency this month among
 Asia ’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen and, according
to a Bloomberg survey of analysts, is expected to appreciate 5.5
percent to 6.05 by the end of next year. Hong Kong’s dollar, the
region’s worst-performing currency this year, is forecast to
remain pegged through 2012, a separate poll shows.  Hong Kong’s investors are “desperately” seeking returns
on safe investments as their currency faces “strong
depreciation pressure,” said Ronald Wan, Hong Kong-based
managing director at China Merchants Securities (Hong Kong) Co.,
part of the nation’s sixth-biggest brokerage. “The QFII program
allows them to get higher  interest rates  offered by bond
products on the mainland.”  Limited Options  Global investors, restricted from buying China’s domestic
securities, have limited options to invest their yuan and are
prepared to accept lower returns than their mainland
counterparts on expectations a strengthening currency will
deliver gains. The government’s 10-year bonds in Hong Kong sold
on Aug. 17 were priced to yield 1.57 percentage points less than
similar-maturity onshore debt auctioned the same day.  “Dim sum yields are not that high but demand from retail
investors is very high,” said Tommy Ong, senior vice-president
of treasury and markets at DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd. “Investors,
especially the general public, want to wait for clear signals
that there’s no large-scale global recession before they make
decisions to enter into riskier assets such as the stock and the
property markets.”  Hong Kong home values, which surged 70 percent in the past
two-and-a-half years and outperformed stocks in the city, are
set for their biggest decline since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in September 2008 as land supply increases and global
growth slows, according to Barclays. The benchmark  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  of shares has dropped more than 20 percent from a November
high, the common definition of a so-called  bear market .  ‘Safe-Haven Asset’  Hong Kong’s yuan bonds offer investors a “new class of
safe-haven asset,” BOCI Securities’ Wang wrote in a research
note published on Aug. 17.  Demand for China’s assets is building even amid concerns
the nation’s banks may need to be bailed out as loans to local
governments’ financing units turn sour.  An official audit released in June estimated Chinese
regional authorities’ financing units had 10.7 trillion yuan of
liabilities at the end of last year of which 79 percent was lent
by banks and 8 billion yuan was overdue. As much as 30 percent
of loans to the entities may go bad,  Standard & Poor’s  said in
April.  Five-year credit-default swaps to insure China’s debt
against default touched 116 basis points on Aug. 11, the highest
level since May 2009, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The swaps, which pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower renege on debt, ended last week at
112 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  