-- 
Lovesick Miners Seeking More Than Gold Swell Rio, BHP Costs

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-08-22T07:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/lovesick-miners-seeking-more-than-gold-raise-costs-for-rio-bhp.html
Ten minutes’ walk from  Australia ’s
largest  open-pit gold mine , 35-year-old driller Matt Brown swigs
a beer in the bar of the Rock Inn Hotel and laments one of the
biggest problems of the mining boom: a shortage of girlfriends.  “You get lonely,” says Brown, who explores for gold and
iron ore with Westralian Diamond Drillers Pty, based in the
dust-coated town of Kalgoorlie, 600 kilometers (373 miles) from
Perth. “Relationships are the hardest thing about mining.”  The heartache in places like Kalgoorlie and the Queensland
coal town of Glenden, where there are 23 unmarried men in their
40s for each single woman, is a headache for companies like Rio
Tinto Group that are trying to attract workers. The biggest
commodities boom since the 1850s Gold Rush has sapped the supply
of Australians willing to adopt Brown’s lifestyle, even with
wages that are double the national average.  To persuade workers to join, companies offer extras such as
seven-hour, round-trip flights to cities every few weeks,
satellite phones to keep miners connected with loved ones,
counseling services, and even flying in families for employees
who keep mines going over the Christmas holiday.  “It’s a wonderful life for many people, but for many
people there’s a crippling isolation,” said Gervase Greene, a
Perth-based spokesman for  Rio Tinto ’s iron-ore operations.
“You’ve got to think outside the square to access workers and
keep them in the workforce. There’s still a  labor shortage .”  Feeding Inflation  Higher labor expenses are raising expansion costs, Rio
Tinto, the world’s second-largest mining company, said this
month after reporting first-half profit that missed analyst
estimates. The company’s workforce more than doubled in five
years to 76,894 at the end of 2010. Australia’s unemployment
rate was 5.1 percent in July, almost half that of the U.S.,
Bloomberg data show.  Rising wages are feeding inflation, forcing the central
bank to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 4.75 percent, the
highest in the developed world, even as domestic spending slows.  Miners’ wages have risen 33 percent in the past five years
in Australia, to A$2,113 ($2,222) a week, or more than double
the national average, according to data released Aug. 18 by the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics . That’s almost twice as much as
miners in the U.S., who are paid an average of $1,236 a week,
according to figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said “the widespread
increase in cost pressures” was a threat to inflation, in
minutes of this month’s meeting released Aug. 16.  Pay Demands  “It’s not just a threat to inflation, it’s a threat to
business,” said Nigel Stapledon, a lecturer at the University
of New South Wales’s Australian School of Business in Sydney.
“What happens in mining feeds through to costs in all
sectors.”  A strengthening Australian dollar, which reached a post-
float high of $1.1081 on July 27, has made it tougher for some
manufacturers. BlueScope Steel Ltd., Australia’s largest
steelmaker, today announced plans to stop exports, shut a mill
and a furnace, and trim about 1,000 jobs.  Among miners, the difficulty in holding down a relationship
is one of the factors driving demands for further pay rises,
said  Stephen Smyth , a Queensland-based president in the 120,000-
member Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union, which is
organizing strikes this month at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  mines.  Life Sacrifices  Tim Douglas, a mining engineer with Macmahon Holdings Ltd.,
said his job is incompatible with a long-term relationship. He
works eight-day stints at Rio Tinto’s  Argyle Diamond Mine  in the
East Kimberley region mine with six-day breaks in Perth, a 3
1/2-hour flight away.  “You’ve got to pretty much give up your life,” said
Douglas, 24, who split up with his girlfriend in February. “A
lot of my friends have been eyeing some quick cash in the mines,
but it’s not all it’s cracked up to be.”  That’s making it harder for Roger Edwards, managing
director of Kalgoorlie-based Acorn Recruitment, to fill
vacancies. He has 120 roles open for electricians, welders,
laborers and drillers paying as much as A$5,000 a week, and just
14 tradesmen in town qualified to do the work, he said. There
may be a shortfall of 35,800 tradesmen by 2015 on resources
projects, the National Resources Sector Employment Taskforce
said in a 2010 report.  ‘Go Crazy’  “The only thing that can keep us going is getting people
from elsewhere,” said Edwards, who supplies workers for BHP and
the nearby Super Pit, owned by  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM)  “But the fly-in, fly-out workers destroy the
community. They’re the ones who go crazy. The number of breakups
we see is unbelievable.”  Kelly Quirke, a BHP spokeswoman, said the company wouldn’t
comment on what it’s doing to attract workers.  A mile from the Super Pit -- deep enough to swallow the
Empire State Building -- miners’ fluorescent-orange safety
shirts glow through the windows of bars along Burt Street, many
served by barmaids dressed only in black-lace underwear.  Edwards isn’t the only one struggling to get workers. Two
blocks away, at Langtrees brothel, the manageress who calls
herself Dylan Delights is drafting in staff from as far as
Ireland and  New Zealand .  “Just come and have some fun and make as much money as you
can,” she said on the phone to a woman in Tasmania. “What was
your name, sweetheart? My name’s Dylan. I’m the madam.”  ‘Love Hotspots’  Most clients are miners and many are married or in a
relationship, said Dylan, sucking on a cigarette. An hour with a
girl costs A$350 and a prostitute with as many as six customers
a night can earn A$10,000 a week, said Dylan, 23. Prostitution
is legal in Australia.  Some miners turn to the Internet to find a partner. Web
matchmaker eHarmony.com Inc. has identified “Love Hotspots,”
with mining towns such as Queensland’s Mount Isa atop the list.
RSVP, Australia’s largest online dating service, said 14 percent
more users signed up in the past 12 months, taking its clients
to 1.8 million. In Kalgoorlie, the number jumped 76 percent.  Bernard Salt, a partner at  KPMG  in  Melbourne , said the
mining boom is exacerbating a history of gender isolation in
Australia, where 22.7 million people populate an island almost
as large as the U.S. The  mining industry  employed 214,000
workers as of May, government data show, 86 percent of them men.  “It’s a uniquely Australian issue,” said Salt, whose
books include “Man Drought and Other Social Issues of the New
Century.” Women, who a generation ago tended to stay in remoter
towns and marry in their early-20s, are adding to the imbalance
by moving to cities for work and education, he said.  Bachelor’s Guide  When they get there, they find a shortage of men.  “I’ve got a bunch of single girlfriends and we’re out
there looking, but we’ve been scratching our heads wondering
where all the decent men are,” said Lara Iacusso, a 41-year-old
former Deloitte corporate-finance partner, who moved to Sydney
from Perth more than three years ago. “It’s definitely tough.”  Brett Gilbert, a chef at  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s
Solomon iron-ore project, plans to publish a book this year,
“The Fly-In Fly-Out Bachelor: A FIFO Bachelor’s Guide to
Success With Women,” after overcoming his own depression.  “This whole industry is plagued with guys who probably
want to be more successful with women,” said Gilbert. “When
the guys are unsuccessful, they can go literally months, some
years, without having an intimate relationship with a woman.”  In the most extreme cases, miners can become withdrawn,
socially inept and introverted, he said.  At the Rock Inn Hotel, and without a girlfriend after two
years in Kalgoorlie, Brown comforts himself with his pay packet.  “For a lot of us, it’s the money. If you want to work,
there’s a job here for you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 Rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  