-- 
Paratrooper Shuns Sausages to Turn Michelin-Star Chef in France

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-21T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/paratrooper-shuns-sausages-turns-tv-chef-wins-michelin-stars-in-france.html
Thierry Marx speaks softly and
intently. While his controlled demeanor doesn’t suggest the sort
of person who would lose his temper, you wouldn’t mess with this
former paratrooper who is one of France’s leading chefs.  His head is shaved and he’s powerfully built. He’s focused
and economical with his words. Does he shout in the kitchen?
“Never!” says the chef who heads the new  Mandarin Oriental  in
Paris, switching to English for a single emphatic word during an
interview conducted in French.  It’s like hearing Marcel Marceau speak in “ Silent Movie .”  “If you shout it means you are scared: It’s a big team
here and I don’t want people to be scared,” he says. “We try
to be well prepared. The military taught me leadership: How to
use everyone’s skills, and not just in an emergency.”  Marx is less flamboyant than some of his U.K. peers, though
he’s achieved celebrity in France, appearing in a version of the
TV show “Top Chef.” He held two Michelin stars for more than a
decade at Chateau Cordeillan-Bages, in Gironde, and was named
Chef of the Year by  Gault & Millau  and by “Le Chef” in 2006.  He lets his cooking do much of the talking. The popular
description of him is a Gallic version of Ferran Adria. He’s a
friend and admirer of the El Bulli chef, and of Heston Blumenthal at the Fat Duck, yet he cites Pierre Gagnaire as his
biggest influence and it’s the time he has spent in  Asia ,
particularly in  Japan , that stands out.  “My cuisine is a play on texture and temperature,” he
says. “I’ve been very influenced by Japan. So you play with the
texture and temperature but you respect the product and it’s
also really important that the diners enjoy the taste, that
they’re comfortable with it.”  Emotional Cooking  “In Japan, it’s a real philosophy, not only cooking. The
right question is: Do you cook because you want to give food to
people or do you cook for the emotion? I cook for the emotion
and also for the communication because when you cook for
somebody it’s about personal spirit, not just providing food.”  (The kitchen is headed by Tamaki Yoshida, 31, who has a
degree in economics from Japan. She has also worked for  Joel Robuchon .)  It has to be said that Japanese influences are not hard to
find in Paris these days. I had an exceptional lunch at Passage
53, a tiny restaurant with a big reputation where chef Shinichi
Sato serves minimalist dishes such as cauliflower with squid.
Sato previously worked with Gagnaire and at l’Astrance.  Back at Marx’s flagship Sur Mesure at the Mandarin
Oriental, two set menus are served at lunch: 75 euros ($108) for
five dishes and 180 euros for 11. I’d recommend the 11. The
standout plate for me was Oeuf eclate -- cracked egg -- where
Marx seeks to represent the various flavors when cooking an egg.  Colorful Egg  A deep orange slow-cooked yolk is overlaid with a slice of
transparent jellified vegetable consomme, so it looks like a
fried egg, which is accompanied by an egg-white cylinder,
surrounded by herbs and peas and splashes of color.  “For me, it’s important to show there’s no conflict
between tradition and innovation, that you can have a very
classical cuisine and yet, at the same time, very innovative,
very creative,” Marx says. “In  France , if you do something too
modern, if you show too much audacity, it means that you have to
accept a lot of criticism and it’s quite difficult to change
what people think about cuisine.”  Marx should know. He says his parents are far removed from
the world of gastronomy, and his mother runs a sausage-and-
French-fries stand at a soccer stadium in the east of France.  “For her, sausages and French fries are good and they
don’t cost a lot of money,” he says.  Polish Refugees  Marx, 48, comes from an unprivileged background, a family
of Polish refugees. So how has he become a champion of modern
gastronomy and how is he coping with the demands of running the
food operation at the Mandarin Oriental, including the simpler
Camelia restaurant, where his menu even features chicken curry:
in fact, meat with an Indian-spiced glaze.  “I come from Menilmontant, in the north of Paris,” he
says. “It’s not a wealthy area. Traditionally, it’s a working-
class district and even today it’s not very beautiful. So it was
important for me to show people who still live in the district
that even if you come from places like this in France with work
you can fulfill all your ambitions and you can succeed.  “It’s difficult to open a new restaurant in Paris because
there are a lot of competitors, but I know very well what I want
to do. So I should follow  Queen Elizabeth  and say, ‘Keep calm
and carry on.’ That’s exactly what I want to do here.”  Sur Mesure, Mandarin Oriental, 251 Rue Saint-Honore, 75001,
Paris. Information:  http://bit.ly/pR6ip5  and +33-1-7098-7300.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in Paris at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 