-- 
Czech Billionaire Kellner’s PPF Buys Rest of Russian Retail Chain Eldorado

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 
2011-08-22T15:37:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/ppf-buys-remaining-50-stake-in-russian-retailer-eldorado-group.html
PPF Group NV , the Czech private
equity group controlled by Petr Kellner, acquired the 50 percent
of Russian retail chain Eldorado Group it doesn’t already own to
tap growing demand for electronics.  PPF and Eldorado founder Igor Yakovlev agreed on the
transaction on Aug. 19, according to Milan Tomanek, PPF’s head
of communications. The parties agreed not to disclose the
purchase price, which will be in financial statements later this
year, he said.  “The consolidation of ownership in Eldorado has been one
of our strategic priorities from the very beginning and it
creates the platform for PPF to be a significant player in the
Russian retail market,” Jiri Smejc, a PPF Group shareholder,
said in a statement on its website. Ekaterina Khokhlova, a
spokeswoman for Eldorado in Moscow, didn’t return calls or
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Alfa Bank predicts that  Russia ’s electronics market will
exceed the pre-crisis level of $42.4 billion by 2015 with a
stable ruble and continued recovery of  consumer lending . The
market shrunk to $25.6 billion in 2009, according to the bank.
Russian retail sales have advanced for 19 straight months,
expanding 5.6 percent in July from a year earlier, the Federal
Statistics Service said Aug. 17. Sales rose 3 percent from June.  Russian Dispute  PPF has about 70 percent of its 12.4 billion euros ($18
billion) of assets in Russia, according to its 2010 annual
report. The fund controls Home Credit & Finance, the eastern
European consumer lender with a Russian unit, and owns a
minority stake in Moscow-based Nomos Bank, which held a London
initial public offering in April.  The group has been embroiled in a shareholder dispute over
Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s OAO Ingosstrakh after
buying a stake in 2007. PPF and  Italy ’s Assicurazioni Generali
SpA own 38.5 percent of the Moscow-based insurance company.  PPF acquired 50 percent plus one share of closely-held
Eldorado in April 2009 in a debt-for-equity swap that valued the
stake at $300 million. Eldorado borrowed from PPF to pay overdue
debts to suppliers, the Russian electronics chain said in
September 2008. Eldorado, which sells products from computers to
flat-screen televisions and refrigerators, has stores in Ukraine
and  Kazakhstan  as well as Russia.  ‘Painful Restructuring’  Eldorado increased revenue 15 percent last year compared
with 2009, according to PPF’s statement, which didn’t give a
dollar amount. U.K. electronics seller DSG International Plc
said in 2007 that it opted against buying Eldorado $1.9 billion
after examining its accounts.  “Eldorado had to go through a painful restructuring
because it had been too aggressive in its store openings and its
balance sheet was overstretched,”  Alfa Bank  analyst Alexandra Melnikova said by phone in Moscow.  OAO M.video, a Moscow-listed electronics retailer, caught
up with Eldorado after financial markets seized up in 2008 and
may continue to gain market share, Alfa Bank said in May.
M.video, which boosted revenue 19 percent last year to 86.6
billion rubles ($2.97 billion), may continue expanding sales at
that rate through 2015 compared with 11 percent for the market,
the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  