-- 
Treasuries Price In QE3 as Barclays Says Traders Anticipate $500 Billion

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-08-22T13:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/treasuries-price-in-qe3-as-barclays-says-traders-anticipate-500-billion.html
Record-low yields on U.S. Treasuries
show traders expect Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to
signal as soon as this week that the central bank will begin a
third round of asset purchases to boost the economy, a scenario
the world’s biggest bond dealers said is unlikely.  Barclays Plc said 10-year yields indicate traders have
priced in $500 billion to $600 billion of Treasury purchases by
the Fed. Citigroup Inc. said current rates can only be justified
by more central bank bond buying or assuming the economy will
shrink by 2 percent.  “The market is pricing in another round of large-scale
asset purchases, looking for confirmation possibly as early as
the Jackson Hole symposium” in  Wyoming  this week, Anshul Pradhan, a fixed-income research analyst at Barclays in New
York, said in an interview last week. “The probability of that
is low. If the Chairman does disappoint, then there should be a
reversal in the outperformance of 10-year notes.”  Central bankers from around the world will meet in  Jackson
Hole  at an annual conference sponsored by the Federal Reserve
Bank of Kansas City, the same place where Bernanke triggered
financial rallies a year ago when he said the Fed was prepared
to “do all that it can” to ensure economic recovery and
suggested it would purchase more securities if growth slowed.  Fed Dissension  Unlike then, when the Fed’s concern was deflation,
investors anticipate faster inflation. In addition, a year ago
Bernanke had the full backing of his board. Now, there is more
dissension among policy makers than at any time since 1992.  The pressure is on the Fed as manufacturing weakens,
consumer confidence tumbles and the unemployment rate holds
above 9 percent. Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase & Co., who along
with Barclays are among the 20 primary dealers of  U.S.
government debt  that trade directly with the central bank, are
cutting their forecasts for U.S. growth.  Slower expansion is translating into the best year for
Treasuries since 2008, with gains of 7.67 percent through last
week, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That compares
with 3.45 percent for the rest of the world’s sovereign debt
market, based on the firm’s indexes.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which
helps set rates on everything from mortgages to company bonds,
ended at 2.07 percent on Aug. 19, down from the high this year
of 3.77 percent on Feb. 9. Ten-year notes yielded 2.11 percent
as of 8:58 a.m. in New York.  Seeking Refuge  Gains accelerated following the first downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating to AA+ from AAA by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 5.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings confirmed their AAA
grades. Ten-year yields fell 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage
point last week to 2.07 percent. Yields fell as low as 1.97
percent on Aug. 18, a record, as investors sought a refuge from
a plunge in stock markets around the world.  For all the gloom, there are glimmers of strength in the
economy that may keep yields from falling further and dissuade
the Fed from buying more bonds. Reports the last two weeks
showed retail sales climbed in July by the most in four months
and consumer prices jumped the most since March.  Barclays expects 10-year yields will end the quarter at 2.9
percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., whose economists are the top-
ranked forecasters of the security as measured by data compiled
by Bloomberg News, revised its year-end estimate last week to
2.75 percent from 3.75 percent.  Cutting Estimates  Treasuries rallied as investors fled higher-risk assets
while stock markets tumbled,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsened and economists cut growth estimates. Morgan Stanley,
another primary dealer, lowered its forecast for global economic
expansion this year to 3.9 percent from 4.2 percent, citing
insufficient policy response in Europe’s debt crisis and
weakening consumer confidence.  “Yields are justifiable here,” Eric Pellicciaro, head of
global rates investment at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
manages $1.14 trillion in fixed-income assets, said in an
interview last week. “Things are still incredibly fluid and
investor confidence is still very weak. Given what needs to be
done in Europe and what it’s going to take to reinstall
confidence in the U.S., any rise toward 2.5 percent we see as a
buying opportunity,” he said in reference to 10-year yields.  A financial model created by economists at the Fed that
includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation
indicates 10-year notes are the most overvalued on record. The
term premium, which Bernanke cited in a 2006 speech in  New York 
as a useful guide in setting monetary policy, fell to negative
0.52 percent last week. The gauge averaged a positive 0.84
percent this decade through mid-2007.  Reversing Course  The last two times the measure came close to this level, in
December 2008 and November 2010, yields reversed course and
started to rise, producing a loss of 3.08 percent for investors
in the first quarter of 2009 and 2.67 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Even if yields were to rise to the 2.82 percent median
year-end estimate of more than 50 economists and strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg, they would be more than two percentage
points below the 5.13 percent average of the past two decades.
Low rates are helping the government service a  budget deficit 
that will exceed $1 trillion for a third straight year, even as
the amount of marketable debt outstanding soars to $9.4 trillion
from $4.3 trillion in mid-2007.  Bernanke told Congress on July 13 that the Fed must “keep
all the options on the table” if the economy appeared in danger
of stalling or if the threat of deflation looked like it was
going to re-emerge.  Fed’s ‘Test’  The Fed bought about $1.7 trillion of government and
mortgage related debt in its first round of quantitative easing,
or QE1, between December 2008 and March 2010, and purchased $600
billion of Treasuries between November 2010 and June through
QE2.  “The market will test the Fed’s resolve” by driving
longer-term yields higher,  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee
about $120 billion as a  money manager  at Ignis Asset Management
in Glasgow, said in interview last week. He said 30-year
Treasuries would look attractive if yields, which were 3.39
percent today, rose to 4 percent.  Since 1978, the Fed Bank of  Kansas City  has brought
together central bankers, finance ministers, economists and
academics from around the globe for their annual  economic
symposium , held now in Jackson Hole. The attendees discuss
economic issues and policy options.  Fed Options  Besides purchasing bonds, Bernanke told Congress last month
that the Fed could extend the maturity of its debt holdings by
reinvesting proceeds of Treasury and mortgage bond redemptions
into longer-term debt. It could also spur banks to lend by
reducing the rate it pays on their reserves, or give explicit
guidance about how long it would keep the federal funds rate or
size of its $2.86 trillion balance sheet at current levels.  Unlike a year ago, Bernanke is facing more dissension among
policy makers about undertaking additional monetary stimulus.
 Charles Plosser , president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia , Richard Fisher of  Dallas  and Narayana Kocherlakota
of  Minneapolis  opposed the Fed’s commitment on Aug. 9 to hold
its rate at a record low until mid-2013. The last time three
policy makers dissented was in November 1992.  “Inappropriate Policy”  “It was inappropriate policy at an inappropriate time,”
Plosser, 62, said on Aug. 17 in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. He said that it
wasn’t clear that the economy needed additional stimulus,
especially given accelerating inflation and a decline in the
 unemployment rate  since November to 9.1 percent.  The Fed may have fewer options than last year, when
inflation was slowing, raising the threat of deflation.  The consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent in July from
June, more than twice the 0.2 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor
Department showed on Aug. 18. The index climbed 3.6 percent from
a year earlier, the most since October 2008.  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy is 2.99 percent, up from
2.18 percent a year ago. The five-year, five-year forward
breakeven rate, which projects the pace of price increases
starting in 2016, has averaged 2.8 percent the past five years.  Inflation Expectations  Yields on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS,
show traders expect inflation during the next 10 years will be
about 0.5 percentage point higher than they forecast a year ago.
The breakeven inflation rate, calculated from yield differences
on 10-year Treasury notes and inflation-indexed U.S. government
bonds of similar maturity, has risen to 2.01 percent from a
nine-month low of 1.47 percent reached on Aug. 25, 2010.  By driving yields down, bond traders may already be
accomplishing their own version of QE3.  “While Mr. Bernanke will keep his options open going
forward, people in the  bond market  looking for an early move to
QE3 will be disappointed,” Neil Mackinnon, an economist at VTB
Capital in  London  and a former U.K. Treasury official, said in
an interview last week. “The Fed through explicit guidance has
so far worked in terms of bringing the curve and rates down.
Also cash is king now and there is a flight to safe, quality
collateral which is bringing down bond yields anyway. This helps
the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  