-- 
Spain Confident EU Won’t Need to Buy Its Bonds, Salgado Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-22T08:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/salgado-confident-eu-rescue-fund-won-t-be-needed-to-backstop-spanish-bonds.html
Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said
she’s confident  Spain ’s deficit-reduction efforts will restore
investor trust and end the need for European authorities to
support the nation’s bonds.  Even though the global slowdown threatens the country’s
growth target for this year, the government’s commitment to
cutting the region’s third-biggest deficit will shore up demand
for its bonds, she said. “I don’t take it for granted” the
euro-region’s rescue fund will have to backstop Spain’s debt
when it takes over bond-buying from the  European Central Bank 
after September, she said.  “The position of the Spanish government is to continue
with the reforms and the austerity programs,” Salgado, 62, said
in an interview in Madrid on Aug. 19. “We trust the markets
will give us that vote of confidence so that by our own means we
will be capable of stabilizing the Spanish  debt market .”  Spanish and Italian bond yields surged to euro-era records
in the past two months as wrangling among the 17-nation currency
bloc over a second bailout package for Greece signaled European
leaders still hadn’t found a formula for containing the region’s
debt crisis. The plunge in bonds of the third- and fourth-
largest economies in the currency group prompted the ECB to buy
their debt to bring down their borrowing costs.  ‘More Quickly’  Europe has failed to speak “with one voice” in addressing
the crisis, Salgado said. “We have to act more quickly.”  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said on Aug. 20 he aims to
streamline Europe’s communications policy to prevent public
disagreements among policy makers undermining market confidence.
He will make proposals in October to get everyone to convey the
“same message,” he said.  EU leaders approved the second bailout for  Greece  in a year
at a July 21 summit and were forced to adopt additional measures
to protect other vulnerable euro members. The region’s rescue
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, was given
enhanced powers to lend to countries before they need a bailout
and will take over as bond buyer of last resort from the ECB
once governments approve the changes in September.  Bond Yields  The ECB spent 22 billion euros ($32 billion) buying
government debt in the week through Aug. 12. The yield on
Spain’s 10-year bond fell more than 100 basis points from the
close Aug. 4 to a nine-month low of 4.956 percent last week and
traded at 4.96 percent today.  Salgado said she was confident  Finland ’s demand for
collateral to participate in the Greek rescue wouldn’t delay
approval by national governments of the bailout and enhanced
EFSF powers. It still wasn’t clear how much of the 109 billion
euros of new loans to Greece would be picked up by the
 International Monetary Fund , though the IMF is committed to the
package, she said.  Salgado said meeting the Socialist government’s 1.3 percent
economic-growth target this year is still “possible,” though
“a bit more difficult than it was a quarter ago.” Growth
slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from 0.3 percent in
the first three months as the expansion in  France  stalled and
 Germany ’s economy barely grew, sapping Spain’s export-led
recovery.  “How close we get to our target of 1.3 percent will depend
on the general situation,” she said.  The government says it will still meet its goal of trimming
the deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product from 9.2
percent last year. Even with that decline, it expects debt to
rise to 68.7 percent of GDP, the highest in more than 20 years.  Austerity Measures  The deepest austerity measures in at least three decades,
including public wage cuts, are undermining the recovery from a
three-year slump that pushed the  unemployment rate  to 21
percent, the highest in  Europe . The Cabinet adopted measures to
cut health spending and bring forward corporate-tax payments on
Aug. 19 in an effort to save an additional 5 billion euros.  The government, which faces a general election on Nov. 20
that polls indicate it will lose, didn’t discuss at the Cabinet
meeting a proposal by the ruling party’s candidate for premier,
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, to bring back a  wealth tax , she said.
Salgado, who has called the decision to scrap the 2 billion-euro
tax in 2008 a mistake, said that if the administration decided
to resurrect the levy, “this ministry would take 24 hours to
design it.”  Lottery Offering  To reduce debt, the government is also planning an initial
public offering of 30 percent of lottery operator Sociedad
Estatal de Loterias & Apuestas del Estado. The sale may prove to
be the country’s biggest-ever of a state company, yielding a
stock with a market value of $21 to $30 billion euros, the
lottery’s chairman, Aurelio Martinez, said in June.  Salgado said this year’s 17 percent slump in the Ibex 35
share index won’t threaten the listing set for October.  “In IPOs, people look at the debt, which is zero, the
record of profits -- which it has had for 250 years -- and the
stability of sales, and the most sales have fallen was 0.5
percent in the worst moment of the crisis,” she said.  The company runs the world’s biggest lottery, the annual
Christmas draw known as El Gordo, which had a prize pool last
year of 2.3 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  