-- 
Siemens Circling Invensys in Breakup Means 80% Boost: Real M&A

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e ,   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   J o e   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-08-22T16:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/siemens-circling-invensys-in-breakup-means-80-increase-in-value-real-m-a.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS)  may be worth 80 percent
more in a breakup, as  Siemens AG (SIE)  circles the maker of software
used to run the London Underground’s subway trains.  Invensys, which traces its roots back to the 1800s, has
plummeted 94 percent from its peak more than a decade ago as
revenue at its controls unit fell in five of the past six years.
The slide deepened this year as Invensys named Wayne Edmunds its
chief executive officer and analysts projected a decline in
profit in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. After
falling to a two-year low last week, the London-based company
was valued at 1.8 billion pounds ($3 billion).  While Invensys’s pension obligations are among the largest
in the U.K., the company would be worth more than 3 billion
pounds by valuing its businesses separately and splitting off
its  retirement plan , Collins Stewart said. With Invensys moving
to offload its pension liabilities, it may attract a bid from
Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, once that plan is
finalized, a person familiar with Siemens’s strategy said. A
buyer would get a company whose technology is used in everything
from power generation to railroads and oil refining and is
cheaper relative to earnings than 95 percent of its rivals.  “There’s underlying value in their products,” Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee $14.8 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview.
“Invensys has always had some interesting businesses, but
they’ve never been terribly well-managed.”  British Engineering  A spokesman for Invensys declined to comment on the
prospects for a sale or Siemens’s interest.  Shares of Invensys climbed as much as 7.4 percent and
closed up 4.3 percent at 231.2 pence today in London. Siemens
gained 0.5 percent to 68.61 euros in  Frankfurt .  The company, founded by a German-born British engineer
named Augustus Siebe in 1819, was known as Siebe Plc before its
acquisition of rival BTR Plc in 1999. While the deal helped
Invensys almost triple in size, according to Hoovers Inc., the
company has since destroyed more than 10 billion pounds in
 shareholder value , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since Invensys replaced Ulf Henriksson with Edmunds as the
company’s CEO in March through last week, the stock fell 38
percent, almost triple the drop of the FTSE All-Share Index, the
benchmark gauge for British common equity, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Invensys hasn’t reported two consecutive years of per-share
profit increases since at least 2005 and analysts project that
earnings will drop at least 3 percent this year. Invensys has
suffered stop-start growth even as its two biggest units --
operations management and rail systems -- increased sales every
year since 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Pension Discount  As a result, Invensys sold for 9.9 times reported profit
last week, an almost 40 percent discount to the industry
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Based on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Invensys
is also cheaper than 95 percent of its U.S. and European
competitors with more than $1 billion in value, the data show.  Invensys trades at a discount partly because of the size of
its pension liabilities. The company has projected benefit
obligations equal to three times its equity value, the most of
any company in the FTSE All-Share Index with at least $1 billion
in market capitalization, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Invensys had pension obligations of 5.46 billion pounds at
the end of March, 437 million pounds more than the value of the
plan’s assets, according to its  annual report .  Siemens, CSR  Without the pension liabilities, Invensys would attract
interest from companies including Siemens and Beijing-based
trainmaker CSR Corp., according to  Mark Wilson , a London-based
analyst at Collins Stewart.  Wolfram Trost, a spokesman at Munich-based Siemens, didn’t
respond to a telephone call or an e-mail seeking comment. Calls
to CSR’s Beijing office weren’t returned outside business hours.  In May, Invensys Chief Financial Officer  David Thomas  said
he was “encouraged” by the opportunities to “remove
liability” from the pension program. Last month, the Times
reported that Invensys’s board planned to meet to discuss a
proposal to divest its  pension plan .  By separating its retirement plan and applying a buyout
multiple to the earnings before interest and taxes of each of
its businesses, Invensys may be worth as much as 400 pence a
share, according to  Collins Stewart ’s Wilson.  The projection, which implies an 80 percent premium in a
breakup or takeover, assumes that the pension obligations will
cost Invensys about 500 million pounds to unload.  ‘Our List’  Siemens, which has the most cash of any European industrial
company, will weigh a bid for Invensys once its pension
liabilities are resolved, said the person familiar with the
matter, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  “We have our list,”  Peter Loescher , Siemens’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call in May, adding that
he knows “exactly where” the targets are and “who they are.”  Siemens plans to fill holes in energy distribution,
industry automation and applications to improve power use, Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said earlier this year. He also
said acquisitions may be between 1 billion euros ($1.44 billion)
and 5 billion euros.  Invensys gets almost half its revenue from its operations
management unit, which sells technology to automate plants and
industrial facilities and helps make them cheaper to run, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A lot of what Invensys does is control systems and
software to make production more efficient and safer -- systems
that would shut down a nuclear power station in the case of an
emergency,” said Felicity Smith, who helps manage about $800
million including Invensys stock, at Bedlam Asset Management Plc
in  London . “The name that gets batted about most is Siemens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  New York  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at +49-30-70010-6230 or  bkammel@bloomberg.net . 