-- 
Manchester City, Wolves Top England’s Premier League Following Victories

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-21T17:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/stoke-draws-1-1-at-10-man-norwich-with-late-goal-by-kenwyne-jones.html
Manchester City  and Wolves top
English soccer’s Premier League after beating Bolton and Fulham
today in the second round of games.  City won 3-2 at Bolton’s Reebok Stadium with goals by David Silva, Gareth Barry and Edin Dzeko. Ivan Klasnic and Kevin Davies scored for the home team.  “We dominated the game, but we can’t concede two goals
like we did today,” City coach  Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports.
“We need to pay more attention if we want to win the
championship.”  Kevin Doyle  and  Matt Jarvis  gave Wolves a 2-0 home victory
and a last-minute goal by Kenwyne Jones earned Stoke a 1-1 draw
at 10-man Norwich.  Manchester City and Wolves top the standings on six points
after winning both games so far.  Aston Villa , Liverpool, Chelsea
and Newcastle have four points. West Brom and Blackburn are at
the bottom of the league, the only teams to have lost two games.  Silva opened the scoring for City in the 26th minute,
profiting from an error by goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen, who
let the shot squirm off his hand into the net. Barry’s long-
range shot made it 2-0 11 minutes later.  Klasnic reduced the deficit before halftime, sweeping in a
cross from the left. Two minutes into the second half Dzeko
restored City’s two-goal advantage before Davies got a goal back
with a header.  City hung on for the victory to lead the table on goal
difference.  Wolves Win  At Molineux, both Wolves’ goals came just before halftime
as the Midlands team also made it two wins from as many games.  In the day’s other game, newly promoted Norwich took a 1-0
lead at home when Ritchie de Laet scored against his old club in
the 37th minute.  Stoke failed to tie the score from the penalty spot in the
63rd minute after Leon Barnett was red-carded for bringing down
Jonathan Walters, whose spot-kick was saved by John Ruddy. Jones
headed in from close range in the 90th minute to earn a point
for Stoke.  Among yesterday’s games, Liverpool won 2-0 at Arsenal,
Chelsea beat West Brom 2-1 and Newcastle won the northeast derby
at Sunderland 1-0.  Tomorrow, Tottenham plays its opening game, at champion
 Manchester United .  Weekend results: Arsenal 0-2 Liverpool; Aston Villa 3-1
Blackburn; Everton 0-1 QPR; Sunderland 0-1 Newcastle; Swansea 0-
0 Wigan; Chelsea 2-1 West Brom; Bolton 2-3 Manchester City;
Norwich 1-1 Stoke; Wolves 2-0 Fulham. Tomorrow: Manchester
United vs Tottenham.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 