-- 
Hungary August Economic Sentiment Drops to Weakest in 17 Months

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-08-21T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/hungary-august-economic-sentiment-drops-to-weakest-in-17-months.html
Hungary’s economic-sentiment index
declined for a fourth month in August, dropping to its weakest
since March 2010, as confidence among businesses worsened,
research institute GKI said.  The index fell to minus 18.9 from minus 16.0 in the
previous month, Budapest-based GKI said in an e-mailed
statement. The business confidence index dropped to minus 11.3
from minus 6.9 in July, while the consumer confidence index rose
to minus 40.7 from minus 42.0 in the previous month.  Sentiment deteriorated in all areas of business, with the
outlook in the trade and service industries worsening
“significantly,” GKI said.  Hungary’s economy stalled in the second quarter as
industrial output petered out amid concern the debt crises in
 Europe  and the U.S. and slowing growth in  China  will derail the
global recovery. Gross domestic product was unchanged from the
first quarter and it expanded 1.5 percent from a year earlier,
after growth of 2.5 percent in the first quarter.  The expansion in GDP this year may be close to 2 percent,
rather than the Cabinet’s 3.1 percent initial estimate, Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  said last week.  Sentiment in industry, whose exports pulled the country out
of recession, “has been deteriorating for nearly half a year
now,” GKI said.  Industrial output grew at the slowest rate since 2009 in
June after a slump in export demand.  Businesses’ willingness to hire worsened “substantially”
in the industrial and service areas and rose “slightly” in the
construction and trade areas, GKI said.  The GKI indexes are calculated based on a balance of
positive and negative answers to questions about the outlook for
the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  