-- 
Super PACs Line Their Coffers for 2012 Battle: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-08-21T15:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/hunt-super-pacs-line-their-coffers-for-2012-battle.html
Mike Toomey,  Bill Burton  and Edward Conard: Each of these men is a close ally of one of the would-be
next presidents of the  United States . All three insist they have
no involvement in their close associates’ campaigns.  That’s because they’re helping direct so-called Super PACs
-- Burton for President  Barack Obama , Toomey for  Texas  Governor
 Rick Perry , and Conard for former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. This role enables them to raise virtually unlimited
funds from individuals, corporations and labor unions as long as
they remain “independent” of the campaigns.  What these Super PACs do is to effectively lift the
campaign-contribution limits, currently at $2,500 per individual,
and allow wealthy interests and individuals to make the huge
contributions that were the trademark of the era that ended with
the Watergate scandal.  Political-action committees have long existed in U.S.
politics. In the past, however, they couldn’t accept any
corporate or labor-union contributions and individuals couldn’t
give more than the legal limit. Two Supreme Court rulings and
lax enforcement by the Federal Elections Commission led to the
creation of the Super PACs, which, for the first time, can take
unlimited money from special interests and individuals and use
those funds on behalf of a specific presidential candidate.  Independence Travesty  They are supposed to be independent of the campaigns. It’s
now clear that this separation is a travesty on both sides,
making these entities and the big money the wave of the future.  “The idea that these Super PACs are independent from the
candidates they’re supporting is absurd,” says Fred Wertheimer,
the president of Democracy 21, a Washington-based group that
advocates campaign-finance reform and who has brought legal
action against these new fundraisers. “They are simply a
mechanism for massive circumvention of the contribution limits
that are supposed to apply to federal campaigns.”  Just look at the central players. Toomey, Perry’s former
chief of staff, is now considered the leading business lobbyist
in Texas. He plays a major role in Make Us Great Again, one of
several independent efforts on behalf of Perry. He owns an
island with  David Carney , Perry’s campaign manager, and
maintains close relations with the governor.  Burton, who directs Priorities USA Action, was Obama’s
deputy press secretary during the 2008 campaign and served in a
similar post during the first two years of his presidency.  Romney Partner  Conard was a fellow managing partner with Romney of the
private-equity firm  Bain Capital  and keeps a close association
with the Republican presidential candidate. This year, he set up
a shell company and secretly funneled a $1 million contribution
to Restore Our Future, the Super PAC that supports Romney’s
White House run. He was forced to disclose his identity after
questions in the media about the origins of that large anonymous
donation.  Conard’s shell company, which only existed for four months,
was set up to evade the law that requires Super PACS to identify
donors but sets no limits on donations.  Restore Our Future  has received major funding from people
such as the hedge-fund tycoon  John Paulson , who has given more
than $1 million; under Federal Elections Commission rules,
Romney was able to attend a event held by this “independent”
entity as long as he didn’t directly solicit funds for it.  This Super PAC is led by several of Romney’s 2008 campaign
advisers, who are intimately acquainted with some of the aides
who are running the 2012 effort.  Obama Aide  Burton’s partner is Sean Sweeney, who was a White House
political aide in the Obama administration before joining this
“independent” group.  Coordination doesn’t have to be direct or official to be
strategic and helpful.  David Plouffe , the top Obama political
aide, and other operatives have trained their fire recently on
Romney; so has  Priorities USA Action .  It’s a safe assumption that if there’s a Romney-Obama
matchup in the general election, Restore Our Future and
Priorities USA Action will be on the airwaves in the
battleground states of Colorado, Virginia and  Ohio , and not in
California or Texas.  The most ambitious “independent” venture may be the one
supporting Perry. Even before he announced his presidential
campaign, candidates from half a dozen such groups were
assembling. Make Us Great Again reportedly had gotten word out
and most of the focus now seems to be coalescing around that
group.  Perry’s Backers  This Super PAC has two invaluable assets: It enables rich
Texans who’ve long backed Perry to make big contributions, and
it eliminates any competitive disadvantage the late-starting
candidate might have in taking on rivals who have a larger pool
of smaller contributors. If past experience is any guide, look
for Make Us Great Again to attack opponents, starting with
Romney.  If these Big Money-funded groups end up playing a vital
role in the presidential race, it’s a certainty, as Wertheimer
frets, that they will surface in most congressional elections
the next time. By then, all the checks and balances instituted
after Watergate will have been rolled back.  Postscript: With all this unseemly  influence-peddling  it’s
no wonder that lobbyists, public-relations operatives and
political appointees are held in low regard.  Howard Paster, who passed away at 66 on Aug. 10, reminds us
that these can be noble vocations. He was a lobbyist for the
 United Auto Workers , later chairman of Hill and Knowlton public
relations firm and a top White House aide in the Clinton
administration.  Whether lobbying in his early days for the UAW, or later
for industry, or helping President Bill Clinton secure passage
of the  North American Free Trade Agreement , Paster always was
knowledgeable, honorable and admired by allies and opponents
alike.  “He was direct and tough but always positive and
genuine,” says Marsha Hale, who worked with him in the White
House.  Paster’s career is a reminder that in  Washington , even when
it’s riddled with sleazy influence peddling, there are still
many honest practitioners who work to make public policy better.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 