-- 
Mayors Urge End to Violence After Two Shot at 49ers-Raiders Preseason Game

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-08-22T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/two-are-shot-in-parking-lot-after-49ers-beat-raiders-in-nfl-preseason-game.html
The mayors of  San Francisco  and
Oakland called for an end to violence at sporting events after
two men were shot outside a National Football League preseason
game in what police said were separate incidents.  One victim was in serious condition last night at San
Francisco General Hospital after being shot several times in the
stomach and another was recovering from less serious wounds
following the Aug. 20 attacks in a parking lot outside San
Francisco’s Candlestick Park, police said.  San Francisco Police Sergeant Mike Andraychak did not
report any arrests and said yesterday that a motive for the
attacks after the game between the  San Francisco 49ers  and
 Oakland Raiders  was not known.  “Fans come to our stadiums to enjoy an afternoon of
football, not to be subjected to intimidation or violence,” San
Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee and Oakland Mayor Jean Quan said in a
statement posted yesterday on the City of San Francisco’s
website. “These games are family events and the types of images
we witnessed last night have no place in our arenas.”  The shootings came five months after San Francisco Giants
fan  Bryan Stow  was left in a coma after being beaten March 31 by
two men wearing Los Angeles Dodgers gear in the parking lot at
Dodger Stadium on the opening day of the Major League Baseball
season. Two men have pleaded not guilty to the attack.  The victims of the  Candlestick Park  attacks were found
separately. Andraychak said in a voice mail left last night on
his phone that the shootings were being investigated as separate
incidents.  “Violence will not be tolerated in either of our
stadiums,” the mayors added in their statement. The incidents
“are completely unacceptable and will be prosecuted to the
fullest extent of the law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 