-- 
Two Are Shot in Parking Lot After 49ers-Raiders Preseason Game

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-21T17:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/two-are-shot-in-parking-lot-after-49ers-raiders-preseason-game.html
One man is in critical condition
and a second is recovering from less serious wounds after they
were shot following a National Football League preseason game
between the  San Francisco  49ers and local rival the  Oakland
Raiders .  The men were attacked in the Jamestown Avenue parking lot
at  Candlestick Park  in San Francisco shortly after 8 p.m. local
time yesterday, Sargeant Michael Andraychak of the city’s police
department said in a voicemail.  “I do not know if these victims were fans of any
particular ball club and I’ve not been able to confirm that they
were there to attend the game,” Andraychak said.  The shootings come five months after San Francisco Giants
fan  Bryan Stow  was left in a coma after being beaten March 31 by
two men wearing Los Angeles Dodgers gear in the car park at
Dodger Stadium on the opening day of the Major League Baseball
season. Louie Sanchez, 28, and Marvin Norwood, 30, have pleaded
not guilty to the attack.  Last night’s victims were found separately and no link
between them or any suspect has been established, police said.
No one is in custody and no description of any suspect is
available, Andraychak said.  Restroom Attack  A 24-year-old male has life-threatening injuries in San
Francisco General Hospital after being shot two to four times in
the stomach, Sargeant Frank Harrell of the San Francisco Police
told the  Oakland Tribune . He was wearing a T-shirt bearing an
expletive directed at the 49ers, the report said.  The life of the second victim, a male in his 20s,
isn’t in danger, Andraychak said.  The 49ers issued a statement acknowledging that the
incident is being investigated by police, while providing no
further information.  Separately, a man was left in critical condition after
being beaten in a stadium restroom during the fourth quarter of
last night’s game, which the 49ers won 17-3, the  San Francisco
Chronicle  said.  The suspect is a 25- to 30-year-old male of Samoan or
Pacific Islands origin, about 6-feet-3 to 6-feet-5 and weighing
225 to 260 pounds, Andraychak said. He had a goatee beard and
long curly hair tied in a pony tail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 