-- 
Yankees Fail to Overcome 7-Run Deficit to Twins; Red Sox Lose to Royals

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-21T04:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-21/yankees-fail-to-overcome-7-run-deficit-to-twins-red-sox-lose-to-royals.html
The  New York Yankees  failed to
overcome a 7-0 deficit in the first two innings against the
Minnesota Twins, yet stayed atop the American League East as the
 Boston Red Sox  lost to the  Kansas City Royals .  The Yankees, who lost 9-4 to the Twins last night at Target
Field in  Minneapolis , have a half-game lead over the Red Sox,
who recorded a 9-4 loss.  The Twins jumped off to a 2-0 lead in the first inning on a
wild pitch by A.J. Burnett and Justin Morneau’s sacrifice fly.
They followed with a five-run second inning, highlighted by
Danny Valencia’s home run, added and two runs in the fifth.  Eduardo Nunez scored on a throwing error by second baseman
Luke Hughes in the third, while Brett Gardner went home on
Curtis Granderson’s ground-out and Jorge Posada scored on
Francisco Cervelli’s single in the eighth. Andruw Jones ended
the scoring with a home run in the ninth.  Burnett (9-10) lasted 1 2/3 innings, giving up five hits
and seven runs while walking three. Francisco Liriano (9-9)
allowed three hits and one run and struck out six in seven
innings to get the win for the Twins.  At Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City,  Missouri , the  Red Sox 
took a 4-1 lead into the sixth inning before the Royals exploded
for eight runs.  Tim Wakefield started for the Red Sox, giving up four runs
on nine hits in 5 1/3 innings. Matt Albers (2-5) got the loss
after surrendering three hits and five runs in one-third inning.  Felipe Paulino (2-5) pitched six innings for the Royals,
allowing eight hits and four runs while striking out three
batters.  The Yankees fell to 76-48, while the Red Sox are 76-49.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  