-- ‘Hurt Village’ Is Where the ‘F’ Word Is Loudly at Home: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-28T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/-hurt-village-is-where-the-f-and-n-words-are-loudly-at-home-review.html
Katori Hall ’s “ Hurt Village ” is
set in the same Memphis public housing project that produced
National Football League offensive tackle Michael Oher. A
“Blind Side”-style Hollywood feel-good ending isn’t on the
agenda of this grim, unsubtle drama at New York’s  Pershing
Square Signature Center .  It’s the end of summer in the “second Bush dynasty,” as
the script’s preamble puts it, and Buggy (Corey Hawkins) is back
after years of military service in  Iraq . The welcoming committee
includes his outsize grandmother Big Mama (Tonya Pinkins) and
Cookie, the 13-year-old daughter he never knew (Joaquina
Kalukango), a precocious and eagle-eyed rapper.  “Hurt Village always been bad,” Cookie tells the
audience, “but it done got bad-bad, like you-betta-move-yo’-Big
Mama-out-these mutha-f****n’-projects-fo’-she-get-gang raped-
robbed-and-murdered-by-her-Gangsta-Disciple-crack-head-son
bad.”  The ‘F’ word makes more than 100 appearances.  At least one character is illiterate, and the
uncompromising language can jolt unaccustomed ears and be
difficult to decipher.  Amid a soundscape of offstage gunshots and some exuberant
rapping, the ‘N’ word is casually uttered more than 200 times.  Displaced Persons  Hurt Village is to be razed to make way for condominiums.
Buggy aims to support his family in the move to who-knows-where
while coping with a dishonorable discharge and post-traumatic
stress.  He’s trying to avoid the neighborhood’s one growth
industry, dealing drugs, which claims the other male characters.
Cookie’s mother (Marsha Stephanie Blake) has been crack-free for
three years, but a fourth isn’t a foregone conclusion.  The magical realism in “The Mountaintop,” Hall’s Broadway
play earlier this season about  Martin Luther King , is kept to a
minimum here, though one character becomes eloquent during a
drug-inspired dream sequence.  All this takes place in David Gallo’s appropriately
depressing assortment of grimy furniture and aging appliances.
The actors, directed by Patricia McGregor, deliver their lines
with understanding and conviction.  I came away thinking that while the play doesn’t offer
answers about urban poverty, it can’t hurt to have theatergoers
thinking about it for at least a couple of hours.  Through March 18 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-
244-7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org .
Rating: **  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  