-- Riots in China’s Xinjiang Province Leave at Least 12 Dead
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T08:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/12-dead-in-china-riot-as-police-blame-extremists.html
Riots in  China ’s western Xinjiang
province left at least 12 people dead, the state-run Xinhua News
Agency said, the latest burst of unrest in a region beset by
tension between ethnic Uighurs and Han Chinese.  “Violent mobs” in the city of Kashgar hacked at least 10
people to death yesterday and police shot and killed at least
two people, Xinhua said, citing witnesses it did not identify.
Xinhua didn’t run a report in Chinese about the riots.  The unrest may cast a shadow over government meetings
starting this weekend that will see delegates from across China
gather in Beijing for annual sessions of the National People’s
Congress and the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference. Years of policies encouraging migration of Han
Chinese to areas such as Xinjiang have stoked ethnic tensions.  Asked to confirm the riots, an official who answered the
phone at the Kashgar government press office and declined to
give his name called reports of unrest “baseless assertions.”
Told that one report was on Xinhua, the official hung up the
phone. The Kashgar government  website , which didn’t mention the
riots, had a pop-up window with a slogan that read, “Achieve
the leapfrog development and long-term stability in Kashgar.”  ‘High Alert’  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said Xinjiang
is developing fast and China will be on “high alert for the
people behind this.”  China opposes “terrorists and separatists spoiling
peaceful development,” Hong said.  Xinjiang was the scene of clashes in 2009 between the
mostly Muslim Uighur minority and the Han ethnic group that left
almost 200 people dead in the provincial capital of Urumqi.
Separate riots in July and August killed 22 people, Xinhua
reported at the time.  Chinese authorities said the attacks last year were carried
out by “religious extremists” whose ringleaders had been
trained at camps in  Pakistan  run by the East Turkestan Islamic
Movement.  In a trip to  Singapore  earlier this month, Kashgar’s
executive vice mayor, Deng Huijiang, said investors can “rest
assured” about security issues. He said authorities in the city
have beefed up security and that the 2011 attacks were a “one-
off” incident.  Muslim Uighurs share ethnic ties with the Turkic peoples of
central  Asia , while Kashgar is China’s westernmost city borders
with Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. Uighurs complain of
discrimination by the Han, China’s dominant ethnic group, and of
unfair allocation of the region’s resources.  For Related News and Information:  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  