-- Carnival Cruise Ship Towed to Seychelles After Fire in Second Costa Mishap
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-02-28T13:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/adrift-cruise-ship-readies-for-recovery.html
A  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cruise liner is
being towed to the Seychelles after a fire erupted onboard, the
second accident involving one of the company’s vessels in six
weeks.  The Costa Allegra is being towed by a French fishing
vessel, the Seychelles Coast Guard said on the government’s
website today. Two tugboats are being sent to the Allegra by the
Seychelles Port Authority and they will reach the cruise ship
“this afternoon,” the government said. The Allegra is carrying
636 passengers and 413 crew, Genoa, Italy-based Costa Crociere
SpA said yesterday. Carnival owns Costa Crociere.  Food and communications equipment are being transported to
the stricken ship by helicopters from Mahe, a group of islands
northeast of Madagascar, Costa Crociere said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The ship is headed to Mahe rather than the island of
Desroches as planned this morning because “disembarkation in
Desroches doesn’t assure the necessary security conditions for
mooring the ship,” the company said. The Allegra is expected to
arrive at Mahe during the morning of March 1.  No one was injured in yesterday’s fire in the Allegra’s
electric generators room, Costa Crociere said. An emergency was
declared as a precautionary measure and passengers were asked to
assemble in muster areas, it said. The fire was extinguished and
didn’t spread to other parts of the vessel.  Costa Managers  Carnival’s shares fell 0.5 percent in  London , their sixth
consecutive decline, to 1,829 pence, and they are down 3 percent
since the Jan. 13 Concordia accident. The stock is down 13
percent in  New York  since the shipwreck.  Fourteen Costa Crociere managers and technical personnel
are flying to the Seychelles to assist passengers, Captain
Giorgio Moretti, Costa Crociere’s nautical operations director,
said on a conference call yesterday.  The Allegra is part of the same fleet as the Concordia,
which capsized about six weeks ago off Italy, killing at least
25 people. The Concordia hit rocks near Giglio Island on Jan. 13
hours after leaving a port near  Rome  with 4,200 passengers and
crew for a Mediterranean cruise. Seven people are still missing,
according to  Italy ’s civil-protection agency.  Francesco Schettino, the Concordia’s captain, was placed
under house arrest on Jan. 17 for allegedly causing the
shipwreck. Italian prosecutors Feb. 22 widened their probe of
the Concordia accident to include seven employees of Costa
Crociere, which said in a statement that day it’s “absolutely
certain” its staff acted correctly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  