-- Thai Protest Leader Sondhi Given 20-Year Jail Term for Fraud
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-02-28T11:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/thai-protest-leader-sondhi-given-20-year-jail-term-for-fraud-1-.html
Thai protest leader Sondhi Limthongkul, whose demonstrations helped oust two governments
since 2006, received a 20-year jail term for faking documents in
the 1990s to secure loans for a company he controlled.  Sondhi and three other executives of Manager Media Group
Pcl failed to notify its board they were signing documents to
guarantee 1.08 billion baht ($35 million) in loans to privately
held The M Group Pcl, according to the  website  of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, which filed the charges. The guarantee
wasn’t disclosed in financial statements, it said.  “We will appeal the court decision,” Suwat Apaiphak, a
lawyer for Sondhi, told reporters at the court. Sondhi was freed
on bail after posting a 10 million-baht bond, Suwat said.  Sondhi, a journalist-turned-media-tycoon, spearheaded
protests against former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  before
his ouster in a 2006 coup and helped remove the exiled leader’s
allies from power in 2008 by seizing Bangkok’s airports. His
 People’s Alliance  for Democracy plans to meet on March 10 to
consider a protest against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra,
Thaksin’s sister, who took power six months ago.  Two of Sondhi’s associates also received 20-year sentences
and a third person was given a 2.5-year jail term for their
roles in deceiving state-controlled  Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB) , the
court said. The M Group defaulted on the 259 million-baht debt,
leaving Manager Media responsible for paying the loan, it said.  Publishing Empire  Born in Bangkok, Sondhi studied history at the University
of  California ,  Los Angeles  before returning to  Thailand  to edit
a newspaper called Democracy. It became part of a successful
mass movement against the then-military government in 1973.  In the 1990s he built Manager Media into one of Thailand’s
largest publishing and communications companies, with operations
in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  and ventures in satellite and phone
services. At the time he became a competitor to Thaksin, who
founded what became the country’s  biggest mobile-phone operator .  Their fortunes diverged with the 1997 Asian financial
crisis. Sondhi filed for bankruptcy after Manager racked up
about $40 million in debt and its shares haven’t traded since
1998. Thaksin’s businesses thrived and he founded a political
party that won elections in 2001 and 2005.  Thaksin Protests  After initially backing Thaksin and rebuilding his own
business, Sondhi in 2005 changed course, saying he realized the
former premier was corrupt. He launched a movement against
Thaksin that drew thousands of yellow-shirted protesters to the
streets.  Thaksin told supporters in 2006 that Sondhi had turned
against him because he was upset by the government’s inability
to give him a television license, and by the change of
management at Krung Thai Bank.  Sondhi survived an assassination attempt in April 2009 when
gunmen sprayed his car with more than 50 bullets. The attack
followed a military crackdown on anti-government demonstrations
against then-Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who Sondhi had
supported at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  