-- Republican U.S. Senator Snowe Cites Partisanship as Reason for Retirement
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-29T15:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/maine-gop-sen-snowe-won-t-seek-re-election.html
Republican U.S. Senator  Olympia Snowe  of Maine cited frustration with Congress’s partisanship
for her decision not to seek re-election in November, an action
that hampers her party’s chances to seize control of the chamber
in November.  Snowe, a three-term senator who at times votes with
Democrats, said in a statement that she doubts another six-year
term would yield results. She said her health is good and she
had been prepared to win. Her announcement yesterday came two
weeks before a March 15 filing deadline for candidates, with the
primary election set for June 12.  “With my Spartan ancestry I am a fighter at heart; and I
am well prepared for the electoral battle, so that is not the
issue,” said Snowe, the first Greek-American woman elected to
Congress. “However, what I have had to consider is how
productive an additional term would be. Unfortunately, I do not
realistically expect the partisanship of recent years in the
Senate to change over the short term.”  Snowe’s decision brings to 10 the number of senators who
plan to retire after this year, seven of them Democrats.
Democrats control the Senate, 53-47, and Snowe’s retirement will
complicate Republican efforts to win a majority.  “Putting a Republican seat in play is not what they
needed; this makes it harder,” said  Jennifer Duffy , Senate
editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. “But we have
to see how this shakes out.”  Bob Kerrey  Snowe’s decision adds to a week of potential shake-ups in
the battle for control of the Senate. As early as today, former
Nebraska senator and governor  Bob Kerrey , a Democrat, plans to
announce whether he will run for the state’s open Senate seat.
Republicans have been favored to take the seat of retiring
Democratic Senator  Ben Nelson , though a Kerrey run could change
that.  While Republicans have made gains in Maine, as underscored
by Republican Governor Paul LePage’s win in 2010, the state
leans Democratic. President  Barack Obama  won Maine in the 2008
election with 58 percent of the vote, his 11th-best showing
among the 50 states.  Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota , the No. 3 Senate
Republican leader, said Snowe’s surprise announcement hinders
the party’s drive for a majority, though he insisted the goal is
still within reach. The party needs to gain three seats to
govern the Senate if a Republican wins the White House,
providing a Republican vice president who would be a tie-
breaking vote in a 50-50 Senate.  ‘Heavy Lift’  “I think we knew that it would be a heavy lift to start
with, but realistically it’s another state that’s going to be a
competitive state,” Thune said. “And it’s one that we’re going
to have to pay a lot more attention to and spend probably a lot
more resources on to try and retain it.”  Snowe, 65, has been a target of the anti-spending  Tea Party 
and had drawn a primary challenger from the movement,
businessman Scott D’Amboise. Tea Party activists were angered
that she voted with Democrats on the bank bailout, Obama’s
economic stimulus and other issues. She was the only Senate
Finance Committee Republican to back the president’s health-care
overhaul, although she opposed the final bill.  Favored to Win  Still, she was heavily favored to win her primary and the
general election in November. She was endorsed by LePage and had
$3.4 million to spend on her race at the end of December. No
other declared candidate in either party had more than $135,000
cash on hand, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington group that tracks political spending.  Tea Party-related groups, including the Tea Party Express
and FreedomWorks, had decided to turn their attention to two
other Republican incumbents they want to defeat in this year’s
primaries:  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana  and  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah .  Democrats already in the Maine Senate race include Matt
Dunlap, former secretary of state, and state Representative Jon Hinck. Duffy of the Cook Report said Snowe’s decision may
encourage others who had declined to run to reconsider,
including Democratic U.S. Representative Chellie Pingree and
Republican state Treasurer Bruce Poliquin.  Snowe served in both chambers of Maine’s legislature before
moving to Congress. She was a member of the U.S. Senate and
House for a combined 33 years, making her the third-longest-
serving woman in congressional history.  Praise From Obama  President Barack Obama yesterday praised Snowe’s service.
Her career “demonstrates how much can be accomplished when
leaders from both parties come together to do the right thing
for the American people,” the Democratic president said in an
e-mailed statement.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  called Snowe a
“tireless advocate” for her home state, small businesses and
the military.  “Olympia’s colleagues have no doubt that she will add much
to that record after leaving the Senate at the end of this
year,” the Kentucky Republican said in a statement.  Snowe has long been viewed as a bipartisan consensus-
seeker, and that continued after the Tea Party movement eyed her
seat. Only Senator  Susan Collins , her  Maine  Republican
colleague, voted with Democrats more often in 2011, according to
ratings released last week by National Journal.  ‘Devastated’ About Decision  “I am absolutely devastated to learn that Olympia has
decided not to seek re-election to the United States Senate,”
Collins said in a statement yesterday. Collins has served
alongside Snowe since 1997.  Snowe is a member of the Finance and Commerce panels, and
is the top Republican on the Small Business Committee.  In an interview this month, Snowe expressed frustration
with Congress’s inability to pass a tax overhaul at a time of
economic uncertainty. She said she advised Obama to make it a
top priority when he took office in 2009.  “It would have been another fundamental that would have
been tackled in a way that would have provided certainty,” she
said. “We are in an unusually heightened state of economic
policy uncertainty. I am concerned about where we are today in
the whole  tax code . Why can’t we do it this year? We’ve had so
many hearings this year.”  She cited the “polarizing environment” as the reason.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  