-- Malaysia Airports Said to Mull Raising Istanbul Airport Stake
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-28T09:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/malaysia-airports-said-to-mull-raising-istanbul-airport-stake.html
Malaysia Airports Holding Bhd. (MAHB)  may
raise its stake in Istanbul’s second-largest airport, according
to three people with knowledge of the situation.  The companies that operate Sabiha Gokcen International
Airport are working with Rothschild to manage a potential sale,
said the people, who declined to be identified as the
deliberations are private. The process is at a preliminary stage
and the other owners -- Malaysia Airports’ joint-venture
partners  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  and Limak Holding AS -- haven’t
decided if they’ll sell their stakes, the people said.  India ’s GMR and Limak, a Turkish group with interests in
construction and energy, each hold 40 percent in the venture,
also known as SGIA, while Malaysia Airports owns 20 percent, one
of the people said. Limak and GMR may each sell a 15 percent
interest in SGIA to Malaysia Airports, giving the Subang,
Malaysia-based company control of 50 percent of the company,
that person said.  Arun Bhagat, head of corporate communications at GMR Group,
declined to comment on the sale other than to say no decision
had been made. Limak Holding deputy chairman Ebru Ozdemir also
declined to comment. Nik Anis Nik Zakaria, general manager of
Malaysia Airports’ corporate communications, and a Rothschild
spokesperson couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.  The joint venture placed a winning bid of 1.93 billion
euros ($2.6 billion) in 2007 for a contract to operate SGIA for
20 years as of May 2008. The airport served 13.5 million
passengers last year, a little more than half its maximum
capacity of 25 million, according to the Turkish airport
authority’s  website .  Malaysia’s sovereign wealth fund  Khazanah Nasional Bhd. (KNBZ) ,
whose unit bought a controlling stake at  Acibadem Saglik
Hizmetleri & Ticaret AS (ACIBD) ,  Turkey ’s biggest hospital chain, in
December, owns 54 percent of Malaysia Airports, according to
Bloomberg data.  Istanbul Airports  Aeroports de Paris , the owner of Paris Charles de Gaulle
airport, confirmed last week that it was interested in  TAV
Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , Turkey’s biggest airport company,
which operates Istanbul’s largest airport, Ataturk
International, as well as 10 other airports in Turkey, Tunisia,
 Georgia  and Macedonia.  Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  is competing against French builder
 Vinci SA (DG)  for a stake in TAV, according to two people with direct
knowledge of the process. The company’s owners are seeking at
least $2 billion for the company, compared to a market value of
3.1 billion liras ($1.8 billion) at its current share price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  