-- Allstate’s Wilson Names Head of Biggest Insurance Unit to Increase Profit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-28T17:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/allstate-s-wilson-names-head-of-biggest-insurance-unit-to-increase-profit.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Wilson  picked a new head for the insurer’s
biggest unit, home and auto coverage, as he seeks to improve
profit at the residential business.  Matt Winter was named president of the unit, Northbrook,
Illinois-based Allstate said yesterday in a statement. Formerly
head of the life-insurance business, Winter will be succeeded in
that role by Don Civgin, the chief financial officer. Steve Shebik will become CFO. Mark LaNeve, a senior executive vice
president whose duties were expanded last year to oversee agency
operations, resigned for personal reasons, the company said.  Wilson, 54, has been shifting senior executives since the
departure in July of Joseph Lacher, formerly head of home and
auto insurance. Wilson said in November that he expanded the
responsibilities of LaNeve and Winter, who was given the task of
overseeing property-casualty claims and risk management.  “We’ve been nervous about management for a while, simply
because it seems to be less than perfectly stable,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. who advises clients
to hold the stock, said in a phone interview. “I think that the
question of stability is still there.”  Allstate, the biggest publicly traded auto and home
insurer, was little changed at $31.37 yesterday in New York. It
has  declined  less than 1 percent in the past year, compared with
the 11 percent drop in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.  Brian Faith, a spokesman for the insurer, declined to
comment. Allstate is “confident in the abilities of our strong
leadership team,” Wilson said in the statement.  Unacceptable Profits  Wilson has been raising rates for residential coverage and
said in December that the homeowners business hasn’t generated
acceptable profits for “some time.” Results were hurt last
year as Allstate faced claims related to tornadoes in the second
quarter and  Hurricane Irene  in August.  Allstate’s property-and-liability unit, which sells home
and auto coverage, generated more than 80 percent of the
insurer’s revenue last year. The life-insurance division,
Allstate Financial, accounted for about 16 percent of revenue.
Allstate had about $32.7 billion in revenue in 2011.  The management changes may stretch the senior leadership
team as Allstate seeks to improve the profitability of its home-
insurance division, refocus life-insurance operations and
integrate Esurance, an online seller of car coverage, said  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets .  “All of those require different skills,” he said in a
phone interview yesterday. “Each one of them individually was a
pretty big job.” He rates Allstate “sector perform.”  Shifted Focus  Under Winter, the life division became more focused on
underwritten products sold at Allstate agencies and through
employers, according to the statement. The insurer has reduced
its reliance on spread-based products, such as annuities.  Allstate has been losing auto-insurance customers as
drivers buy coverage on the Internet rather than from agents.
The insurer completed the acquisition of Esurance in October to
compete with direct-to-consumer sellers Progressive Corp. and
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s Geico unit. Civgin retains oversight
of Esurance, according to the statement.  Allstate also announced yesterday that Steve Verney, chief
risk officer, kept that title and was promoted to the senior
leadership team, reporting to Wilson.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at    dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 