-- American Barbecue, Dead Hippie Burger Worth the Wait in London
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/american-barbecue-dead-hippie-burger-worth-the-wait-in-london.html
There’s nothing new about standing
in line for restaurants in  London . Call Dabbous and you may be
told there’s a three-month wait. It’s similar at Le Gavroche.  We normally wait virtually, with a distant date in the
diary and the suspicion that while all men are created equal,
it’s self-evident others are jumping the queue. Diners are not
used to standing in line for a table.  The message on the  website  at Meatliquor, a wildly popular
speakeasy-style venue near  Oxford Circus , is refreshing: “Qing
policy is straightforward and we believe fair: If there is a Q
when you arrive, you join the end of it. NO exceptions.”  It’s much the same at Pitt Cue Co, a tiny restaurant in
Soho where a friend waited for more than two hours on a recent
Tuesday evening and still didn’t get fed.  Pitt Cue, which started life as a food truck, is a barbecue
joint -- a real one, not a place where they paint any old piece
of meat in a sweet and cloying sauce. One chef previously worked
for Adam Perry Lang, owner or Daisy May’s in  New York , while
another was with  Brett Graham  of the Ledbury in London.  The menu is small, as is the venue, which seats 18 in the
basement and eight on the ground floor. There are daily specials
as well as the five mains, which include pulled pork, house
sausage and beef ribs. Each comes in an enamel tray with a chunk
of bread and a side. Nothing costs more than 10 pounds, and you
can add a second meat for another 5 pounds.  Devon Beef  I’ve never tasted barbecue as good. One reason is the
quality of the meat. The beef was 28-day  North Devon  from
Cornwall in Your Kitchen, which supplies a handful of leading
 London restaurants . The other is the care, dedication and
experience of the chefs.  Perry Lang -- who co-owns Barbecoa with  Jamie Oliver  --
came along with me on one visit and enthused. He’s a champion on
the barbecue circuit in the U.S. and could even place Pitt Cue’s
plates in that context, saying the brisket had the sort of
sweetness you tend to find in the Midwest rather than  Texas .  The smoky depth of flavor was striking, while the
underlying sweetness was far removed from the sugary assault you
can encounter elsewhere. The meat is cooked to the point of
softness, without sacrificing texture.  We ate at 2:30 p.m. when there was no waiting time. The
basement is stark, the tables squashed together. The service on
both my visits was friendly and efficient. There are craft ales
and bourbon-based cocktails, not to mention desserts such as
sticky toffee pudding with salted caramel bourbon sauce, bourbon
sultanas with Armagnac and prune ice cream.  Food Truck  Meatliquor started out as a food truck in a car park, then
turned into a pop-up venue called Meateasy before landing on a
corner near Oxford Street. The site once housed an Italian
restaurant called Vecchia Milano, which opened in 1973 and in
2006 became Brera. Beneath the urban, graffiti-styled look
today, you can still make out a small dance floor.  Burgers are the specialty at Meatliquor, which was founded
by Yianni Papoutsis, a pioneer of street food. The cocktails
cost 7 pounds a pop.  There’s a choice of about 10 dishes, including the Dead
Hippie, with two patties featuring dead hippie sauce. (While it
contains mustard and chopped-up gherkins, according to the
waitress, the recipe is secret.) There are also pickles,
lettuce, cheese, pickles and minced white onions (7.50 pounds).  Perry Lang says the style is of  Irvine , California-based
 In-N-Out Burger . The meat is good, the texture appropriately
loose, the surface nicely charred and the interior pink, telling
you that the seasoning hasn’t been chucked into the mix. The bun
has the right soft texture and the jumbo onion rings are crisp.  The dim lighting and loud music -- from rock ‘n’ roll to
bluegrass -- are designed to attract young people and repel the
unyouthful. The service was surprisingly sweet for a venue that
looks more Teen Spirit than team spirit, but I couldn’t read the
menu in the dark and conversation was difficult.  Time for my pipe and slippers.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 10-15 pounds each, plus drinks.  Sound level? Loud (75-80 decibels) at Pitt Cue and louder
(80 decibels and rising) at Meatliquor.  Inside tip? In both cases, avoid going at peak times.  Special feature? Great food at bargain prices.  Will I be back? Yes, if there’s no queue.  Date place? Good places to take your niece (or nephew).  Rating? Pitt Cue *** Meatliquor **  Pitt Cue Co is at 1 Newburgh Street, London, W1F 7RB.
Information:  http://www.pittcue.co.uk./  (No phone.)  Meatliquor is at 74 Welbeck Street, W1G 0BA. Information:
 http://www.meatliquor.com./  or +44-020-7224-4239.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 