-- Amyris Falls After Losses Exceed Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-28T21:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/amyris-falls-after-losses-exceed-estimates-san-francisco-mover.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , the U.S. biotechnology
company 21 percent-owned by  Total SA (FP) , reached a record low after
reporting a fourth-quarter loss that surpassed analysts’
estimates and JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its price target by two-
thirds.  Amyris fell 11 percent to $5.73 at the close in New York,
the lowest since the company began trading in September 2010.  The company, based in Emeryville,  California , posted a net
loss of $59.4 million, or $1.30 a share, it said in a statement
yesterday. Analysts had  expected  a loss of 80 cents, the average
of 7 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company incurred “substantial production costs”
during the fourth quarter that will fall as the company
increases its output, Chief Financial Officer Jeryl Hilleman
said yesterday in a conference call.  That growth is coming slower than expected, Jeffrey Zekauskas, an analyst with JPMorgan Chase in  New York , wrote in
a research note today. He cut his December 2012 price target for
the shares to $6 from $19.  “Amyris is having difficulties reaching satisfactory
production yields at its contract manufacturers, which is
leading to uncertainty over the magnitude and timing of scale-up
at its Brazilian facilities,” Zekauskas said.  He expects the company to sell this quarter about 1 million
liters (264,000 gallons) of its main product, farnesene, a
hydrocarbon that can be processed into fuels or specialty
chemicals. “Amyris retreated from its goals of selling roughly
9 million liters of product in 2011,” Zekauskas said.  Amyris has produced 1.3 million liters of farnesene to
date, including 565,000 liters in the fourth quarter and 717,000
liters in 2011, Chief Executive Officer John Melo said on the
call.  Delayed Expansion  Amyris is delaying an expansion project in  Spain  to focus
on completing only one new plant this year, in  Brazil . The
company processes plant sugars, mainly sugar cane, into
farnesene.  The company’s three contract manufacturing sites are
currently producing at about half of their available capacity,
Melo said.  “Our focus is now on maintaining yield at scale,” Melo
said. “These are the challenges of large scale fermentation.”  High-Value Products  Amyris expects to generate $1 billion in annual revenue by
2016 by targeting the $10 billion market for specialty chemicals
that can be made from farnesene, Melo said. Squalane, a cosmetic
ingredient the company is developing, has sold for as much as
$30 a liter, Hilleman said.  “We are focusing our resources on high-value renewable
chemicals, polymers and plastic additives, flavors and
fragrances, cosmetics, and home and personal care markets,”
Melo said.  Lower-value products with larger markets, including diesel
and lubricants, will be produced primarily with joint venture
partners Total and  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio (CSAN3) , Melo said.  Revenue for the fourth quarter climbed 40 percent to $41.5
million from a year ago, according to the statement.  Future expansion projects will be funded in part with
proceeds from an $83.7 million private placement of stock and
notes completed yesterday and loans from Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social, the Brazilian  Development
Bank , Hilleman said.  Amyris expects to receive about $70 million from its
production partners this year to fund administrative expenses
and further research and development, including work on diesel
and jet fuel for Total and isoprene for the tiremaker Michelin &
Cie., Melo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  