-- Manhattan Lures REITs Capitalizing on Soaring Rents
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-28T19:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/manhattan-lures-reits-capitalizing-on-rising-rents-as-sales-lag-mortgages.html
Tom Toomey, chief executive officer
of real estate investment firm  UDR Inc. (UDR) , is betting the best
rental deal in Manhattan is owning the whole building.  The nation’s third-largest apartment real estate investment
trust bought a five-tower apartment complex on Columbus Avenue
between West 97th and 100th streets for about $630 million last
month, with rents from $2,500 for a studio or one-bedroom
apartment to more than $10,000 a month for a penthouse suite.
It’s Toomey’s fifth purchase in Manhattan in the past year as
rents soar and financing difficulties make it harder for
individuals to buy.  “Financing and underwriting are much tighter,” Toomey
said in a telephone interview. With purchases requiring larger
down payments, “people are going to stay renters for a long
time,” said Toomey, who’s based in Highlands Ranch,  Colorado .  Strict lending standards for so-called  jumbo mortgages  have
contributed to declining  home buying  across the U.S. by even the
most creditworthy borrowers as issuance of the loans has dropped
68 percent since 2007. Nowhere is that more evident than in
Manhattan, where the median price of a two-bedroom apartment is
about $1.2 million, almost twice the limit backed by government-
supported mortgage companies Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  Manhattan rents rose 9.5 percent last quarter to an average
$3,121, Miller Samuel Inc. and Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate said in a report last month. That’s about three times the
rate for the 44 largest apartment markets in the U.S., according
to Marcus & Millichap, a real estate brokerage firm. Manhattan
rental apartment vacancy rates fell to a four-year low of 0.96
percent last year, down from 1.2 percent a year earlier and 1.9
percent in 2009, according to brokerage Citi Habitats. Vacancy
bottomed in 2006 at 0.76 percent.  Wall Street Pay  “The key to the strength of the rental market is tightness
of credit,” Jonathan Miller, president of appraiser  Miller
Samuel , said in a telephone interview. “It takes quadruple-A
bizarre credit requirements to get approved.”  Jumbo loans exceed limits set for government-controlled
mortgage companies by congress. For  New York  that’s $625,500.  Wall Street’s pay practices are also making it harder to
buy, as financial firms increasingly pay bonuses in stock and
deferred cash, said Alan Johnson, managing director of
compensation consultant Johnson Associates Inc.  Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc.
have all reduced senior investment bankers’ pay for last year as
revenue slows. Morgan Stanley is capping immediate cash bonuses
at $125,000, people with knowledge of the move said last month.  Shorter Commitment  “It’s not a great sign for the financial sector
contributing to purchasing apartments because there’s no sense
of urgency to buy,” said Johnson. “Rentals are a much shorter
commitment.”  Renters outnumber homeowners in the country’s largest
cities including New York,  Los Angeles  and  Chicago . More than 77
percent of Manhattan’s occupied units were rented in the decade
ended 2010, compared with nearly 23 that were owned, data from
the Census Bureau showed.  Nationally, the  home ownership  rate fell 1.1 percent to
65.1 percent from 2000 to 2010, the largest decrease since the
Great Depression, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Falling
 home prices  have discouraged some homebuyers.  The  S&P/Case-Shiller index  of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent in December from a year earlier. Values are down
34 percent from a July 2006 peak.  Low vacancy rates and rents that are likely to continue
climbing this year have made apartments the “darling” of
commercial real estate, according to Ryan Severino, economist at
research firm Reis Inc.  Apartment Indices  The  Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index (BBREAPT)  of 16 publicly traded
landlords returned 10 percent in the past year, including
reinvested dividends, compared with returns of 6.8 percent for
the  Bloomberg REIT Index (BBREIT)  and 5.2 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest U.S. apartment
REIT, returned 11.2 percent in the past year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and UDR gained 10.8 percent.  Toomey said in August that the REIT planned to invest as
much as $1.8 billion in Manhattan apartment buildings. Its most
recent purchase, about 700 apartment units at Columbus Square on
the Upper West Side, was a joint venture with  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the
biggest U.S. life insurer.  They partly funded the purchase with $302.3 million of 10-
year fixed- and floating-rate debt from  Fannie Mae , the
government-supported mortgage company, UDR said in a statement
last month. The loans pay 3.8 percent interest.  That compares with a rate of 4.85 percent for a 30-year
jumbo mortgage to an individual in  New York (ILMJNY)  and 4.73 percent
 nationally , according to Bankrate.com data. For conforming
 Freddie Mac (NMCMFUS)  loans, rates are 3.95 percent, after falling to 3.87
percent this month, the lowest in records dating to 1971.  Housing Limits  Lenders have been wary to issue mortgages for non-
conforming loans including jumbos since the housing market
started falling in 2006 and losses on mortgage securities
propelled the nation into the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  For Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the conforming limit is
$625,500 in high-priced markets such as New York,  San Francisco 
and the Florida Keys, compared with $417,000 for most of the
rest of the country. The  Federal Housing Administration (FHAVARM$) , a
government agency with the goal of expanding ownership for
“underserved” communities, according to its website, will
insure loans up to $729,750 in New York.  Banks and mortgage lenders issued $110 billion in jumbo
loans last year, up 5.8 percent from 2010, according to  Guy Cecala , publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance. The market has
contracted from $348 billion in 2007 after peaking in 2003 at
$650 billion.  Origination Volumes  Mortgage origination overall was down 17 percent year-over-
year to $1.35 trillion, the lowest in over a decade, according
to Cecala.  Lenders and bankers, no longer able to package jumbo loans
and sell them to investors, are required to have enough capital
to carry non-conforming debt on their books until maturity.  “Some don’t have the ability to keep it on their balance
sheets,” Monte N. Redman, president of bank holding company
Astoria Financial Corp., said in a telephone interview.  FHA loans are also harder to get in Manhattan, and aren’t
available at all for co-op apartments, because borrowers
purchase shares in the building’s management company instead of
buying the property itself. The FHA does limited lending for
condominiums, units individually grouped into a cluster. It
insured 107 mortgages for condos in Manhattan last year,
compared with 90 in 2010 and 42 in 2009, the FHA said.  Manhattan Sales  Manhattan co-op and condominium sales totaled 2,011 in the
fourth quarter, 12.4 percent less a year earlier, according to
Miller Samuel and Prudential.  Non-conforming loans nationally accounted for nearly 2
percent of all purchase applications last year, up 33 percent
relative to 2010, according to the  Mortgage Bankers
Association ’s monthly profile of state and national mortgage
activity.  Those loans have tougher standards such as high  interest
rates  and down payments ranging from 25 to 40 percent, according
to Mike Fratantoni, vice president of research for the Mortgage
Bankers Association.  “They’re only available to the best credit borrowers,”
Fratantoni said.  Financing a purchase with loans above government limits
won’t get easier until the secondary market grows an appetite
for jumbo loans, according to Miller of Miller Samuel.  The secondary market comprises mortgage bankers, savings
and loan associations and large private investment institutions
that buy mortgages from primary lenders or investors.  MBS Sales  There are signs of revival for mortgage-backed securities,
according to Jan Scheck, managing director at DE Capital
Mortgage, a New York-based mortgage consulting firm.  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , a real estate investment trust based in
Mill Valley,  California , has completed four sales of bonds
totaling about $1 billion tied to new U.S. home loans since
2010, according to Mike McMahon, managing director of Redwood,
which specializes in jumbo loans.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the nation’s largest home lender, plans
to trim credit requirements this year as it aims to increase its
loan volume, according to Greg Gwizdz, sales manager for the
eastern U.S. for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. The bank reduced the
cost of loans over $2 million last month and is lowering post-
closing requirements for cash reserves, he said.  “We’re seeing a fair amount of demand, we have a strong
appetite and we’re doing a lot of volume,” Gwizdz said in a
telephone interview.  Jumbo Origination  Wells Fargo funded $13.7 billion in non-conforming loans
across the nation for the nine month period ending September,
the San Francisco-based lender said. In Manhattan its volume of
loans without government backing increased 56 percent from a
year earlier.  For now, building owners don’t have time to wait for the
rebound.  William Beaver House  in Manhattan’s Financial District
was mostly empty in 2010, two years after the 47-story
condominium tower was built. It’s almost 90 percent occupied
after owner CIM Group converted the units to luxury rentals
costing more than $8,000 a month for a three-bedroom. A down
payment on a $3 million apartment at William Beaver would range
anywhere from $750,000 to over $1 million, per jumbo loan
standards. A pre-recession down payment, averaging 20 percent or
less, would have cost $600,000.  “Without the conversion, the condos wouldn’t have sold or
would have sold at half the price,” Bob Scaglion of Rose
Associates, the company’s manager, said. Eventually, the owners
want to put the condominiums back on the purchase market,
according to Heather McDonough, broker for Prudential Real
Estate who works to sell William Beaver units.  “The rentals are in high demand,” McDonough said. “In a
few years, maybe it will be different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  