-- Goldberg: Anti-Israel One-State Plan Gets Harvard Outlet
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-02-28T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/anti-israel-one-state-fix-airs-at-harvard-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
For many years, Palestinian politics
turned on a single idea:  Palestine  was stolen by the Jews, and
so the Jews must be expelled -- “thrown into the sea,” the
expression went.  Shortly before the Six-Day War in 1967, the chairman of the
 Palestine Liberation Organization , Ahmed Shukairy, said the
combined Arab armies, for which he assumed imminent victory,
would allow those Jews who survived the coming conflagration to
remain in Palestine. He added, however, “I estimate that none of
them will survive.”  After the war, in which Israel, to the surprise of all
parties involved, came into possession of a great deal of Arab
territory, the discussion among Palestinians became more
diverse. Over time, many acknowledged the reality of Israel,
and, while not necessarily embracing the Jewish right to a
state, adopted a more realpolitik attitude.  This faction, like some of their Israeli adversaries, began
arguing for what has come to be known as the two-state solution.
This concept, which would have Israel existing side-by-side with
a Palestinian state on the  West Bank  and in the  Gaza Strip , was
even endorsed by Yasser Arafat when he was PLO chairman, though
he ultimately balked when President  Bill Clinton  put to him the
contours of such a deal at Camp David in 2000.  Rhetorical Camps  The other strain of thought -- the “destroy Israel”
approach to the  Middle East  problem -- didn’t fade away, but the
rejectionists divided into two camps, at least rhetorically. The
first camp organized themselves mainly around Hamas and Islamic
Jihad, and cast their struggle against Israel in religious
terms. This camp’s rhetoric is bluntly anti-Semitic (as are its
terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians).  The second, more secular camp understood that violent
rhetoric was limiting the appeal of its cause among Westerners,
and so it tried to hide its ultimate goal -- the forced
disappearance of Israel -- behind a screen of euphemisms.  This group argues for the “one-state solution,” the merging
of the Palestinian and Jewish populations between the Jordan
River and the  Mediterranean Sea  into a single political entity.
It is an entirely unworkable and offensive idea, but because it
is couched in the language of equality and human rights, rather
than murder and anti-Semitism, it has gained currency in certain
not-entirely-marginal circles.  This week, Harvard University’s Kennedy School of
Government will  host  a conference called “Israel/Palestine and
the One State Solution,”  whose goal is to  “educate ourselves and
others about the possible contours of a one-state solution and
the challenges that stand in the way of its realization.” The
conference will feature speakers such as Ali Abunimah, a veteran
anti-Israel agitator, and Harvard’s own Stephen M. Walt, co-
author with John Mearsheimer of the scapegoating Ur-text of
anti- Israel  argumentation, “The Israel Lobby.”  The one-staters posit that they differ from the Shukairy
approach or from the ideology of Hamas. They don’t seek the
expulsion of Jews from Palestine, they say, but instead the
creation of a unified parliament that would represent all Arabs
and Jews between the river and the sea. Instead of two ethnic-
based states, they say, there would be one harmonious,
pluralistic democracy.  Many also demand repealing Israel’s Law of Return, which
allows Jews to immigrate to Israel, and replacing it with a new
law of return for Palestinian refugees and their descendants.
This last item in their platform is offered with a knowing wink:
The migration of four or five million Palestinians into this
“shared” state would turn what is today the world’s only Jewish-
majority state into the world’s 22nd Arab state.  Endless War  The “shared state” model, of course, barely works in
 Belgium . In the heart of the merciless Middle East, where the
oppression of ethnic and religious minorities by the Muslim Arab
majority is in many countries severe and ongoing, it would be a
formula for endless war.  Even one of the intellectual fathers of one-statism, the
academic Edward Said, acknowledged that Jews could be endangered
in this theoretical country. Asked by the Haaretz journalist Ari
Shavit in 2000 if he thought a Jewish minority would be treated
fairly,  he said : “It worries me a great deal. The question of
what is going to be the fate of the Jews is very difficult for
me. I really don’t know.”  Israelis know. There is near wall-to-wall agreement among
Israelis, and their supporters, that the Belgian model would
quickly deteriorate into the Lebanese model.  Some of the most persuasive arguments against one-statism,
in fact, come from the left. Jeremy Ben-Ami, the founder of J
Street, the liberal pro-Israel lobby group in  Washington , told
me that the one-state solution is a “one-state nightmare.”
Gershom Gorenberg, in his new book, “The Unmaking of Israel,” a
jeremiad directed at the Jewish settlement movement, writes at
length about the absurdity at the heart of the proposal.  “Palestinians will demand the return of property lost in
1948 and perhaps the rebuilding of destroyed villages. Except
for the drawing of borders, virtually every question that
bedevils Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations will become a
domestic problem setting the new political entity aflame.”  Gorenberg predicts that Israelis of means would flee this
new state, leaving it economically crippled. “Financing
development in majority-Palestinian areas and bringing
Palestinians into Israel’s social welfare network would require
Jews to pay higher taxes or receive fewer services. But the
engine of the Israeli economy is high-tech, an entirely portable
industry. Both individuals and companies will leave.”  In the best case, this new dystopia by the sea would be
paralyzed by endless argument: “Two nationalities who have
desperately sought a political frame for cultural and social
independence would wrestle over control of language, art, street
names, and schools.” In the worst case, Gorenberg writes,
political tensions “would ignite as violence.”  There are people, perhaps including some of the Harvard
students organizing the conference, who advocate “one-statism”
out of naivete. But the leaders of the movement are not naive.
They understand their project shares a goal with Hamas: the
elimination of Israel as a homeland and haven for Jews.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 