-- Banks Funding Karaoke Reap Credit in U.S. for Fighting Nursing-Home Crime
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-02-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/anti-crime-loans-buy-seniors-karaoke-as-250-banks-reap-credit.html
With enthusiastic endorsements from
top U.S. financial regulators, a  Memphis , Tennessee-based
organization has signed up 250 banks in 47 states to fund a
program dedicated to fighting crime in nursing homes.  In return, the Senior Housing Crime Prevention Foundation
 promises  the banks will earn “risk-free” credit for complying
with the Community Reinvestment Act, the federal law requiring
them to bolster the economies of low-income neighborhoods.  Banks working with the group aim to satisfy the law’s
imperatives in a novel way: Instead of the typical affordable
housing projects or small-business loans, they have loaned or
invested almost $350 million to pay for personal lock boxes for
nursing-home residents, a 24-hour crime-reporting hotline and
entertainment including karaoke machines and video game systems.  While the foundation’s website states that its Senior
Crimestoppers program cuts crime by 92.5 percent, its officers
said they couldn’t release crime data from individual nursing
homes because of confidentiality agreements. Interviews with
some participating homes suggest the calculation isn’t rigorous.  The foundation’s financial structure and its close ties to
the company that supplies the lock boxes depart from standard
charity practices, according to analysts who reviewed the
records at the request of Bloomberg News. The impact of the
donated lock boxes also is unclear. Some nursing home
administrators said they don’t need or use them because
residents already have locking dresser drawers.  ‘Lacks Transparency’  The foundation and regulators are giving banks a way to
circumvent the spirit of the law known as CRA, said Peter Skillern, executive director of the Community Reinvestment
Coalition of North Carolina, a nonprofit advocacy group.  “That is not in any way related to lending or investing in
neighborhoods,” Skillern said in an interview. “This is an
operation that allows banks to avoid substantive, meaningful CRA
investment, and its operations lack transparency and
accountability.”  Under the 1977 law, banks must lend and invest in their
regions to benefit people with low and moderate incomes or face
restrictions when they seek to expand. While some fairly large
banks such as  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  participate in
Senior Crimestoppers, the program holds special appeal for
institutions with a few billion dollars in assets that may have
difficulty competing with bigger banks for CRA-qualified
investments, foundation officials said.  Banks earning credit through Senior Crimestoppers take on
less risk than they would in traditional projects. Their funds
are parked in  government bonds  or other instruments of their
choosing and they keep any returns above a one percent fee to
Senior Crimestoppers -- which uses its cut to pay for the lock
boxes and other program expenses.  Bair’s Endorsement  While the banks get their principal back after seven or
more years, regulators routinely give them credit for the full
amount on deposit with the program, rather than just the one
percent in interest they effectively donate.  At annual conventions held to recruit new banks, the
organization’s speakers have included Sheila Bair, then-chairman
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.;  Martin Gruenberg , now
acting FDIC chairman;  Elizabeth Duke , a Federal Reserve Board
governor; and John Reich, a former director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision. All three agencies give community
reinvestment credit for Senior Crimestoppers. Reich joined the
foundation’s board after leaving OTS.  “The FDIC strongly supports these efforts, and we show it
by granting CRA credit for loans and investments that banks make
in the foundation,” Bair told about 200 bankers attending the
2009 convention at the Willard InterContinental Hotel down the
street from the White House. “Your work will be increasingly
relevant for many years to come.”  ‘True Barometer’  Senior Crimestoppers, on its website, bills itself as “the
only initiative, public or private, that is having a measurable
impact on the problem of nursing home crime in America.” It
calls the 92.5 percent drop “a true barometer of results, based
on fact.”  Peter Gwaltney, chairman, chief executive officer and
president of the foundation, said the group doesn’t claim that
its crime data is capturing every incident.  “We don’t hold it up to be perfect,” Gwaltney said in an
interview. “It’s just the best we can do.”  Gwaltney, 48, said he’s proud of the service provided by
Senior Crimestoppers, which he said is intended to supplement,
rather than supplant, typical community development. It helps
smaller banks seeking CRA projects that aren’t too risky in a
difficult economic environment, he said.  Multiplier Effect  “We just want to be a small part of every bank’s CRA
program,” Gwaltney said.  For some banks, Senior Crimestoppers is their only major
CRA investment. That’s been the case for the Bank of  Oak Ridge 
in North Carolina, which in 2007 gave $1.6 million to be held
for 10 years in a bond. The foundation’s one-percent take
amounted to about $64,000 through 2010, according to a FDIC
examination report. The rest of the earnings went to the bank.
At the end of the 10 years, the bank gets its $1.6 million back.  The investment by the Bank of Oak Ridge sponsors Senior
Crimestoppers at two nursing homes in nearly Greensboro. The
FDIC, in its most recent published CRA examination of the bank,
categorized the transaction with the foundation as an
“affordable housing” investment worth $6.4 million -- the $1.6
million loan multiplied by the four years it was held by the
program during the exam period.  While the bank also makes CRA-qualified loans to a women’s
shelter and small businesses, Senior Crimestoppers is a good way
to serve the community, Karen Lewis, the bank’s CRA director,
said in an interview.  Suntan Spray  “This is one of those ways that we can do it, and we can
qualify for CRA credit as well -- and also it is low-risk,”
said Lewis, who said she visited the nursing homes to give
supplemental talks on avoiding  identity theft .  Senior Crimestoppers has its roots in a for-profit business
started in 1995 by  Charles C. King III  of Memphis, whose
previous ventures included a dumpster franchise and an invention
he called Sun Centers -- coin-operated Polynesian-themed kiosks
where beachgoers could get sprayed with suntan lotion.  King was employed by a division of Memphis-based National
Commerce Bancorp. that was looking to provide non-traditional
services. “My brain started working, and I said, you know what
would really be effective is if we could adapt local
crimestoppers programs and couple that with lock boxes for
residents in nursing homes,” King, 66, said in an interview.  Swimming Accessory  He found a company that made the “lounge locker” -- a box
attached to pool furniture to protect swimmers’ valuables. King
said the boxes and hotline proved popular in nursing homes where
they were tested. The bank created a subsidiary called USI
Alliance with King in charge and trademarked the Senior
Crimestoppers name.  USI Alliance charged nursing homes a few dollars a month
per bed, suggesting they pass the cost to residents “at an
increased rate, thus creating an additional profit center,”
according to a 2001 operations manual the company submitted to
the  Internal Revenue Service . The company offered a cut to
nursing home associations that recruited their members.  The operation had nothing to do with the Community
Reinvestment Act until 2000. National Commerce’s depository bank
had been getting relatively low CRA scores from regulators and,
according to King, wanted to raise its rating. He said he flew
to  Washington  to convince the bank’s overseer, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, that Senior Crimestoppers should
qualify as a service project under recently expanded CRA
guidelines, because nursing home residents are typically poor.  Complex Structure  The OCC agreed. “We reviewed it and it fit,” Barry Wides,
the agency’s deputy comptroller for community affairs, said in
an interview.  King wanted other banks to participate. To claim CRA credit,
those institutions would need entities to receive donations,
loans or investments. King and colleagues set up a complex
structure. USI Alliance would continue to operate as a for-
profit, supplying the lock boxes, hiring a contractor to run the
hotline, paying reward money for tips that lead to arrests and
doling out cash grants for entertainment. A new non-profit
Senior Housing Crime Prevention Foundation would accept bank
loans. A new for-profit, the Senior Housing Crime Prevention
Investment Fund, would handle bank investments.  The Internal Revenue Service initially rejected the
foundation’s application for tax-exempt status, saying in a 2003
letter that it appeared to be little more than a “valuable,
captive source of business” for USI Alliance, which also had
several of its people on the foundation’s board.  IRS Reversal  “Most of your expenses will go to USI under a service
contract not negotiated at arm’s length,” the IRS wrote. “You
are controlled by private interests, and the facts indicate that
your operations will substantially benefit those private
interests.”  A year later, the IRS reversed its decision after the
foundation promised that a majority of the board would be
independent and agreed to review its contract with USI Alliance
every five years.  USI Alliance remained a subsidiary of National Commerce
until 2004, when the bank was absorbed by SunTrust. The unit was
spun off in 2006, purchased by King, who sold it last year to
the  Independent Community Bankers of America , a Washington-based
trade group, for an undisclosed price.  Strong Ties  Ties remain strong between the for-profit USI Alliance and
the foundation. In 2010, the foundation paid USI Alliance $1.4
million to run the program and had few other operating expenses,
tax filings show. The two entities share the same president,
Gwaltney, and same chief financial officer, Thomas Fehrmann.  The foundation’s nine full-time staff members draw their
paychecks from USI Alliance, the IRS filing shows, meaning that
none of their salaries are publicly disclosed.  Two members of USI Alliance’s four-member board are also on
the foundation’s eight-member board. Executives from the
community bankers association sit on both boards.  The separate Senior Housing Crime Prevention Investment
Fund has the same officers and board members as the foundation.  “Their governance is flawed, and I would steer donors away
from this organization because of this arrangement,” said
Daniel Borochoff, president of CharityWatch, which evaluates
nonprofits. Borochoff questioned why the foundation needed to
hire USI Alliance to do its work.  ‘Shell Portal’  “Probably the biggest concern of all is that it appears
that this organization is largely a shell portal through which a
for-profit company is getting business,” said Ken Berger,
president of Charity Navigator, which also assesses nonprofits.  The foundation’s practice of paying some board members was
questioned by Gary Snyder, a board member of the National
Committee for Responsive Philanthropy and a consultant to non-
profits on governance issues. Former OTS director Reich, for
example, earned about $50,000 in 2010 from the foundation and
related entities, records show.  “It’s legal, but it just doesn’t sit well with me,” said
Snyder, who estimates that less than 5 percent of the non-
profits he works with have paid board members.  Fehrmann, 57, said board members are paid in part because
they recruit banks for the program. “We look to them to help us
with the people they know,” he said. “Several members of our
board of directors have brought us business, and we pay them a
commission, if you want to call it that.”  Making Introductions  Reich, in particular, has been helpful in introducing the
foundation to community bankers and in setting up meetings with
regulators, Gwaltney and Fehrmann said.  In an interview, Reich said he joined the foundation’s
board because Senior Crimestoppers is a “very impressive”
program. “I think there’s a strong need for the protection of
residents in these facilities,” he said.  Asked about his payments for board service, Reich said, “I
can’t say what’s typical for these kinds of arrangements.”  Meanwhile, the group’s new relationship with the community
bankers association has also helped grow its business, Gwaltney
said. The association, on its website and in other marketing
materials, urges its members to participate in Senior
Crimestoppers -- without disclosing that the association owns
USI Alliance, the for-profit company with the exclusive contract
to operate the program.  “It really doesn’t come up in conversation,” said Gary Teagno, president of the division of the association that
operates USI.  ‘Necessary’ Structure  Gwaltney said the structure of Senior Crimestoppers
“sounds very complicated, but it’s all necessary for legal and
liability reasons.” The relationship between the for-profit and
non-profit companies “is not something we hide from in any
way,” he said.  While Senior Crimestoppers could operate solely as a for-
profit and still be able to help banks get CRA credit, its
charitable mission is central to its marketing. That’s
especially true at the group’s annual “Doing Well by Doing
Good” conference, which was held in October at  New York ’s
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.  In a speech to attendees, Grovetta Gardineer, the OCC’s
deputy comptroller for compliance policy, said her father was a
minister who ran a nursing home. “I know firsthand what it’s
like to want peace of mind for your loved ones,” she said. “I
can tell you as a bank supervisor what a win-win it is for
banks.”  FDIC’s Help  John Lund, executive vice president of Rockville Bank in
Manchester,  Connecticut , took the microphone to say his bank
checked with FDIC field staff before making an investment in the
foundation. Once the regional office learned that the agency
backed the program at the highest levels, there was no problem.  “Certainly  Sheila Bair ’s endorsement was pretty much the
end of the conversation,” he told the crowd.  Gruenberg, the acting chairman of the FDIC, had addressed
the 2010 convention in Memphis when he was vice chairman of the
regulator. He didn’t attend the 2011 meeting, but the foundation
included his letter to Gwaltney in the conference materials.  “I hope all is well,” Gruenberg wrote. “Let me know if I
can be helpful.”  Bair and Gruenberg declined through spokesmen to comment
for this story.  At the 2011 conference, Gwaltney announced that crime was
down by 92.5 percent through September at participating homes.
He released a breakdown of reports to the hotline for the first
three quarters of 2011: 42 percent involved property crime
against the facilities themselves; 32 percent thefts from
residents; and 18 percent abuse and neglect of residents. The
hotline gets hundreds of calls a month, Gwaltney said later.  Missing Pens  Foundation officials said they compute their statistics by
surveying nursing-home operators about the crime rate before
they enroll and then comparing that to what is reported from the
home to the hotline in subsequent months. Homes should call in
“even something as small as a missing pen,” according to the
Senior Crimestoppers handbook.  In an e-mail yesterday, Gwaltney supplied updated figures.
He said the 1,200 participating nursing homes reported 7,187
crimes to the hotline in all of 2011 -- a rate of about 19 per
day. That was 93 percent fewer crimes than the more than 102,000
crimes that the homes estimated they averaged annually before
they signed up, Gwaltney said.  Outside analysts questioned the foundation’s methodology.  “Making these kinds of claims without releasing the
underlying data is problematic because it does not allow for
scrutiny or replication,” said Marie-Therese Connolly, a senior
fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center and former
Justice Department lawyer who has advocated for improvement of
statistics on elderly abuse.  Data Challenges  Connolly, who last year won a MacArthur Foundation
“genius” grant, said assessing crime in nursing homes has been
a challenge for the most dedicated researchers. “We still don’t
have independent and reliable baseline data to tell us how much
crime there is in nursing homes, let alone the extent to which
any program decreases that crime,” she said.  Determining when an incident qualifies as a reportable
crime is not a scientific process, said Dwight Adams, facilities
manager at the Jewish Home of Greater Harrisburg, which uses the
Senior Crimestoppers program.  “When you get into serving the elderly, sometimes they
misplace things themselves,” said Adams, who said the program
had been useful mainly to alert the community when objects go
missing. “I’m not aware that we’ve ever paid out reward money
to anyone, but it has helped find some things sometimes.”  Adams noted that the state of  Pennsylvania  requires nursing
homes to provide locked areas for their residents anyway, and so
only about a fifth of the Jewish Home’s patients use the
additional lock boxes provided by the foundation.  Unneeded Boxes  Another participant, the Lehigh Center nursing home in
Macungie, Pennsylvania, doesn’t use the lock boxes at all
because it already has locking drawers in each room, said
Jonathon A. Weiland, the senior administrator.  “To put a locked box inside a locked drawer would be hard
to get to,” he said.  Weiland said no crimes have been reported during his year-
and-a-half at the facility and that he didn’t know the rate for
previous years. The primary benefits of the program, he said,
are its deterrent function and the end-of-year cash grants,
which the home used in 2010 for a Nintendo Wii gaming system.  Teagno of the community bankers group said USI Alliance
believes that Senior Crimestoppers helps the nursing homes:
“The fact that the staff within a nursing home as well as
residents realize there’s a phone number to call does provide a
higher level of comfort,” he said.  Questioning Credit  Skillern, the community reinvestment advocate in  North
Carolina , said his biggest objection to Senior Crimestoppers is
that banks get credit from regulators for the full amount of the
lump sum they loan or invest, while they are really just
donating one percent of the interest on the amount.  “They’re taking a few basis points and making a
contribution to senior citizen homes for education around safety
issues,” said Skillern, who last year complained in a letter to
banking regulators about the foundation.  Foundation officials disagree with Skillern’s
characterization. “When a bank makes a loan to us, they’re
making a seven-year commitment,” Gwaltney said.  The money
“comes off their books. They’re putting it at risk.”  King, the founder of Senior Crimestoppers, said the program
helps all those involved.  “It certainly is good for the residents of the nursing
homes,” he said. “It’s good for the nursing homes themselves
because it’s free. They get quality program at no cost. The bank
is assured they’re not going to have a loss on their investment,
and they earn CRA credit. It’s a win-win situation for
everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 