-- Hillary Clinton Will Join Winfrey in AOL-Backed Series Exploring Feminism
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-28T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/aol-documentary-series-with-pbs-features-hillary-clinton.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , reaching for female
viewers it sees as crucial to growth, debuted a documentary
series on feminism featuring U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Facebook Inc.’s Sheryl Sandberg and  Oprah Winfrey .  The series, called “Makers: Women Who Make America” and
made available  online  today, was produced with the Public
Broadcasting Service and shot by filmmaker Dyllan McGee. The
website for the series is streaming clips of interviews with at
least 60 women.  They’re a mix of executives, artists and leaders, including
playwright Eve Ensler,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive
Officer Meg Whitman,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Marissa Mayer and 15-year-old
 fashion blogger  Tavi Gevinson.  “Women’s content is a major strategic focus for us,”  Tim Armstrong , CEO of New York-based AOL, said in an interview. “We
knew the stories profiled on the ‘Makers’ platform would be
stories our users would love.”
Armstrong has turned AOL’s focus to three groups of audiences:
female readers, local readers and what he calls “influencers.”  McGee, 41, met Armstrong through a friend in 2010 as the
filmmaker was working to get more funding for her series on
feminism. McGee originally set out to document the life of
Gloria Steinem, who declined to participate in that project.  “Gloria said it should be a bigger story,” McGee said in
an interview. The filmmaker shifted to multiple subjects, and
Steinem agreed to appear in the revised programming.  PBS Viewing  The  website  promoting the series was designed to allow
viewers to arrange interviews in any sequence they choose. A
traditional three-hour documentary version will air on PBS and
its affiliates early next year.  Armstrong said creating “premium original content,”
including videos, will revive revenue growth. The “Makers”
documentary is “one of the best video experiences on the web
and video is a huge AOL priority,” he said.  There will be increasing availability of documentaries
online, boosted by digital technology, said McGee, whose
projects include a Senator Ted Kennedy documentary for  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO.  “This is the future of documentaries,” McGee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  