-- Apple Will Hold Product Event to Unveil New IPad on March 7
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-28T19:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/apple-to-hold-product-event-march-7-to-unveil-what-s-said-to-be-the-ipad-3.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most
valuable company, will hold a product event on March 7 in San
Francisco, where it’s said to be releasing the third generation
of its best-selling iPad tablet computer.  “We have something you really have to see. And touch,”
Apple said today in an invitation, which features a picture of
an iPad screen. The new device will sport a high-definition
display, run a faster processor and work with speedier wireless
networks, people familiar with the product said last month.  After pioneering the tablet market two years ago, Apple is
counting on the new model to beat back competition from newer
devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The company has
sold more than 55 million iPads, generating at least $34.5
billion in revenue.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire, which uses
Android, emerged as the iPad’s biggest rival over the  holiday
shopping season  last year.  Trudy Muller, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment beyond the information in the event
invitation.  Apple’s  manufacturing partners  in  Asia  started ramping up
production of the iPad 3 in January, said one of the people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
details aren’t public. The tablet will use a quad-core chip, an
enhancement that lets users jump more quickly between
applications, the people said.  LTE Networks  The company has been working to make the iPad compatible
with a wireless standard called long-term evolution, or LTE, one
of the people said last month. Carriers such as  Verizon Wireless (VZ) 
and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are rolling out LTE networks to give users faster
access to data.  Smartphone makers, including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOKIA) , have already
introduced smartphones that work on the faster networks. Apple
is bringing LTE to the iPad before the iPhone because the tablet
has a bigger battery and can better support the power
requirements of the newer technology, one of the people said.  The new Retina display is capable of greater resolution
than the current iPad, with more pixels on its screen than some
high-definition televisions, the person said. The pixels are
small enough to make the images look like printed material,
according to the person. Videos begin playing almost instantly
because of the additional graphics processing, the person said.  New High  Apple shares were trading at $532.98 at 2:47 p.m. New York
time, up 1.4 percent, after earlier reaching a record high. The
stock has climbed 31 percent this year.  The introduction of the new iPad will be Apple’s first
major hardware release since the death of co-founder  Steve Jobs 
in October. With new features, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
aims to give customers more reasons to stick with the iPad, even
as rivals undercut it on price. While Apple’s tablet starts at
$499, the Kindle Fire costs $199.  Amazon.com, the world’s largest online retailer, surpassed
Samsung as the No. 2 seller of tablet computers last quarter,
shipping 3.89 million units, according to research firm IHS Inc.
Apple, meanwhile, maintained its lead in the market,
accounting for more than half of shipments.  The company also may use the March event to unveil an
updated Apple TV set-top box, which could stream higher-
resolution video to consumers’ televisions, according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in  Minneapolis . Apple
is planning to release a full television set as early as the
December quarter, Munster said today in a report, reiterating an
earlier prediction.  The new iPad is being assembled by Apple’s main
manufacturing partner, Foxconn Technology Group. That company,
which also builds the iPhone and other Apple products, gets
about 22 percent of its sales from Apple, according to  supply-
chain data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  