-- Argentina Tells Companies to Stop Buying From U.K. Amid Falklands Dispute
-- B y   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-02-29T18:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/argentina-said-to-tell-companies-to-cut-purchases-from-u-k-.html
Argentine officials told executives
from about 20 companies to cut their  imports  of goods made in
the U.K. as a protest over control of the Falkland Islands, said
an official who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Companies including the local unit of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  were
told to find substitutes for imports from the U.K., the official
said yesterday. The move came one day after President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government blocked two  Carnival Corp. (CCL) 
cruise ships that had stopped for a port call in the Falklands
from docking in Argentina.  Fernandez is stepping up pressure on the U.K. to discuss
the sovereignty of the islands, over which the two nations
fought a war in 1982. The 59-year-old leader said Feb. 27 that
the U.K.’s control of the archipelago represented a vestige of
“colonialism,” the same description U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  gave to Argentina’s claim over the islands this month.  Trade between the two countries totaled about $1.5 billion
last year, with  Argentina  having a surplus of $137 million,
according to the country’s  national statistics institute .  “It’s clearly very sad that Argentina continues with their
policy of confrontation instead of cooperation,” Prime Minister
David Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in  London 
today. “We think that’s counterproductive and also completely
misreading Britain’s resolve on this issue. The U.K. is a major
investor in Argentina. We import goods from Argentina. It’s not
in Argentina’s interests to put up trade barriers.”  Executives from Ford, pharmaceutical company Roemmers SAICF
and the local unit of Maintal, Germany-based Syngenta Agro GmBH
were among those told to cut their reliance on imports from the
U.K., the Argentine official said.  Central Bank Reserves  The decision is part of a broader effort to defend
Argentina’s narrowing  trade surplus , the official said. Blocked
from international credit markets since its 2001 default on $95
billion of bonds, Argentina depends on its trade surplus to help
build the  central bank reserves  it uses to pay debt and control
the peso.  Argentina’s charge d’affaires in London was summoned to
provide an explanation of his government’s measures, the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office said in an e-mail statement.  Argentina traces its ties to the Falklands to 1820 when
Colonel David Jewett claimed possession of the islands in the
name of the United Provinces of the Rio de la Plata. Britain
assumed military control of the archipelago in 1833, evicting
Argentine authorities the following year.  Argentine military dictator Leopoldo Galtieri ordered the
invasion of the Malvinas, as the Falklands are known in
Argentina, on April 2, 1982. Argentine troops were defeated by
British forces on June 14 that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silvia Martinez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 smartinez19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  