-- Arianespace’s 2012 Revenue to Exceed 1 Billion Euros, CEO Says
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-02-28T10:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/arianespace-s-2012-revenue-to-exceed-1-billion-euros-ceo-says.html
Arianespace, the European
partnership that makes space rockets, expects this year’s
revenue to exceed 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) as it launches
10 to 12 satellites worldwide, the head of the group said.  “Globally, I think demand will not increase so much but
there is a move in the areas of demand,” Chief Executive
OfficerJean-Yves Le Gall said in an interview in Dubai today.
“We are moving from a situation where demand was spread equally
in the Americas,  Europe ,  Middle East ,  Africa  and  Asia  to demand
that is moving more towards Middle East and Asia.”  Arianespace, which sends more than 50 percent of commercial
satellites worldwide into orbit every year, may win one or two
orders for telecommunications satellites in the Middle East this
year, the CEO said. The company’s 2011 revenue also exceeded 1
billion euros.  The Evry, France-based company has been in the Middle East
for more than 30 years and launched the first satellite for Arab
Satellite Communications Organization, known as Arabsat, in
1995. To date, it has launched eight satellites for the
organization, which was started by the  Arab League  in 1976.  Arianespace also worked with  Al Yah Satellite
Communications Co.,  a wholly owned subsidiary of Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co., for its Y1A satellite.  “We are enthusiastic about this area because there are a
lot of projects and a lot of dynamism,” the CEO said. “This is
one area in the planet where space is very active because of all
the projects either for telecommunications or for observation.”  When asked which companies might award Arianespace
contracts, Le Gall said: “Arabsat have plans and Yahsat have
plans so we’ll see.”  For the Middle East, the company has a market share of more
than 50 percent, said Le Gall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  