-- Lady Gaga at Harvard Setting Stage for Protest of Gays Expelled in 1920
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-02-29T18:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/harvard-group-wants-degrees-for-gay-students-expelled-in-1920.html
Seven Harvard University students
who were expelled in 1920 on suspicion of being gay will be
remembered in a campus protest today outside Lady Gaga’s
presentation of the Born This Way Foundation.  A group of Harvard students and faculty, called “Their Day
in the Yard,” is asking for the college to grant degrees to the
students expelled more than nine decades ago. They’re also
asking the oldest and richest U.S. college to formally abolish a
“secret court” that led a search for gays at Harvard in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and recommended the expulsions.  “It’s time to ensure these seven students receive justice,
and are honored officially by the university with posthumous
degrees,” Kaia Stern, a visiting faculty member at  Harvard
Divinity School  who supports the protest, said in a statement.  Oprah Winfrey , spiritual health writer Deepak Chopra and
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  are
scheduled to appear at Harvard for the unveiling of Lady Gaga’s
foundation. The singer is supporting efforts to address issues
of “self-confidence, well-being, anti-bullying, mentoring and
career development through research, education and advocacy.”  Stern said she hoped the foundation will join in asking for
recognition and degrees for the expelled students.  “We’re seeing them as an ally for justice for these
students,” she said.  Harvard doesn’t award posthumous degrees except in rare
cases when a student dies after completing the required
coursework and before graduation, John Longbrake, a spokesman
for the university, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Secret Court  The 1920 court began hunting for homosexuals after
anonymous reports of “revolting acts of degeneracy” at some
campus parties, according to an  article  that was published in
the Harvard Crimson student newspaper in 2002. Then-Harvard
President Abbott Lawrence Lowell was aware of the court,
according to the Crimson article.  Nine students were originally expelled and two were allowed
back into Harvard, according to information on an  online
petition  to grant degrees to the students.  Former Harvard President  Lawrence Summers  apologized for
the secret court’s actions in 2002, after the Crimson’s
investigations. Their Day in the Yard was founded by an
anonymous student at the  Harvard Extension School  who learned of
the court’s actions and thought the school’s apologies were
insufficient to compensate for the suffering of the expelled
students, Stern said.  ‘Born This Way’  Hours before the foundation event was to begin, Harvard
students streamed past a black bus, painted with the words
“Born to Be Brave,” and speakers pumping out Lady Gaga’s
“Born This Way” anthem. The bus, funded by the John D. &
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, will follow the singer’s
musical tours, serving as an information and drop-in center for
young people concerned about bullying and other social issues,
said Theresa Kettler, a volunteer from  Chicago .  The Harvard campus offers a welcoming stage for the
introduction of Gaga’s foundation, said Veronica Callozzo,
another volunteer from Chicago.  “From what I’ve seen so far, it’s been a pretty supportive
community,” she said in an interview aboard the bus. “There
are a lot of fans of Lady Gaga, so that definitely helps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  