-- Asian Currencies Strengthen as Oil Prices Retreat, U.S. Home Sales Climb
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-02-28T08:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/asian-currencies-strengthen-as-oil-prices-retreat-u-s-home-sales-climb.html
Asian currencies advanced, led by
Malaysia’s ringgit and the South Korean won, as  oil prices  fell
and a pickup in U.S. home sales brightened the outlook for
regional exports.  Indonesia’s rupiah snapped a five-day slide after crude
declined for a second day in  New York , retreating from a nine-
month high. The  European Central Bank  will offer three-year
loans under its longer-term refinancing operation, or LTRO, to
banks tomorrow. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will
give a semi-annual monetary policy report to lawmakers tomorrow
and may suggest a third round of quantitative easing is possible.  “Oil coming off is a good sign,” said Roy Teo, a currency
strategist at ABN Amro Private Bank in  Singapore . “The LTRO
should help sentiment and if Bernanke comes out with a dovish
tone for QE3, then it could weaken the dollar and support high-
yield currencies.”  The ringgit rose 0.5 percent to 3.0093 per dollar as of
4:23 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , while the won strengthened 0.4
percent to 1,124.43, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Thai baht appreciated 0.3 percent to 30.37 and the
Philippine peso gained 0.3 percent to 42.845.  Banks took 489 billion euros ($658 billion) at the first
LTRO in December and will borrow 470 billion euros tomorrow, the
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey showed. The Fed is
replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its
holdings with long-term debt to cap borrowing costs.  ‘Psychological Boost’  South Korea’s won rose by the most since Feb. 17, after
data yesterday showed pending U.S. home resales climbed 2
percent last month after a 1.9 percent drop in December.  South
Korea  recorded a current-account deficit of $772.2 million in
January, the first shortfall since February 2010, a central bank
report showed.  “The market received a psychological boost from the good
U.S. data,” said Hwang Sun Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer
at Kookmin Bank, the nation’s largest lender by assets.  The Philippine peso rebounded from a one-month low of 43.11
per dollar reached yesterday. The currency is supported by
rising capital inflows that include remittances from overseas
workers, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a speech
in Manila today.  “We have determined to take a pragmatic approach by
allowing some appreciation in the exchange rate and to balance
this by building up reserves to accommodate inflows,” he said.  Stronger Yuan  China ’s yuan gained 0.03 percent to 6.3001 per dollar in
 Shanghai . The People’s Bank of China fixed its daily reference
rate 0.04 percent stronger at 6.2961.  China’s current-account surplus is estimated to have
narrowed to 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange said in a statement
posted on its website yesterday. China will prevent abnormal
capital flows, SAFE said.  It’s “unrealistic” for China to rely on exports to drive
future economic growth like it did in the past, World Bank
President Robert Zoellick told reporters in Beijing today.  “China will face political pressure on the yuan’s exchange
rate again once the crisis in Europe subsides, so the path to a
3 percent appreciation should be intact,” said Tommy Ong, the
Hong Kong-based senior vice-president of treasury and markets at
DBS Bank ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained 0.4 percent to 9,129
per dollar,  India ’s rupee advanced 0.3 percent to 49.098 and
Singapore’s dollar climbed 0.2 percent to S$1.2528. The
Vietnamese dong was unchanged at 20,830. Financial markets in
 Taiwan  are closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 