-- Matt Kenseth Wins Floodlit Daytona 500 After Rain Delays, Inferno on Track
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-28T07:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/matt-kenseth-wins-floodlit-daytona-500-after-rain-delays-inferno-on-track.html
Matt Kenseth won the Daytona 500,
which was pushed into a third day by a fiery crash that halted
the rain-delayed race for a further two hours.  Nascar’s season opener started in primetime last night for
the first time in its 54-year history after a rainout on its
scheduled Sunday start. The race ended at almost 1 a.m. eastern
time today after 202 laps, with Kenseth crossing the finish line
two-tenths of a second ahead of Dale Earnhardt Jr.  Kenseth’s win under the lights at Daytona International
Speedway in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida , capped an eventful race that
featured a lap two crash involving Jimmie Johnson and  Danica Patrick , and a collision that sent a fireball across the circuit
with 40 laps left.  “What a great race,” Kenseth, 39, said in a televised
interview after winning his second Daytona 500. “We had a lot
of problems. We had the engine spew out water, we had a little
bit of a fuel problem, we lost the tachometer, we lost our
radios.”  Kenseth -- who also won in 2009 when the race was halted by
rain with 48 laps remaining -- earned $1.43 million for crossing
the line first. Earnhardt Jr. collected $1.05 million of the
record $19.1 million prize fund.  Driving the No. 17 Ford, Kenseth took the lead this morning
when the green flag dropped to restart the race with 34 laps
remaining. He then held off Earnhardt Jr. and Greg Biffle, who
finished in third place.  Denny Hamlin was fourth, followed by Jeff Burton, Paul Menard, Kevin Harvick, pole sitter Carl Edwards, Joey Logano and
 Mark Martin .  Originally rescheduled to begin at noon yesterday, the
start was moved to about 7 p.m. last night because of more
weather concerns.  Patrick’s Early Crash  Patrick, the third female driver after Janet Guthrie and
Shawna Robinson to start the Daytona 500, qualified 29th on the
grid and finished 38th in her debut at the race after her car
was damaged on a second-lap crash.  “The car is a little banged up, so it didn’t feel
perfect,” Patrick said in a televised interview. “As it got
later and later in the race, I didn’t want to play a part. I
just didn’t want to have an influence on it.”  Johnson, a five-time Nascar season champion, exited the
race after the incident. He spun into the wall following a bump
from behind by the car of Elliott Sadler. He was then struck in
the side by David Ragan as his car came back across the track
while Patrick and defending champion Trevor Bayne took damage
trying to avoid the crash in front of them.  “When I was sitting in the middle of the race track I knew
someone was going to come along,” Johnson said in a televised
interview with Fox. “Ragan had nowhere to go, but I
unfortunately got drilled by him pretty hard. I’m just really,
really bummed to start the season this way.”  Fireball  The race was halted with 40 laps left when Juan Pablo Montoya lost control of his car and slammed into the back of a
safety truck, which burst into flames after the collision along
the outside wall of Turn 3. About 200 gallons (758 liters) of
jet fuel used to power the turbine of a track dryer on the truck
spilled across the circuit and caught fire, engulfing the back
of the truck and sending clouds of black smoke into the sky.  Drivers were forced to stop while the fire was extinguished,
the truck was carried off the banked oval by forklifts and the
track was repaired.  Drivers waited on the track during the delay, talking with
one another as well as fans and Fox broadcasters. Brad
Keselowski had his mobile phone and Tweeted pictures and
messages during the red flag.  It was after midnight when the race resumed under a yellow
caution flag.  When the green flag dropped, Kenseth moved into the lead,
followed by Biffle and Earnhardt Jr. Dave Blaney, who was
leading when the race was red-flagged, slipped back into the
pack after having to stop for gas.  “We had a really fast car all day and were able to
overcome a lot of adversity,” said Kenseth, who is the ninth
driver with multiple Daytona 500 wins. “I wasn’t expecting this,
so it feels great to be sitting here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  