-- Bayer Cuts Sales Forecast, Sees No Growth in Plastics Revenue This Year
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-28T17:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/bayer-cuts-sales-forecast-sees-no-growth-in-plastics-revenue-this-year.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  cut its forecast for sales
growth this year amid a disappointing performance for its
plastics business.  Revenue (BAYN)  will climb about 3 percent this year on higher
sales of medicines and crop chemicals, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based company said in a  statement  today. Bayer previously
forecast an increase of about 5 percent. Sales and profit in the
MaterialScience plastics division will be unchanged this year
after performing below expectations in 2011, Bayer said.  After relying on its chemical units for growth last year,
Bayer said it will have to wait until 2013 to see a significant
profit boost from new drugs. The company expanded the use of its
blood-thinning medicine Xarelto to patients with atrial
fibrillation, the most common type of irregular heartbeat, in
the fourth quarter. Over-the-counter products will probably lift
2012 sales more than new prescription drugs, Bayer said.  “Compared with our numbers, they are a little weak in
pharmaceuticals with very good results in consumer health,”
 Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
Ltd., said by phone today. He rates Bayer’s shares  “market
perform.” (BAYN)   Bayer fell 0.1 percent to 55.84 euros in  Frankfurt . The
stock has returned 13 percent this year  compared with  no gain
including reinvested dividends for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  Pradaxa Competition  In the U.S., Xarelto had about 9 percent of the market for
blood-thinning pills in the week ended Feb. 17, according to
Bloomberg Industries analysts. German competitor  Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH (BING) ’s Pradaxa continues to dominate the class.  Xarelto may be approved more quickly for another set of
patients, people with acute coronary syndrome, after Bayer’s
U.S. partner  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  announced yesterday that U.S.
regulators awarded the drug priority status. That means the Food
and Drug Administration review will take six months instead of
the usual 10 months.  Health is among the units Bayer wants to strengthen with
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said at a
press conference today. He also named life sciences and crop
science. Dekkers declined to comment on whether Bayer would
pursue the animal health unit that  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  plans to divest.  “Pfizer animal health is a great business,” Dekkers said.
“I don’t want to comment on our interest.”  ‘Significant’ Acquisition  The German company has the means to finance a
“significant” acquisition using debt, equity and its portfolio
assets, Chief Financial Officer Werner Baumann said in an
interview.  The drug and chemical maker won’t sell any strategic
businesses to finance a deal, Baumann said.  “You will not find us in a situation where we say we want
to buy this, therefore we have to sell that,” the CFO said.
“We always look at the intrinsic appeal of a business inside of
its industry.”  Revenue this year will total about 37 billion euros ($49.7
billion), assuming an exchange rate of $1.40 to the euro, Bayer
said. The sales growth forecast excludes currency and portfolio
changes. Analysts predicted 37.29 billion euros, the average of
26  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Health Care, Plastics  Sales from health care, which includes  prescription drugs 
and over-the-counter products, will rise in the low- to mid-
single-digit percentage range, the company said. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization before special
items in the unit will see a “slight improvement,” Bayer said.  The plastics unit, which makes materials used in autos,
electronics and other products, “scarcely achieved any volume
increases” last year, Bayer said. Earnings before special items
declined 14 percent to 1.17 billion euros because of higher raw
material costs.  Revenue at the agricultural chemicals unit will rise faster
than the market, Bayer said. Sales and earnings will rise in
mid-single-digit percentages, the company said.  Core earnings per share, which exclude one-time items such
as litigation costs, totaled 97 cents in the fourth quarter,
meeting the 97-cent estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income totaled 397 million euros compared with a
145 million-euro loss a year earlier, the company said today.
That missed the 454.8 million-euro  estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed.  Sales in the quarter rose 2 percent to 9.19 billion euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization before special items were 1.54 billion euros,
missing the 1.6 billion-euro estimate of 14 analysts surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Leverkusen at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  