-- German Stocks Rise on Consumer Confidence Data; Volkswagen Gains
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-28T17:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/benchmark-dax-climbs-as-merkel-wins-greek-aid-vote-deutsche-bank-advances.html
German stocks  rose for the second
time in three days as  consumer confidence  reports in  Germany  and
the U.S. bolstered optimism about the global economy.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Infineon Technology AG and HeidelbergCement
AG were among the biggest gainers. Q-Cells rallied 3.3 percent
after the solar company won additional time to pay back debt.
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  gained as crude oil eased.  The DAX Index climbed 0.6 percent to 6,887.63 at the close
in Frankfurt after swinging between gains and losses at least
five times today. The broader HDAX Index also advanced 0.6
percent today.  “The market is very reactive to data as everyone is
looking for which way the  U.S. economy  is heading,” said  Manoj Ladwa  a senior trader at ETX Capital in  London . “German numbers
also seem to be coming in relatively good overall. The
historically strong economies seem to be fairly robust.”  GfK SE, the Nuremberg-based market research company, said
German consumer confidence will climb to the highest level in a
year next month as falling unemployment and slowing inflation
boost income expectations.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to the
highest level in a year, showing households may sustain spending
and drive the economy.  The Conference Board’s index increased more than forecast,
rising to 70.8 from a revised 61.5 in January, figures from the
New York-based private research group showed today. Economists
predicted the gauge would climb to 63, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Irish Referendum  The  DAX Index (DAX)  briefly erased gains after worse than
forecast U.S. durable goods orders and as Irish Prime Minister
 Enda Kenny  said Ireland will hold a referendum to ratify the
European fiscal compact.  Kenny, speaking in the Dublin parliament, said the
government decided to hold a vote after receiving legal advice
from the state’s attorney general. In contrast to two previous
Irish referendums in European policies, a veto wouldn’t sink the
treaty, which requires support from just 12 of the 17 euro
countries to take effect.  All but eight companies on Germany’s benchmark gauge
climbed today. Volkswagen AG gained 1.8 percent to 140.80 euros
as the carmaker awarded Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch a third five-year term.  Infineon,  Europe ’s second-largest semiconductor maker,
climbed 2.2 percent to 7.73 euros.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , Europe’s
third-largest cement maker, gained 2 percent to 40.25 euros.  Q-Cells (QCE)  rose 3.3 percent to 31.4 euro cents after creditors
backed the solar-cell maker’s proposal to defer the maturity of
200 million euros of bonds to April 30 from today.  Germany’s solar manufacturers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals, while facing a record cut to solar subsidies
next month. Berlin-based module maker Solon SE and Solar
Millennium AG filed for insolvency in December.  Lufthansa (LHA)  climbed 1.7 percent to 10.34 euros, pacing a
rebound in European airlines after crude oil declined for a
second day in  New York . The airline has still lost 2.1 percent
so far this month after  crude oil  rallied on tensions in Iran.  Munich Re (MUV2)  climbed 0.8 percent to 110.65 euros after Exane
BNP Paribas reiterated its “outperform” rating for the world’s
largest reinsurer and raised its price estimate for the shares
by 8 percent to 122 euros.  Smaller rival  Hannover Re  dropped 1.7 percent to 41.85
euros. Exane lowered its recommendation for the shares to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  