-- Black & Decker Seen Luring Buffett
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-02-28T03:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/black-decker-to-parker-hannafin-seen-whetting-buffett-appetite-real-m-a.html
Warren Buffett ’s pursuit of bigger
acquisitions makes companies from  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK)  to
Parker Hannifin Corp. the most attractive takeover targets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s 81-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer said in his  annual letter  to shareholders on
Feb. 25 that he was “on the prowl” for large deals after
spending more than $35 billion on companies including Lubrizol
Corp. and Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  in the past two years.  With Berkshire generating  $1 billion  a month in free  cash
flow , the world’s most successful investor is eyeing takeovers
as near-zero percent interest rates limit returns in fixed-
income markets and the Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s cash
 hoard  increased to $37.3 billion. Stanley Black & Decker, the
world’s biggest maker of hand tools, and  Parker Hannifin (PH) , which
controls more than half the market for fluid-powered valves, are
among 21 U.S. companies that meet the acquisition criteria in
Berkshire’s annual report, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stanley Black & Decker and Parker Hannifin “seem very
plausible acquisition candidates for Buffett,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer of
Solaris Group in  Bedford Hills , New York. “We would expect him
to make a larger deal. He’s a man of his word.”  Buffett didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment
sent to his assistant,  Carrie Kizer . In his shareholder letter,
the billionaire investor said he wants to “purchase some large
operations that will give us a further boost.”  Fortune 500  “We now have eight subsidiaries that would each be
included in the Fortune 500 were they stand-alone companies,”
he wrote, referring to an annual list ranking the 500 biggest
U.S. companies by revenue. “That leaves only 492 to go.”  In each of the past two years, Buffett has used  Berkshire (BRK/A) ’s
cash pile to make at least one multi-billion dollar acquisition.  He bought Wickliffe, Ohio-based Lubrizol, the world’s
largest producer of lubricant additives, in September for about
$9 billion after saying in last year’s letter that “our
elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is
itchy.” In February 2010, Buffett spent $26.5 billion in cash
and stock on  Fort Worth , Texas-based Burlington Northern
railroad in Berkshire’s largest acquisition.  Buffett has used his annual reports to promote his company
as an acquirer. Berkshire can act quickly on a deal, provide
capital to target companies and allow managers the freedom to
supervise the businesses they built, he has said.  Historical Standards  He usually prefers “simple” businesses with pretax profit
exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power and “good”
returns on equity while employing little or no debt, according
to his annual report. He has shifted his takeover strategy as
Berkshire has grown to focus on “capital intensive businesses”
such as power producers and railroads, which require consistent
investment in infrastructure and equipment.  Buffett is focusing on acquisitions and buying publicly
traded stocks because current yields on bonds, he said, aren’t
enough to compensate for the risk of inflation.  There are 21 companies that ranked among the top 500 in the
U.S. by revenue with equity values between $5 billion and $25
billion; averaged an annual return on invested capital in the
past 10 years that exceeded the median company in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) ; had capital expenses accounting for at least
10 percent of net fixed assets; generated profit growth in the
past five years that ranked in the top 50 percent; and sold for
a lower price-earnings ratio over that span than the S&P 500
median, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  So-called value investors such as Buffett also purchase
companies when their stock prices are low by historical
standards when compared with earnings.  Using acquisitions, Buffett has built Berkshire from a
failing textile maker into a $199 billion company with more than
70 units that produce energy and chocolate, operate planes and
trains, and insure against car wrecks and earthquakes.  “Buffett is unique,”  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee
$5.1 billion at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s going to get paid no matter what.”  Stanley Black & Decker, valued at $12.8 billion, has traded
at an average of 14.1 times profit in the past five years versus
16.3 times for the median S&P 500 company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. While the toolmaker has  surged  57 percent
from an almost two-year low in September, it was valued at 13.4
times earnings yesterday.  The  New Britain , Connecticut-based company, which controls
almost half of the $17 billion market for  hand tools , has
exceeded analysts’ per-share profit estimates for six straight
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hammers, Nail Guns  Revenue this year is projected to surpass $11 billion and
rise to a record. It also returned an average of 13.3 percent on
its invested capital annually over the past 10 years, about a
fifth more than the median S&P 500 company, the data show.  That could make Stanley Black & Decker attractive to
Buffett because of his view that the U.S. housing industry will
regain its strength and support economic growth after sparking
the worst recession since the Great Depression, according to
 Keith Wirtz , who oversees $14.6 billion as chief investment
officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati.  While Buffett said in this year’s letter that he was “dead
wrong” with his prediction in early 2011 that a recovery in
housing would begin within a year or so, he projected that the
“steady and substantial comeback” in the  U.S. economy  will
eventually lead to an increase in demand for homes.  ‘Historic Correction’  Last month, Americans signed twice as many contracts to buy
previously owned homes than economists forecast, an index from
the National Association of Realtors showed yesterday. Existing
homes made up more than 90 percent of the market last year.  “Stanley Black & Decker should be at the top of the list
of potential Buffett targets,” Wirtz said in a telephone
interview. “It’s well-managed, it’s got great fundamentals and
great forward  growth .”  Buffett is “looking at the residential real estate market,
which has gone through a historic correction. That’s why he’s
looking at housing,” he said.  Kate Vanek, a spokeswoman at Stanley Black & Decker, didn’t
return a telephone call or an e-mail seeking comment on whether
the company has been approached about an acquisition or would
consider a potential sale to Berkshire.  Parker Hannifin , which makes hydraulic valves and pumps
used in construction, farming and aerospace, may become a target
as Buffett looks to take advantage of a resurgence in
manufacturing, said  Todd Lowenstein , who helps oversee about $17
billion for Highmark Capital Management Inc. in  Los Angeles .  Bargain Hunting  The Cleveland-based company, which has a market value of
$13.6 billion after increasing almost 20 percent  this year ,
sells for 12.7 times analysts’ projected per-share earnings for
the year ending in June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s 20 percent less than its average of 15.8 times
reported profit in the past five years.  Parker Hannifin’s revenue, which analysts anticipate will
climb to a record $13 billion this fiscal year, has decreased
just  twice  since 1992, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company accounted for 52 percent of sales in the $18
billion fluid-powered valve industry last year, more than twice
as much as its closest competitor, the data show.  Aidan Gormley, a spokesman at Parker Hannifin, declined to
comment on whether it had been approached about an acquisition
or would consider a potential sale to Berkshire.  “He’s looking to buy a high-quality, long-term asset at a
bargain price,” Lowenstein said in a telephone interview.
Parker Hannifin is a “great barometer of economic activity
because they are in so many pieces of the industrial land.
That’s a doable transaction for him,” he said.  
To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 