-- Bank of Montreal Posts Record Profit on Boost from U.S. Consumer Banking
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-28T21:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/bmo-financial-group-first-quarter-adjusted-earnings-beat-some-estimates.html
Bank of Montreal , the first Canadian
bank to report quarterly results, beat analysts’ estimates as
profit soared 34 percent after its takeover of a Wisconsin
lender helped lift U.S. consumer-banking earnings.  Net income rose to a record C$1.11 billion ($1.12 billion),
or C$1.63 a share, in the first quarter ending Jan. 31, from
C$825 million, or C$1.34, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank
said today in a statement. Revenue increased 19 percent to
C$4.12 billion.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Canada’s fourth-largest lender, said it
had profit excluding items of C$1.42 a share, beating the C$1.36
 estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The stock
rose about 1 percent to C$58.56 at in Toronto trading.  Net income increased on earnings from Marshall & Ilsley
Corp., the Milwaukee-based bank that Bank of Montreal bought in
July for C$4.1 billion, and on less money set aside for bad
loans. Loan-loss provisions fell 56 percent from a year earlier
to C$141 million.  “Bank of Montreal came through here,”  Ian Nakamoto ,
director of research at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc.,
said in a telephone interview from Toronto. The firm oversees
about C$4 billion. “This vindicates their strategy of moving
down into the U.S. market.”  Canadian consumer-banking profit fell 6.5 percent to C$446
million, as volume growth was hurt by declining margins, or the
difference between what the bank charges for loans and what it
pays in deposits. The net interest margin on average assets was
2.8 percent, down from 2.91 percent in the year earlier.  U.S. Franchise  Profit from BMO Harris Bank, the Chicago-based U.S.
consumer lender, more than doubled to C$137 million from C$54
million after adding earnings from Marshall & Ilsley. The
acquisition doubled the number of U.S. branches and deposits of
BMO Harris Bank, giving Bank of Montreal more branches in
 Chicago  than Toronto.  “The  U.S. economy  is moving up, ours is moving down,”
Nakamoto said. “Those that have more exposure to U.S. banking
for the next several years are probably going to do fairly well
versus those that have very little U.S. banking exposure.”  The bank’s BMO Capital Markets investment-banking business
had profit of C$198 million, down 24 percent from a year
earlier. Revenue from underwriting and advisory fees fell 49
percent to C$78 million. Trading revenue rose 25 percent to
C$378 million from a year earlier after adding a benefit from
structured credit activities under new accounting rules.  Insurance Hurt  The bank recorded a C$46 million cost to restructure its
BMO Capital Markets business, part of what the company called a
“broader effort under way to improve productivity.” BMO last
week cut jobs at its North American capital markets business.  The lender’s private-client group, which includes insurance
and mutual funds, had profit of C$105 million, down 27 percent
from a year earlier, on unfavorable movements in long-term
 interest rates  that hurt insurance results.  “While BMO came in ahead of expectations, we note that it
was largely the result of lower than anticipated provisions,”
 John Aiken , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in Toronto, said
today in a note. “Overall, it was a solid, if uninspiring start
to the earnings season.”  Canada’s six-biggest banks will post a 3 percent profit
decline excluding items for the quarter, according to John Reucassel, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets.  Investment-Banking Fees  Canadian banks may earn less from investment-banking fees,
as takeovers and stock sales slowed from a year earlier,
according to analysts. Canadian equity financings fell 45
percent to $6 billion in the three-month period and takeovers
involving Canadian firms declined 19 percent to $37.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This is the first quarter that  Canada ’s banks report
results under the International Financial Reporting Standards
accounting rules.  Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and  National
Bank of Canada  are scheduled to report results on March 1,
followed by Bank of  Nova Scotia  on March 6 and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce on March 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  