-- Bodog Online Gaming Founder Indicted For Money Laundering, Website Seized
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-02-28T17:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/bodog-online-gaming-founder-indicted-for-money-laundering-website-seized.html
Calvin Ayre, a Canadian who founded
online-gambling company Bodog in 1994, was indicted by U.S.
prosecutors in Baltimore for conducting an illegal business that
generated more than $100 million in winnings.  Ayre, 50, and three other men are accused of conspiring to
commit  money laundering  while conducting the business from at
least June 2005 until Jan. 6, according to court papers unsealed
today in Baltimore. Ayre and the men, all Canadian citizens,
allegedly moved funds from Bodog’s accounts in Switzerland,
England, Malta,  Canada  and elsewhere to pay winnings to gamblers
and media brokers in the U.S.  “Sports betting is illegal in Maryland and federal law
prohibits bookmakers from flouting that law simply because they
are located outside the country,” U.S. Attorney Rod J. Rosenstein said in a statement.  A former employee of Bodog told prosecutors that the
company had hundreds of workers in Canada and  Costa Rica  who
handle the daily operations of taking bets, tracking sports
events,  customer service  and financial transactions, according
to a court filing.  Federal prosecutors also seized the Internet domain name
bodog.com. Ayre and his co-conspirators paid more than
$42 million from 2005 to 2008 for an advertising campaign to
attract U.S. gamblers to the website, prosecutors said.  Not in Use  The domain name isn’t currently in use, Ayre’s BodogBrand
said in a statement posted on Calvinayre.com. The domain had
been licensed to Morris Mohawk Gaming Group since 2009.
BodogBrand.com revoked the licensing agreement in December,
according to the statement.  “Bodog UK, Bodog  Europe  and Bodog  Asia  have never taken
bets from the U.S.,” according to the statement. “The
BodogBrand is currently consulting with its legal advisers with
a view to having the domain returned.”  If convicted, Ayre and his co-defendants face a maximum of
five years in prison for conducting the gambling business and 20
years in prison for money-laundering conspiracy. The men aren’t
in custody and no court appearances have yet been scheduled,
Vickie LeDuc, a spokeswoman for Rosenstein, said.  Global gambling revenue climbed to a record $419 billion
last year, according to U.K.-based Global Betting and Gaming
Consultants. Interactive gambling accounted for 8.4 percent of
global revenue, up from 8 percent in 2010, GBGC said.  The case is U.S. v. Bodog Entertainment Group SA, U.S.
District Court for the District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  