-- Boeing’s 747-8 Passenger Model to Finish Flight Tests Soon
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-02-29T04:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/boeing-s-747-8-passenger-model-to-finish-flight-test-within-week.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said the first 747-8
Intercontinental, the passenger version of the planemaker’s
biggest jumbo jet, needs only five to seven days of test flying
toward certification for commercial duties.  Once paperwork is completed, the plane will be delivered to
 Germany ’s  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  in the “very near future,”
Elizabeth Lund, the 747 program manager, said today at a
ceremony in Everett,  Washington , where the plane is built. The
747-8 Freighter entered service late last year.  Boeing delivered the first 747-8 Intercontinental today to
an unidentified private customer. That jet will undergo more
than two years of work on the interior before it’s used. The
commercial version needed more testing because it’s full of
seats and in-flight entertainment equipment, Lund said.  The company has sold nine 747-8 Intercontinentals to such
“VIP customers” and plans to deliver the bulk of those this
year, said Steve Taylor, president of Boeing Business Jets.
They’ve mostly been sold to heads of state in the  Middle East 
who don’t want to be identified, he said.  The plane delivered today will spend six months having a
sleeping loft installed at the same Boeing facility in Wichita
where the U.S. president’s Air Force One modifications are done,
Taylor said. Then it will be at a Lufthansa Technik facility in
Hamburg for about two years to outfit the rest of the interior.  Boeing fell 0.1 percent to $75.16 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have risen 4.4 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 3.4 percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index .  747 Production  Boeing is increasing the production rate to two 747s a
month as it anticipates a rebound in demand for freight traffic
next year. Lund said the Chicago-based company is “bullish” on
orders for the plane.  The 747-8 is about two years behind schedule for the
freighter version and more than a year for the Intercontinental.
Engineers were diverted to the 787 Dreamliner, which was even
further behind, and then Boeing needed to design a new wing to
accommodate changes made to the 747-8, which include a longer
fuselage and a stretch of the iconic hump on top of the
passenger version.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  