-- BP Investors See Spill Deal Narrowing $44 Billion Gap: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-28T16:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/bp-investors-see-spill-deal-narrowing-44-billion-gap-energy.html
BP Plc (BP/)  investors said progress
toward a settlement with the victims of the Deepwater Horizon
disaster signals a share-price rebound, closing the $44 billion
gap with the company’s value before the worst U.S. oil spill.  BP rose  to a 13-month high above 500 pence in  London 
trading yesterday after the trial to apportion blame for the
disaster was delayed by a week to allow time to reach an accord
with lawyers representing businesses and residents. The stock
may gain a further 15 percent, presuming the company keeps
payments for the spill within $10 billion of the $37 billion it
has already set aside in costs, said broker Brewin Dolphin Ltd.  “They can probably go a bit above their provision and
still get a positive response,” said Colin McLean, chief
executive officer at SVM Asset Management, where he oversees 700
million pounds ($1.1 billion) of securities, including BP
shares. “The market just wants clarity. There’s lots of
pressure to get a deal.”  Reaching a settlement with thousands of claimants before
the trial begins would be a milestone in resolving the legal
disputes arising from the spill and allow Chief Executive
Officer Bob Dudley to concentrate on reviving BP’s operations in
the  Gulf of Mexico , where the London-based  oil company  was the
biggest producer before the accident.  BP fell 0.6 percent to 498.50 pence as of the close in
London. A deal with plaintiffs may be announced as early as
today, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified
people familiar with the talks.  Settlement Talks  On Feb. 26, the day before hearings were due to start in
New Orleans, BP and a plaintiffs’ committee said they wanted
more time to reach a deal. That settlement would use funds
already set aside for victims, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. BP is also negotiating with the U.S.
Justice Department over fines under the  Clean Water Act , where
it’s provisioned $3.5 billion. The federal government is also
considering criminal charges.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said today that the U.S.
has a “strong” case. “We are prepared to go to trial, we were
ready to go to trial yesterday,” he said during testimony
before a U.S. House Appropriations subcommittee in  Washington .  “The shares are being held back by very significant
uncertainties,”  James Bevan , who oversees $10 billion as chief
investment officer of CCLA Investment Management Ltd. in London
and holds BP, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“The shares will recover significantly if we get good news in
terms of an early settlement.”  BP spokesman  Robert Wine  declined to comment on a possible
settlement.  Value Gap  Shares in the London-based company gained 9 percent this
year as BP raised its dividend and reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Europe ’s biggest oil company, has lost 2.3 percent this year.  BP is still down 24 percent since the day the accident
started on April 23, 2010, when it traded at 658 pence, meaning
the spill has erased 27.5 billion pounds ($44 billion) of BP’s
market value.  BP has already reached agreements with some partners and
contractors in the Macondo well. The $20 billion fund set up for
victims has paid out more than $6 billion. Dudley said this
month BP is open to settlements with the U.S., five states, and
business and individuals affected by the spill.  “If a deal were to come out that would cost BP about $45
billion, I suspect BP would take it and shares would get to 580
pence,” said Iain Armstrong, an analyst at Brewin Dolphin in
London. “It wouldn’t go back to the price pre-Macondo, but the
current price would become the base.”  Asset Sales  Dudley is targeting $38 billion in asset sales to shore up
BP’s balance sheet and says the company will focus on
profitability rather than volume in production. The company
agreed yesterday to sell natural-gas holdings in Kansas to  Linn
Energy LLC (LINE)  for $1.2 billion.  Dudley said Feb. 7 that  cash flow  will increase 50 percent
by 2014 from 2011 levels.  Oil prices  have gained about 30
percent since the start of the spill.  BP would be able to absorb as much as $40 billion of costs
related to the spill and still maintain a stable outlook on its
A2 debt rating, which is five levels above the lowest investment
grade, Moody’s Investors Service said Feb. 24.  The board raised BP’s dividend by 14 percent on Feb. 7 for
the first time since the disaster. The payout to shareholders
was suspended for three quarters after the spill and reinstated
one year ago at half the previous level.  Analyst Caution  Some analysts caution that settlements could be large
enough that BP shares fall. The cost may reach as much as $25
billion in addition to payments already made, making the total
cost of the spill higher than provisioned, according to Morgan
Stanley & Co. analyst Martijn Rats. Based on BP’s free cash
flow, that should value the shares at about 457 pence, he said.  If BP’s costs are below that level, the company may be able
to raise its dividend at a faster pace, valuing the shares at
about 652 pence, Rats said in a note dated Feb. 23.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  is overseeing court
proceedings in  New Orleans , consolidating thousands of
individual claims bought against BP. If the trial goes ahead, he
will apportion blame for the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon
rig and the spill, which according to the U.S. was more than 4
million barrels of crude. Without a jury, Barbier is set to
determine whether BP can get a share of more than $26 billion it
has already spent from others involved with the Macondo well.  Fishermen, Hotels  The U.S. government has sued BP for violations of federal
pollution laws. Non-government plaintiffs include fishermen,
shrimpers, restaurants, hotels, workers and business and
property owners along the coast.  BP has reached settlements with well partners  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007, as well
as contractors  Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  and M-I Swaco. It
hasn’t reached agreements with  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the owner of the
rig, or  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement for the well.  “With $20 billion to $30 billion extra Macondo cost over
and above the provisioned amounted appeared to be discounted in
the shares, we believe there is potential for a re-rating for
BP,” Alejandro Demichelis, an analyst at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  