-- Brazil Bullet Train to Be Ready in ‘22, Minister Passos Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2012-02-28T00:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/brazil-bullet-train-to-be-ready-in-22-minister-passos-says-1-.html
Brazil ’s high speed train connecting
Sao Paulo and  Rio de Janeiro  will be ready by 2022,
Transportation Minister Paulo Sergio Passos said.  The government will auction rights to build and manage the
railway between Brazil’s two most populous cities in two stages,
Passos said in an interview from his office in Brasilia. The
first stage, to be completed by December, will decide on the
technology and operator for the train, while the second stage,
in which the consortium that will build the infrastructure will
be chosen, will happen in 2014, Passos said. Construction will
probably take six years, he added.  The biding process for the 511-kilometer (318-mile)  high-
speed train  was cancelled three times in Dec. 2010, April and
July last year, because not enough bidders signed up for the
auctions. The government is now reviewing the auction rules,
Passos said.  “The fact that we didn’t have a more detailed study was
creating uncertainties to private investors,” Passos said in
the interview. “These uncertainties translated into risks that
were monetized by eventual bidders, putting the value of the
investment at much higher level than what the government had
estimated.”  According to the original project, the planned investment
was 33 billion reais ($19.3 billion), and the winning bid would
be the lowest fare below the minimum level of 199.80 reais set
by the government for the Rio-  Sao Paulo  trip. The minister
didn’t provide new values. The concession contract is for 40
years, he said.  A new project for the bidding process will be delivered to
President  Dilma Rousseff  in the next few days, Passos said.  Editors: Fabiola Moura, Adriana Brasileiro  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho ou
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  