-- Tombini Says Brazil Policy Can Stimulate Growth With Inflation at Target
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-28T16:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/brazil-can-fuel-gdp-with-cpi-at-target-tombini-says-correct-.html
Brazil  is adopting a policy mix that
has a dual goal of fueling  economic growth  at the same time as
it brings  inflation  back to target, central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said.  The world’s second biggest emerging market after  China  has
been expanding below potential since the third quarter, Tombini
said in Senate testimony today in Brasilia. That sub-par
performance allows policy makers to cut  interest rates  without
jeopardizing their 4.5 percent inflation target, he said.  Since August, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration
reduced the overnight rate four times, cut taxes on  consumer
goods  and pledged to boost public works to ensure 4.5 percent
growth this year. In the third quarter,  Latin America ’s biggest
economy shrank for the first time in more than two years. While
slower growth helped contain consumer price increases, inflation
has remained above the target for the past 17 months.  Tombini said that below potential growth was “one of the
reasons we are adjusting the interest rate.” The government
adopted “an economic policy mix that is compatible with faster
economic growth and the convergence of inflation to target,” he
added.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 9.76 percent at 12:41 a.m. in Brasilia. The real strengthened
0.3 percent to 1.7021 per  U.S. dollar .  Single Digit  Tombini, at the Group of 20 meetings last weekend in Mexico
City, reiterated policy makers’ view that there is a high chance
they will cut the  benchmark interest rate  to less than 10
percent. Since August, the central bank has reduced the Selic
rate by 200 basis points to 10.50 percent to shield Brazil from
the Euro debt crisis.  Economic growth will accelerate in the second half of the
year, and inflation is slowing toward the target, Tombini said
today.  The  Finance Ministry  estimates that growth domestic product
grew 3 percent last year, despite a 0.04 percent contraction in
the third quarter from the three previous months.  Traders are betting the central bank will cut the Selic to
at least 9.25 percent by July, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest rate futures.  Reverse Course  Policy makers will need to reverse course and raise rates
again to 11 percent next year to prevent inflation from picking
up, futures also show.  “The central bank is making a huge effort to show that
economic fundamentals and the current situation opens room for
lower rates in Brazil,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at
Gradual Investimentos, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“Tombini’s presentation suggests there is room for lower
rates.”  Analysts covering Brazil raised their 2013 inflation
forecast to the highest on record, according to a central bank
survey published yesterday. Consumer prices will rise 5.11
percent in 2013, after jumping 5.24 percent this year, the
survey shows.  Brazil’s inflation-adjusted interest rate, the highest
within the G-20, is too low to help the nation meet its price-
growth target, a central bank survey of economists published
Feb. 23 showed.  The real interest rate needed to keep inflation on target
with the economy growing at a sustainable pace is 5.5 percent,
according to the median estimate in the  survey . That is higher
than Brazil’s current real rate of 4.3 percent.  Tombini said today that the most salient result of the
survey is that analysts see the neutral rate in a declining
trend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  