-- Brazil Sugar Exports Seen More Profitable Than Domestic Sales
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-28T10:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/brazil-sugar-exports-seen-more-profitable-than-domestic-sales.html
Exports of sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer of the sweetener, are more profitable
than domestic sales for the first time since October, according
to Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  Sugar exports were on average 4.2 percent more attractive
than sales in the domestic market last week, Heloisa Lee
Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea, wrote in a report yesterday.
That was the first time shipment profits beat the internal price
since the week of Oct. 17 to 21, she said.  “Quotes in the international market have been pushed up by
speculation regarding a possible decrease of sugar supply in the
short-run,” Burnquist wrote. “The market is still facing the
consequences of lower Brazilian production.”  Sugar cane output in Brazil’s Center-South, the nation’s
main producing region, fell for the first time in a decade in
the current 2011-12 season. Output through Feb. 1 totaled 493.5
million metric tons, down 11 percent from a year earlier,
according to industry group Unica. Most of the harvest has
already been completed, Unica said on Feb. 14.  Sugar supply may be 20 percent lower than at the same
period last year, Burnquist said in the report, citing
unidentified traders. Raw sugar traded on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York  has climbed 8 percent so far this month.  Further gains may be capped as Brazilian producers now have
more incentive to export. Raw sugar for March delivery was 0.97
cent a pound more expensive than May-delivered sweetener by 4:44
a.m. in New York, down from this year’s high of 1.46 cents a
pound on Feb. 23, data on Bloomberg show. The March raw sugar
futures contract expires tomorrow on ICE Futures U.S.  “Rumours that Brazil Center-South mills are releasing
stocked sugar for export previously intended for the domestic
market has dampened the near March-May somewhat,” Nick Penney,
a trader at broker Sucden Financial Ltd. in London, wrote in a
report e-mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  