-- Broadbent Says Euro Crisis Is Biggest Risk to U.K. Economy
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2012-02-28T23:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/broadbent-says-euro-crisis-is-biggest-risk-to-u-k-economy-1-.html
 Bank of England policy maker Ben Broadbent said  Europe ’s debt crisis remains the biggest risk to
the U.K. even after “important” measures by euro-area
officials to tackle the turmoil.  “There was some important policy decisions taken in Europe
at the end of the last year; support was provided for the banks
and that’s been very important,” he said in an interview with
Belfast-based Ulster Television broadcast today, according to a
transcript of his remarks. “Over time the situation will
improve. But I don’t think we should imagine, hopeful as it is,
that these more recent policy actions have solved everything.
There are risks that still remain.”  The  European Central Bank  may grant banks 470 billion euros
in long-term loans today, according to a Bloomberg News survey,
after lending a record 489 billion euros in December. The
measure, aimed at easing liquidity strains in the financial
system, helped fuel a rally in bonds, lowering borrowing costs
for some euro-area periphery nations.  While Broadbent noted the deal on a second Greek bailout,
he said the region has still not fully stemmed the crisis.  If the  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee “had to
say what was the biggest single risk facing the U.K. economy, it
is still the situation in the  euro zone ,” he said.  On the outlook for  interest rates , Broadbent said central
bank officials “don’t make predictions or promises.”  “Having said that, they’re very low for a reason,” he
said. “The primary reason being the tightness of credit and the
repair that has to be done to the financial system. And that’s
not going to be over anytime soon.”  The Bank of England increased its target for bond purchases
by 50 billion pounds to 325 billion pounds this month after the
economy shrank in the fourth quarter. It has said it expects a
gradual recovery this year.  “We expect consumption growth to pick up later this year,
and as the supply of credit resumes we would expect investment
to start growing strongly as well,” Broadbent said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  