-- Brown Budget May Overstate California Revenue by $6.5 Billion, Study Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/brown-budget-may-overstate-california-revenue-by-6-5-billion-study-says.html
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s new budget
may overestimate  California (STOCA1)  revenue by as much as $6.5 billion
through June 2013 -- even with a $2 billion gain from a Facebook
Inc. share sale, the state Legislature’s policy analyst said.  California  will probably collect about $177.5 billion in
general-fund revenue through the end of the next fiscal year,
not $184 billion as Brown has forecast in a proposed budget that
includes higher income and sales levies, the state’s Legislative
Analyst’s Office said yesterday. Brown and the analyst differ on
how much the state will receive from  capital gains .  “We can identify no strong rationale for the
administration’s assumption that capital gains will grow very
rapidly in 2012 and later years,” the analyst said in a report.  The largest U.S. state by population, and the most
indebted, is confronting a $9.2 billion deficit. Brown, a 73-
year-old Democrat, wants voters to boost sales and income taxes
to raise about $6.9 billion annually until they expire in four
to five years. He built that amount into his spending plan and
inserted a provision that automatically triggers $4.8 billion in
cuts to schools if voters reject the higher levies.  The report “underscores the need for additional revenues,
as the governor has proposed with his November ballot
initiative,” H.D. Palmer, Brown’s budget spokesman, said
yesterday in a statement. “It also highlights the fact that the
pending IPO by Facebook, while potentially significant, can’t be
expected to lessen the need to take tough steps now.”  Facebook IPO  Facebook, the world’s most-popular social-networking site,
filed for an initial public share sale this month. The  Menlo
Park , California-based company has yet to set a  price range .  Brown’s budget assumes California taxpayers will have $96
billion in capital gains this year, more than triple the amount
in 2009, the year when the longest recession since the 1930s
ended. He also estimates that the state will take in $8.6
billion in taxes on those earnings, supplying about 9 percent of
general-fund revenue.  The governor assumes that reductions in marginal tax rates
passed under President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and 2003 will be
allowed to expire in December and that higher-income residents
would accelerate taking capital gains to count them as this
year’s income, to take advantage of the lower rate.  Brown also counts on some capital gains being taken this
year as investors try to shield income from higher Medicare
taxes scheduled to begin in 2013.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the outlook on  California (STOCA1) ’s credit
to positive on Feb. 14, its second revision since Brown took
office 13 months ago. California’s A- rating, the fourth-lowest
investment grade, is the worst of any state set by the company.  “Although we continue to see the structural fiscal and
budget-process changes as the most important to the state’s
fundamental credit quality, we recognize that cyclical factors
could also support incremental strengthening,” S&P said
yesterday after the analyst’s report came out. “Just as the
economic recession weakened the state’s credit quality, the
recovery, in our view, has potential to strengthen it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  