-- Cablevision Drops After Forecasting Lower Free Cash Flow
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-28T21:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cablevision-s-quarterly-profit-drops-47-after-amc-networks-unit-spinoff.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the
fifth-largest U.S. cable provider by subscribers, declined the
most since October after saying free  cash flow  will be lower
this year because of an increase in  capital expenditures .  Investing in cable set-top box inventories, costs to
upgrade networks and no planned subscriber fee increases will
result in lower free cash flow in 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Gregg Seibert said today on a conference call to discuss the
company’s fourth-quarter earnings.  Cablevision said it would cease offering its lowest-priced
introductory packages to new subscribers after rates became too
low to make economic sense, Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan 
said on the call. Cablevision has been reducing rates to gain
customers amid competition with rivals including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)   “The main theme that people should take away from the call
today is that we continue to be focused on moving the business
in a direction where we both retain existing subscribers and
have attractive, economically sensible offers for new
subscribers,” Seibert said.  The shares  declined  9.7 percent to $14.13 at the close in
New York, the biggest one-day drop since Oct. 28. Cablevision
has fallen less than 1 percent this year.  Dolan said he would run Cablevision’s operations “for the
foreseeable future” instead of immediately hiring a replacement
for former chief operating officer Tom Rutledge, who left in
December to become the CEO of  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)   Dolan’s Future  “As soon as Dolan said he was going to run the company for
the foreseeable future, the stock went down,” said Amy Yong, an
analyst at Macquarie Securities in  New York . “I just don’t
think he has the sophistication to run the operations.”  Fourth-quarter net income fell to $60.6 million, or 22
cents a share, from $113.9 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier
when AMC Networks contributed to profit, the Bethpage,  New York- 
based company said in a statement. Net sales increased 7.3
percent to $1.69 billion. Analysts projected $1.68 billion on
average.  Cablevision lost 14,000 video subscribers in the quarter,
compared with the average analyst estimate of a 9,000 decline.
As Cablevision duels for customers with Verizon FiOS, video
margins are being squeezed as prices decline to entice new
subscribers, said  Michael McCormack , an analyst at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York. Cable operating
margin, excluding one-item adjustments, was 39.1 percent, down
from a year ago due to programming cost increases, Seibert said.  “Going forward, obviously expect programming costs to be
going up, certainly mid- to high-single-digit percentages,”
Seibert said.  The company added a net of 20,000 high-speed data customers
and 31,000 phone subscribers in the quarter. Analysts projected
16,000 net broadband additions and 19,000 phone customers, the
average of estimates.  On June 30, Cablevision separated AMC, which includes AMC,
Sundance Channel, IFC and WE tv.  (Cablevision held a conference call today. To listen, visit
 http://www.cablevision.com/investor/index.jsp .)  To contact the reporter on this story: Alex Sherman in New York
at   asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter Elstrom
at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  