-- California Cuts Yield as $2 Billion Debt Sale Enters Second Day
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-29T16:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/california-offers-2-billion-in-bonds-with-2-7-10-year-yields.html
California (STOCA1) , the most indebted U.S.
state, cut preliminary yields on some maturities as it marketed
$2 billion of tax-exempt bonds to individuals for a second day,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the sale.  Initial yields on 10-year debt are being offered at 2.69
percent, down from 2.7 percent yesterday, according to the
person, who declined to be named before the sale’s planned
completion tomorrow. For securities due in February 2038, the
offer’s longest maturity, initial yields were lowered to 4.08
percent from 4.09 percent yesterday,  The state took orders from individuals for 38 percent of
the bonds yesterday, according to the  California  treasurer.
Investor requests tallied $765 million, even as the state
lowered the 10-year yield by a percentage point from October,
Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a statement.  “The retail demand has been pretty hefty, so we’re pleased
with the results so far,” Lockyer said yesterday.  The general-obligation issue comes as  yields  on AAA 30-year
bonds held near the lowest level since at least January 2009,
according to a Bloomberg Valuation index.  “There’s a lot of pent-up demand out there,” said Alan Schankel, fixed-income director at Janney Montgomery Scott in
Philadelphia, in an interview. “Residents want to buy
California bonds if they can so they don’t have to pay state
tax.”  Borrowing Curbed  Governor  Jerry Brown  curbed borrowing last year to help
shrink deficits. The state offered $3.3 billion in debt in 2011,
the lowest amount in four years. That crimped the supply of
California state and local bonds, which returned more than the
full $3.7 trillion muni market in each of the past three years.  California last sold bonds in October, when a 10-year
portion priced to yield 3.7 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Demand may increase for California tax-exempt bonds if
voters approve Brown’s proposed November ballot measure seeking
to raise tax rates on personal incomes higher than $250,000 to
help close a $9.2 billion deficit.  Initial yields on this week’s sale range from 0.66 percent
on two-year securities to as high as 4.08 percent on some 26-
year bonds, according to the person familiar. The state is
offering the securities to individuals for a second day today
and then institutional investors can place orders tomorrow.  Preliminary  interest rates  on the offering indicate the
most-populous U.S. state is set to pay a smaller yield spread
over benchmark debt than in October.  Yield Spread  The bonds maturing in 10 years are being offered at about
78 basis points more than the 1.91 percent yield on top-rated
debt of the same maturity. The difference is down from  128 basis
points  on similar-maturity bonds in October. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Proceeds from the sale will refund debt.  J.P. Morgan (JPM) 
Securities LLC,  Barclays Capital  and  Wells Fargo (WFC)  Securities are
managing the sale.  California state and local debt returned 14.8 percent last
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
tracking prices and interest income. That’s the most since 2009
and more than the 11.2 percent return for the broader market,
9.8 percent for Treasuries and 7.5 percent for top-grade
corporate debt.  In January, California issues returned 3.3 percent, more
than the muni market, Treasuries and corporate securities, the
indexes show.  A 10-year California general-obligation bond sold in
October traded on Feb. 6 with an average yield of 2.67 percent,
or 90 basis points more than the  index  of top-rated debt.  The outlook on California’s credit was revised to positive
from stable by  Standard & Poor’s  on Feb. 14. S&P has an A-rating
on $73.4 billion of general-obligation debt, its fourth-lowest
investment grade and the worst of any state. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the state A1, the second-lowest after  Illinois .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  