-- Canadian Stocks Rise to Five-Month High as Goldcorp, BMO Gain
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-28T21:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/canadian-raw-materials-stocks-advance-on-gains-in-gold-copper.html
Canadian stocks  climbed to a five-
month high as better-than-expected U.S. consumer confidence data
bolstered the outlook for raw-materials producers and  Bank of
Montreal ’s earnings lifted financial shares.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the second-largest gold producer by market
value, advanced 2.9 percent as the metal climbed for the first
time in three days. BMO, Canada’s fourth-largest lender, rose 1
percent after profit beat analysts’ estimates, helped by U.S.
consumer banking following its takeover of a Wisconsin lender.
 SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  tumbled 21 percent after saying 2011
profit missed its projection and opening a probe into inaccurate
documentation of payments by its construction unit.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 40.09 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,740.47, the highest close since Aug. 31. The
benchmark measure has jumped 14 percent from an October low as
reports on U.S. housing and the labor market bolstered optimism
about growth in  Canada ’s biggest trading partner.  “It’s giving people a little bit of confidence that the
economy will gradually improve and the recent run over the past
four months in the stock market was not a fakeout,”  Irwin Michael , a  money manager  at ABC Funds in Toronto, said in a
phone interview. His firm oversees C$1 billion ($1 billion).
“With good earnings, more mergers and acquisitions -- because
we see a lot of that happening -- we expect the market to be
higher than where it is now at the end of the year.”  Goldcorp, First Quantum  The  S&P/TSX Materials Index (STMATR)  rose for the first time in
three days, climbing 1.4 percent. Goldcorp increased 2.9 percent
to C$49.77. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals
and coal producer, gained 1.3 percent to C$40.86 as copper rose
to a two-week high. First Majestic Silver Corp., which mines in
 Mexico , surged 6.4 percent to C$21.68 as silver rallied the most
since Jan. 3.  Confidence among U.S. consumers climbed to a 12-month high
in February, signaling household spending will help sustain the
expansion, according to the Conference Board’s index.  BMO, the first Canadian bank to report quarterly results,
gained 1 percent to C$58.56. The lender reported first-quarter
earnings that beat the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey by 4.3 percent, excluding certain items.  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY) , the country’s biggest lender by assets, climbed for a
sixth day, increasing 1.1 percent to C$55.62.  SNC-Lavalin plunged 21 percent, the most since at least
1992, to C$38.43. The company said an outside  law firm  is
assisting in the inquiry after C$35 million of fourth-quarter
outlays were found to have been tied to “projects to which they
did not relate” and had to be logged as expenses.  Molybdenum Producer  Thompson Creek Metals Co. (TCM)  tumbled 16 percent, the most
since November 2008, to C$7.30. The molybdenum producer said its
Mt. Milligan copper and gold project may cost more than it had
estimated. Analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG
and Toronto-Dominion Bank cut their ratings on the stock.  Calfrac Well Services Ltd., (CFW)  an oilfield-services company,
surged 9.4 percent, the most since September 2009, to C$30.39
after its fourth-quarter profit, excluding certain items,
surpassed all 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Inc., which calls itself the
world’s largest industrial auctioneer, decreased 7 percent to
C$23.79 after reporting fourth-quarter sales that trailed the
average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey by 5.4 percent.  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , which produces oil and gas in
 Colombia , had its share-price forecast cut by at least nine
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
dropped 7 percent to C$17.72, extending its slump after falling
20 percent yesterday, when the company reported drilling results
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  