-- Cantor’s Small Business Break Adds to Complexity of Tax Code
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-28T20:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cantor-s-small-business-break-adds-to-complexity-of-tax-code-1-.html
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ’s
goal of giving millions of small businesses an extra 20 percent
tax deduction would add to the hundreds of targeted breaks in
the U.S. tax code, many of which Republicans have criticized.  Companies with fewer than 500 employees could take the
deduction on top of their other write-offs under the proposal
that Cantor, a Virginia Republican, plans to release in coming
weeks. A similar plan in 2010 was estimated to add about $25
billion to the  budget deficit  over 10 years. There is no
official cost estimate yet for the new plan.  “This is going in the opposite direction” of proposals to
reduce  income-tax  rates by eliminating write-offs, said David Kautter, managing director of the Kogod Tax Center at American
University in  Washington . Cantor’s plan “is a targeted tax
incentive at a time when the focus is on getting rid of
deductions and credits in the Internal Revenue Code,” he said.  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told
reporters this month that if lawmakers are “serious about
making America more competitive” they would revise the tax
system for individuals and companies. President  Barack Obama  on
Feb. 22 proposed reducing the corporate rate to 28 percent from
35 percent by eliminating some unspecified tax breaks.  Temporary Breaks  Many targeted breaks are inserted into the tax code on a
temporary basis, requiring lawmakers to periodically decide
whether they should be extended. Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, said in January that
such provisions are “disastrous.”  Boehner and Cantor introduced a separate measure today also
aimed at small businesses. That proposal would, among other
things, make it easier for startup companies to find investors
and allow small businesses to raise more money without
registering with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to a description of the bill released by Cantor’s
office.  Cantor said earlier this month that Republican leaders will
bring the deduction bill to the House floor before the April 17
deadline for U.S. citizens and companies to pay their taxes. He
and other House Republican leaders proposed a similar deduction
in 2009 and 2010, though the measure didn’t advance in the
House, controlled at the time by Democrats.  ‘Pledge’ in 2010  The idea was part of  House Republicans ’ 2010 “ pledge ” to
focus on  job creation  and fiscal responsibility as they
campaigned to gain the House majority.  In preparing to propose the deduction again, Cantor must
decide what types of companies would benefit and whether the
break should be temporary or permanent.  “They’re going to have to figure out who this applies to
and how long it will last,” said Neal Weber, a tax partner in
the Washington office of Cherry Bekaert & Holland LLP. “Those
are the major issues.”  The earlier proposals wouldn’t have allowed the deduction
for income from banking, insurance, financing or investing.
Professional sports teams, golf courses, country clubs, tanning
facilities and adult-entertainment companies also wouldn’t have
been eligible to claim the deduction.  Kautter said there is concern that other small companies
that earn large profits, such as law firms or dentists’ offices,
might benefit from the deduction.  Not ‘Modest’ Income  “It could clearly apply to businesses that earn a
substantial amount of money,” Kautter said. “There are a lot
of law firms that are less than 500 employees and they’re not
known for their modest income.”  Cantor has said the 500-employee standard comes from the
U.S. Small Business Administration’s definition of a small
business. In a Feb. 19 Fox News interview, he rejected concerns
that the deduction could benefit high earners.  “We are all in this together,” he said. “We have got to
as a country work towards growth in this economy.”  The 2010 proposal would have allowed companies to claim the
deduction for two years. Republicans may be more reluctant to
support the break if it is viewed as another temporary measure
that could spark a political fight when its expiration nears,
said Evan Liddiard, a former senior tax policy adviser to
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah . The party was bruised by
fights in December and this month over extending a payroll tax
cut for workers that was due to lapse.  Another Extender  “There would be some skepticism about a temporary
deduction,” said Liddiard, now a partner at Urban Swirski &
Associates LLC, a Washington lobbying firm. “This would add
another extender to the code.”  Regardless of the path Cantor chooses, the deduction won’t
encourage small companies to significantly increase hiring or
investment, said  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s
Analytics Inc.  “It would only be on the margin,” Zandi said. “It’s much
more preferable to make the tax code simpler as opposed to more
complex and use the additional revenue to lower marginal rates
for all businesses.”  An aide to  Senate Democrats  said a new proposed deduction
will face trouble in their caucus because party members view it
as too broad. Senate Democrats are interested in exploring other
ways to reduce taxes for small businesses, according to the
aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.  Working Together  “I’m hopeful we can get some bipartisan agreement” on the
deduction, Cantor said on Fox. “A lot of these issues can be
played out in the election, but there is a window of opportunity
for us to work together right now.”  More than 5.7 million companies in the U.S. operated with
fewer than 500 employees in 2009, according to the SBA. Those
companies were concentrated in the construction, retail, health
care and technical services industries, according to the agency.  Representatives for small businesses that would benefit
from the deduction aren’t rallying behind Cantor’s proposal.
Molly Brogan, a spokeswoman for the National Small Business
Association, a Washington-based trade group, said such companies
would appreciate the tax break. Still, she said, it won’t solve
the challenges they face, which include the complexity of the
tax system.  “What needs to happen is a complete scrapping of the  tax
code  and broad reform,” Brogan said. “I don’t think this
deduction can be seen as fixing the problem.”  Jennifer Cooper, a spokeswoman for the National Federation
of  Independent Business , a small business group in Washington,
declined to comment on the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  