-- Cargill Heiress Leaves $6 Billion to Support Art, Animal Rights
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cargill-heiress-leaves-6-billion-to-support-american-indian-art-animals.html
Before her death in 2006, Margaret A. Cargill could sometimes slip through a gala crowd virtually
unnoticed.  The granddaughter of agribusiness titan W.W. Cargill had
given away as much as $200 million to charity during her
lifetime, yet she was determinedly press-shy.  The low-profile munificence continues. With the settling of
her estate last year, about $6 billion, mainly in Cargill Inc.
stock, has gone to two of her three philanthropies, the  Margaret
A. Cargill Foundation , formed at her death, and her Anne Ray
Charitable Trust.  The sum placed her at No. 1 on the  Chronicle of
Philanthropy ’s 2011 ranking of charitable donations, published
this month, and made her groups, gathered under the umbrella of
the Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies, among the most asset-
rich in the U.S.  “She wanted to make a difference quietly,” Sallie Gaines,
communications director for Cargill Philanthropies, said by
phone. “She recognized that she had inherited a lot of money
but never worked at the company. She didn’t think she had done
anything remarkable.”  Based in  Eden Prairie ,  Minnesota , Cargill’s charities will
focus on about seven areas, including environmental causes,
disaster relief, animal welfare and arts education. Among the
recipients will be organizations that support American Indian
art and culture in  Alaska ,  Oregon ,  Washington  and British
Columbia. Born in Minnesota in 1920, Cargill spent part of her
childhood in British Columbia.  Teaching Art  Some of the money will be used to establish art-instruction
training programs for teachers in Wisconsin and Alaska.  Cargill, who studied art education at the  University of
Minnesota , became fond of Mexican folk art and American Indian
art when she moved to San Diego as a young woman. In later
years, she lived in a modest home in  La Jolla ,  California , with
her terrier, Kari.  “Many teachers go into education to teach the arts, but
they aren’t trained in the arts,” Gaines said. “So the
question becomes: What kind of support can you give to encourage
people to become teachers of the arts and what support do they
need?”  The Margaret A. Cargill Foundation will hire program
directors to determine guidelines for grant recipients,
increasing staff members to about 70 in the next three years
from 44 currently, Gaines said.  “Lots of fundraisers now see a new source of money and
will try to find a way to get some of it,” Stacy Palmer, editor
of the Chronicle of Philanthropy, said by phone. “Especially in
this economy in which it has been so difficult for some groups
to keep their operations running.”  Humane Society  Cargill also gave away money quietly through the  Akaloa
Resource Foundation , which made gifts to organizations in
 southern California  such as  San Diego Humane Society and SPCA ,
Community Television of Southern California and  San Diego ’s
 Mingei International Museum , which specializes in multicultural
art.  Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., an international producer
of food, agricultural and industrial products, also gave $61.1
million to charities through its Cargill Foundation.  Medical research, the performing arts and music programs
won’t be on the list of future grantees, Gaines said. “She
wanted to look for causes that weren’t on the top of people’s
list.”  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 