-- Cash Is Better Than Food Stamps in Helping Poor: Edward Glaeser
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-02-28T00:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cash-better-than-food-stamps-in-helping-poor-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
Newt Gingrich  has been castigated
for referring to President  Barack Obama  as the “best food-stamp
president in American history.” I, too, dislike the former
House speaker’s inflammatory phrasing.  Yet I am also troubled by the more than $100 billion
designated for “food and nutrition” in the president’s 2013
budget. The current dominance of in-kind transfer programs, such
as food stamps, Medicaid and housing support, relative to cash-
based welfare programs, such as the Earned Income Tax Credit and
Temporary Aid to Needy Families, is based on politics rather
than economics. A consolidated cash-based program could more
efficiently deliver assistance and more effectively encourage
employment.  Redistribution has costs -- direct ones that are paid by
 taxpayers  and indirect ones, by discouraging earnings and
savings -- but it also has benefits, particularly by creating a
society with less painful poverty.  The amount of redistribution that you think is appropriate
depends on your attitudes toward inequality and paying for
equality. I’m not a preacher, a philosopher or a politician, and
I won’t try to convince you that the U.S. should do more or less
for its poorer citizens. I am interested in a better-designed
welfare system.  Path to Prosperity  We should ask for two things from any redistribution
system. It should do as much as possible for society, especially
the poor. It should do as little as possible to encourage
permanent poverty. And, whenever possible, it should help poor
Americans find a path toward self-sustaining prosperity.  The conventional economic logic is that cash transfers are
more effective at helping the poor than in-kind gifts, such as
 food stamps  and housing vouchers. I am grateful for the freedom
I enjoy when spending my earnings; surely, aid recipients also
like autonomy. They can choose the spending that best fits their
needs if they are given unrestricted income. In “Free to
Choose,” this logic led Milton and Rose Friedman to argue for
“replacing the ragbag of specific programs with a single
comprehensive program of income supplements in cash.”  Yet over the past 40 years, in-kind programs have grown
steadily more important than cash transfers. In 1968, the last
year of  Lyndon Johnson ’s presidency, the federal government
spent $1.61 billion ($10.5 billion in 2012 dollars) on  Aid to
Families with Dependent Children  (the predecessor of Temporary
Aid to  Needy Families ); it spent $1.81 billion ($11.8 billion in
2012 dollars) on Medicaid and $505 million ($3.3 billion in 2012
dollars) for  food and nutrition assistance . There was no Earned
Income Tax Credit or housing vouchers, so the ratio of in-kind
aid to cash transfer was 3 to 2.  The 2013 budget contains $293 billion for Medicaid, $112
billion for food and nutrition service (food stamps) and $28
billion for tenant- and project-based rental assistance, which
includes housing vouchers. That is a total of  $433 billion  of
in-kind transfers from these three primary programs.  By contrast, the budget includes only $17 billion for the
Administration for Children and Families (which administers
Temporary Aid to Needy Families). The Earned Income Tax Credit
paid out $59.5 billion in 2010, and Obama’s proposal would
eventually increase its generosity by about  $1.5 billion  a year.
Considering just these programs, the ratio of in-kind assistance
to cash aid is now to 5.6 to 1. In 1968, the in-kind share of
assistance was 60 percent; now it is 85 percent.  In-Kind Transfers  There are other programs that could be included in the mix,
but they don’t change the basic picture of increasing reliance
on in-kind transfers. If we added  unemployment insurance  as a
cash transfer, we’d find that the in-kind share was 37 percent
in 1968 and 74 percent in 2013. The current in-kind share would
be higher if we excluded the legislative proposal for more
generous benefits. Including other programs, such as the  Federal
Housing Administration , would increase the apparent share of
spending going to in-kind transfers. Including the  increased
expenditures  on disability insurance would do the most to limit
the rising share spent on in-kind transfers, but that program
isn’t means-tested and isn’t designed to fight poverty per se.  Given the economic case for providing cash, is there a good
argument justifying the rise of in-kind benefits? Recent
advances in  behavioral economics  illustrate the imperfections of
human decision-making, which might seem to create a rationale
for some government paternalism, such as efforts to control the
spending habits of aid recipients. For example, a recent  Florida
bill  proposes restricting the use of food stamps to purchase
candy and soda.  But understanding the limits of human rationality doesn’t
lead naturally to an increased faith in public-sector control.
After all, governments are made of people and are subject to
psychological quirks. I’ve  argued  that governments, which have
only limited incentives to get things right, may make far more
mistakes than ordinary consumers. Given the prevalence of
obesity among poorer Americans, it’s hard to see the sense in
pushing the poor to spend more on food, except that this
spending satisfies agricultural advocates.  A somewhat better rationale for in-kind transfers is that
we are trying to get parents to spend more on services that will
help their children. Both food stamps and housing vouchers can
be seen as tools for pushing intra-household redistribution from
poor parents to their children. Yet the  Moving-to-Opportunity
experiment , which used random trials to evaluate housing
vouchers, found that such assistance made parents happier but
did little to improve long-run outcomes for children. The
childhood obesity problem should also make us wonder whether
food stamps are really good for kids.  Aid Abuses  Perhaps the best explanation for the rise in in-kind
transfers is that taxpayers care about how aid recipients use
their money. Economists can argue for the value of freedom until
they are blue in the face, but there will always be a scandal
when public aid, such as the  debit cards  issued after  Hurricane
Katrina , is spent at  strip clubs .  Vilification of welfare recipients makes it particularly
hard to make the case for entrusting them with unrestricted
cash, even if that is the most effective means of administering
aid.  But the added cost of relying on  in-kind transfers  is that,
unlike our cash-based programs, these efforts are rarely well-
designed to limit the adverse incentives that come from anti-
poverty programs. Any assistance program that channels aid to
people who earn less creates an incentive to work less hard. Any
aid that is asset-tested destroys the incentive to accumulate
capital.  Well-designed programs, such as the Earned Income Tax
Credit, do as much as possible to limit these negative
incentives and even create some positive effects. That credit
initially increases with earnings, creating an incentive to go
to work; benefits taper off slowly, which limits the  tendency  to
work too little. The design is smart, and the program seems to
have  encouraged employment  substantially. The 1996 welfare
reform that produced Temporary Aid to Needy Families was also
aimed at creating better incentives for employment.  By contrast, food stamps and  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  are more like old-
style welfare systems that create strong incentives to earn
less. To get food stamps, you typically need to have less than
$2,000 in assets, so recipients are pushed to save nothing.  Although food stamps typically require recipients to be
employed, every extra dollar of “ net income ” reduces the
benefit by 30 cents. Housing vouchers require recipients to earn
less than  50 percent of median income  in their area, and the
voucher amount also decreases by 30 cents as income increases by
a dollar. A family that gets both food stamps and a housing
voucher loses more than 50 percent of each extra dollar earned
in the form of reduced benefits.  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  benefits, likewise,
disappear with significant income or assets.  Perverse Incentives  The proliferation of in-kind programs leads aid recipients
to spend on things that they value less and creates perverse
incentives to earn less and save little. The problem with food
stamps isn’t that we are giving too much to the poor.  I’d prefer a more robust welfare state, especially when it
comes to caring for disadvantaged children. Unfortunately, we
are giving money in fragmented, poorly coordinated programs that
do little to target aid efficiently or induce better economic
outcomes.  There is a natural solution: Combine our disparate aid
efforts into a single program that delivers cash assistance and
minimizes perverse incentives. We may still want some in-kind
assistance, particularly for health care, and that could be
handled by issuing vouchers. But for most aid, the Friedman
solution of cash still seems right. By combining our aid
programs and primarily giving cash, we can have a more efficient
welfare system that provides more freedom and better incentives
for aid recipients.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 