-- Casino Predicts 2012 Growth After Profit Beats Estimates on Brazil, Asia
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-02-28T11:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/casino-predicts-2012-growth-after-profit-beats-estimates-on-brazil-asia.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO) , the
French owner of Franprix and Leader Price stores, reported full-
year profit that beat analysts’ estimates and predicted growth
in earnings this year as it expands in  Latin America  and  Asia .  Net income rose 6.6 percent to 568 million euros ($763
million), the  Saint Etienne , France-based retailer said today in
a statement. The  average  of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for profit of 519 million euros. The company said
it aims to increase sales by more than 10 percent in 2012.  Casino forecasts that more than 50 percent of revenue will
come from “high-growth” countries this year and confirmed
today that it intends to exercise an option in June to gain full
control of Brazil’s biggest retailer. The company increased its
stake in  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar  to
more than 40 percent last year after rejecting a proposal to
combine the business with the Brazilian unit of  Carrefour SA. (CA)   “In 2012, our group will pursue its profitable growth
strategy,” Casino Chief Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri
said in the statement. “The group is confident it will enjoy
growth in its operations and results.”  Online Fashion  Separately, Casino said it reached a deal to buy a minority
stake in online fashion retailer Monshowroom.com. The six-year-
old e-commerce site had gross sales of more than 20 million
euros in 2011 and is profitable, Casino said, without disclosing
the price.  Casino  rose  0.3 percent to 72.10 euros at 12:20 p.m. in
Paris trading, valuing the retailer at about 8 billion euros.  Casino said Pao de Acucar will be fully consolidated within
its accounts once it becomes the sole controlling shareholder.
The retailer currently shares control of the Sao Paulo-based
company with  Brazil ’s Diniz family. Pao de Acucar has a market
value of about 20.4 billion reais ($12 billion).  Casino’s  sales  advanced 18 percent last year, led by growth
in Latin America and Asia, the company said.  So-called trading profit in  France , Casino’s largest and
domestic market, fell 2.6 percent to 750 million euros. Revenue
in the country rose 4.4 percent on higher food sales at Geant
superstores and online growth.  Monoprix Stake  Sales at the Monoprix supermarket chain gained 3 percent,
the company said. Casino last week ruled out selling its 50
percent stake in Monoprix and said it’s ready to acquire full
control from partner Galeries Lafayette SA “at a fair price.”
Casino values  Galeries Lafayette ’s stake at 700 million euros,
about half the department-store owner’s estimate.  Acquiring the rest of Monoprix “would make sense for
Casino and would have a 5 percent accretive impact based on a
price of 1.2 billion euros,” CA Cheuvreux analyst Arnaud Joly
said in a note yesterday. “In the short-term, the main risk is
to see Monoprix being a bit destabilized by this conflict.”  Casino increased the dividend by 7.9 percent to 3 euros a
share, with the option of 50 percent being paid in shares.  The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization was 2.35 in 2011, according to the
retailer, which said it aims to keep the ratio below 2.2 times.  Casino said it achieved a plan to dispose of assets worth 1
billion euros last year and aims to raise a further 1.5 billion
euros through disposals this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 Aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  