-- Rede Energia Bonds Sink After Brazilian Utility Celpa Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-02-29T21:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/centrais-eletricas-do-para-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-citing-crisis.html
Bonds issued by  Rede Energia SA (REDE4)  and
unit  Centrais Eletricas do Para SA  plummeted after the Brazilian
utility known as Celpa filed for  bankruptcy protection  amid
increasing debt and more than four years of frozen tariffs.  Rede Energia’s perpetual dollar-denominated bonds fell 29
cents to 53 cents on the dollar as of 4:14 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Celpa’s dollar notes
due in 2016 climbed 10 cents to 60 cents after tumbling 54 cents
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Fitch Ratings 
cut Celpa’s bond rating to D from B- after the filing.  “This announcement will likely result in a payment default
for some or all of Celpa’s debt and result in a protracted debt
renegotiation,” Fitch analyst Renata Pinho said in a note
yesterday. “The Celpa default will negatively affect the
payment capacity of Rede as well as trigger cross default
provisions.”  State-controlled  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or
Eletrobras, may bail out Rede Energia if requested by the
government, Reuters reported yesterday, citing Eletrobras Chief
Executive Officer Jose Carvalho Neto. An Eletrobras press
officer, who asked not to be identified under corporate policy,
declined to comment on the Reuters report. Eletrobras owns about
a one-third stake in Celpa.  Government Ties  “These companies have cash flow problems, but they also
have links with the federal government,” Marco Aurelio de Sa, a
director at Credit Agricole Securities, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Miami. “Eventually some sort of
arrangement will be made, especially when you consider the
Brazilian government has a strategic interest in the electricity
sector.”  Rede Energia said in December that it was looking for a
“strategic partner” to buy a minority or controlling stake in
Celpa to reduce debt.  Rede is controlled by Chairman Jorge Queiroz de Moraes Jr.
An investment fund of FGTS,  Brazil ’s workers’ compensation fund,
and BNDES Participacoes SA, the investment arm of the state
development bank, are also Rede shareholders.  “Rede has become a must-do acquisition for Eletrobras,”
Alfredo Viegas, a managing director of  emerging markets  at
 Knight Capital  in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said today in a note
to clients.  Rising Debt  About 66 percent of Celpa is owned, directly or indirectly,
by Rede Energia, while Eletrobras holds about 35 percent,
according to  Bloomberg data .  Celpa’s debt  increased  to 1.96 billion reais ($1.14
billion) in the third quarter of 2011 from 1.57 billion a year
earlier, while cash and equivalents tumbled to 259.1 million
reais from 680.4 million in the same period.  Celpa owes 150 million reais to  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s
second-largest bank by market value, according to a person
familiar with the debt. A Bradesco press official declined to
comment on the debt when contacted by telephone.  Celpa said it distributes electricity to 7.4 million people
in 143 municipalities in Brazil’s northern Para state. Celpa is
the biggest power distributor in Brazil’s remote Amazon region
by the number of consumers, according to Abradee, the country’s
power distribution association.  Failed Rescues  A bailout of Celpa wouldn’t be good for Eletrobras, UBS AG
analysts Lilyana Yang and Luiz Pinho said in a report today.  “Eletrobras has failed to turn around several small
distribution companies in the 1990s through loss-making rescue
plans,” they said.  A default on dollar bonds by Celpa may be the first since
Brazilian meatpacker Independencia SA missed payments on $165
million of bonds in Sept. 2010. The company had already
defaulted in Feb. 2009 after the global financial crisis eroded
demand for beef an dried up financing.  Recent rulings by Brazil’s electricity regulator, known as
Aneel, “impacted drastically” on Celpa’s earnings, the company
said late yesterday in a regulatory filing in which it revealed
the bankruptcy. Aneel delayed since August its four-year review
of Celpa’s tariffs, the company said.  The lack of revised tariffs, the need to continue investing
and growing indebtedness “highly compromise its capacity to
honor its obligations,” Celpa said.  Rede “is a group that can’t go it alone any longer,”
 Adriano Pires , the head of the Rio de Janeiro-based Brazilian
Center for Infrastructure, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “There has been talk several times that it would be
sold, but nothing has come through yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  