-- CEZ Falls Most in Five Months on Guidance ‘Disappointment’
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-02-28T15:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cez-shares-drop-after-profit-outlook-misses-analysts-estimates.html
CEZ AS (CEZ)  fell the most in five months
after the biggest Czech power utility published a profit outlook
for this year that missed analysts’ estimates, overshadowing
better-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings.  The stock  slid  3.6 percent, the biggest decline since Sept.
23, to 799 koruna in Prague today. It was the worst performer in
the 14-member  PX (PX)  equity index, which fell 1.1 percent.  Net income in the fourth quarter more than doubled to 14.4
billion koruna ($774 million), the company said today, exceeding
the 13.5 billion-koruna median estimate of 15 analysts polled by
Bloomberg. CEZ said it expects a 41 billion-koruna profit this
year, missing the 43.7 billion-koruna estimate by 24 analysts.  “We see the earnings guidance for this year as the weakest
point of the data published today, and it should cause
disappointment in the market,” Marek Hatlapatka, an analyst at
Cyrrus AS brokerage in Brno,  Czech Republic , wrote in a report
to clients today. “CEZ did everything to meet its guidance even
at the expense of a negative impact on this year’s results.”  Fourth-quarter profit was boosted by a 1.2 billion-koruna
gain on its option in  Hungary ’s oil company Mol Nyrt. CEZ owns a
7.3 percent stake in Mol. CEZ said it expects 2012 earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 87.9
billion koruna, less than the median analyst estimates of 89.4
billion koruna.  Improved Margins  Ebitda rose 14 percent to 24.9 billion koruna during the
period, exceeding analysts’ expectations. Full-year net income
fell 13 percent to 40.8 billion euros and full-year Ebitda
dropped 2 percent to 87.3 billion euros.  Improved margins in distribution and sales of electricity
to Czech clients contributed 1.9 billion koruna to net income in
the fourth quarter, the company said. CEZ lost 800 million
koruna on a special tax on carbon credits it receives free of
charge from the government.  The utility will continue to focus on developing two new
reactors at the Temelin nuclear power plant and extend the
output and lifespan of the older reactors at the Dukovany plant,
according to the statement. The company also plans to develop
renewable energy projects, particularly wind farms, in  Romania 
and  Poland .  Westinghouse Electric Corp., Areva SA and a Russian-Czech
consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s unit Atomstroyexport are
competing for the Temelin contract, estimated at $10 billion.
CEZ plans to chose the winning bid at the end of 2013.  “Until 2015 we are primarily going to concentrate on
flawlessly and thoroughly preparing the entire project,” Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Benes  said  in the statement.  The company will limit its acquisitions to acquiring wind
power plants in Poland and Romania, Chief Financial Officer
Martin Novak said after a press conference in Prague. It may
also invest in heat utilities and cogeneration plants in the
Czech Republic, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in  Prague  at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  