-- Chavez in Good Condition After Cuba Cancer Surgery, VP Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-02-29T01:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/chavez-in-good-health-after-operation-vp-says.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez  is
in good condition and recovering from surgery in Cuba to remove
a lesion in his pelvic area where doctors previously detected
cancer, Vice President Elias Jaua said.  Jaua, reading from a statement while speaking to the
National Assembly on state television, said tests on the
“lesion,” which was removed in its entirety, will become
available in the coming hours.  “President Chavez finds himself in good physical
condition, in the company of his family and in constant contact
with his vice president and ministers,” Jaua said as allied
lawmakers chanted “Oh no, Chavez won’t go!”  “There were no complications,” Jaua said. “In the coming
hours, histological studies will be made available that will
determine the best treatment.”  Chavez traveled to Cuba on Feb. 24 to undergo surgery to
remove what he said was probably a malignant growth in the same
pelvic area where doctors discovered cancer last year. Chavez
has undergone two previous surgeries and four rounds of
chemotherapy to treat his cancer.  Supporters, Spreads  The former tank commander, who is seeking re-election in
October after 13 years in power, has declined to say exactly
what kind of cancer he has or allow public access to his medical
reports.  National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  said Chavez’s
opponents have been hoping for the worst regarding the
president’s health.  “Look at those bitter ones over there who become sad when
someone improves,” Cabello said.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 fell 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point,
to 10.51 percent at end of trading today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 2.03 cents to 90.42 cents
on the dollar. The yield has fallen 138 basis points, or 1.38
percentage point, since Chavez announced he would need a third
operation last week.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Venezuelan
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 41 basis points to 902
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index.  Chavez’s third cancer operation has injected more
uncertainty to the country’s economic and political environment
ahead of the presidential vote,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report
sent by e-mail today. The uncertainty “will remain” even if
the government clarifies the state of Chavez’s health in the
coming days, Fitch said.  “Each member of the nation’s armed forces felt joy today
assured as we are that Chavez will continue lighting our way for
many years to come,” Defense Minister Henry Rangel Silva said
in comments on state television, adding that generals called him
over the weekend inquiring about the president’s health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  