-- China Must Change to Spread Benefits of Growth, Zoellick Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T08:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/china-must-change-to-spread-benefits-of-growth-zoellick-says.html
World Bank President Robert Zoellick
comments on  China ’s growth, changes needed in the structure of
the nation’s economy and the fiscal system to reduce inequality.
He spoke to reporters in Beijing today.  On China’s growth model:  “China has been very successful over the past 30 years
with one structural model for development. That model has
focused on export-led and heavily investment-led growth. The
12th five-year plan recognizes that needs to change, to focus
more on domestic demand and consumption.  ‘‘Competition brings more efficiency, adds to productivity
and productivity can sponsor higher wages.  ‘‘The export sector which has been highly competitive
already has some of these benefits, but some of the service
sector, which needs to adapt to benefit from reforms needs the
type of adjustments that would break up monopolistic or
oligopolistic positions.  ‘‘Will some of the vested interests that benefit from the
current structure resist? I suspect they will. They do in the
U.S., in  Europe  and  Japan . But the Chinese leadership’s
interests are that of all the Chinese people not just specific
groups.  Former President  Jiang Zemin  and former Premier Zhu Rongji
‘‘used the WTO accession process to push internal reforms in
China in the course of the late 90s. WTO membership then
connected China into the rules-based trading system. That
provided the foundation for the export led and investment-led
growth that has been so successful for the past 10 years.  ‘‘If you look at the conditions in the international
economy, it would be unrealistic to expect that China would be
able to rely on exports to the same degree going forward.’’  On the need for state-owned enterprises to pay dividends:  ‘‘Many experts have the view that state-owned enterprises
have benefited from very inexpensive financing, preferred
positions in the market and they’ve gained very large retained
earnings that have led to China’s savings but haven’t
necessarily benefited all the Chinese people.  ‘‘To reduce China’s global savings rate and also to benefit
the Chinese people, if a lot of those dividends are sent back to
provide social benefits for China’s people you’ll have
structural change and help support some of the social security
system.’’  On Chinese policy makers’ receptiveness to change:  ‘‘In my conversations with the Chinese leaders, they not
only say they want to move to reform, they describe the
challenges in a way that suggests they know it’s needed.  ‘‘Having said that, I don’t expect any big bang reform. The
history of China’s development process starting with  Deng
Xiaoping  is often to start in local areas, with pilots and to
test and then to widen the process.  ‘‘They are very aware of the facts - the environment costs,
the urbanization process, the aging population, some of the
issues of social disparity. I think they believe they need a new
approach to be able to address those issues.  ‘‘From some informal conversations with some of our Chinese
colleagues, in the process of their discussing the draft of this
report with other ministries, I’ve gotten the sense that there
is a hope that with the next generation that things will move
forward.’’  On the need to improve China’s fiscal system:  ‘‘Part of China’s high savings rates are the retained
earnings of those state-owned enterprises.’’ Some of the money
to fund an expanded pension system ‘‘could come from dividends
from state-owned enterprises.  ‘‘There have been a lot of disputes in China over land and
this is often because local governments have expenditure
responsibilities but they don’t have revenue sources, they don’t
get revenue from the center. So if you move towards a revenue
system that matches resources with expenditure responsibilities,
you avoid some of the tensions that are built into the system
and you get benefit for the average person in China.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  