-- Chinese Tower May Add Floors to Become World’s Tallest After Burj Khalifa
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T03:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/chinese-tower-may-add-floors-to-become-world-s-tallest-after-burj-khalifa.html
Shanghai Greenland Group (GGPZ)  said it may
add more floors to  China ’s second-tallest building under
construction to turn it into the highest in the world after the
Burj Khalifa in Dubai.  The closely held company set up in 1992 may increase the
height of Greenland Center in the central city of Wuhan to 636
meters (2,086-foot) from 606 meters, said Wang Xiaodong,
Greenland’s Shanghai-based spokesman. That will exceed the 632-
meter Shanghai Tower also scheduled to be completed in 2014.  China is home to 53 percent of all skyscrapers being built
around the world, up from 44 percent a year earlier, Barclays
Capital Research said. The country will increase the number of
skyscrapers to 141, from the current 75, by 2017, according to
the bank’s annual Skyscraper Index report in January.  “The local government in Wuhan actually has a stronger
intention to revise the plan, but it’s not easy for a skyscraper
like this,” Wang said in a phone interview today, adding that
the plan may be finalized by the end of the year.  The Greenland Center broke ground on the project in
December 2010 with a planned investment of 30 billion yuan ($4.8
billion). The development will include luxury hotels, apartments,
and a conference center, it said. The building is on track to be
completed in two years, Wang said, declining to say how much
costs will be added with any revision to the plans.  China Daily  reported the news earlier today.  ‘Fierce Competition’  The building in Wuhan, about 900 kilometers (559 miles)
west of Shanghai, will be taller than the 492-meter World
Financial Center in Shanghai’s Lujiazui financial district, now
the tallest tower in China. The Burj Khalifa is the world’s
tallest at 828 meters, based on  Council on Tall Buildings and
Urban Habitat ’s data.  “There has always been fierce competition among cities in
China to attract greater investment and record faster economic
growth,”  James MacDonald , head of China research for Savills
Property Services (Shanghai) Co., said in an e-mail. “While
it’s hard to compete with Shanghai in terms of economic might or
attraction for foreign investment, it’s a lot easier to compete
in individual construction projects.”  Shanghai-based, government-controlled Greenland, which has
properties in 43 Chinese cities across 22 provinces, has built
skyscrapers in the country’s less affluent second- and third-
tier cities. That includes a 450-meter tower in the eastern city
of Nanjing and a 518-meter Greenland Center under construction
in the northeastern city of Dalian.  The new skyscrapers will help local governments in China
draw publicity and status, especially for cities in central or
western parts of the country, MacDonald said.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  