-- Most China Stocks Fall on Concern Rally Overvalues Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T07:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-concern-rally-overvalues-corporate-earnings.html
Most Chinese  stocks  fell as bets
that the benchmark index’s rally to a three-month high was
overdone overshadowed speculation the government will ease bank-
lending restrictions.  China  Oilfield Services Ltd. dropped 0.7 percent after  oil
prices  sank for a second day. Suzhou Anjie Technology Co., which
supplies devices to Apple Inc., slid 4 percent, leading a gauge
of small companies down from the highest level since Dec. 2.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  gained 0.7 percent after the
China Securities Journal said regulators had allowed banks to
continue lending to local governments for some projects.  About nine stocks fell for every five that rose on the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which closed 0.2 percent higher at
2,451.86. The gauge, which swung between gains and losses at
least 11 times today, settled at the highest level since Nov.
17. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.2 percent to 2,662.46. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 0.7 percent yesterday.  “The run-up is a bit fast and the pressure for a
correction is increasing,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund
manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.
“The market needs a break here and we also need to see coming
economic data will be good to justify the rally. Trading will be
volatile going forward.”  The 14-day  relative strength measure  for the Shanghai
Composite, measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a specified time period, was at 71.1 yesterday. Readings
above 70 indicate a price may be poised to fall.  Manufacturing Index  The  Shanghai index  has advanced 7 percent this month,
heading for the biggest monthly gain since October 2010, on
optimism the central bank will add to a Feb. 18 cut in  reserve
requirements  to halt a decline in economic growth. For the year,
the measure has rebounded 11 percent and trades at 10.2 times
estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6,  weekly data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation are
scheduled to release a manufacturing index for this month on
March 1. The measure may rebound to 50.9, according to the
median estimate of 22 economists in a survey by Bloomberg News.
It was at 50.5 in January, above the 50 threshold for expansion.  China Oilfield, the drilling unit of the nation’s largest
offshore oil producer, slid 0.7 percent to 17.68 yuan, trimming
its gain to 22 percent this year.  Offshore Oil Engineering Co. (600583) ,
a unit of the country’s third-largest oil producer, sank 0.3
percent to 6.15 yuan.  Oil for April delivery in  New York  fell as much as 0.7
percent to $107.84 a barrel in electronic trading today. Futures
retreated 1.1 percent to $108.56 a barrel yesterday, after
reaching a nine-month high on Feb. 24.  Small Companies  The  Shenzhen Stock Exchange Small and Medium Enterprises
Index  dropped 0.9 percent today after rising for six days to the
highest level since Dec. 2. Suzhou Anjie slumped 4 percent to
31.86 yuan after jumping by the 10 percent daily limit
yesterday. NavInfo Co., a developer of electronic maps, fell 1.7
percent to 23.79 yuan.  China’s yuan-denominated A shares may decline late next
month amid what could be a “sensitive reporting season” for
the nation’s companies, according to UBS AG.  The brokerage recommends investors reduce allocations to
cyclical industries such as coal and non-ferrous metals, Li Chen, a UBS strategist, wrote in a report dated today. UBS
suggests gradually buying stocks of food, beverage, traditional
medicine and some retail stocks when markets retreat.  There is “potential downside risk in late March,” the
strategist wrote. “We do not support aggressive positioning
before there is enough evidence of the economy bottoming out.”  Trailing Estimates  One hundred and twenty-six companies in the Shanghai
Composite have reported annual profits since Jan. 1, gaining 18
percent on average and trailing estimates by 5.3 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  A measure of financial stocks in the CSI 300 advanced 0.6
percent today. Agricultural Bank, the nation’s fourth largest by
assets, added 0.7 percent to 2.76 yuan.  China Citic Bank Corp. (601998) ,
the banking unit of the nation’s largest investment company,
climbed 2 percent to 4.58 yuan.  Bank of Ningbo Co., part-owned by  Singapore ’s Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., rose 1 percent to 10.20 yuan after saying
in a preliminary earnings statement yesterday that profit
increased 40 percent last year.  Local Governments  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  has allowed banks
to continue lending to local government financing vehicles for
land reserves and  road construction , the China Securities
Journal reported today.  Local government financing vehicles can also continue to
borrow for projects that have been more than 60 percent
completed, according to the newspaper. The regulator had
previously allowed new loans only for building affordable
housing units, it said.  China may loosen property-market policies at the end of the
first quarter or early in the second quarter, Helen Qiao, an
economist at Morgan Stanley, said in Beijing yesterday.
Increasing pressure from local authorities may cause the change,
she said.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission has asked
brokerages and mutual funds to “lead the way” in making
“value” investments in shares of “blue chip” companies in
China, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing an
unidentified CSRC official.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Darren Boey, Chan Tien Hin  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  