-- Showdown Over China’s Property Curbs Simmers After Wuhu Retreat on Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-29T08:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/chinese-lawmakers-showdown-over-property-curbs-simmers-after-wuhu-retreat.html
China ’s local municipalities will
press on with efforts to ease property curbs that have slowed
the land sales they rely on for revenue, even after two cities
retreated in the face of opposition from the central government.  Wuhu and Foshan, smaller cities that get at least 30
percent of their revenue from selling sites, abandoned attempts
to lift some restrictions that have hurt prices and sales.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  has reiterated the government won’t waver
from its measures to keep housing affordable.  “The local governments are testing the water, but the
central government is saying we are not ready yet,” said Andy Rothman, CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets’ Shanghai-based China
macroeconomic strategist, who expects officials in Beijing to
start allowing their local counterparts to relax housing
enforcements in the second quarter.  That is already happening. The southern city of Zhongshan,
the hometown of Sun Yat-sen, the founder of modern China,
increased a price cap on residential home sales in January, and
the western city of Chongqing last month raised the minimum
threshold where a property holding tax kicks in.  Tensions between the two levels of authority will be on
show next week as officials gather in Beijing for the annual
National People’s Congress starting March 5. Land sales fell 13
percent last year from 2010 to 1.9 trillion yuan ($302 billion),
according to a  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  survey of 130 cities,
threatening funding for roads, highways and rail lines.  More Complaints  “Smaller cities rely much more on the property industry
than big cities, from land sales to deed tax,” said Liu Li-Gang,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. “We are probably going to hear a lot of complaints
from small-city government officials during the NPC about how
much their revenue and economy have suffered.”  China has more than 1,000 county-level governments and
hundreds of city and municipal councils that get revenue from
local taxes, land sales and central-government transfers because
rules bar most of them from selling bonds. Land sales make up 30
percent of local government revenue and in some cities account
for more than half, according to a June 2011 report by Zurich-
based UBS AG.  Policies related to the property sector -- including
whether purchase restrictions in second- and third-tier cities
should be relaxed, preferential policies for first-time buyers,
and plans to extend the property tax experiment to more cities -
- “will surely be debated” at the NPC, according to economists
at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Fine-Tuning  “We believe the central government will not ease its major
property tightening measures,” the economists led by Lu Ting
wrote in the report. “However, the government could step up its
fine-tuning on several fronts.”  Changes may include further lowering  mortgage rates  and
down-payment ratios for first-home buyers and encouraging
developers to build smaller homes by providing favorable
policies on loans and land, the economists said.  The NPC is legally the highest governmental body in China.
While the legislature, with about 3,000 members, is often
derided as a rubberstamp parliament, its members are some of
China’s most powerful politicians and executives, wielding power
in their home provinces and weighing in on proposals such as
whether to impose a nationwide property tax.  Wu Yajun, China’s richest woman and chairman of Beijing-
based  Longfor Properties Co. (960) , is a member of the NPC.  Shrinking Revenue  China’s home prices grew 6 percent in 2010 after surging 25
percent the previous year when the government started imposing
curbs, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. Home
sales rose 10 percent in 2011, the slowest pace in three years.  The government moved to stamp out speculation with measures
including raising down-payment and mortgage-rate requirements,
imposing property taxes for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing, and home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  The result has been shrinking local government revenue.
Land sales in Wuhu, a mid-size industrial city in the east and
home to China’s sixth-largest automaker, fell 51 percent last
year to 4.64 billion yuan from 2010, while they slumped 60
percent to 5.3 billion yuan in the northeastern industrial city
of Dalian, according to SouFun, the nation’s biggest real estate
website.  Local governments spearheaded a construction boom under a 4
trillion yuan stimulus program started in November 2008 after
global credit markets seized in the wake of the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. in September that year.  Backing Down  Property became the pillar industry in most second- and
third-tier cities than in Beijing and  Shanghai , which have more
diversified industries and are considered more affluent,
according to Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  “Desperate diseases require desperate remedies,” said
Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities. “Had the government not introduce the nationwide
property tightening, it would be hard to control the risks of
asset bubbles. But today smaller cities are feeling the bigger
impact from the policies.”  First-tier cities include wealthier Shanghai, Beijing, and
Guangzhou and Shenzhen in southern China, according to the
statistics bureau. The second tier includes provincial capitals
and the third includes smaller cities.  Wuhu in Anhui province had planned to waive a deed tax and
subsidize some purchases, becoming the first Chinese city this
year to signal its intention to ease property measures. The
decision was halted three days after the Feb. 9 announcement, in
a move reminiscent of Foshan, in the south, which in October
shelved plans to ease limits on home purchases one day after its
announcement.  ‘A Blind Eye’  China’s  home prices  in January recorded their worst
performance in at least a year, with none of the 70 cities
monitored by the government posting month-on-month gains. China
stopped releasing national average property prices in favor of
individual cities in January 2011.  The eastern city of Wenzhou posted the biggest drop, with
home prices declining 7.6 percent in January from the same
period last year, according to the statistics bureau. A  credit
squeeze  on smaller businesses in the city prompted a visit and
pledge of financial aid from Wen in October.  There are signs the central government may be allowing some
modest forms of property curbs relaxation. It “turned a blind
eye” in the case of Zhongshan and Chongqing’s “policy fine-
tuning,” according to CIMB-GK Securities Research Pte.  Mild Easing Allowed  “Local government officials are trying to read the mind of
the central authority,” said Johnson Hu, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at CIMB-GK. “It seems cautious, mild easing
moves are allowed, while drastic relaxations are likely to be
called off.”  Major Chinese cities also are attempting some form of
easing. Shanghai on Feb. 22 reiterated its property curbs remain
in place after a newspaper affiliated with the state-run Xinhua
news agency reported the city will tweak its definition of
locals to allow a broader pool of people to buy second homes.  Shanghai stated yesterday that the definition of locals
excludes residence permit holders. That would leave out 671,000
in the city of 20 million who were issued residence permits as
of March 2009, China Business News reported.  The measure tracking property stocks on the benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 3 percent at the close, the most
in three months.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest listed developer
on mainland exchanges, declined 2.8 percent to 8.28 yuan in
Shenzhen trading, while its biggest rival Poly Real Estate Group
Co. slid 3.3 percent to 11.1 yuan in Shanghai.  No Major Policies  “It’s very unlikely for the housing ministry to make any
major policy moves ahead of the NPC, while local governments
just can’t wait,” said Peter Bai, a Beijing-based property
analyst at China International Capital Corp., the country’s
biggest investment bank. The jostling between local and central
governments will last for at least half a year, he added.  China’s central bank cut the amount of cash that banks must
set aside as reserves for the second time in three months on Feb.
18. It also pledged on Feb. 8 to ensure that “loan demand from
first-home families” is met, echoing a housing ministry comment
in December that it will prioritize loans for first-home buyers.  “The central government wants to retain control of this
easing process; they don’t want each city going off and
operating on its own level,” said CLSA’s Rothman. “They need
to be convinced that they have enough evidence that policies
have worked before they start relaxing them.”  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  