-- Cholesterol Drugs Have ‘Small’ Increased Diabetes Risk, U.S. FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-28T20:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cholesterol-drugs-have-small-increased-diabetes-risk-u-s-fda-says.html
Cholesterol-lowering statins such as
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s best-selling Lipitor will carry a warning about an
increase in blood-sugar levels in patients, leading to a greater
risk of diabetes, U.S. regulators said.  At the same time, the  Food and Drug Administration  today
removed the need to monitor patients’ livers, saying serious
liver injury is “rare” with statins including  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s Crestor and  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Zocor. The drugs also are tied
to  memory loss  and confusion that is reversed when they are
stopped, the FDA said in a  statement .  “This small increased risk of higher blood-sugar levels
needs to be taken in the context of the very strong evidence of
beneficial things that are provided by statins,”  Matthew Price ,
director of the cardiac catheterization laboratory at Scripps
Clinic in  La Jolla ,  California , said in a telephone interview.
“This doesn’t affect my prescribing of statins where it’s
clinically indicated, though I will make sure I closely follow
patients at risk for diabetes.”  Statins work by blocking a substance the body needs to make
cholesterol and may help the body reabsorb cholesterol built up
on artery walls that can cause heart attacks, according to the
 Mayo Clinic . Lipitor, the world’s top-selling  medicine  with
about $9.6 billion in 2011 revenue, lost U.S. patent protection
last year and generic versions of the medicine are on the
market.  Previous Research  Research the past two years linked the cholesterol-lowering
medicines to  Type 2 diabetes , the most-common form of the
disease associated with obesity. A 2010 study in The Lancet, a
U.K. medical journal, found a slight increase in the instance of
diabetes and, last June, a report in the New England Journal of
Medicine found an added risk of diabetes in those taking high
doses of statins.  Diabetes affects more than 20 million Americans, according
to the  National Institutes of Health . The condition is caused by
too little insulin and resistance to insulin, a hormone produced
by the pancreas to control blood sugar.  While statins raise blood sugar, they reduce the risk of
heart attacks even in diabetics, the researchers found.  “We want health-care professionals and patients to have
the most-current information on the risks of statins, but also
to assure them that these medications continue to provide an
important health benefit of lowering cholesterol,” said Mary Parks, director of FDA’s division of metabolism and
endocrinology products.  Effect on Blood Sugar  Giving a statin to people who already have elevated blood-
sugar levels may push them into the diabetic range, even if it’s
only a tiny increase, said  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at
the Cleveland Clinic in  Ohio . Those patients still would reap
heart benefits from lowering their cholesterol as do people who
don’t develop diabetes, he said.  “Accordingly, the diabetes risk does not outweigh the
benefits of statins,” he said. “For the vast majority of
patients, the benefits greatly outweigh the risks.”  The removal of the requirement for liver function testing
“is long overdue,” Nissen said.  “There are few, if any, cases where statins have been
implicated in liver injury,” he said. “Regular testing is an
anachronism.”  The label changes underscore the need for more personalized
medicine, said Eric Topol, director of the Scripps Translational
Science Institute. The drugs can trigger diabetes in 1 in 200
patients, he said. Analyzing the genetic makeup of people on
statins, and identifying those who are most vulnerable, would
improve  patient safety .  “With tens of millions of people taking statins, that’s a
significant number of people,” Topol said in a telephone
interview. “That’s why we need to know the genomics. Then we
could use the drug for its benefits and not worry about inducing
diabetes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  