-- Chu Says U.S. Considers Oil Reserve Amid Iran ‘Concern’
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-28T22:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/chu-says-u-s-considers-oil-reserve-amid-iran-concern-1-.html
The Obama administration is
considering the option of tapping the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve amid concerns that  Iran  will interrupt oil supplies and
push gasoline prices higher, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said.  “We’re very concerned about what’s happening in Iran, and
so we’re working with” the  International Energy Agency , Chu
told reporters today after a congressional hearing in
 Washington .  Later, in an e-mail clarifying Chu’s remarks, Jen Stutsman,
an Energy Department spokeswoman, said “the secretary was not
implying that we are working specifically with the IEA on a
potential release” from the reserve. “As the administration
has said repeatedly, we are not taking any options off the
table,” she said.  “As we do in our normal course of business, we continue to
work with the IEA to monitor global oil supplies and demand,”
Stutsman said.  Three House Democrats including Representative  Edward
Markey  of Massachusetts last week urged the Obama administration
to use the emergency inventories “to combat the rapid price
escalations” in gasoline, which they blamed on “speculation.”
Congressional Republicans, the energy industry, and some
Democrats oppose the move, saying the reserve must be kept
available in case of supply disruptions, including by Iran.  Earlier today, at a separate event in Washington, Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  said using oil from the reserve is among
the options President Obama is considering. “No decisions have
been made,” Salazar said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  