-- Chu Says Backing Prologis Had ‘Nothing to Do With Solyndra’
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-28T15:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/chu-says-backing-prologis-had-nothing-to-do-with-solyndra-1-.html
U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu,
responding to a House investigation, said he didn’t intervene to
support a $1.4 billion partial loan guarantee for a  Prologis
Inc. (PLD)  solar-power project as a way to aid failing Solyndra LLC.  Chu said he supported the plan to install solar panels on
warehouse roofs in 28 states because of its business model that
included financing from private investors.  “It had nothing to do with Solyndra,” Chu told reporters
today at an energy conference near  Washington  in suburban
Maryland.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee
asked the Obama administration official to explain links between
San Francisco-based Prologis and Solyndra, which sought creditor
protection in September, two years after receiving a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee. Solyndra was to be the only
supplier in the first phase of Prologis’s initiative, known as
Project Amp, according to a letter to Chu from the panel.  Committee leaders want to know whether Chu helped Prologis
secure its U.S. backing in order to prop up Solyndra. The
Fremont, California, company had already filed for bankruptcy
protection when the Energy Department gave Prologis, a real-
estate investment trust, its loan guarantee in September.
Solyndra was no longer a supplier when Prologis won its award.  Project Amp, which has been stalled by the Solyndra
bankruptcy, is being funded by Prologis and its partners, which
include  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  of Princeton,  New Jersey , and  Bank of
America  Corp. of Charlotte,  North Carolina , James Larkin, a
Prologis spokesman, said in an e-mail. The loan guarantee
provides U.S. backing for the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  