-- Cigarette Taxes Can Help Cure Two of Greece’s Ills: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-02-28T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cigarette-taxes-can-help-cure-two-of-greece-s-ills-peter-orszag.html
Among all the trials and
tribulations that define  Greece  these days, one that has
received relatively little attention is its sky-high smoking
rate. Greece’s is the  highest  in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Greece is an outlier also in that
its smoking rate has risen significantly over the past decade.  The country’s fiscal crisis may therefore have a silver
lining: It has forced the government to raise tobacco taxes
modestly, and this already appears to be reducing smoking rates.
Still, much more could be done.  In 2009, a shocking 40 percent of Greeks smoked. That is
almost twice the OECD average of 22 percent. In France and
 Spain , the smoking rate was 26 percent. In the  U.S. , the rate is
half that in Greece. The Greek rate was six percentage points
higher than even  Russia , the only other developed economy whose
rate was more than 30 percent. In Greece, smoking rates exceeded
30 percent even for medical students, a  study  by Constantine
Vardavas and Anthony Kafatos of the University of Crete found.  Perhaps even more troubling is that, in the past decade,
the share of adult Greeks who smoke rose by almost 6 percent.
Over that period, in the OECD as a whole, smoking prevalence
declined by 18 percent. The only other developed country that
experienced an increase in smoking was the  Czech Republic  -- but
Greece’s rise was larger.  The health effects are predictable. Data from the
International Agency for Research on Cancer show an age-adjusted
death rate from lung cancer of 48 per 100,000 Greek males. In
the U.K., that rate is 33 percent lower. In  France  and the U.S.,
it’s 20 percent lower than in Greece.  Cheaper Packs  One of the causes of high and rising smoking rates in
Greece has been relatively low cigarette prices. In 2011, a pack
of 20 premium cigarettes cost a little more than $5 in Greece,
compared with more than $8 in France and more than $11 in the
U.K. and Ireland, according to the  Tobacco Manufacturers
Association . In the U.S., prices vary significantly by state; in
 New York , a pack costs more than $10.  The prices in Greece have reflected relatively low tax
rates compared with other European countries. Before the recent
policy changes, that pack of 20 cigarettes carried a tax of less
than $4. In France, the tax exceeds $6. In the U.K., it amounts
to almost $9.  A variety of evidence suggests that higher taxes on
cigarettes reduce smoking rates, especially among teenagers --
which is important because people’s lifelong smoking patterns
are typically set during their teenage years. That’s why it’s
encouraging that in January 2010, in response to the fiscal
crisis, the Greek government boosted taxes on cigarettes by
about 20 percent. That raised prices for consumers by about 15
percent.  Using estimates of the price elasticity for smoking that
have been developed by the economist Jonathan Gruber of the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and others, that tax
increase might reduce overall amounts of smoking by 7 percent --
and the reduction in smoking rates would be perhaps 2 to 3
percentage points. In fact, recent evidence from the Center for
Global Tobacco Control at  Harvard University  suggests that
smoking rates have already started to come down in Greece
following the tax increase and an ongoing public awareness
campaign. But a much larger increase in tax rates could help to
both narrow the fiscal gap and further  reduce smoking rates .  A typical concern about higher cigarette taxes is that
they’re regressive: Since lower-income people are much more
likely to smoke, a higher tax imposes a larger burden on them.
In the U.S., for example, smoking rates are substantially higher
among lower-income and less-educated people. Yet conventional
estimates showing that higher cigarette taxes are regressive
exclude the impact of higher price elasticities among lower-
income people, and also the health benefit that comes from
quitting smoking.  Lower-Income Smokers  In Greece, surprisingly, smoking rates don’t seem to vary
that much by income or education. Researchers at University
Medical Center at Rotterdam have  found  that the lowest-income
men in Greece are only 30 percent more likely to smoke than
anyone else; for  Europe  as a whole, lower-income men are 50
percent more likely to smoke. Even more strikingly, in Greece,
lower-income women are 40 percent less likely to smoke than
other women. For European nations as a whole, lower-income women
are about 10 percent more likely to smoke.  The absence of a sizeable smoking gradient by income may
partly explain why researchers from the University of  Athens  and
Harvard School of  Public Health  found that, in Greece, cancer
mortality doesn’t vary by  socioeconomic status . In the U.S., in
contrast, low-income people have significantly higher death
rates from cancer. Pronounced declines over the past couple of
decades in smoking rates among higher-income Americans have
contributed to sharply rising inequality in  life expectancy . In
Greece, life expectancy also varies significantly by income, but
smoking patterns can’t explain it.  The same patterns also suggest that higher cigarette taxes
wouldn’t be regressive in Greece. Given the dire need for
additional revenue, the Greek government should raise tobacco
taxes much more than it has so far.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  