-- Cisco Pursues Wi-Fi ‘Small Cell’ Sales as Data Traffic Surges
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-28T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cisco-pursues-wi-fi-small-cell-sales-as-data-traffic-surges.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  is expanding into
a line of products that enable cellular-like roaming on Wi-Fi
networks as Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  seeks to
capitalize on last year’s doubling of mobile-data traffic.  The “small-cell” technology lets carriers such as  AT&T
Inc. (T)  shift data from their cellular networks to Wi-Fi without
interruption, relieving congestion, Cisco said in a statement
today. The products may help  San Jose , California-based Cisco,
the biggest networking-equipment provider, compete with
Stockholm-based  Ericsson AB (ERICY) , the largest maker of wireless gear.  Wireless data traffic -- videos, audio and e-mails sent via
laptops, smartphones and tablets -- more than doubled in 2011
and will do the same this year, Cisco said this month. Ericsson
said Feb. 21 it’s buying Wi-Fi equipment maker BelAir Networks
Inc. for an undisclosed amount and yesterday  announced  new
products that combine Wi-Fi and cellular network capabilities.  “Everyone is trying to get into Wi-Fi,”  Peter Jarich ,
service director at researcher Current Analysis Inc. in
Sterling,  Virginia , said. “Cisco has to protect its start.”  Cisco accounted for 52 percent of industrywide sales of Wi-
Fi networking gear for corporate customers in 2011, and was one
of top-three vendors in such gear for wireless service
providers, researcher  Dell’Oro Group Inc.  said.  Global industry sales of Wi-Fi gear to service providers
are projected to quadruple from 2011 to 2016, to 2 million
units, Dell’Oro said. That’s more than double the pace of growth
for sales to corporate customers, Dell’Oro said.  ‘Big Step’  Cisco previously offered carriers Wi-Fi gear that didn’t
integrate with their cellular networks. Cisco is showcasing its
products at this week’s  Mobile World Congress  show in Barcelona.  “It’s a big step for us,”  Murali Nemani , senior director
of service provider-mobility marketing at Cisco, said in an
interview. “In the service provider space, our focus has been
in routing and switching and packet core. With this
announcement, we are now going into the access infrastructure.”  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless-service provider,
and Calgary-based  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  have already started
using Cisco’s new technology, and some international carriers
are in commercial trials with the products, Nemani said.  For carriers, routing to Wi-Fi networks is becoming the
preferred solution for mobile-data traffic, which will grow 18-
fold from 2011 to 2016, Cisco  estimated . By 2015, Wi-Fi networks
will manage more traffic than fixed-line or cellular networks,
according to  Cisco estimates . Wired networks handled 60 percent
of the global traffic flow in 2011, followed by Wi-Fi with 38
percent and cellular with 2 percent, Cisco said.  “The industry is evolving from traditional Wi-Fi to Wi-Fi
and cellular,”  Chris DePuy , an analyst with Dell’Oro, said in
an interview. “The definition of what these devices look like
is changing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  