-- CME Subpoenaed By Federal Grand Jury, CFTC in Probes of MF Global Collapse
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-02-28T16:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/cme-subpoenaed-by-federal-grand-jury-cftc-in-probes-of-mf-global-collapse.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, said it received a subpoena from a federal
grand jury investigating the October collapse of MF Global
Holdings Ltd.  CME Group, which had auditing authority over the failed
futures broker, has been asked to produce information and
witnesses in connection with the investigation by a grand jury
in the Northern District of  Illinois , the Chicago-based company
said in a regulatory filing today. The company also received a
subpoena from the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
a document request from the Securities Investor Protection Corp.
trustee handling MF Global’s liquidation, it said.  The CFTC is reviewing CME Group’s audit of MF Global before
the broker’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy, when as much as $1.6 billion in
client funds went missing, a person familiar with the matter
said last month. The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission,
 Justice Department  and bankruptcy trustees overseeing MF
Global’s liquidation are investigating the possible misuse of
client funds.  “We believe that we carried out our duties and
responsibilities in accordance with these standards and
procedures,” CME said in the filing.  Cooperating With Authorities  The grand jury subpoena was issued on Nov. 1, the CFTC
subpoena came the day after that, and the request for documents
by the MF Global bankruptcy trustee was made Jan. 31, according
to Anita Liskey, a CME Group spokeswoman. The company is
cooperating with the investigating authorities, she said.  Randall Samborn , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in  Chicago , declined to comment. Fitzgerald issued
subpoenas in a probe of MF Global, a person familiar with the
matter said in November. A grand jury has the power to issue
indictments.  MF Global, one of the largest clearing brokers at CME, used
about $700 million of customer funds to “meet liquidity
issues” at its broker-dealer in the days prior to the
bankruptcy, according to a timeline of events released by CME
Group.  New York-based MF Global’s failure marks the first time a
futures broker’s bankruptcy has led to the loss of customer
funds,  Terrence Duffy , CME Group’s executive chairman, told a
congressional panel in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 