-- Campus Life, After Affirmative Action: Stephen Joel Trachtenberg
-- B y   S t e p h e n   J o e l   T r a c h t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-28T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/colleges-after-affirmative-action-commentary-by-stephen-joel-trachtenberg.html
The  Supreme Court ’s decision to hear
a major case challenging affirmative-action policies at the
 University of Texas  is widely seen as a sign that the five
conservative justices in the majority are ready to do away with
racial preferences in higher education.  The prevailing legal view is that such a ruling will reduce
the number of black and Latino students at almost every
selective college and graduate school. But why does that have to
be the case? For an answer, consider another question: What is
the role of the college admissions officer?  If the court restricts the use of affirmative action or
set-asides, both public and private colleges and universities
will have to develop a set of characteristics for the selection
process that are less politically charged. Each school will
respond appropriately in its own way. But on the whole, the
impact will be similar, if not uniform, across the country.  Using only high-school grades and standardized tests would
give us a freshman class with far more women than men.
Therefore, some balancing will be necessary to ensure gender
equity (except at  Barnard ,  Smith  and  Mount Holyoke ).
Geographical representation (for non-state-supported schools)
will be sought. The major field of study will become more
significant in choosing applicants than is currently the case:
There will be room for chemists, yes, but also linguists.  It is hard to predict if this system would be better or
worse, more or less equitable than the present system.  Set-Asides’ Effect  Affirmative action has been a bitter, but necessary, pill.
Designed to right a wrong, it began to provide opportunities for
a portion of the population that has been unjustly denied access
to education and opportunity. What began as a remedy for one
group -- black Americans -- was later broadened to include a
wide selection of others: women, Latinos, American Indians,
people with disabilities and special needs, veterans and several
other groups.  The current special set-asides in college admissions serve
two very different purposes: to improve access for under-
represented groups, as noted; but also to deliberately build  a
diverse multidimensional class because a diversity of gender,
ethnicity, geographical origin and talents is good for its own
sake, irrespective of whether a wrong is to be righted.  How does one define merit in admissions? Standardized tests
have their own problems and are often criticized for perceived
biases against disadvantaged students who have received an
inferior K-12 education or who lack experience in taking such
exams. Letters of recommendation are subjective and often tell
us as much about the writers as about the candidates.  High-school grades and, by extension, class standings are
increasingly subject to a subtle gaming of the ranking system.
School districts want to be known as places where their
graduates go on to excellent colleges and universities. Since
students with high grades tend to be admitted more easily than
those with lower ones, there has been an inflation of grades
over recent years. Today’s B plus is yesterday’s B minus, and
hardly anyone in college-bound classes ever flunks. High-school
students are not always held to rigorous standards, and colleges
often have a difficult time equating the grades from one school
to another.  Formula for Harvard  Merit measured solely by grades would bring us a class of
students who were one-dimensional in some ways and uneven in
others.  Harvard  could fill its class with high-school seniors
with near-perfect SATs, all valedictorians. Who wants to go to
college to meet fellow freshmen from only Newton, Scarsdale,
Bethesda, Shaker Heights or  Palo Alto  -- the tried and true
upper-middle-class communities?  Colleges are going to look for ways to continue economic
diversity, cultural pluralism, gender equity and geographic
distribution because it makes a far more interesting group of
students to study with and learn from. The purpose of the
admissions officer is not to attract to his or her campus a
group of students who are uniformly consistent. It is to take
from some large pool of applicants a reduced number with a cross
section of characteristics.  The challenge is to assemble a class that fits both the
academic blueprint and the budget of the institution (balancing
tuition income and financial aid). To do this, the admissions
committee seeks men and women; humanists, hard scientists and
social scientists; domestic and international students, and
musicians, artists and athletes. The search for a golden mean
involves both hard data and intuition. The experience of reading
hundreds of resumes, perhaps thousands, over years informs the
perception and judgment of admissions officers.  A liberal-arts education introduces students to a broad
base of academic subjects, and on most campuses  students are
required to study languages, literature, economics, history,
fine arts, mathematics and science. In each of these classes,
some students are naturally more adept at mastering the subject,
and each discipline draws some students and repels others. No
campus, not even the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is
looking only for students who wish to major in physics.  Different institutions are searching in different areas of
the universe. The Juilliard School has its agenda, as does the
 California Institute of Technology .  St. John’s College  looks for
undergraduates with very different interests from those at the
 University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, though neither is
looking for one-dimensional people.  In the end, the view of merit in students and the concept
of what makes up a high-quality entering class have evolved in
the past 25 years. A multicultural community is at the heart of
every campus from  New York University  to the University of
 Mississippi .  For generations colleges were most inventive in finding
ways to keep Jews and blacks out. Now they may have an
opportunity to use their wits to find the legal means to admit
and enroll multicultural classes without the use of affirmative
action. My money is on the universities, which were, after all,
open for business before the Constitution was drafted.  Schools will work within the law, as they have in the past,
and they will be creative in responding to any court ruling as
they continue to fulfill their mission.  After all, colleges are
known for their creative interpretation of the classics --
whether they are by Shakespeare or the chief justice.  (Stephen Joel Trachtenberg is president emeritus and
university professor at George Washington University and a
partner at Korn/Ferry International. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Joel Trachtenberg at  Trachtenberg@gwu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 