-- U.S. Consumer Sentiment Climbs Toward ’08 Levels
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-28T21:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/consumer-sentiment-among-americans-climbs-back-toward-pre-recession-levels.html
Consumer-confidence  measures are
climbing out of the depths reached during the last recession as
employers step up hiring and stocks rally, signaling Americans
may be poised to increase spending.  The Conference Board’s gauge in February increased to the
highest level in a year, figures from the New York-based
research group showed today. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index rose to an almost four-year high in the week through Feb.
19, and the Thomson Reuters/ University of Michigan  measure of
consumer sentiment increased to 75.3 in February, the sixth
straight monthly gain and the longest advance since 1997.  The last time the University of Michigan index stayed above
75 for more than two months was in the period through January
2008, a month after the end of the previous expansion. Consumers
are likely to grow more optimistic as the two-year recovery
boosts employment and incomes further, said  Dean Maki , chief
U.S. economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York .  “The major driver of the improvement in confidence has
been the labor market,” Maki said. “We would expect consumer
confidence to continue trending higher if the labor market
continues to improve as we expect.”  Employers have added 1 million workers to payrolls since
July, according to Labor Department data. During that same
period, the  unemployment rate  dropped by 0.8 percentage point,
the biggest decline since 1984. The rate was 8.3 percent in
January, the lowest in almost three years.  Job Growth  The pace of job growth is picking up. Payrolls rose by
243,000 in January, the biggest gain since April.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual
pace in the fourth quarter of 2011, the fastest since the second
quarter of 2010. The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in
January for a fourth month, signaling the economy will maintain
its expansion.  Growth is helping to power stock-market gains. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index is up 9.1 percent in 2012, the best start to
a year since 1991. The  S&P 500  rose 0.3 percent in New York
today to 1,372.18. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  added 23.61
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,005.12 for its first close above
13,000 since 2008.  Gains in stocks, in turn, are contributing to household
wealth, helping to make up for some of the damage wrought by the
18-month recession.  Unemployment Claims Decline  A decline in claims for  unemployment benefits  is adding to
evidence of a labor-market recovery.  Applications for jobless benefits held at 351,000, the
lowest level since March 2008, for the week ended Feb. 18,
according to Labor Department data. The four-week average, a
less-volatile measure, declined to 359,000, also the lowest
since March 2008.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 38.4 in
the period to Feb. 19, the highest since April 2008, from minus
39.8 the previous week. It marked the second straight week above
minus 40, which is the level associated with recessions and
their aftermath.  The Conference Board’s gauge this month increased more than
forecast to 70.8 from a revised 61.5 in January, today’s report
showed. Economists predicted the index would climb to 63,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A sustained rise in gasoline costs poses a threat to
confidence. A gallon of regular unleaded  gasoline  climbed to
$3.72 as of Feb. 27, the highest level since June, according to
AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  Gasoline Prices  “Gasoline prices have been a pretty important contributor
to consumer confidence over the last decade or so,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “When gasoline prices spike, consumer
confidence goes down.”  Still, rising incomes may help spur a recovery in housing,
which was at the principal driver of the last recession, he
said.  “People are only going to buy a house if they feel
confident they’re going to have a job and be able to make the
mortgage payments,” Stanley said.  Homebuilders such as Miami-based  Lennar Corp. (LEN)  are
optimistic.  “Consumers are beginning to realize that housing
represents an undeniable value proposition, and accordingly
demand is growing,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer at
Lennar, the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said on a
Jan. 11 conference call.  Home Sales  Sales of previously owned homes, which account for about 94
percent of the market, rose in January to the highest level
since May 2010, the National Association of Realtors said on
Feb. 22.  Purchases of cars and light trucks in the U.S. climbed to
an annualized rate of 14.1 million last month, the highest since
the so-called cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009,
according to industry data.  Companies such as Houston-based  Sysco Corp. (SYY) , the biggest
North American distributor of food to restaurants, are counting
on further gains in consumer confidence and spending.  “To a large extent, our performance in the second half of
the year will be heavily influenced by how much the recent
uptick in consumer confidence translates into increased  consumer
spending  on meals away from home,” Chief Executive Officer Bill DeLaney said on a Feb. 6 conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  