-- Copper Futures Advance to Two-Week High on Greek Aid, Confidence Gains
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-02-28T18:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/copper-falls-on-concern-rally-unsupported-by-china-demand.html
Copper rose to a two-week high as
German legislators approved a second bailout for  Greece , and
U.S. and European gauges of economic confidence rose more than
expected, pointing to improving growth and metals demand.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won a parliamentary vote on
Greek aid after warning lawmakers that pushing Greece out of the
euro would risk “incalculable” damage. Confidence among U.S.
consumers jumped in February to the highest level in a year, the
Conference Board said today. The European Commission in Brussels
said an index of executive and consumer sentiment climbed for a
second month.  “ Europe  is going to do what they can to protect the euro,
and there are signs that Greece is starting to live up to their
agreements in holding back on spending,” Harry Denny, a broker
at Hoboken, New Jersey-based PVM Futures Inc., said in a
telephone interview. “The  U.S. economy  has shown tremendous
stability, and that’s adding momentum” in copper-price gains,
he said.  Copper futures for May delivery climbed 0.8 percent to
$3.9215 a pound at 1:21 p.m. on the Comex in  New York , the third
straight gain. Prices reached $3.9575, the highest for a most-
active contract since Feb. 10.  A gauge of confidence in Germany will reach a 12-month high
in March,  GfK SE (GFK)  said. The country was the world’s third-biggest
copper consumer in 2010, according to researcher CRU.  Prices also rose as China’s money-market rate touched a
three-week low on speculation that the supply of cash is
increasing since a reduction in banks’ reserve ratios took
effect. The country is the biggest global consumer of the metal.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained 0.7 percent to $8,600 a metric ton ($3.90 a
pound).  Stockpiles of copper monitored by the LME, down 19 percent
this year, declined 0.5 percent to 298,850 tons, the lowest
since August 2009, exchange figures show.  Lead, zinc and tin rose in  London . Nickel and aluminum
fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  