-- Oil Rises From One-Week Low on Economic Outlook; Heads for Monthly Advance
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-29T07:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/crude-trades-near-one-week-low-on-demand-concern-heads-for-monthly-gain.html
Oil advanced from the lowest price
in almost a week in  New York  amid signs of economic recovery and
concern that tension with  Iran  threatens global crude supplies.  West Texas Intermediate futures climbed as much as 0.6
percent after sliding yesterday the most in five weeks.
Industrial output in Japan and  South Korea  beat estimates and
U.S. consumer confidence rose to the highest level in a year.
Oil is set for its first monthly gain in three as sanctions
tighten against Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  “The  U.S. economy  is one of moderate growth,” Ric Spooner,
a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney, said in a
telephone interview today. “The Iranian situation is still
there and is likely to limit the extent of any downside.”  Oil for April delivery increased as much as 60 cents to
$107.15 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $106.98 at 3:22 p.m. Singapore
time. The contract yesterday slipped $2.01, or 1.9 percent, to
$106.55, the lowest close since Feb. 22 and the biggest drop
since Jan. 20. Prices are 8.6 percent higher this month and up
10 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement advanced 89 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $122.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded WTI was at $15.40, compared with $15 yesterday
and a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Oil in New York has technical resistance at $114.96 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the 76.4
percent Fibonacci retracement of crude’s rally from $10.35 in
December 1998 to a record high of $147.27 in July 2008. Futures
in May last year halted an advance below that level. Sell orders
tend to be clustered close to chart resistance.  Economic Outlook  U.S. consumer confidence rose to the highest since February
2010, the New York-based Conference Board said yesterday.
 Japan ’s factory output increased 2 percent in January, and South
Korea’s industrial production rose 3.3 percent, according to the
nations’ governments today. All the increases beat the median
economist estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  New York crude has advanced this year as the West builds
sanctions against Iran. Many countries are curtailing purchases
of oil from the country, and the U.S. anticipates “a very hard-
nosed negotiation” with Iran over its nuclear program,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  told the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee yesterday.  Iran has threatened to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit
route for a fifth of the world’s crude, in response to an
embargo. The Obama administration is in talks with the
 International Energy Agency  as the U.S. considers using its
Strategic Petroleum Reserve on concern the Persian Gulf nation
may interrupt oil supplies, pushing gasoline prices higher,
Energy Secretary Steven Chu said yesterday.  U.S. Pump Prices  The sanctions have helped boost Iranian crude prices 15
percent in 2012, while U.S. gasoline at the pump has risen to
the highest for this time of year since the Energy Department
started compiling records in 1973. Prices for motorists averaged
$3.721 a gallon, up 10 percent from a year earlier, according to
Energy Department data on Feb. 27.  Iran produced 3.5 million barrels of oil a day last month,
according to analysts estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi
Arabia , the biggest member in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, had output of 9.7 million barrels a day.  Oil tumbled yesterday after the U.S. Commerce Department
said  orders  for durable goods dropped 4 percent in January, the
most in three years.  U.S. crude inventories climbed  521,000 barrels  last week,
the  American Petroleum Institute  said after the settlement. A
government report today may show they gained by 1.1 million,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma ,
the delivery point for New York futures, rose 1.64 million
barrels to 33.8 million, data from the industry-funded API
showed. Distillate fuel inventories fell 3.31 million barrels
and gasoline stockpiles dropped 916,000 barrels.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  