-- Oil Declines Most in Five Weeks in New York as Durable Goods Orders Tumble
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-28T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/crude-falls-for-a-second-day-after-decline-in-u-s-durable-goods-orders.html
Oil fell the most in more than five
weeks as U.S. orders for durable goods dropped in January by the
most in three years, signaling slower economic growth and lower
fuel demand.  Futures declined 1.9 percent in  New York  as data from the
Commerce Department showed  bookings  for goods meant to last at
least three years slumped 4 percent. An Energy Department report
tomorrow will show U.S. crude supplies rose to the highest level
in five months last week, according to the median of analyst
responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The durable goods numbers do not paint a picture of
robust demand going forward,” said  Addison Armstrong , director
of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We’re going to see builds in this week’s report, which is also
putting downward pressure on prices.”  Crude oil for April delivery fell $2.01 to settle at
$106.55 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decline since Jan. 20. Prices are up 9.9 percent in the
past year.  Prices were little changed from the close after the
 American Petroleum Institute  said oil inventories rose 521,000
barrels to 341.9 million last week. The April contract slid to
$106.48 a barrel at 4:33 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for April settlement dropped $2.62, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $121.55 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
crude narrowed for a fourth day, dropping 61 cents to $15 a
barrel. It reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Durable Goods  Durable goods orders were projected to decline 1 percent,
according to the median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Oil also slipped in New York as  home prices  in 20 U.S.
cities dropped to the lowest level since the housing crisis
began in mid-2006. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  fell 4 percent
from a year earlier, a report from the group showed.  U.S.  crude oil inventories  probably rose 1.1 million
barrels last week, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. Supplies of gasoline and
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, probably declined, the survey showed.  The API collects supply information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  ‘Pretty Rich’  Crude climbed to $109.77 a barrel in New York on Feb. 24,
the highest settlement since May 3, as escalating tension over
 Iran’s nuclear program  threatened supplies. The Persian Gulf
nation missed an opportunity last week to begin clearing up what
can “only plausibly” be called an atomic-bomb program, Laura Kennedy, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Conference on
Disarmament, said today in Geneva.  At $110 “crude oil was pretty rich, especially for the
month of February, this is not a big demand period,” said  James Cordier , the founder of Optionsellers.com in Tampa,  Florida . “A
lot of investors were buying crude oil on the idea that conflict
between Israel and Iran was about to take place and I think that
has come down a little bit.”  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.55 million barrels of
crude a day last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. The Islamic republic has threatened to block shipments
through the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for about 20
percent of globally traded oil, if its exports are blocked.  ‘Same Mantra’  “Prices have risen for a long time on the same mantra
about  Iran ,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York. “There’s a limit to how high they
can go while the oil is still flowing.”  Oil gained early in the session after confidence among U.S.
consumers rose in February to the highest level in a year. The
Conference Board’s  index  increased to 70.8 from a revised 61.5
in January, the New York-based private research group said.
Economists predicted a climb to 63, according to a Bloomberg
News survey.  “Prices are still at rarefied heights,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The increasing optimism about the
economy is still giving us support.”  New York oil’s 14-day relative strength index, a technical
indicator, climbed to 76.9 on Feb. 24 after seven straight
advances. A reading above 70 indicates futures have risen too
quickly and further gains probably aren’t sustainable. The RSI
was 62.4 at 4:47 p.m.  “There’s no specific headline that explains this move,”
Bentz said. “It’s time for us to take a breather and for some
of the froth to come out of the market.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 543,868
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 687,880
contracts yesterday. Open interest was 1.5 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  