-- TD Bank Settles Lawsuit With Razorback Over Rothstein Fraud in Florida
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-28T23:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/td-bank-settles-lawsuit-with-razorback-over-rothstein-fraud-in-florida.html
Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  agreed to
settle a lawsuit with investors who claimed it aided a
$1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme  run by imprisoned confidence man Scott Rothstein, a lawyer said in court.  Barron’s and the Miami Herald reported that TD Bank would
pay $170 million. A bank attorney told Judge Jeffrey E.
Streitfeld today in state court in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida ,
that a draft settlement was reached and is confidential. The
accord is with investors known as the Razorback Group.  “We have settled,” Glenn Goldstein, an attorney for the
bank, said. Goldstein and Bill Scherer, attorney for the
investors, both told the judge that they believe the settlement
is “enforceable,” though it hadn’t been signed. The investors
claimed losses of $188 million.  The case was scheduled for trial next week. Razorback’s
suit against Gibraltar Private Bank & Trust is still set to go
to trial next week. Gibraltar’s attorney argued today that the
terms of the TD settlement should be made public. Streitfeld
said he expects to rule March 2 on whether it can remain
confidential.  “We feel it is in the bank’s best interest to put this
matter behind us,” Rebecca Acevedo, a spokeswoman for Toronto-
based TD Bank, said in an e-mail.  Rothstein, 49, is a disbarred attorney serving 50 years in
prison for a scheme he ran out of his  Fort Lauderdale  law firm.
He sold stakes to investors in fictitious employment- and sex-
discrimination cases. Seven other people have been criminally
charged.  The case is Razorback Funding LLC v. Rothstein, 09-062943,
17th Judicial Circuit in Broward County (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 