-- Dalio Earned Clients $13.8 Billion to Lead Hedge Funds as Paulson Slumped
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-29T00:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/dalio-earned-clients-13-8-billion-to-lead-hedge-funds-as-paulson-slumped.html
Ray Dalio ’s Pure Alpha hedge fund
made $13.8 billion for its investors last year, while  John Paulson  lost clients almost $10 billion after an unsuccessful
wager that the  U.S. economy  would recover, according to a report
by LCH Investments NV.  Pure Alpha, part of Dalio’s Bridgewater Associates LP, has
earned $35.8 billion for investors since its inception in 1975,
said LCH, a firm overseen by the Edmond de Rothschild Group.
Losses for New York-based Paulson & Co. last year cut gains the
firm has made for clients since its 1994 founding to $22.6
billion, LCH estimated.  Dalio’s Pure Alpha II ran up a 23.5 percent gain in the
first 10 months of the year. The manager, 62, had three of the
industry’s 12 best-performing funds, Bloomberg Markets reported
in its February issue. The firm charges 2 percent of assets as a
management fee and gets 20 percent of profits.  Bridgewater, based in Westport,  Connecticut , has about $120
billion of assets and uses a macro strategy to try to profit
from economic trends. It placed diversified bets in 2011 after
predicting a flight by other investors to safer assets such as
U.S. Treasuries and German bonds, standing out in a year when
hedge funds lost  5.2 percent  on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Paulson posted a record loss of 51
percent in one of his biggest funds.  “Macro investing is notoriously difficult, but the best
managers are able to find opportunities, especially in troubled
markets,” London-based Rick Sopher, LCH’s chairman, said in the
report. Funds lost a net $123 billion, LCH estimated.  Brevan Howard  Macro  hedge funds  lost 7 percent last year, according to
Bloomberg data.  LCH’s research on the 10 most profitable hedge funds ever
shows such firms earned clients a net $3.1 billion in 2011.
Other money-making hedge funds on the list included  Brevan
Howard  Asset Management LP’s Master Fund with $3.2 billion of
gains and Baupost Group LLC with $400 million. Brevan Howard,
based in London, was co-founded in 2003 by former Credit Suisse
AG trader  Alan Howard , 48, and Seth Klarman, 54, founded Boston-
based Baupost in 1983.  LCH said its analysis of how much hedge funds made for
investors after charging performance and management fees is
based on discussions with the funds, audited reports issued by
the firms and confidential sources. The total typically includes
a manager’s investment in his own firm.  Funds that lost money last year include Paulson with $9.6
billion,  George Soros ’ Quantum Fund with $3.8 billion,  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP with $800 million and  Louis Bacon ’s Moore Capital Management LLC with $300 million,
according to LCH’s estimates.  ‘An Aberration’  Paulson, who made billions of dollars betting against the
U.S. housing market in 2007, remains the third-most profitable
hedge fund manager ever after rivals at Bridgewater and Quantum,
according to LCH.  “Our performance in 2011 was clearly unacceptable,”
Paulson, 56, wrote in a letter sent this month to clients. “We
took too much equity exposure and lacked sufficient hedges to
mitigate the market volatility. However, we believe 2011 will be
an aberration in our long-term performance.”  Caxton Associates LP and Thomas Steyer and Andrew Spokes’
San Francisco-based Farallon Capital Management LLC didn’t make
or lose any client money last year in their main funds, LCH’s
data show. Soros, 81, decided last year to return all money to
outside investors.  Bruce Kovner , 67, Caxton’s CEO and founder,
retired in 2011 from the New York-based firm, which is now
managed by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader Andrew Law.  SAC Capital  New to LCH’s list of the most profitable hedge funds
through 2011 is  Steve Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors, which has
made $12.2 billion for clients since inception in 1994,
according to LCH. SAC, based in  Stamford , Connecticut, replaced
 Edward Lampert ’s ESL Investments Inc. of Greenwich, Connecticut.  Below is a list of how much money clients have made
investing in top hedge funds since inception. The data are
provided by LCH Investments NV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  