-- Dearth of Danish Credit Spurs Underwriting
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-29T11:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/dearth-of-danish-credit-spurs-underwriting-ambition-for-investment-bankers.html
ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA (ASC)  is
adding as many as 20 bankers in Copenhagen as it seeks to profit
from demand for corporate bonds amid a dearth of bank credit in
Denmark.  “It’s an important reason to set up in Copenhagen,”
Thomas B. Lindquist, who was hired last month by ABG to lead the
Norwegian investment bank’s push into Denmark, said in an
interview. He left a similar position at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the
Nordic region’s biggest lender.  Danish firms are turning to corporate debt markets to
escape bank lending cuts that the Confederation of Industry
warns are getting worse. That’s attracting investment banks
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , which opened its first office in
Denmark last year, as stricter global regulatory standards boost
the appeal of capital-light options such as bond underwriting.
Danske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s biggest lender, said this month it
also plans to expand its corporate finance unit.  “We expect corporate bonds to be a growing market in the
Nordics,” Philip Asp, managing director at Deutsche Bank’s
capital markets unit in Copenhagen, said in an interview. “In
contrast to some other areas, we don’t expect to reduce
headcount in this area and I’m hoping I will eventually be able
to start hiring again for this business.”  Corporate demand for alternatives to bank loans is growing
in Denmark. The Confederation of Danish Industry estimates two
thirds of its 10,000 members have limited access to bank loans
and said this month that the situation is getting worse.  Global Investors  In Denmark, the need for funds is most acute among small-
and medium-sized enterprises. That means banks that cater to
companies seeking to sell less than 500 million euros ($670
million) stand to win market share, Lindquist said.  “It’s one of ABG’s specialties as we do both the bigger
listed transactions, but also the smaller ones,” he said. “ABG
has a very strong placing power when it comes to distribution of
bonds to global investors.”  ABG helped advise on the equivalent of $700 million in
corporate debt sales last year to rank 22nd in the Nordics, just
ahead of  Societe Generale SA (GLR) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
SEB AB of  Sweden  was the region’s busiest underwriter, followed
by Nordea. The data cover bonds sold by companies based in
Scandinavia and issued in dollars, euros or Nordic currencies.  ABG’s deals included a 1.4 billion Norwegian kroner ($250
million) debt sale for  Fred. Olsen Energy ASA (FOE)  and a 400 million-
krona ($61 million) issue for Sweden’s Ferronordic Machines AB,
according to Bloomberg data.  Clever Strategy  The strategy of targeting corporate debt underwriting to
offset tighter capital rules is a clever one, according to
Fridtjof Berents, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo.
He predicts more lenders will turn to this model to generate
profits.  “Moving more corporate lending into bond markets will tie
up less capital and allow banks to sustain client
relationships,” Berents said. “Besides cutting costs, it’s one
of the few ways banks have left to increase return on equity.”  ABG’s shares have gained 36 percent this year,
outperforming the 43-member  Bloomberg index  of European
financials, which is up 18 percent in the period.  Danske Bank is also adjusting its business with a view to
underwriting more debt sales, said Mikael Ericson, senior
executive vice president in charge of large corporate accounts.  “We’ll see things speed up in the next two to three
years,” Ericson said in an interview. “It’s obvious that we’ll
see a trend where European, Nordic and Danish corporate clients
will use more capital market funding.”  Investor Interest  Investors are watching the development with interest. PFA,
Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund with $55 billion in
assets, may step up its corporate bond purchases, said Jesper Langmack, who heads the fund’s capital management unit.  “We have a benchmark for the minimum transaction size we’d
like to get involved in, but if the yield compensates the
 liquidity risk  on small issues, we have no problem going off
benchmark,” Langmack said in an interview. “We look at
everything and if the risk-return is attractive, we invest.”  PFA started investing in corporate bonds in 2008 and has
since doubled its holding in the securities to 40 billion kroner
($7.2 billion) at the end of 2011, Langmack said.  “If this market takes off in Denmark we would definitely
be willing to buy more,” he said.  ‘Times Are Changing’  Denmark had a total of $3.4 billion in corporate debt sales
last year, Bloomberg data show. That compares with $12.8 billion
in Sweden and $11.7 billion in Norway. Danish issuers last year
included the country’s biggest phone company TDC A/S. The
average deal size in Denmark was 10 times that of issues in
 Norway , the data show.  At J. Lauritzen A/S, a privately-owned shipping company
based in Copenhagen, management has turned to Norway’s debt
market to sell its bonds.  Denmark’s corporate debt market “needs to build,” Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen, executive vice president and chief financial
officer at Lauritzen, said in an interview. “Times are changing
and new rules related to banks may mean that we have to further
develop alternative funding means that we do not have in Denmark
these days.”  Rockwool A/S (ROCKA) , which produces stone wool for insulation and
has a market capitalization of about 12.4 billion kroner, says
many Danish firms have stopped relying on bank capital.  Banking Crisis  “After the banking crisis, a lot of Danish companies, us
included, are trying to survive without using the banks too
much,” Jens Krogsgaard, vice president of group finance, said
in an interview. “Banks want to get rid of big loans.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  has set a 7
percent core Tier 1 capital requirement by 2019, while the
European Union has a 9 percent target for this year. In the
Nordic region, regulators have signaled banks need to meet even
stricter standards. Denmark’s Financial Supervisory Authority
also requires banks to publish their individual solvency targets
and conducts stealth audits to keep lenders in check.  The Confederation of Industry, which argues the FSA’s
approach is exacerbating Denmark’s credit crunch, is also
exploring options to help fund Denmark’s SMEs.  “The objective is to find alternative ways for especially
the SMEs to get financing other than going to the banks,” Kent
Damsgaard, director of the confederation’s business and
economics department, said in an interview. “We’d prefer
something market-based. The last solution is to use public
money.”  ABG’s readiness to underwrite debt for small issuers may
not mop up all the funding needs of Danish SMEs, Lindquist said.  “We’re targeting companies that are already known,” he
said. That will help “to open up the Danish market” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  