-- Democrat Israel Says Party ‘in Range’ of U.S. House Majority
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-02-28T17:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/democrat-israel-predicts-party-in-range-of-u-s-house-majority.html
U.S. Representative Steve  Israel ,
chairman of House Democrats’ re-election efforts, said he thinks
his party will come “in range” of retaking majority control of
the  House of Representatives  in the November election.  Israel, who heads the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, said today that an improving economy, an unpopular
Republican proposal last year to privatize Medicare and
Republican lawmakers’ inflexibility in a series of spending
fights will benefit Democrats as they seek to win the 26 seats
needed to regain control of the House. Democrats currently hold
192 of the chamber’s 435 seats.  “We’re not there yet, we’ve got some work to do,” Israel,
of New York, told reporters at a breakfast in Washington
sponsored by Third Way, a Democratic policy group. “It’s going
to be razor-close.”  Voter frustration over the economy helped Republicans make
historic gains in the 2010 election when they picked up 63 seats
in the House and six in the Senate, taking control of the House
and narrowing the Democrats’ Senate majority. The magnitude of
the shift is unlikely to be repeated this November, Israel said,
despite his prediction that some independent voters are moving
back to the  Democratic Party .  Battles over federal spending in the past year -- which
risked shutting down the government and brought the U.S. to the
brink of a default on its national debt -- alienated some
independent voters in competitive districts, he said.
Republicans “misread” the results of the 2010 election, Israel
said.  Misread as ‘Mandate’  “These Republicans thought this was a Tea Party mandate,”
he said.  Paul Lindsay , communications director for the  National
Republican Congressional Committee , said it’s unlikely that
Democrats will achieve their goal.  “Steve Israel is spiking the football on his own five-yard
line,” Lindsay said in an e-mailed statement. “Americans have
no interest in rewarding Washington Democrats who continue to
inflict damage on an already fragile economy.”  A CBS News/ New York  Times telephone poll conducted Feb. 8
to 13 among 1,197 adults found that only 10 percent of Americans
approve of the job Congress is doing, while 82 percent
disapprove. The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus three
percentage points.  There are currently 43 Republicans representing districts
that voted for President  Barack Obama  in 2008 and 19 Republicans
who were elected in districts that also voted for Massachusetts
Senator  John Kerry , the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee.
Winning a fraction of those seats will bring Democrats close to
their goal of regaining control of the House, Israel said.  Congressional candidates in many states have an added
challenge this year because of redrawn district boundaries,
based on the 2010 census, which may provide more safety to some
Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  