-- Deutsche Telekom’s Obermann Joins Vodafone CEO in Calling for Cost Sharing
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-29T08:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/deutsche-telekom-ceo-calls-for-network-cost-sharing.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,  Germany ’s
largest phone company, said joint investments in laying cables
are necessary to remain competitive as  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens profit at the region’s telecommunications operators.  Deutsche Telekom (DTE) , which last month agreed to lease fiber
lines connecting wireless base stations to  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2
unit in Germany, is open to teaming up with other competitors as
declining revenue and high investments are hurting profit
margins at the fixed-line business, Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  said in an interview at the Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona.  Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom has budgeted 10 billion euros
($13.5 billion) to improve its German network for the three
years through 2012, including investments in a faster wireless
system based on the long-term evolution technology. Obermann
joins Vittorio Colao, CEO of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , in calling for
the sharing of investments as regulators balk at consolidation.  “Significant co-investments particularly in the fixed-line
business are even more important than the wireless side,”
Obermann said yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Wireless still has better returns from revenues
than fixed lines given the huge investments to deliver upgrades
in fixed lines.”  Financial Pressure  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s former phone monopoly, is also
considering cooperating with rivals to relieve the financial
pressure brought by a shrinking national economy, its CEO said.  “Whatever makes sense from a commercial point of view,
whatever makes sense in terms of sharing costs should be looked
at carefully,” Franco Bernabe said yesterday. “We definitely
don’t rule out looking very deeply at the most advanced level of
cooperation. That’s already being done and can be improved.”  Telecom Italia added 0.4 percent to 88 euro cents at 9:35
a.m. in Milan. Vodafone slipped 0.8 percent to 171.05 pence on
the London exchange. Deutsche Telekom gained 0.7 percent to 8.87
euros in Frankfurt.  Deutsche Telekom, which failed to sell its U.S. wireless
business to  AT&T Inc. (T)  last year, is struggling to prop up profit
as  T-Mobile USA (166783Q)  requires additional investments and most of the
company’s eastern European units lose customers as governments
implement austerity measures.  ’Resistance’  Investments must be shared by all industry players from the
top phone operators to content providers and customers, Obermann
said, adding that amortization of those investments is getting
more difficult as more efficiencies are sought.  “We have an increasing need of capital investments and we
also have an increasing need for efficiency because customers
won’t pay endless amounts of money for connectivity,” the CEO
said.  Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator, also
operates fixed-line networks in three of its largest European
markets,  Italy ,  Spain  and Germany.  “There is still a resistance to the concept of open
networks, not in mobile but in fixed networks,” Colao said this
week, referring to the three countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  