-- Deutsche Bank Chooses Guggenheim for Asset Management Unit Exclusive Talks
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-28T18:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/deutsche-bank-said-to-pick-guggenheim-for-talks-on-asset-management-units.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said it is holding
 exclusive talks  to sell its asset-management divisions to the
U.S. money manager Guggenheim Partners LLC.  The sale negotiations apply to the four businesses that the
Frankfurt-based bank put under review, including DWS mutual
funds in the Americas, the advisory units for institutional
investors and insurance firms, and its RREEF real-estate and
infrastructure division, the firm said in a Business Wire
statement today.  Guggenheim Partners, founded with backing from the
Guggenheim family, would more than quintuple its assets under
management with a purchase of the businesses, which oversee
almost 400 billion euros ($536 billion).  Deutsche Bank (DBK) , Europe’s
biggest bank by assets, announced a review in November of the
units, which may fetch 1.5 billion euros to 2 billion euros,
according to people familiar with the talks. The lender plans to
hold onto its DWS mutual-fund units in Europe and  Asia .  “This transaction would be positive in conjunction with
other moves Deutsche Bank is making to boost its capital
levels,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at Collins
Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in  London . “If Guggenheim is interested
in bidding for the whole thing, that’s definitely better than a
piecemeal sale. This would be a big takeover for them.”  Deutsche Bank shares  rose  as much as 1.9 percent in
Frankfurt earlier today after Bloomberg News reported an
announcement would be made on the exclusive talks with
Guggenheim. The shares gained 0.7 percent to 35.08 euros at the
close of trading.  Previous Interest  Guggenheim has been competing with firms such as  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  of Australia to buy the units, according to people
familiar with the process.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  State Street
Corp. (STT)  and  Ameriprise Financial Inc. (AMP)  were among companies
previously looking at the assets, people with knowledge of the
matter said in January. While Deutsche Bank seeks to sell the
business as a whole, several companies also submitted offers for
only parts of the business, they said.  Guggenheim, which is based in New York and  Chicago , manages
more than $125 billion of assets. The U.S. firm has more than
1,700 employees at over 25 offices in 10 countries, and is led
by Chief Executive Officer Mark R. Walter, according to its
 website .  The units for sale include DB Advisors, an institutional
money-management unit with 163 billion euros in client assets;
Deutsche Insurance Asset Management, which oversees 142 billion
euros; the RREEF unit, which specializes in real-estate and
infrastructure investments and manages 45 billion euros; and DWS
in the Americas, with about 42 billion euros.  Pretax Profit  Deutsche Bank’s entire asset-management unit, including the
DWS businesses to be retained, reported full-year pretax profit
of 446 million euros, up 67 percent from 2010, the lender  said 
this month. Kevin Parker, head of asset management, cut costs
and headcount by about a third from 2007 to 2010, while exiting
businesses not deemed strategically relevant, to lift profit.  The German lender needed to raise 3.2 billion euros after
 Europe ’s top regulator asked the region’s banks to bolster their
capital buffers by mid-2012 amid the sovereign debt crisis.
Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said earlier this month
that the bank was ahead of schedule to meet the European Banking
Authority’s requirements and had surpassed the amount of capital
it needed.  Ackermann, who’s leaving in May, built up the  asset
management  and consumer banking units to temper the company’s
reliance on  investment banking . Among the assets for sale are
the U.S. portion of DWS, formed in part from the acquisition of
the Scudder funds from  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN)  in 2002.  “Asset management in the U.S. had been making some
progress after a difficult period, but I don’t think Deutsche
Bank believed that in the medium-term it would provide the
returns it wanted,” Czepliewicz said. “So strategically it
probably makes sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  