-- Sept. 11 Victims’ Partial Remains Went to Landfill, Pentagon Advisers Find
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-29T02:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/dover-military-mortuary-needs-shake-up-pentagon-panel-finds.html
Cremated body parts of some victims
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were disposed of in a landfill
by a contractor to the U.S. military, a Pentagon advisory panel
found.  The remains from the attack on the Pentagon and the plane
crash in Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , couldn’t be identified and
were cremated and sent to the military’s mortuary in Dover,
 Delaware , the report released today found. The report didn’t
indicate any connection to victims of the attack on the World
Trade Center in  New York .  The disclosure came from an independent review panel
examining the practices of the mortuary at Dover Air Force Base,
the main U.S. entry point for the remains of thousands of troops
from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The report said the
“gross mismanagement” in handling the remains, including
disposal of body parts in landfills, stemmed from a “lack of
clear command authority and supervision.”  President  Barack Obama  has been briefed about the review
and “strongly supports the Pentagon’s efforts to make needed
systemic structural changes so that these types of incidents
never happen again,” according to an e-mailed statement from
White House press secretary  Jay Carney .  ‘Deeply Concerned’  Carney said in the statement that the administration is
“deeply concerned” about the reports. “The  United States  has
a solemn obligation to compassionately and professionally care
for fallen service members and their families, and those we
tragically lost on 9/11,” he said.  In the case of the Sept. 11 victims, body parts were
cremated, placed in sealed containers and then incinerated by a
biomedical waste contractor that wasn’t named in the report.  An inquiry by the mortuary’s management later found “there
was some residual material following incineration and that the
contractor was disposing of it in a landfill,” according to the
report.  “We don’t think it should have happened,” retired Army
General John Abizaid, chairman of a subcommittee of the Defense
Health Board, which conducted the mortuary review, said today at
a Pentagon briefing.  Air Force Secretary Michael Donley and General Norton Schwartz, the Air Force chief of staff, said they hadn’t been
aware that any remains of  Sept. 11 victims had been sent to a
landfill.  New Information  “This is new information to me,” Donley said at a
separate Pentagon briefing. He also cited a new policy, put in
place in 2009, that calls for portions of remains that are
cremated to be retired at sea.  “It’s been three years since there’s been a change in
policy, recognizing that prior practices were not appropriate,”
Donley said.  The review panel urged an overhaul of management for the
mortuary at Dover Air Force Base, which has received the remains
of thousands of U.S. troops who died in Iraq and  Afghanistan .
Some body parts were lost and some incinerated partial remains
of service members were deposited in a landfill, according to
earlier investigations.  “There’s a lot of things that need to be done there to
correct problems that we saw,” Abizaid said.  “It’s important
to understand these problems need to be corrected right away.”  The panel called on Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  to
create a new command position in the Armed Forces Medical
Examiner System. It also urged Donley to create “a new flag
officer level command” to oversee Air Force Mortuary Affairs
Operations.  Insufficient Training  “Training is insufficient across Mortuary Affairs,” the
panel said, in recommending that training for case managers,
casualty assistance officers and others “be increased and
standardized.”  Panetta, in a written statement, said, “These
recommendations will strengthen the chain of command, improve
oversight and help reduce the risk that these problems will
occur again.”  An Air Force review last year found that three senior
officials had displayed “gross mismanagement” at the mortuary
by losing body parts and doing nothing to correct sloppy
practices.  The report today also reviewed allegations that human fetal
remains were transported from Landstuhl Regional Medical Center
in  Germany  to Dover “in containers that were inappropriate and
did not meet regulatory standards.”  The panel found the containers met regulatory standards,
though they weren’t “typically used for this purpose.”  Appropriate Containers  The appropriate containers are now in stock “and the issue
is resolved,” the panel said.  “It is imperative that policy, structural, and procedural
solutions capture and reflect lessons learned from a decade of
war and that these lessons are not lost for the next generation
of fallen warriors,” the report found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  