-- Duplicative U.S. Government Programs Cost Billions, GAO Says
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-28T21:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/duplicative-u-s-government-programs-cost-billions-gao-says-1-.html
Congress has made only modest
progress on stamping out duplicative programs in the U.S.
government, according to a report.  The Government Accountability Office, in a follow-up to a
report issued last year, said today there are still scores of
overlaps that cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars a year.  The report counted 160 programs and tax breaks that promote
housing, as well as 53 initiatives supporting entrepreneurs.
Another 94 programs in 11 agencies promote the development of
“green” buildings in the private sector, and there are 15
different financial-literacy programs, GAO said.  “Even limited adjustments could result in significant
savings,” said GAO head Gene Dodaro. “Agencies can often
realize other kinds of benefits such as improved  customer
service  and decreased administrative burdens.”  The 426-page  report  updates an analysis the agency, the
investigative arm of Congress, issued last March listing 81
areas of duplication. Congress and the Obama administration have
addressed 5 percent of those areas. They have partially dealt
with 74 percent, meaning there is some progress toward
implementation, the report said. The agency said 21 percent
weren’t addressed.  “Who is to blame for this maze of government programs?
Very simply, it is Congress,” said Senator  Tom Coburn , an
Oklahoma Republican who sponsored legislation requiring the
annual reports.  ‘Shirk Its Duty’  The report is “a reminder Congress continues to shirk its
duty to address even blatant areas of waste and mismanagement of
taxpayer funding,” Coburn said.  President  Barack Obama  has asked lawmakers for expanded
authority to consolidate the bureaucracy, saying he would first
use it to combine six agencies dealing with trade and commerce.
Under his plan, the administration would offer proposals to
merge programs that would be subject to up-or-down votes by
Congress.  The plan, co-sponsored by Senators  Joseph Lieberman  of
 Connecticut  and  Mark Warner  of Virginia, hasn’t been put to a
vote in either chamber.  To contact the reporter on this
story: Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  