-- Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Drop 4%, Marking Worst Decline in Three Years
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-28T14:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-drop-4-marking-worst-decline-in-three-years.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods fell in
January by the most in three years, led by a slowdown in demand
for commercial aircraft and business equipment.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years
slumped 4 percent, more than forecast, after a revised 3.2
percent gain the prior month, data from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 1 percent
decline, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The expiration at the end of 2011 of a tax incentive
allowing full depreciation on equipment purchases may have
prompted a slowdown in investment at the start of this year. At
the same time, a strengthening  auto industry  may help keep
factories at the forefront of the expansion that began in June
2009.  “The expected weakness may not last, as the weak start to
the quarter has tended to give way to a stronger end over the
last 2 1/2 years since the recession ended,”  Jonathan Basile , a
senior economist at Credit Suisse in New York, said in an e-mail.  Last month’s decrease in capital goods orders extends a
pattern of declines early in a quarter that are typically
reversed later. Demand for non-military capital goods like
computers, engines and communications gear have dropped in the
first month of a quarter in all but three instances since the end
of 2005.  Stock-Index Futures  Stock-index futures erased gains after the figures, with the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring next month
falling less than 0.1 percent to 1,367.2 at 9 a.m. in  New York .  Estimates of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged from
a drop of 4.3 percent to an increase of 1.5 percent.  Orders for durables excluding transportation equipment
decreased 3.2 percent, the most since October 2010, after a 2.1
percent rise.  Demand for transportation equipment fell 6.1 percent,
restrained by a 19 percent plunge in civilian aircraft orders.
Boeing Co., the largest U.S. aircraft maker, said it received 150
orders last month, down from 287 in December.  Bookings for automobiles and parts increased 0.9 percent in
January after 1.1 percent rise the previous month.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual rate
last month, according to industry data. Excluding a surge in
August 2009 tied to the government’s “cash-for-clunkers”
program, it was the strongest month since May 2008.  Capital Goods  Today’s report showed bookings for non-defense capital goods
excluding aircraft, a proxy for business investment in items such
as computers, engines and communications gear, decreased 4.5
percent, the most in a year.  Orders slumped 10.4 percent for machinery, the most in three
years, and primary metals demand dropped 6.7 percent.  “Core capital goods -- a good proxy for business capital
spending -- which surged toward year-end to take advantage of the
expiring full depreciation allowance, are expected to push higher
still as an improving economic environment prompts businesses to
invest,” said  Benjamin Reitzes , a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, decreased 3.1
percent, the most since April 2009, after rising 2.8 percent.  End of 2011  Orders for business equipment jumped 3.4 percent in December
as some companies rushed to qualify for a government tax credit
that expired at the end of 2011 and allowed for 100 percent
depreciation on equipment purchases. The allowance this year is
50 percent.  “Durables have had pretty much had a V-shaped recovery in
the  United States ,” James McGill, chief human resource officer
at  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , said in a Feb. 24 conference call with analysts.
“The good news here is that this has been sustained primarily by
growth in capital goods. We think that gives us some traction,
some confidence in expecting that the recovery will continue into
2012.”  The report showed unfilled orders for durable goods
increased 0.5 percent. Unfilled orders for non-defense capital
goods minus aircraft also climbed 0.5 percent after a 1 percent
increase that shows demand may be sustained in coming months.  The Federal Reserve gauge of factory output expanded 0.7
percent in January after surging 1.5 percent a month earlier, the
best two-month performance since July and August 2009, when the
world’s largest economy was emerging from recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  