-- Learning From the Failures of Microfinance
-- B y   R a n d a l l   K e m p n e r
-- 2012-02-28T16:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/learning-from-the-failures-of-microfinance.html
     A few weeks ago, I attended a lecture about
microfinance, and got sucker-punched. Expecting to hear a
litany of pros and cons about the business, and an exploration
of good and bad models, I was instead greeted with a knockout
punch: Microfinance doesn't work, at least not in the way we
think it does.  The pugilist-presenter was David Roodman, a fellow at the
Center for Global Development and the author of a new
book,Due Diligence: An Impertinent Inquiry into Microfinance.
Billed as the "most complete investigation ever into the
consequences of microfinance," Roodman's findings aren't
pretty.  Development agencies have promoted microfinance — the
provision of small financial loans to poor people — because it
is supposed to help poor people move out of poverty. After a
comprehensive review of existing studies, with particular
focus on recent randomized control trials, Roodman says that
just isn't true. "On current evidence, the best estimate of
the average impact of microcredit on the poverty of clients is
zero," he argues.  Roodman does find, though, that the while microcredit
isn't a successful approach to poverty reduction, "it's not
the financial equivalent of cigarettes." Wow. That's
comforting.  Another reason for justifying microcredit is that it
offers poor people, particularly women, greater control over
their financial lives. Roodman says the evidence is mixed on
that count too. Some women may have been empowered, but others
have been forced to repay loans when it wasn't best for them.
Cross-collateralization groups become burdensome, not
emancipating, and at their worst, they lead to situations
where people rob from each other to pay off their debts.  The third benefit is that microfinance represents a new
industry that generates jobs and services. Roodman does say
that the evidence is generally positive here. Microfinance
institutions do "compete and innovate, cater to poor
people, create jobs, and enrich the national economic fabric."
According to Roodman, the cumulative amount of subsidized
capital in microfinance by 2009 was $15.7 billion, and that
has helped create a new industry. That's nice.  However, those billions could have helped create jobs in
other industries, some of which — such as health, water, and
sanitation — may have had a bigger impact on poverty than
microfinance has had. To make a judgment, a comparative
cost-benefit analysis would be necessary. And we couldn't
throw in the benefit of poverty-reduction as a mitigating
factor since that doesn't seem to be happening.  I left the discussion feeling defeated and fearful.  For starters, if Roodman is right, I'm a liar, or at
least, a misinformed advocate of microfinance. For years, I've
been saying that microfinance has lifted millions of families
out of poverty, but we need a thriving small and growing
business sector in order to lift countries out of poverty. You
can't build sustainable national economic prosperity based on
tiny firms. It seems like the first part of that isn't true.  My other response was fear. The organization I work
for, Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs (ANDE), is
dedicated to building a "movement like microfinance, but aimed
at the next level up" — another line I may have to stop using.
Businesses that have the greatest potential to create impact
are the ones seeking $200,000 or $2 million in investment, not
$200 or $2,000.  Organizations join ANDE because they share the common
mission of increasing the prosperity of poor people in
 emerging markets , believing that supporting entrepreneurship
and market-based solutions is part of a sustainable approach
to poverty reduction. ANDE has identified the "missing middle"
— the space between investments in small businesses and those
in other businesses in emerging markets, such as private
equity for larger companies — and its members help fill the
gap with capital, training, and resources.  But that's a hypothesis; there isn't sufficient evidence
to back the assertion that small and growing businesses are a
key part of poverty reduction. That's why I was scared... I
was standing there thinking "I don't want to be sitting in a
room like this 10 years from now, hearing how my industry, my
movement, my life's work had 'an average impact on poverty of
zero.'"  I'm relieved that ANDE launched a research initiative in
late 2011 that aims at answering the question of whether
support for small-and-growing businesses creates prosperity
for poor people. Working with academics and practitioners, it
is conducting rigorous impact assessments of support
programs, and developing data sets at the household level to
track poverty reduction over time. This is a relatively
nascent field, so it will be necessary to explore it
rigorously.  I'm sure that we'll find that it has a positive impact on
poverty reduction, but then again, I was certain that
microfinance had a positive impact as well. At a minimum, we
won't be blindsided again.  Randall Kempner is the executive director of the Aspen
Network of Development Entrepreneurs.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 