-- East Africa Power Plant to Be Kept Below Capacity on Environment
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-02-28T12:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/east-africa-power-plant-to-be-kept-below-capacity-on-environment.html
Rwanda , Tanzania and Burundi agreed
that a planned hydropower project to feed electricity to the
three countries will be limited to two-thirds of its potential
capacity because of environmental concerns.  The facility will generate 60 megawatts, compared with its
potential of as much as 90 megawatts, Antoine Sendama, the
coordinator of the Nile Equatorial Lakes Subsidiary Action
Program, or Nelsap, said in an interview on Feb. 24. Building a
larger plant would cause flooding and necessitate the
resettlement of more than 35,000 households, he said.  “The countries agreed to maintain the initial estimate to
generate 60 megawatts because it has less environmental impact,
and would require resettlement of between 600 and 800
households,” Sendama said. The decision “helped secure funds
for the project.”  East African countries from  Tanzania  to Sudan are investing
in electricity output as they seek to power industrial growth
and export energy to their neighbors. Ethiopia, the source of
the main tributary of the Nile, started building the 5,250-
megawatt Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam hydro plant in April,
while 600 miles to the north, Sudan is preparing to construct
the $705 million Kajbar dam.  The $300 million Rusumo Falls project involved building a
power plant in Rwanda near the Burundian border to the south and
the Tanzanian border to the east. Construction is expected to
start early next year, Sendama said.  “The  World Bank  will fund generation, while the  African
Development Bank  the transmission lines,” he said.  Nelsap is an investment pool under the Nile Basin
Initiative, an intergovernmental water-resources group
comprising nations along the 4,200-mile river.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  