-- EBRD Interested in Buying Romanian Hidroelectrica Shares
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-28T12:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ebrd-interested-in-buying-romanian-hidroelectrica-shares-1-.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development is interested in buying shares in Romanian
hydropower generator Hidroelectrica SA as the Balkan nation
plans to sell a minority stake in the company this year.  The EBRD may be interested in government plans to sell 10
percent of Hidroelectrica by October through an initial public
offering on the Bucharest Stock Exchange, or lend investment
funds to the company, Louis Borgo of the EBRD’s power and energy
department said today at the Ziarul Financiar energy conference.  “We would be interested in potentially buying shares” in
Hidroelectrica, though “never the entire stake,” Borgo said in
an interview today. “The EBRD’s participation in an IPO-type of
environment is basically to send a signal to the market that we
believe in this IPO, that it’s been well structured and
ultimately that it’s a reasonable investment.”  Romania is selling stakes in energy and transport companies
this year to raise funds to cover its  budget deficit  and aid
state-owned companies’ investment in outdated plants and
infrastructure to meet the terms of its precautionary
international agreement.  ‘Informal Talks’  The EBRD is in “informal talks” with another state-owned
utility  Transelectrica SA (TEL) , in which the government plans to sell
a minority stake this year, to grant loans to fund an investment
program in the country’s  power grid , Borgo said. Transelectrica
needs to expand its power grid to accommodate a surge in power
generation stemming from rising investment in wind farms.  “It’s a possibility that we’ve been discussing with
Transelectrica for a while,” said Borgo. “We’re interested in
assisting them in upgrading the grid or building new lines” or
“assisting them in financing,” he said.  The EBRD is considering loans to fund six renewable
projects in  Romania  with an installed capacity of more than 500
megawatts, Borgo said. Wind and biomass projects would require
investments valued at “hundreds of millions euros,” he said.  The loans are “under consideration, we’re only at the
initial due diligence,” Borgo said. “We’re hoping two or three
would make it to the finish line this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  