-- ECB Suspends Greek Debt as Collateral
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-28T08:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ecb-suspends-greek-debt-as-collateral-after-s-p-credit-rating-downgrade.html
The  European Central Bank  said Greek
debt will temporarily be ineligible as collateral for loans
after Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut Greece’s credit rating to
“selective default.”  The ECB “has decided to temporarily suspend the
eligibility of marketable debt instruments issued or fully
guaranteed by the Hellenic Republic for use as collateral in
Eurosystem monetary policy operations,” the Frankfurt-based ECB
said in a statement today. “This decision takes into account
the rating of the Hellenic Republic as a result of the launch of
the private sector involvement offer.”  While the ECB’s risk management rules prevent it from
accepting collateral deemed to be in default, the central bank
will resume taking Greek debt once a 35 billion-euro ($47
billion) guarantee scheme agreed by European governments comes
into force in mid-March. A reduction in  Greece ’s credit rating
was anticipated after the country agreed a debt write-down with
private sector investors, seeking to reduce national debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last
year.  “After the downgrade it was clear this was going to
happen,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank
in  London . “The ECB isn’t going to make an exception to its
rule on not accepting defaulted collateral, and this is anyway a
temporary arrangement.”  The ECB said banks affected by the suspension of Greek debt
as collateral can turn to so-called Emergency Liquidity
Assistance schemes provided by their national central banks.  Greece published the formal offer document last week for
its agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with
investors taking a haircut of 53.5 percent. The Greek government
agreed that bonds held by the ECB and euro-area central banks
would be exempt from any debt restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  