-- ECB’s Special Greek Lender Status Risks Investor Retaliation: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-28T09:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ecb-special-lender-status-threatens-backlash.html
The  European Central Bank ’s
willingness to ride roughshod over bondholder rights risks
pushing up borrowing costs for indebted governments by making
investors less willing to lend.  The ECB swapped about 50 billion euros ($67 billion) of
Greek bonds for new securities, identical to the old ones in
every way save for identification numbers. The switch makes the
ECB senior to other investors, exempting it from the largest
sovereign restructuring in history as Greece rewrites the terms
of its notes to ensure lenders forgive 53.5 percent of the debt.  “Bondholders are effectively being subordinated every time
the ECB gets involved -- not legally, but economically,” said
Saul Doctor, a credit strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
London. “Foreign investors are going to be less willing to buy
sovereign bonds when the ECB can exert itself.”  The ECB has immunity to the losses imposed by the bond-swap
plan, designed to trim  Greece ’s debt burden by 106 billion euros
and enforced by the threat of retroactive collective action
clauses that prevent holdouts. Greek 10-year yields are almost
35 percent, valuing the securities at 20 percent of par, after
Standard & Poor’s yesterday cut the nation’s debt rating to
“selective default.”  “They’ve thrown away the rulebook of crisis resolution,”
said Gabriel Sterne, an economist at London-based brokerage
Exotix Ltd. “It’s a cynical move that will affect the world for
years to come and they did it because they can get away with it.
It’ll push up costs for other stressed sovereigns so they’re
shooting themselves in the foot.”  Default Risks  The cost of insuring sovereign bonds against default has
risen, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments at 344 basis points, up
from 318 on Feb. 7 and approaching the record 385 set in
November.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association’s
determinations committee has been asked whether credit-default
swaps linked to Greek bonds have been triggered because the deal
with the ECB gives official bondholders “a change in the
ranking in priority of payment,” according to the group’s
website.  The ECB said today Greek debt will temporarily be
ineligible as collateral for loans after the S&P downgrade. The
central bank said it will resume taking the securities once a 35
billion-euro guarantee scheme agreed by European governments
comes into force in mid-March.  Restructuring Blueprint  Investors are concerned the Greek restructuring may prove
to be a blueprint for other countries. Yields for  Portugal ,
which also required an international bailout, have risen every
day bar three since Feb. 14. Its  10-year notes  are yielding
12.78 percent, up from 11.9 percent on Feb. 13, the day Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s rating to Ba3 from Ba2. The
rating is now three levels below investment grade.  More downgrades may come as ratings firms recalibrate their
grades now that Greece has prioritized repaying the ECB over
meeting its obligations to other lenders, said Michael Riddell,
a  fund manager  at M&G Investments in London, which oversees
about $323 billion.  “If people are more subordinated than was thought, then
you’d expect some rating action,” said Riddell. “The  ratings
agencies  have been miles behind the market during this debt
crisis. They’ve been very slow to downgrade the euro zone
sovereigns, so now that sovereigns are becoming subordinated, we
should eventually see some action on the back of this.”  Bond Exchange  The ECB’s bond exchange with Greece shows how documentation
of securities governed by local law can be changed to introduce
clauses that reduce investor protection. Private creditors now
risk losses both from the likelihood of imposed writedowns and
from effective subordination by official lenders, according to
 Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee $121 billion at Ignis Asset
Management in Glasgow.  “It’s the subordination of capitalism,” he said.
“Governments raise money to grow their economies. If that
fundraising is subject to governments changing the rules as they
see fit, then that’s a subordination of the capitalist system.”  It costs a record $7.3 million upfront and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years.
That signals a 94 percent chance of default within that time,
based on investors recovering 22 percent of their money.  Greece and Portugal are now the world’s most expensive
governments to insure, topping  Pakistan ,  Argentina , Ukraine and
 Venezuela . Developed sovereigns may be treated more like
emerging markets in future because investors will demand bonds
be issued under international law rather than the issuer’s
domestic law, according to Doctor at JPMorgan.  Refinancing Operations  The ECB also has subordinated bondholders of euro region
banks with its three-year longer-term refinancing operations,
the second of which starts today. The central bank lends against
collateral, meaning that in a default creditors will be left
with fewer assets to satisfy their claims.  That may not matter as long as the ECB is willing to step
in and buy  government bonds  when yields reach unsustainable
levels, said  Jim Reid , a strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London .  “Bondholders have to be slightly careful what they wish
for,” he said. “If the ECB wasn’t buying, if there wasn’t
official involvement, those countries couldn’t fund at all. It’s
better to be subordinated than to not have them buying bonds.”  Italian 10-year bond yields  have declined to 5.35 percent
from the euro-era closing high of 7.26 percent they reached on
Nov. 25.  Spain ’s 10-year notes now yield 5 percent, down from
the 6.7 percent euro-era record close they reached on Nov. 25.  Accept Losses  A refusal by government agencies to accept losses on the
government bonds they hold may make it harder for countries to
resume borrowing directly from investors on the global  capital
markets , according to S&P. It may also make the ECB’s purchases
of bonds on the secondary market less effective, according to
the New York-based rating company.  “Investors may worry that additional ECB bond buying will
inevitably lead to further subordination of investors’
positions,” S&P said in a statement. “In extreme
circumstances, yields could even reverse if concerns about
effective subordination were to outweigh the effect of the ECB’s
additional demand for sovereign debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  