-- Telefonica CEO Alierta Vows to Keep China Stake ‘Forever’ Amid Asset Sales
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-28T13:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/telefonica-vows-to-keep-china-stake-forever-.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to keep its 3
billion-euro ($4 billion) stake in  China  Unicom Hong Kong Ltd.
even as a sale could help  Spain ’s largest telephone company cut
debt, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta said.  Telefonica, which last week forecast a further decline in
profitability as rising unemployment curbs demand in its home
market, needs the growth of countries such as China and Latin
America, Alierta said in an interview at the annual  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona.  “The  stake  in China Unicom is completely stable and we
don’t plan to sell it at all,” Alierta said after a meeting
with top China Unicom management. “We consider it a long-term
and strategic alliance and that would be the case forever.”  To raise cash and stem investors’ concern about its
increasing  debt , Madrid-based Telefonica is selling non-core
assets, slashing is Spanish workforce and halting major mergers
and acquisitions. Sanford C. Bernstein’s analysts said this
month that a sale of Telefonica’s 9.7 percent stake in  China
Unicom (762)  could fetch 3.1 billion euros. Telefonica’s debt stood at
56.3 billion euros at the end of December.  Telefonica on Dec. 15 reduced its 2012 dividend forecast by
14 percent, abandoning a policy set up two years earlier, and
said market conditions had changed “significantly.”  ‘Totally Safe’  “The dividend is totally safe as it stands right now and
we won’t need to cut it again this year,” Alierta said
yesterday. The CEO also said he doesn’t expect further job cuts
this year after a reorganization that “has provided us with the
right company size.”  Last year, Telefonica agreed to increase its stake in China
Unicom to about 9.7 percent in exchange for the Chinese company
raising its holding in the Spanish operator to 1.37 percent. As
part of the agreement, each company pledged to buy $500 million
of shares in the other.  The two companies said in a joint statement today that they
signed a strategic partnership to remotely manage subscription
data in SIM cards enabling communication between machines.  Telefonica  dropped  0.5 percent to 12.84 euros at 2:53 p.m.
in  Madrid . China Unicom slipped 0.1 percent to HK$13.96 on the
Hong Kong exchange.  China Unicom, the nation’s No. 2 carrier, gained market
share by pushing smartphones that cost 80 percent less than
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  China Unicom started winning customers from market leader
 China Mobile Ltd. (941)  after it switched focus from high-end users of
the iPhone to those who can’t afford the device. China Unicom
started selling handsets from local manufacturers Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (763)  that cost less than 1,000 yuan
($159), or about half a month’s salary for an urban worker.  Latin America  The strategy helped make China Unicom the best-performing
stock on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  last year with a 47
percent increase.  Telefonica also ruled out selling assets in Latin America,
which already accounts for about half of the company’s revenue.  “We aren’t considering anything in the region at this
point other than bolstering our position especially within the
smartphone world,” Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, chief of
Telefonica’s operations in the region, said in a separate
interview yesterday.  In  Latin America , the company is trying to bolster its
position in the smartphone market as consumers increasingly buy
data-hungry devices offering video and gaming services.  Telefonica will continue to shed some non-strategic assets,
including small stakes in companies and infrastructure assets
such as antennas, said Fernandez Valbuena.  Digital Growth  “That’s what we’ve been working on, but there aren’t that
many remaining non-core assets we can dispose of,” he said.  To also boost growth in saturated markets, Telefonica needs
to expand its digital business, Alierta said.  “Telefonica Digital will see significant growth as we take
on new projects next year,” he said.  Telefonica Digital, created in September as part of a
 reorganization , has offices in London, Silicon Valley,  Tel Aviv ,
 Sao Paulo  and Madrid and represents Telefonica’s efforts to pull
together digital assets over three continents to take on
Facebook Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona via 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  