-- Elpida Margin-Order Surge Shows Investors Bet Wrong on Government Bailout
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-02-29T07:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/elpida-margin-order-surge-shows-investors-bet-wrong-on-government-bailout.html
Investors borrowed a record number
of  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  shares even as it filed for bankruptcy,
betting Japan’s last major maker of computer memory wouldn’t be
allowed to fail. They faced a rout today as the stock plunged 97
percent after the  Tokyo  bourse removed limits on how far the
price can move in a day.  Margin account holdings that profit when Elpida shares rise
 surged  to 5.3 million shares yesterday, the most since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 2004. That’s an increase of almost
1.8 million from Feb. 27, the day the company filed for
bankruptcy with liabilities of more than $5 billion, the data
show. The stock, which will be delisted on March 28, plummeted
97 percent to 7 yen as of the 3 p.m. trading close in Tokyo.  “Individual investors are the main players in  margin
trading  and some of these people were probably betting the
government would somehow save the day,” said Hiroyuki Uekusa,
general manager of trading at Meiji Yasuda Asset Management Co.
“Now these people are in a hopeless situation.”  The last time the bourse removed the daily limit for a
company, in September last year, developer  Suncity Co. (8910)  plunged
92 percent when it resumed trading. Suncity was delisted on Oct.
27.  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. imposes  daily limits  on how
much stocks can move up or down depending on their closing price
the day before. If the limits had remained in place, Elpida
today would’ve been allowed to move down, or up, by a maximum of
80 yen.  Previous Rescue  Elpida filed for  Japan ’s biggest bankruptcy in two years
after semiconductor prices plunged and it failed to win a second
government rescue. The last Japanese maker of computer-memory
chips, which lost money for five straight quarters, sought
protection at the Tokyo District Court Feb. 27 with  liabilities 
of 448 billion yen ($5.6 billion), according to a filing with
Japan’s finance ministry.  The Tokyo-based company got a 30 billion yen bailout from
the state-run  Development Bank  of Japan following a record loss
in the 12 months ended March 2009.  “I didn’t expect such a direct announcement because Elpida
had gotten money from the Development Bank of Japan and had
applied for a government restructuring plan,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “The bankruptcy is another reason why people find
it hard to buy Japanese stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  