-- Emerging-Market Stocks Surge to Highest Since August Before ECB Bank Loans
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-28T22:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/emerging-stocks-gain-after-oil-drop-chipmakers-rally-on-elpida-bankruptcy.html
Emerging-market stocks jumped to the
highest level since August on speculation the  European Central
Bank  will provide funds to lenders, boosting the outlook for the
global economy and appetite for riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.2 percent to
1,068.82 at the close in New York, the highest level since Aug.
4.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index climbed the most in more than a week,
led by crop producer Vanguarda Agro SA and lenders.  India ’s BSE
 Sensex Index (SENSEX)  rose, snapping a four-day drop as Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. advanced.  European banks will probably tap the ECB for 470 billion
euros ($632 billion) of three-year funds tomorrow, according to
a Bloomberg survey of analysts. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area rose for a second
month in February, beating predictions. A U.S. gauge of  consumer
confidence  jumped to the highest level in a year.  “The idea that the Europeans seem to be getting on with
the job, so to speak, seems to be buoying investors,” David Rees, an  emerging-markets  economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London  said by phone. “We’ve seen a general improvement in the
economic data everywhere, and that’s bolstered risk appetite and
does really push capital out to the emerging markets.”  The  MSCI World index  of developed-country shares has gained
10 percent this year and trades for 13 times estimated earnings,
above the 10.7 ratio for developing-nation stocks.  Emerging-
market stocks  have gained 17 percent this year.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence
increased to 70.8 from a revised 61.5 in January, data from the
New York-based private research group showed today. Economists
predicted the gauge would climb to 63, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Bovespa Rebounds  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the  euro
zone  rose to 94.4 from 93.4 in January, the European Commission
in Brussels said. Economists had predicted a gain to 94, the
median of 31 estimates showed.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  rebounded from a two-week low, gaining 1.1
percent, the most since Feb. 16, as speculation Brazilian policy
makers will continue to cut borrowing costs lifted financial
stocks. Vanguarda Agro rose 7.3 percent.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, gained 2.7 percent, the biggest advance since Feb.
13.  Banco do Brasil SA,  Latin America’s biggest bank by assets,
advanced 2.2 percent.  Bank Nyrt  Hungary ’s  benchmark stock gauge  rose 0.3 percent as lender
 FHB Mortgage Bank Nyrt. (FHB)  climbed 3.5 percent. Hungary’s central
bank kept its two-week deposit rate unchanged at 7 percent for a
second month after a surge in the forint reduced pressure on
policy makers and overshadowed flailing talks over an
International Monetary Fund-led bailout.  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 2 percent, buoyed by
gains in lenders  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   Kredyt Bank SA (KRB) , the Polish unit of KBC Groep NV, surged 18
percent on plans to merge with Banco Santander SA’s  Bank
Zachodni WBK SA. (BZW)  Zachodni slid 1.7 percent. Polish  stocks  on the
WIG20 Index added 0.3 percent.  India’s Sensex climbed 1.6 percent. Bharat, which
manufactures power plant equipment, jumped 6.7 percent as
India’s cabinet may approve a proposal to levy an additional 14
percent duty on imports of equipment.  Oil Demand  Demand for oil may deteriorate after London-traded Brent
oil futures rallied to a record high when priced in euros and
pounds, according to Morgan Stanley. U.S. supplies probably
gained to the highest level in five months last week, a
Bloomberg survey showed before a report from the Energy
Department tomorrow.  Crude oil for April delivery fell 1.9 percent to settle at
$106.55 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile exchange. The drop
was the largest since Jan. 20.  “We do not see sustained gains from here, and the market
is likely to pause,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in London who predicts that  oil prices  will remain
little changed this week. “The market has been overbought
lately, with a substantial geopolitical  risk premium  in London,
due to ongoing jitters over  Iran ’s controversial nuclear
program.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 362, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  