-- Tenet Profit Misses Analysts’ Estimates as Hospital Company Pays Down Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-28T21:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/tenet-reports-quarterly-profit-that-misses-analyst-estimates.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-
largest U.S. hospital operator, reported fourth-quarter earnings
that missed analyst estimates after expected reimbursement
settlements weren’t received.  Profit excluding some items was 10 cents a share, missing
by 4 cents the average estimate of 16 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The net loss was $76 million, or 17 cents a share,
compared with net income of $74 million, or 14 cents, a year
earlier, the Dallas-based company said in a statement today. The
results included $117 million in costs to retire debt early.  Tenet said last month that settlements with payers would
help overcome charges for accounting changes and interest rate
declines in the quarter. Talks with payers are continuing, the
company said. This year’s forecast for adjusted profit was
raised to $1.23 billion to $1.35 billion because the payments
are still expected, Tenet said.  “People had factored those settlements into their
expectations,” said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT
Capital Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  with a “buy”  rating  on
the company. “Am I surprised it that they didn’t happen? No.
It’s Tenet -- things never go their way.”  Tenet won’t disclose the payers involved in the settlement
discussions because the talks are confidential, Rick Black, a
spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  The company rose 1.1 percent to $5.71 at the close of New
York trading. The shares have lost 20 percent in the last 12
months.  Acquisition Plans  Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter said last month that
the company is trying to build and acquire businesses to have
stronger negotiating power with commercial insurers.  Tenet is one of the “worst-positioned” to negotiate
payment rates because it has on average only about 7 percent of
the market share in its primary markets, Citigroup said last
month. The company has disputed the report, saying on Jan. 9
that their hospitals on average have a 20 percent market share
in their primary service area.  The company faces cuts in reimbursement from public health
plans and new mandates from the U.S. health-care overhaul signed
in 2010, expected to trim $157 billion in U.S. payments to
hospitals through 2019.  The reduced payments may be offset by an estimated 32
million potential patients who are expected to gain insurance
coverage under the law after 2014. The company operates in
several markets with high proportions of patients who are
currently uninsured, Fetter has said.  Money-saving Americans avoided going to the doctor after
the recession as the  unemployment rate  hovered near 9 percent.
Tenet saw more patients than the company expected in 2011,
signaling that as the economy improves, volumes may recover.
Admissions increased less than a percent in the quarter, with
emergency department visits increasing 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  