-- Entergy’s Nuclear Policies Need NRC Scrutiny, Scientists Say
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-28T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/entergy-s-nuclear-policies-warrant-nrc-scrutiny-scientists-say.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s corporate policies
should be examined by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to
determine whether safety is being compromised at two of its
 power plants , the Union of Concerned Scientists said.  The NRC conducted four separate inspections last year at
two Entergy plants, out of 15 safety and security reviews at
U.S. reactors, according to a report today from the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based environmental organization.  “When conditions trigger special inspections at more than
one plant with the same owner, the NRC should formally evaluate
whether corporate policies and practices contributed to the
shortcomings,”  David Lochbaum , director of the group’s Nuclear
Safety Project, said in the report’s executive summary.  The NRC is poised to issue its first orders to improve
safety at 104 U.S. operating reactors after an earthquake and
tsunami caused radiation leaks and meltdowns at  Japan ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant a year ago. The agency may
require reactor owners to have adequate instruments to monitor
pools of water that store nuclear waste and enough equipment to
overcome power failures.  The NRC increased oversight at New Orleans-based Entergy’s
 Pilgrim (NRC1PIL1)  plant, 38 miles (61 kilometers) southeast of Boston,
because of “security problems” that haven’t been publicly
disclosed, according to the report. The agency in May began a
separate inspection at Pilgrim after an unplanned shutdown
caused by control-room operators who didn’t follow procedures
when starting the reactor after a routine refueling.  Palisades Reactor  The NRC in August began a special inspection at Entergy’s
 Palisades (NRC3PAL1)  plant about 60 miles southwest of  Grand Rapids ,
Michigan, after a pump used to provide cooling water to back-up
equipment failed. In September, workers inadvertently knocked
out power to some control-room instruments at Palisades, causing
the reactor to shut down, prompting another inspection.  Entergy has “an unrelenting focus on safety at every one
of our nuclear plants and across our entire business,”  Michael Burns , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Where
performance issues develop, we concentrate on quickly
identifying the root cause, taking immediate action to fix any
issues and making sure we learn from them.”  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  of Chicago and  Dominion Resources Inc. (D)  of
Richmond, Virginia, each received two NRC special inspections at
separate plants in 2011, according to the group’s report.  An NRC priority this year is managing “precursors  of
declines in performance” at U.S. nuclear plants, Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  told reporters Dec. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  