-- EPA Greenhouse Gas Rules Under Scrutiny in Two-Day Hearing
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-28T22:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/epa-greenhouse-gas-limits-face-appeals-court-challenge-over-public-danger.html
The  U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency ’s limits on vehicle and industrial emissions of
greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide are being scrutinized
by U.S. judges as a two-day court hearing began in Washington.  The three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  is
considering challenges to the agency’s finding that greenhouse
gases are pollutants that endanger human health, and to rules
determining when states and industries must comply with
regulations curtailing their use.  Companies such as Massey Energy Co., business groups
including the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and states led by  Texas 
and Virginia are seeking to stop the agency through more than 60
lawsuits. They argue that the agency relied on biased data from
outside scientists, including some affiliated with the so-called
climategate scandal.  “To win here you have to make an argument that the EPA’s
decision was arbitrary and capricious,” U.S. Circuit Judge
David Tatel told a lawyer for one of the opposing groups during
the almost three-hour hearing.  Power Plants  In 2007, the Supreme Court ruled that the EPA had authority
to regulate greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane
under the  Clean Air Act  if the agency declared them a public
danger. The EPA issued a so-called endangerment finding in
December 2009, clearing the way for regulation of emissions from
power plants, factories and other sources linked to global
 climate change .  “EPA made an inadequate endangerment finding,” Patrick
Day, a lawyer for the Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc.,
told the judges today. He said the agency “erroneously decided
to completely divorce risk assessments from policy
consequences.”  Harry MacDougal, a lawyer for the Southeastern Legal
Foundation, told the judges that the agency took three studies
“with uncertain premises” and blended them together to come
out with a finding that six gases contribute to climate change
that may endanger the welfare of humans, he said.  “There is evidence in the record that shows the existence
of substantial uncertainty in each one,” MacDougal said.  “You’re asking us to determine that the EPA is incorrect
and that’s not the standard,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle
said.  Not Decided  Sentelle and Tatel asked opponents to cite specific
language in the law or the high court’s 2007  Massachusetts  v.
EPA decision that supported arguments the agency had the ability
to limit its approach to regulating greenhouse gases.  “Reading some of the briefs, I’d gotten the impression
that Massachusetts was not decided or that it wasn’t binding,”
Sentelle said.  Two of the judges hearing the case presided over the 2003
lawsuit that led to the  Supreme Court  decision in which 12
states tried to force the administration of then-President
 George W. Bush  to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse-
gas emissions on new cars and trucks.  Sentelle, appointed to the court by President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican, joined the majority in a 2-1 decision that
found the EPA has broad discretion to determine whether to set
limits on pollutants.  Public Health  Tatel, appointed by President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat,
issued a 38-page dissent saying the EPA not only has the
authority to regulate gases that cause global warming, it has a
responsibility to do so if the director finds they endanger
public health or welfare.  The third person is U.S. Circuit Judge  Judith Rogers , also
appointed to the bench by Clinton. Rogers was part of a panel of
judges that in December ordered the EPA’s interstate air
pollution rule be put on hold while the court considers its
legality.  The arguments have been split into three parts. The panel
today heard arguments on the endangerment finding and challenges
to a 2010 rule on emissions from motor vehicles that opponents
said improperly sets greenhouse-gas standards for stationary
sources, such as  steel mills  and  power plants .  Tomorrow, the court will consider challenges to the EPA’s
“tailoring rule,” which limits the businesses covered by
carbon regulation and phases in controls.  Carbon Rules  The agency aims to phase in industrial polluters covered by
the carbon rules through 2016. Imposing restrictions all at once
and without exceptions would be “absurd,” EPA Administrator
 Lisa Jackson  has said.  The EPA argued in court filings that the tailoring rule is
acceptable under the Clean Air Act and necessary to avoid states
being overrun with permit requests.  Jeffrey Bossert Clark, a lawyer for the Chamber of
Commerce, told the judges that the EPA should have considered
“human adaptation” to climate change while deciding whether
greenhouse gases should be regulated. He mentioned “organic
migration,” which he said involved humans moving to colder
climates to avoid increased temperatures.  “How would the EPA account for that,” Tatel asked. “How
can they predict that migration patterns would be sufficient to
overcome danger.”  “It’s easier to predict these shifts than predicting
weather or climate,” Clark said.  Under that theory, Tatel asked whether the EPA would be
required to consider that in the future there might be a cure
for cancer before determining whether to regulate a carcinogen.  Biggest Emitters  The regulations require only the biggest emitters, such as
power plants and oil refiners, obtain state carbon permits
before building or upgrading facilities. State officials will
determine pollution controls case by case.  “A lot of the focus has been on endangerment, but that is
going to be an uphill battle” for industry, said Jeffrey Holmstead, a lawyer at  Bracewell & Giuliani LLP (1222L)  in  Washington 
who isn’t involved in the case. “The biggest vulnerability for
EPA is on the tailoring rule.”  If the EPA loses on that it would create such chaos that
“it forces Congress to act,” said Holmstead, who was an EPA
official during the George W. Bush administration.  Virginia and Texas said the endangerment finding should be
rejected because the EPA refused to reconsider its decision
after learning that some of the data it relied on may have been
“manipulated,” referring to findings by the United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  Outside Groups  The states, citing an EPA inspector general’s report, claim
the agency improperly used data from outside groups without
testing its veracity.  Panels of the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  and  National Science Foundation  cleared U.S.
scientists who had their e-mails pilfered from the server of the
climate-research unit of University of East Anglia, based in
Norwich,  England .  The university’s work contributed to some of the key
findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,
which has issued reports that blame rising temperatures on human
activity.  The e-mails, dating back as far as 1996, have been cited by
skeptics of human contribution to global warming as evidence of
a conspiracy to manipulate data to support research. One e-mail
referred to a “nature trick” to hide signs of a decline in
temperatures.  “The EPA looked at each and every one in context,”
Angeline Purdy, a lawyer for the  Justice Department , said today
describing the climate research e-mails. She said  Virginia ’s
petition for reconsideration was properly rejected.  The case is Coalition for Responsible Regulation Inc. v.
Environmental Protection Agency, 09-1322, U.S. Court of Appeals,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  