-- Merck Warned by FDA on Failure to Study Januvia Treatment for Side Effects
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-28T15:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/merck-warned-by-fda-on-failure-to-study-januvia-treatment-for-side-effects.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  may face fines after
being almost a year late with a post-market study of its
diabetes drugs Januvia and Janumet to determine if the pills
inflame the pancreas, U.S. regulators said.  A  letter  posted today on the  Food and Drug Administration ’s
website warned a subsidiary of the Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based company that the diabetes medications are
considered misbranded because Merck hasn’t completed a 3-month
pancreatic safety study in rodents. Merck agreed to the study to
gain expanded approval of the drugs and committed to completing
it by March 15, 2011, according to the letter dated Feb. 17.  Merck will submit a design for a study to the FDA within 30
days of the date of the letter and start the trial within six
months of the agency’s agreement on a protocol, Merck
spokeswoman Pamela Eisele said. The company attempted to submit
a 12-month independent study to the FDA to satisfy the post-
market requirement, and the agency determined the data was
insufficient, according to the letter.  “This violation is concerning from a public health
perspective,” because the additional testing is to assess “a
signal of a serious risk of acute pancreatitis, including
necrotizing forms, associated with sitagliptin,” the main
ingredient in both medicines, the letter states.  The FDA  revised  prescribing information for Januvia and
Janumet, Merck’s drug that combines Januvia with diabetes
treatment metformin, in 2009 to include information on reported
cases of acute pancreatitis. The agency received 88 cases of
acute pancreatitis between Oct. 16, 2006 and Feb. 9, 2009
associated with sitagliptin, the first in a new class of
diabetic drugs.  The fines against Merck may total $250,000 with the
possibility of additional penalties if the violation continues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  