-- Merkel’s Coalition Suffers Second Setback in Parliamentary Vote on Greece
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-28T10:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/merkel-s-coalition-suffers-second-setback-in-parliamentary-vote-on-greece.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
suffered her second blow in eight days after failing to win an
absolute majority for a Greek bailout package approved in
parliament, revealing cracks within her governing bloc.  Seventeen lawmakers in Merkel’s Christian Democratic-led
coalition rejected the 130 billion-euro ($175 billion) bailout
package yesterday, putting an absolute majority for the
coalition out of reach. On Feb. 19, Merkel’s Free Democratic
Party governing partner outmaneuvered the chancellor by
supporting a German presidency candidate she had opposed.  “The collapse of the coalition is in full swing,”
opposition leader Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a former foreign
minister who leads the Social Democratic caucus in the lower
house, told  Der Tagesspiegel  newspaper today. “The limit of its
ability to act has been reached.”  Merkel allies downplayed their failure to win a
“chancellor’s majority,” citing broad support from opposition
Social Democrat and Green Party lawmakers. Still, dwindling
support for future euro-crisis measures within her own Christian
Democratic bloc and tensions with the FDP after the nomination
of former East German dissident Joachim Gauck for the presidency
could weigh on Merkel’s control over her coalition.  While Merkel won a total of 496 votes in the 620-seat lower
house of parliament, or Bundestag, 13 of the 17 defectors came
from her own CDU-led caucus. The 304 votes in favor fell short
of the 311 required for an absolute majority.  ‘Concern’  “We’re observing with concern that the support for the
government’s euro agenda obviously continues to weaken within
the CDU-led caucus,” FDP General-Secretary Patrick Doering told
Tagesspiegel in an interview.  The show of weakness came eight days after a spat between
Merkel and FDP Chairman Philipp Roesler over the appointment of
Gauck, a former Protestant pastor and pro-democracy campaigner,
to replace  Christian Wulff , who resigned Feb. 17 amid corruption
allegations. The president, whose office is mostly ceremonial,
will be elected by a special assembly on March 18.  Roesler’s FDP broke ranks and joined the opposition in
supporting Gauck, leaving Merkel little choice but to support
the man who ran against Wulff, a former CDU vice chairman, in
2010. Roesler, who is vice chancellor, confirmed an altercation
between himself and Merkel, telling Die Welt on Feb. 21 that
Merkel’s response to his party’s choice was “tough.”  Roesler told the newspaper that officials from Merkel’s CDU
raised the possibility of ending the coalition over their
differences, before backing down and supporting Gauck.  To be sure, Merkel remains popular, with her Christian
Democratic bloc at 38 percent, the highest poll level since the
coalition began in October 2009, according to a Feb. 22 Forsa
survey. The same poll put support for the FDP at 2 percent, down
from almost 15 percent gained in parliamentary elections in
2009.  Germany ’s next election is due in September or October
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  