-- Germany Gives Merkel Authority to Cut Solar Subsidy Without Vote
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-29T09:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/merkel-cabinet-to-back-dangerous-clean-energy-bill-lobby-says.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet
backed measures giving ministers authority to adjust subsidies
for renewable energy in Germany, a move the industry says would
destabilize its ability to finance plants.  Draft legislation from the environment and economy
ministries endorsed by the Cabinet today includes a clause that
would enable officials to change rates paid for solar power
without fresh backing from parliament. It would come into force
should installations exceed a government target of 2.5 gigawatts
to 3.5 gigawatts a year.  “The provision is dangerous as it would destroy investment
security and may be expanded to subsidies for wind and
biomass,”  Carsten Koernig , the head of the BSW Solar industry
group, said yesterday in Berlin. “We fear a rollback in clean-
energy and climate policy at a time when  Germany  wants to
lead.”  Germany, the world’s largest solar market, wants to cut in
half the annual pace of installations after incentives for the
industry pushed capacity past government targets. Merkel is
encouraging renewables as a replacement for nuclear power
stations that close by 2022.  The draft bill, to be debated by lawmakers next month,
would make the biggest ever reductions in solar subsidies
starting next month and eliminate them for the largest
photovoltaic plants.  The provision enabling the government to quickly change
subsidies “effectively serves as a hard cap,” Aaron Chew, an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New York , said in an e-mailed
note. “This yields a lack of visibility and uncertainty that
complicates project finance.”  Green Protests  Ann-Christin Wiegemann, a spokeswoman for the economy
ministry, said she couldn’t comment on the details of the draft
as the environment ministry is mainly responsible. The
environment ministry didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The opposition  Green Party , the state premier of Saxony-
Anhalt and companies including  Solarworld AG (SWV)  (SWV), the country’s
largest solar panel maker, have protested the plan that would
cut premium rates for solar power by as much as 29 percent from
March 9 and decrease them further each month beginning in May.
Plants larger than 10 megawatts won’t get support after July 1.  The cuts would put further pressure on solar companies such
as  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, the German manufacturers that are
already struggling with rising competition from  China , where the
world’s three biggest panel makers are based.  Solar Costs  Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said the proposals
are meant to rein in costs linked to new installations and
protect the stability of the  power grid . Germany added 7.5
gigawatts of panels last year, more than double the government’s
target. “We want photovoltaic energy but it has to grow at a
reasonable level,” Roettgen said Feb. 23.  The opposition has attacked the subsidy cut plans and
especially the clause that would enable ministers to change
tariffs without asking lawmakers.  “This disempowerment of parliament only serves the
interests of the big utilities,” Hans-Josef Fell, a Green party
lawmaker and one of the inventors of Germany’s renewable energy
law, said by e-mail. “Lawmakers across party factions will now
have to show that they’re representing the interests of the
people.”  Koernig said the draft could be debated by lawmakers in the
Bundestag, the lower house of parliament, as early as March 8.
If government lawmakers, who have a majority in the Bundestag,
back it, then it will be sent on to the Bundesrat, the upper
house. While state leaders could ask for parliamentary
arbitration to adjust the bill, they can’t stop it.  “This draft, if unchanged, would be a solar-exit law,”
Koernig said. “It threatens an industry with 130,000 jobs
linked to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  