-- Terri Dial, Who Helped Reshape Citigroup After 2008’s Crisis, Dies at 62
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-29T15:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/terri-dial-one-of-banking-s-most-watched-women-dies-at-62.html
Terri Dial, whose work on the
reshaping of  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in 2008 culminated a three-decade
banking career that made her a much-watched woman in business,
has died. She was 62.  She died yesterday in a hospice in Miami, Karen Kaplowitz,
a friend and family spokeswoman, said. The cause of death was
pancreatic cancer.  In 27 years at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Dial rose from teller to
executive vice president and head of the San Francisco-based
company’s California banks and business banking. The U.K.’s
Lloyds TSB Group Plc hired her in 2005 to run its consumer
banking. In 2008, as Vikram Pandit began assembling a new team
to lead Citigroup from the ruins of financial crisis, he chose
Dial to head its North American  consumer banking  unit.  Forbes magazine in 2009 included Dial, at  No. 73 , on its
annual list of the 100 most powerful women. On American Banker
magazine’s 2009 list of “women to watch,” she was No. 10.  “Terri was kind of a bigger-than-life figure in banking
circles,” said her friend and former colleague, Deborah Doyle
McWhinney, chief operating officer of Citigroup’s Global
Enterprise Payments division. “Globally she is probably one of
the top five women in financial services” in the last 15 to 20
years.  Dial didn’t shy away from being seen as a role model for
women aiming for the boardroom.  “Women will work themselves to death in the belief that if
they do more and more, that will get them ahead, when it isn’t
so,” she told the Wall Street Journal in 2004 for an article on
why some women find it a struggle to advance. “They think, ‘If
I do the work, my bosses will see it and reward me.’”  First Appointment  Women need to engage in self-promotion, which they are
reluctant to do, she said.  “Good girls don’t advertise,” she told the Journal. “We
feel dirty promoting ourselves.”  Dial was the first senior appointment by Pandit after he
became chief executive officer at New York-based Citigroup in
December 2007 and began developing a strategy to reshape
management along regional rather than product lines.  In her 21 months as head of consumer banking in  North
America , and as global head of consumer strategy, Dial worked
with Pandit to group the worst-performing consumer units,
including the CitiFinancial personal-lending business, in a new
division, Citi Holdings, for disposal.  The challenge was formidable: Two months before her March
2008 appointment, Citigroup had reported a $9.8 billion fourth-
quarter loss, the biggest in its 196-year history, and the
industry was still reeling from the collapse of the subprime
mortgage market.  The Plan  Dial began developing a strategy to retool the North
American consumer business as a so-called Bank of the Future,
offering rejuvenated Internet and mobile-phone portals alongside
branches, Bloomberg News reported in September 2009. She hired
Michelle Peluso, the then-37-year-old former head of airline-
reservation website Travelocity.com, to oversee the planning
sessions.  As it turned out, the bank never announced a new consumer
strategy. A proposal to shut or sell some of its 1,001 branches
in the U.S. and  Canada  was scrapped.  Citing personal reasons, Dial stepped down in January 2010
and became a senior adviser.  Culture of Success  Dial “put together a management team that was largely new
in their jobs, me included, that worked as well together as I’ve
seen in a large corporation,” said McWhinney, a former
president of Charles Schwab Institutional hired in March 2009 to
lead personal  wealth management  at Citigroup. “We figured
things out and supported each other, and that was the culture
Terri created.”  Teresa Arlene Dial was born on Oct. 30, 1949, in Miami. She
earned a bachelor’s degree in political science from
 Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , in 1971.  Working as a teller at a Wells Fargo branch in  San
Francisco ’s Mission District, she took on the male-dominated
order by successfully challenging the practice of having female
staffers clean the kitchen, according to a 1999 Wall Street
Journal profile.  She was selected for Wells Fargo’s management-training
program, in which she met her husband, Brian Burry.  Role in Merger  As an executive vice president, a title she gained in 1989,
she was responsible for loans and banking services to small
business across the U.S. She was made a vice chairman in 1996.
After helping carry out the 1998 merger of Wells Fargo with
Norwest Corp., she retired from the company in 2001 and served
on several corporate boards.  “Terri has communicated a vision of the future for our
California bank and her other businesses, and motivated her team
to embrace and pursue that vision with great success,” Richard Kovacevich, Wells Fargo’s then-CEO said when she left the bank.  In 2005,  Eric Daniels , the first American to run London-
based Lloyds, hired Dial as group executive director for U.K.
consumer banking. In that role, she pushed sales of Scottish
Widows insurance and savings products, to capitalize on the
retirement needs of older clients, while introducing services
such as instant check clearing to win younger customers.  ‘Human Cyclone’  British newspapers reported that she had been known as the
“human cyclone” among her Wells Fargo colleagues.  “I don’t know where the nickname came from, but it’s not a
bad thing,” she told American Banker magazine. “My pace is a
little bit more aggressive than probably people have been used
to, and I think they just go, ‘Oh yeah, that’s right, she’s that
human cyclone.’ So it’s actually served me well.”  McWhinney said Dial kept her work in balance with her
personal life. Dial’s passion was travel, and the southern
region of  Africa  her favorite vacation destination, she told the
San Francisco Business Times in 1996.  “Terri and Brian had the richest and most diverse set of
friends,” McWhinney said. “You went to their house and had the
best meals with the best wine. Life was just robust and fun and
eclectic. It’s a lesson to be learned for all of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  