-- Terrorists Push Elderly Jew Overboard in ‘Klinghoffer’: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-02-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/terrorists-push-elderly-jew-overboard-in-klinghoffer-review.html
The opera “The Death of
Klinghoffer” has lyrical beauty, ear-caressing orchestration,
and an incendiary subject matter. It still doesn’t quite fire up.  A new production at  English National Opera  in  London  proves
 John Adams ’s 1991 work to be an intractable and undramatic
creation.  It tells the story of a real-life hijacking. In October
1985, four terrorists from the Palestine Liberation Front
boarded the Achille Lauro cruise liner near Alexandria, and
demanded the release of prisoners in  Israel . During the siege
they shot wheelchair-bound Leon Klinghoffer, an elderly Jewish-
American on holiday, and threw his body overboard. Eventually,
the captain negotiated a safe passage for the terrorists off the
ship, their demands unmet.  The opera has attracted criticism for its singing
terrorists, and for romanticizing acts of brutality. This is
unfair. The terrorists are humanized and not reduced to cartoon
demons, that much is true. Their behavior is also shown to be
filled with horrific violence and monomaniacal rage by
librettist Alice Goodman (a Jewish-American poet who is now a
priest in the Church of  England ).  Sluggish Choruses  No, the problem is that the story has as much inertia as
the huge Achille Lauro liner itself. There are brief moments of
action and confrontation. The rest of the time there are
dramatically sluggish choruses sung by exiled Arabs and Jews who
keep wandering onto the stage in the middle of things.  There are also long explanatory stretches of narration,
sung directly to the audience, by passengers and members of the
crew. Whatever happened to “show, don’t tell”?  It’s odd that Leon and his wife Marilyn don’t sing until
well after the intermission. It feels as if composer and
librettist had decided the unfortunate pair was somehow
incidental to the exposition.  Characterization is not at a premium here. Everyone --
terrorist and victim alike -- sings in poetic language so
elliptical that it sometimes sounds like crossword clues.
“Study the laws they celebrated knowing this house the living
and dead,” sings the deceased Klinghoffer as his body
(performed by a dancer) gently sinks into the water. Could
somebody translate that into English?  Buttery Baritone  If Klinghoffer’s aria verges on strained poetic
gobbledygook, musically it’s one of the highlights of the
evening: That’s the paradox of the work. The aria sounds
languorous, glittering, full of pathos, and baritone Alan Opie
(Klinghoffer) sings it with a buttery seductive voice.  Good music does not a good opera make, more’s the pity.
Director Tom Morris (“War Horse”) confuses matters more than
he helps them. He sets all the to-audience narrations in 2004.  A text screened on the wall tells us that the survivors of
the hijacking have gathered to share their recollections in a
news conference. Their arias regularly punctuate the early parts
of the opera, and provide several “what-why-how?” moments. Why
2004? Why are they all dressed in clothes from 1985? Why is the
press conference device abandoned toward the end of the opera?  Designer Tom Pye uses three moveable walls made from high
concrete slabs to create a flexible and minimalistic acting
space, which works well enough for the various shifts of
location. Explanatory texts and footage of nautical scenes are
screened onto the slabs.  The performances, bar one of the terrorists, are all good.
Richard Burkhard is dreamy and menacing as hijacker Mamoud, and
warm-voiced Christopher Magiera portrays the Captain with weight
and authority. Michaela Martens is a powerful Mrs. Klinghoffer.  Conductor Baldur Bronniman draws a polished sound from the
orchestra, and the hushed tone of the sopranos in the opening
chorus is memorably ethereal.  That’s all great. If there could also be some drama and
characters, it might become an opera.  Rating: **.  “The Death of Klinghoffer” is a co-production with the
 Metropolitan Opera ,  New York , and is in repertory at English
National Opera through March 9. Information:  http://www.eno.org 
or +44-871-911-0200.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 