-- EU Carbon Has Biggest Drop Since Feb. 20 After Panel Vote
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-28T17:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/eu-carbon-drops-most-in-a-week-after-committee-votes-on-permit-set-aside.html
European Union carbon permits fell
the most in more than a week after the EU parliament’s industry
committee voted for a regulatory option that would temporarily
withhold supply at an unspecified time.  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December dropped 5.2
percent to close at 9.02 euros ($12.13) a metric ton on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in  London  after the vote. They earlier
rose as much as 1.3 percent to 9.63 euros, the highest for more
than two months.  The contract jumped as much as 9 percent on Feb. 16, when
representatives of all parties on the committee agreed to push
for a set-aside amendment. Approving a temporary supply cut in
the market will probably boost the revenue governments receive
for selling emission allowances through 2020, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said Feb. 8.  The decision today is weaker than a previous plan approved
by the parliament’s environment committee, said Isabelle Curien,
an analyst in Paris for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) . “It now does not make
it mandatory for the commission to withhold allowances,” Curien
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The door is left
open for a future consideration of a set-aside, but the
principle of a set-aside in itself is not secured.”  David Hone ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s climate change adviser,
called on the commission to propose temporarily withholding a
“significant” portion of carbon allowances, without being more
specific.  “Beyond the immediate need for a set-aside, the parliament
will still need to address the longer-term sustainability of the
emissions trading system,” Hone said today in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg. This is best done by including an auction
reserve price for allowances after 2020, he said.  “A well-functioning emissions-trading system with a robust
price signal will restore confidence in clean technology
investment, reaffirm the flagship status of the scheme and
reinforce the international credibility of the EU ETS,” he
said. Hone is chairman of the International Emissions Trading
Association, the lobby group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  