-- EU to Examine Apple, Microsoft Complaints Over Motorola Mobility
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-28T18:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/eu-to-examine-apple-microsoft-complaints-over-motorola-mobility.html
Complaints by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  against  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  will be
examined “closely” by European Union regulators, the region’s
antitrust chief said.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, said
competition policy must ensure essential patents aren’t “used
strategically to block competitors,” according to a speech at
the European Parliament in Brussels today.  Samsung Electronics Co. is facing an EU antitrust probe
into its licensing of patents to other mobile-phone
manufacturers. Samsung, Motorola Mobility, Microsoft and Apple
are involved in litigation across  Europe  as demand for
smartphones and tablets soars.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which is buying
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, has written to groups that
establish industry standards to assure them it will fairly
license the Libertyville, Illinois-based company’s patents.  “To build a modern smart phone one needs thousands of
standard-essential patents,” Almunia said. “Any company that
holds these patents can effectively hold up the entire industry
with the threat of banning the products of competitors from the
market. This sort of hold-up is not acceptable.”  EU antitrust regulators are separately investigating claims
Google discriminated against other services in its search
results and stopped some websites from accepting rival ads.
Microsoft and shopping-comparison site Foundem are among
companies that asked the agency to examine the  Mountain View ,
California-based search-engine firm’s practices.  Formal Complaint  Almunia said he expected investigators to give him a report
on the Google before the end of April and would decide after
that if a formal antitrust complaint was needed.  “We continue to receive information or complaints” on
Google and the company regularly updates its products and
services “so it’s not a simple task to investigate,” he said.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, declined to
comment.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, which is examining
whether Google gives preference to its own services in search
results, is expanding its antitrust probe to include scrutiny of
Google+, according to two people familiar with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  