-- EIB Bonds Rally as Lender Said to Share Greek Writedown Exemption With ECB
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-29T11:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/european-investment-bank-said-to-share-ecb-exemption-from-greek-writedowns.html
The  European Investment Bank ’s bonds
rallied after the development lender for the 27-member bloc was
said to be getting a similar exemption from Greek debt
writedowns to the euro area’s central bank.  The  European Central Bank  negotiated a deal to avoid the
53.5 percent loss on principal that’s costing private investors
as much as 106 billion euros ($142 billion). The  EIB , which
unlike its Frankfurt-based counterpart represents the entire
European Union, also owns  Greece ’s debt and is sidestepping the
so-called haircut in the same way, according to two regional
officials familiar with the matter.  “This continues the trend of burden-shifting,” said
Gabriel Sterne, an economist at London-based brokerage Exotix
Ltd. “This is bad crisis resolution and it’s going to affect
things for years to come.”  The extra yield that investors demand to hold the EIB’s 5
billion euros of 3.5 percent senior notes due April 2016 rather
than benchmark German bunds declined 25 basis points to 115 as
of 11:33 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. That’s the lowest since Nov. 3 and compares with a
spread of as much as 196 basis points on Jan. 12.  Peter Munro, the head of  investor relations  and marketing
at the EIB, declined to comment, as did a spokesman at the ECB.  Buying Greek  The ECB bought Greek and other euro-region government debt
in an attempt to hold down borrowing costs amid the sovereign
crisis. Making private-sector investors effectively subordinate
to the claims of official bodies risks making it more expensive
for countries to borrow in the future.  The Luxembourg-based EIB’s holding of Greek debt totals
more than 100 million euros and less than 1 billion euros, said
one of the officials, who declined to be identified because the
matter isn’t public.  “This bolsters the case for pricing in additional risk
premia in peripheral bond markets,” said Richard Mcguire, a
senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “While the EIB’s holdings of Greek debt are small, if
true, this exception further underlines the unevenness of the
playing field.”  The bank is the EU’s main development lender and is owned
by all its  member states , while the ECB serves the 17-nation
euro area. The EIB invested 72 billion euros in 2010, about 88
percent of which was spent on projects within the EU, according
to its website. Vice President Wilhelm Molterer said in December
that the bank would cut lending this year amid the euro-region
crisis.  Bond Sales  The EIB funds itself in the bond markets and raised about
$22.5 billion this year from benchmark issuance in dollars,
euros and pounds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s
adding to its existing issue of 2.5 percent bonds due March 2019
today, a banker with knowledge of the transaction said.  The bank has top credit grades from Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “This is all politics,” said Sebastian Paris-Horvitz, the
chief market strategist at HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA in
Geneva. “Defaulting toward any official institution of the EU
would not fly well at this stage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  