-- Europe Not Ready to Deal With Disaster Like Fukushima, IRSN Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-28T17:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/europe-not-ready-to-deal-with-disaster-like-fukushima-irsn-says.html
Europe is ill-prepared for a nuclear
accident on the scale of  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster, a French
safety authority said.  “There are doubts about the ability of some European
countries to manage this type of situation,” Jacques Repussard,
director of the Institut de Radioprotection et de Surete
Nucleaire, or IRSN, said at a press conference in Paris today.
“It’s extremely problematic. We need to progress in  crisis
management  in many regions.”  Some European countries lack sufficient atomic crisis
centers while health authorities across the region don’t agree
on what instructions to give local populations in case of
accidents, he said. “There isn’t enough coordination.”  The findings are part of an IRSN report nearly a year after
a March 11 earthquake and tsunami destroyed the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi station, sparking the world’s worst nuclear accident since
Chernobyl in 1986. A Japanese independent probe, whose results
were also released today, found the government response to the
crisis was “haphazard” and top officials discussed a worst-
case scenario that included the evacuation of  Tokyo .  The IRSN is the technical adviser to  France ’s nuclear
watchdog, which decides whether the country’s 58 atomic reactors
operated by  Electricite de France SA  are safe. France relies on
atomic power more than any other country.  Children Exposed  The agency faulted Japanese authorities for failing to take
measurements of radioactivity in the thyroids of people and
especially children in the vicinity of Fukushima in the days
after the accident. Data provided by authorities on  radiation
exposure  by workers at the plant and local residents wasn’t
precise or detailed enough, the study concluded.  “Today it’s too late to evaluate exposure to radioactive
iodine,” Jean-Rene Jourdain, deputy director of human
protection at the IRSN, said at the press conference.  IRSN calculations indicate the amount of radioactive iodine
released at Fukushima was one-tenth that at Chernobyl and the
amount of cesium was one-third. Most of the contamination at
Fukushima was dispersed over the ocean.  “If the same accident had occurred in the heart of  Europe 
where there is no ocean, it would have been much, much worse,”
Didier Champion, head of the team that followed the Japanese
crisis at the IRSN, said at the press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  