-- Euro Rises Against Dollar, Yen Before ECB Bank-Loan Operation
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-28T21:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/euro-strengthens-on-speculation-ecb-bank-loans-will-bolster-risk-optimism.html
The euro strengthened against the
dollar and yen on speculation a European Central Bank allotment
of three-year loans to banks tomorrow will bolster investor
appetite for the region’s assets.  The 17-nation currency earlier pared its gain against the
greenback after Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said the nation
will hold a referendum to ratify the European fiscal compact,
raising concern about the measure’s implementation. Higher-
yielding currencies, led by Norway’s krone, advanced after a
U.S. report showed  consumer confidence  in the world’s largest
economy improved this month.  “The longer-term refinancing operation is likely to loosen
liquidity issues even more and the euro is consolidating ahead
of what’s likely to be a breakout above $1.35,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
in Toronto, said referring to the ECB loan program. “The market
reaction by and large has been better toward the more positive
implications on risk sentiment.”  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3464 at 3:57 p.m. in New
York. It added 0.3 percent to 108.32 yen. The dollar weakened
0.2 percent to 80.48 yen.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.4 percent.  The Norwegian krone added 0.9 percent to 5.5561 per dollar
after reaching 5.5513, the strongest level since Nov. 1. The
South Korean won rose 0.4 percent to 1,124.43 per dollar.  Refinancing Operation  After lending euro-region banks a record 489 billion euros
($658 billion) in its first longer-term refinancing operation,
or LTRO, on Dec. 21, the Frankfurt-based ECB tomorrow will
probably grant them another 470 billion euros this week,
according a Bloomberg News survey.  Using the operations, banks can borrow from the ECB at
around 1 percent and invest the proceeds in higher-yielding
securities such as the 10-year  Italian government bond , yielding
5.35 percent.  The euro pared its gain after Kenny said the Irish
government decided to hold a vote after receiving legal advice
from the state’s attorney general. The government has to hold a
referendum should a treaty change the country’s existing
constitution. In contrast to two previous Irish referendums on
European policies, a veto wouldn’t sink the treaty, which
requires support from just 12 of the 17 euro countries to take
effect.  “The risk is that the vote goes against it,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA
in  London . “That doesn’t scupper the scheme -- they can go back
and vote again, of course -- but it doesn’t help much.”  ‘General Risk-On’  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 78.237 after touching
78.207, the lowest since Dec. 8.  The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index
climbed to 70.8 this month, a 12-month high, from 61.5 in
January, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected the
gauge would climb to 63.  “There’s a general risk-on, equity-market-gains kind of
background,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in New York.  The yen rose against the dollar and pared its losses
against riskier currencies after a report showed orders for U.S.
durable goods fell in January by the most in three years. The 4
percent drop exceeded a 1 percent decline forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The dollar has weakened 4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen is the worst performer,
falling 8.7 percent, and the euro gained 0.2 percent.  Pound Advances  The pound approached a three-week high against the dollar
after the  Confederation of British Industry  said its retail
sales gauge rose in February to the highest reading in eight
months, boosting speculation the nation will avoid a recession.  The gauge increased to minus 2 from minus 22 the previous
month, the London-based business lobby said in a report today. A
measure of expected sales for next month was at 2, indicating
retailers expect sales to improve in March, the report showed.  The pound rose 0.5 percent to $1.5896 after reaching
$1.5902, the strongest level since Feb. 8. The U.K. currency
weakened 0.1 percent to 84.70 pence per euro.  The 7.7 percent surge in  oil prices  so far this year may
benefit the euro and other European currencies more than the
dollar as oil-producing nations invest in European goods and
assets, Alessio de Longis, a portfolio manager at Oppenheimer
Funds in  New York , said in an interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom
Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  ‘Dollar Depreciation’  “Oil-producing countries reimport about twice as much from
the  euro zone  and other European countries than they do from the
U.S. and that’s why there’s this generalized dollar depreciation
even against European countries that do no export oil,” he
said. “With this kind of environment in energy markets, the
euro could easily reach $1.40.”  Crude fell 1.1 percent to $106.65 today after rallying to
$109.95 a barrel last week, the highest level since May 4.  Treasuries (.HOLDOIL)  owned by oil producers and institutions such as
U.K. banks that are proxies for Middle East nations fell to $761
billion in December from a record high of $770.8 billion reached
the previous month, according to data compiled by the Treasury
Department.  The ECB’s auction tomorrow may strengthen the euro
initially, but the gains won’t be sustainable, according to
Barclays Plc.  ‘Weaken the Euro’  In a survey of 204 clients, including institutional asset
managers, banks,  hedge funds  and reserve managers, Barclays
found that 42 percent of respondents expect the take-up in the
ECB’s auction tomorrow to range from 450 billion euros to 600
billion euros, according to a client note by currency-market
strategists Aroop Chatterjee and Jose Wynne.  While 46 percent of survey respondents said that a large
auction take-up will benefit the euro, Barclays said the euro
will weaken after appreciating to $1.35-$1.37.  “We still expect the LTRO to ease financial conditions in
 Europe , which should weaken the euro,” Wynne said via e-mail.
“But the initial reaction is euro-up, because it would be risk-
on.”  Investors should bet on higher-yielding currencies such as
the  Mexican peso , Brazilian real and South African rand, funded
with dollars, through the auction and then switch to euro
funding once it’s over, Wynne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  