-- Euro Rises Toward Three-Month High Before ECB Allots Loans; Dollar Weakens
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-28T14:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/euro-advances-on-prospects-ecb-loan-operations-to-increase-risk-appetite.html
The euro strengthened toward a
three-month high against the dollar as the  European Central Bank 
prepared to allot three-year loans tomorrow to improve the
liquidity of the region’s banks.  The 17-nation currency advanced versus the yen amid
speculation cash injected by the ECB’s second long-term
refinancing operation will spur demand for euro-area assets even
after  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded  Greece  to “selective
default” yesterday. The dollar weakened on reduced refuge
demand before a U.S. report economists said will show  consumer
confidence  in the world’s largest economy improved. The pound
rose against the greenback after an index of U.K. retail sales
climbed.  “The markets have treated the Greek headlines as old news
and are focusing on the positives of the ECB liquidity injection
tomorrow,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “There’s a general risk-on,
equity-market-gains kind of background.”  The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3432 at 9:37 a.m. New York
time, after rising to $1.3487 on Feb. 24, the highest level
since Dec. 5. The shared currency gained 0.1 percent to 108.09
yen. The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 80.43 per dollar after
depreciating to 81.67 yesterday, the weakest since May 31.  After lending euro-region banks a record 489 billion euros
($657 billion) in its first refinancing operation on Dec. 21,
the Frankfurt-based ECB tomorrow will probably grant them
another 470 billion euros this week, according a Bloomberg News
survey.  ECB Operation  Using the operations, banks can borrow from the ECB at
around 1 percent and invest the proceeds in higher-yielding
securities such as the 10-year  Italian government bond ,
currently yielding 5.34 percent.  “If there is a large take up at the long-term refinancing
operation, I would expect the euro to have some further gains,
through the $1.35 area,” said  Ian Stannard , head of European
currency strategy at Morgan Stanley in London. “We think it
will fall because we think a lot of the positive news is priced
in. The global growth picture will start to deteriorate again,
which could start to undermine the euro.”  Morgan Stanley forecasts the euro will decline to $1.27 by
March 31 and to $1.15 by year-end, Stannard said.  The dollar and yen dropped against higher-yielding
currencies. The greenback slid 0.8 percent against  Norway ’s
krone, 0.5 percent versus the Mexican peso and 0.4 percent
against the South Korean won.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.2 percent to 78.393. The gauge slid to
78.22 on Feb. 24, the lowest since Dec. 8.  Dollar, Yen  The  S&P 500 Index  rose 0.1 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600
Index of shares fell 0.1 percent.  The yen rose against the dollar and pared its losses
against riskier currencies after a report showed orders for U.S.
durable goods fell in January by the most in three years. The 4
percent drop exceeded a 1 percent decline forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It’s a surprise and it was much greater than expected,”
said Carl Forcheski, a director on the corporate currency-sales
desk at Societe Generale SA in  New York . “It’s the first real
bit of bad news that we’ve had in a while and it could trigger
the correction that has been on the overdue side.”  The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer confidence index
climbed to 63 this month from 61.1 in January, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Pound Gains  The dollar has weakened 3.8 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen is the worst performer,
falling 8.6 percent, and the euro gained 0.1 percent.  The pound approached a three-week high against the dollar
after the  Confederation of British Industry  said its retail
sales gauge rose in February to the highest reading in eight
months, boosting speculation the nation will avoid a recession.  The gauge increased to minus 2 from minus 22 the previous
month, the London-based business lobby said in a report today. A
measure of expected sales for next month was at 2, indicating
retailers expect sales to improve in March, the report showed.  The pound rose 0.1 percent to $1.5844, after advancing to
$1.5902 yesterday, the strongest level since Feb. 8. The U.K.
currency weakened 0.1 percent to 84.77 pence per euro.  ‘Opportunity to Buy’  The U.K. currency has weakened 1.2 percent against the euro
since Feb. 21, the day before  Bank of England  minutes showed two
policy makers voted for a larger increase in asset purchases
than agreed at this month’s meeting.  “The sell-off in sterling following the BOE minutes
provides an opportunity to buy it against the euro,”  Valentin Marinov  and  Greg Anderson , senior currency strategists at
Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to clients.  The strategists recommended investors buy the pound at
84.73 pence per euro, with a target of 82.50 and stop-loss
orders at 85.55. A stop-loss is an instruction to exit a trade
at a certain level in case a bet goes the wrong way.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  