-- Confidence in Europe Rises More Than Forecast on Stability Signs: Economy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-28T11:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/european-economic-confidence-beats-estimates.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
improved more than forecast in February, adding to signs the
economy is stabilizing after a fourth-quarter contraction.  An  index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area rose for a second month, increasing to 94.4
from 93.4 in January, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. Economists had forecast a gain to 94, the median of 31
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Germany’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, has helped soften the
impact of tougher austerity measures across the region as
companies boost output and hiring to meet export demand. German
 business confidence  rose more than economists forecast to a
seven-month high in February and investors became more
optimistic. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has
said that while some euro-area nations may see a “mild”
recession, the overall situation “seems to be stabilizing.”  Today’s report suggests that “the euro zone is past the
worst,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in  London . “Even so, sentiment is still at a
pretty low level and the euro zone is far from out of the
economic woods.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.3441 at 11:11 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.3 percent on the day.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.2 percent.  German Unemployment  Germany’s expansion may help temper a slump in the euro
area this year, according to the commission. German gross
domestic product may rise 0.6 percent in 2012, while the
economies of Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium and Greece
are seen shrinking. French GDP may increase 0.4 percent, it said
on Feb. 23.  German  consumer confidence  will increase to a 12-month high
in March, helped by declining unemployment,  GfK SE (GFK)  said today.
German unemployment probably fell for a fourth month in
February, a Bloomberg survey shows. The Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg will release the report tomorrow.  The uptick in European confidence echoed encouraging
economic news from  Japan , where retail sales exceeded
economists’ forecasts in January, signaling a recovery in
 consumer spending  will help the world’s third-largest economy
return to growth this quarter.  ‘Unusual Surge’  Sales rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, after a 2.5
percent increase in December, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo 
today. The median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.1 percent decline. Car sales jumped
24 percent, the most in 22 years, after the government re-
introduced a subsidy for buyers of energy-efficient cars.  In the U.S., orders for durable goods probably declined in
January for the first time in four months as aircraft demand
slowed, economists said before a government report today.
Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell 1
percent after a 3 percent increase the prior month, according to
the median forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  A gauge of sentiment among European manufacturers increased
to minus 5.8 in February from minus 7 in the previous month,
today’s report showed. That’s the highest since August. An
indicator of services confidence slipped to minus 0.9 from minus
0.7, while a gauge of consumer sentiment rose to minus 20.3 from
minus 20.7. Indicators of retail trade and construction also
improved.  ‘Danger Zone’  Still, the region may struggle to gather strength after the
economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter. Manufacturing
output dropped more than economists estimated in February and
services industries failed to expand. Euro-region  unemployment 
probably held at 10.4 percent in January, the highest in more
than a decade, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The world economy is “not out of the danger zone” amid
fragile financial systems, high public and private debt and
rising oil prices, International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said after a G-20 meeting last weekend.  Some companies have relied on faster-growing markets to
bolster sales.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the French maker of
Birkin bags, on Feb. 9 reported full-year sales that beat its
own forecast amid demand in the Americas and most parts of  Asia .
 BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical maker, on Feb. 24
predicted its run of record earnings to extend to a third year
after  emerging markets  in Asia helped boost sales.  ECB Bond Purchases  A gauge of euro-region manufacturers’ production
expectations rose to 2.9 from 1.9 in January and an indicator of
order books increased to minus 14.2 from minus 16.4. At the same
time, manufacturers grew more pessimistic about export orders
and employment conditions, today’s report showed.  The ECB, which has purchased  government bonds  and provided
banks with unlimited cash, will publish its latest economic
projections on March 8. The central bank earlier this month kept
borrowing costs at 1 percent, matching a record low.  “We can see a tentative stabilization at low levels of
activity but also with some signs, the very first signs of some
improvement here and there,” Draghi said. “That’s for the
average of the euro area. In some countries there will be a mild
or more-than-mild recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  