-- European ‘Squabbling’ to Last for Years, Teachers’ Leech Says
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-02-28T19:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/european-squabbling-to-last-for-years-teachers-leech-says.html
Europe  will see annual economic
growth of zero to 1 percent for a decade as it works out its
fiscal and structural issues, said Jim Leech, chief executive
officer of the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan.  “They are going to be squabbling about this in the family
for years to come; they are in such a mess,” the head of
 Canada ’s third-biggest pension fund said today at a Toronto
Board of Trade event that recapped last month’s  World Economic
Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  “There was clearly Euro-fatigue in Davos,” said Leech.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  gained 9.8 percent this year through
yesterday as  Greece  negotiated a 130 billion euro ($175 billion)
rescue package with European officials. The euro currency
rebounded from a 16-month low reached Jan. 15.  Europe must become more competitive, and its economy must
grow faster to resolve the crisis permanently, said  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  Vice Chairman Kevin G. Lynch.  “We’re not at the beginning of the end; we’re at best at
the end of the beginning of sorting it out,” Lynch said,
quoting Winston Churchill. “We’re going through a very long
period of adjustment in the European context.”  Economists forecast the euro region’s economy will contract
0.4 percent this year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Leech and Paul Smyke, a special adviser to the chairman of
the World Economic Forum, said some Davos attendees were more
optimistic about the U.S.’s fiscal situation. Both Democratic
and Republican members of Congress privately agreed on the need
to reduce tax loopholes and cut spending, Leech said. The
politicians said no such plans will pass before November
elections, according to Leech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  