-- European Stocks Rise on U.S. Consumer Confidence Data; KBC Gains
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-28T16:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/european-stock-futures-rise-as-germany-votes-for-bailout-bayer-may-slide.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed as a report
showed that U.S. consumer confidence beat economists’ forecasts,
even after durable-goods orders in the world’s largest economy
unexpectedly slumped.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  rallied 4.7 percent after Banco Santander SA
agreed to buy the Belgian lender’s Polish unit, Kredyt Bank SA.
 National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  dropped 6.7 percent as the shares of
lenders retreated.  TomTom NV (TOM2)  plummeted 15 percent after
forecasting lower revenue.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.2 percent to 264.33
at the close, after earlier gaining as much as 0.4 percent and
losing as much as 0.5 percent. The gauge has  rallied 8.1 percent 
so far this year as the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank lent unlimited
cash to the region’s banks.  “The worse-than-expected durables goods data remind us
that even though the situation is the U.S. is better than in
 Europe , the recovery is still fragile,” said Stephane Ekolo,
chief European strategist at Market Securities in  London .  A report showed that confidence among U.S. consumers rose
in February to the highest level in a year, showing households
may sustain spending and drive the economy.  European stocks retreated earlier as a Commerce Department
report showed that bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years slumped 4 percent in January.  Economists had
predicted  a 1 percent decline, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  National Stock Markets  National benchmark indexes climbed in 12 of the 18 western-
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index added 0.6 percent, while
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index rose 0.2 percent. France’s CAC 40
Index gained 0.4 percent.  Greece ’s ASE Index was the worst
performing index, falling 3 percent.  The ECB will allocate cash from its long-term refinancing
operation tomorrow. It will probably provide 470 billion euros
($632 billion) of three-year cash, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts.  Germany’s Chancellor,  Angela Merkel , won a parliamentary
vote on Greek aid after the close of European trading yesterday.
She warned lawmakers that pushing Greece out of the euro risked
“incalculable” damage.  In a vote that showed dissent in her coalition has grown,
496 members of the lower house, or Bundestag, voted in favor of
the 130 billion-euro package. Ninety voted against and five
abstained. Merkel’s government pushed through the measure to
prevent Greece’s economy from collapsing.  Greece’s Selective Default  Greece’s credit ratings were cut to “selective default”
by  Standard & Poor’s  after the Mediterranean nation negotiated
the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history. S&P lowered
Greece’s rating from CC, two levels above default, after the
government added clauses to its debt designed to include
investors unwilling to take part in the exchange, the New York-
based company said in a statement yesterday.  National Bank of Greece, the  country’s largest lender ,
dropped 6.7 percent to 2.24 euros.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s
second-largest lender, fell 1.5 percent to 1.86 euros.  Ireland will hold a referendum to ratify the European
fiscal compact, Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said today. Kenny,
speaking in the Dublin parliament, said that the government
decided to hold a vote after receiving legal advice from the
state’s attorney general. The government will finalize
arrangements for the vote in coming weeks, he said.  “It will give the Irish people the opportunity to reaffirm
Ireland’s commitment to membership of the euro,” Kenny said.  KBC, Cove Energy  KBC rallied 4.7 percent to 17.42 euros after Santander
agreed to buy a unit of  Belgium’s biggest bank and insurer  by
market value.  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  advanced 2.5 percent to 240.5 pence after
the Times of  India  reported that India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.
and GAIL India Ltd. may offer $2 billion for the company,
outbidding PTT Exploration & Production Pcl and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. Three people familiar with the matter said that ONGC
and GAIL were unlikely to offer more than PTT for Cove.  Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the  U.K.’s largest housebuilder  by market
value, surged 13 percent to 706.5 pence after saying it plans to
return 1.9 billion pounds ($3 billion) to shareholders between
2013 and 2021. The rally was its biggest since October 2008.  Abengoa, Provident Financial  Abengoa SA (ABG)  jumped 7.3 percent to 15.96 euros. The Seville,
Spain-based company, which develops solar thermal  power plants ,
builds power-transmission lines and ethanol-refining facilities,
posted profit of 257.4 million euros, beating the mean forecast
of 210.3 million euros in a  survey of 13 analysts . Profit rose
24 percent from a year earlier.  Provident Financial Plc (PFG) , the U.K.’s biggest subprime
lender, soared 6.2 percent to 1,140 pence.  Full-year net income 
increased to 119.8 million pounds from 101.5 million pounds in
the previous year. That beat the 118 million-pound  median
estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Belvedere SA (BVD) , a French vodka maker, climbed 3.8 percent to
68.70 euros after  Les Echos  reported that the company plans to
sell its Sobieski brand to cut debt.  Eiffage SA (FGR)  jumped 4.8 percent to 30.10 euros after the
French builder’s rating was raised to “neutral” from
“underperform” at Bank of America Corp.  TomTom plunged 15 percent to 3.75 euros after forecasting
that  revenue and earnings per share  will fall this year.
Europe’s biggest maker of portable navigation devices said  sales 
will decline to 1.1 billion euros in 2012 from 1.27 billion
euros in 2011 and adjusted earnings per share will decrease to
about 35 cents per share from 55 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  