-- Leveraged-Loan Risk Guidance From 2001 May Be Updated by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2012-02-28T19:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/leveraged-loan-risk-guidance-from-2001-may-be-updated-by-u-s-regulators.html
Regulators are considering new
guidelines on risks and lending standards for banks that
originate and sell high-yield, high-risk loans to account for
the experience of the financial crisis.  The guidance by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. is geared toward the largest financial institutions that
underwrite leveraged loans, which can exceed $1 billion, said
 Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the FDIC.  “The FDIC is working with other federal regulatory
agencies on considering whether to update the April 2001
guidance on leveraged financial activities to clarify regulatory
expectations given lessons learned from the recent financial
crisis,” Gray said in a telephone interview in Washington.  Regulators are taking a harder look at financial-market and
bank-lending trends with an eye toward spotting excessive risks
that could destabilize the financial system. To that end, the
OCC has boosted the analytical data and tools used by its
National Risk Committee, and the Federal Reserve has established
an Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research.  “This is a sector where there can be a terrific amount of
risk because of the embedded leverage and because of other
business the bank may be doing with the borrower,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, a
 Washington  firm that researches regulation for the nation’s
biggest banks. “Guidance puts the bank’s risk management office
on notice that they should have been in there looking at
leveraged loans, and it insures there are standards set industry
wide.”  Acceptable Standards  While guidance isn’t enforceable, it outlines acceptable
standards and risks and provides examiners with a rationale for
targeting leveraged loans for heightened surveillance in their
day-to-day bank oversight.  The OCC published a handbook on leveraged lending in
February 2008, which explained the market and outlined risks
such as “airballs,” or deals that are under-collateralized.
Regulators are also considering so-called “pipeline risk,”
which occurs when a bank has difficulty selling off the loan, in
their current review, according to a person familiar with the
discussions, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  High-yield, high-risk loans are used for everything from
mergers and acquisitions and buyouts to recapitalizations. The
debt is ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less
than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Leveraged loans typically have more protections for
creditors than high-yield bonds, and loan investors get paid out
first in the event of a default. Companies such as  Kinetic
Concepts Inc. (KCI) , Asurion Corp. and Energy Transfer Equity LP have
issued leveraged loans in the past six months.  Volumes Jump  Volumes jumped to $373.1 billion last year, a 59 percent
increase from 2010 and the most since record sales of $535.2
billion in 2007, according to S&P Leveraged Commentary and Data.
Buyers of the loans include other banks, structured credit
funds,  hedge funds  and state pension funds.  The  S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index (SPBDLLB) , which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien loans, rose 0.03 cent to
93.2 cents on the dollar on Feb. 27. It’s up from a record low
of 59.2 cents on Dec. 17, 2008, three months after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The  Federal Reserve ’s low-rate policy has helped drive more
cash into high-yield assets. The U.S. central bank has held the
benchmark lending rate between zero and 0.25 percent since
December 2008 and is pushing down long-term rates by extending
the duration of its $2.6-trillion securities portfolio.  Pension Funds  State pension funds and  retirement plans  have been unable
to meet annual return benchmarks because of the extended period
of low  interest rates , said  Martin Fridson , global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners. That has helped
increase demand for high-yield debt.  “I don’t think there is any question there is pressure to
raise returns on these portfolios because of the difficulties of
increasing contributions when state money is not plentiful,”
said Fridson, who is based in  New York . “Something has to give,
and part of what’s giving is that pension plans and retirement
systems are looking for ways to raise the yields on their
portfolios.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in January said the
benchmark lending rate would remain “exceptionally low”
through at least late 2014, extending an earlier date of mid-
2013.  The U.S. 10-year note dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.91 percent at 1:43 p.m. New York time.
The yield dropped to a record 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The leveraged-loan market has been falling under regulatory
scrutiny on and off for more than a decade.  Regulators last issued joint guidance in 2001, when mergers
and acquisitions helped lift leveraged financings to one-third
of syndicated bank loans, according to their letter at that
time. Regulators warned of “undue concentrations,” and the use
of “unrealistic assumptions to determine enterprise value.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in June pointed to risks in
the leveraged-loan market in a speech on potential financial
imbalances. She highlighted narrowing spreads and “deals that
do not provide investors with the traditional protection of
maintenance covenants.”  About $47.9 billion in dollar-denominated leveraged loans
were arranged last year without financial maintenance covenants,
up from $7.64 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Maintenance covenants are provisions in a credit
agreement that require the company to hit certain financial
targets, such as interest-coverage ratios.  Del Monte Foods  San Francisco-based  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) , the maker of pet
foods Meow Mix and Milk Bone, got a $2.5 billion so-called
covenant-lite  term loan  in January 2011, the largest single
tranche loan that year that didn’t contain financial maintenance
provisions, Bloomberg data show.  The financing was to support its leveraged buyout by KKR &
Co., Vestar  Capital Partners  and Centerview Partners LLP.  Yellen, in her June remarks in  Tokyo , said the Fed would
“continue to watch conditions in the leveraged-loan market
closely in the coming months, and we will speak out forcefully
if we perceive pressures continuing to build.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at +1-
   chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New
York at   rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  