-- HP Cutting 275 WebOS Jobs as It Makes Software Open-Source
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-29T00:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/hewlett-packard-cuts-275-webos-jobs-as-company-makes-software-open-source.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
biggest personal-computer maker, is cutting 275 engineering jobs
and other positions at its WebOS business, part of a plan to
turn the operating system into open-source software.  The move follows the company’s announcement on Dec. 9 that
it will release WebOS under an open-source license, letting
outside developers tinker with the code and use it in their
products. Hewlett-Packard, which gained WebOS in its $1.2
billion acquisition of Palm Inc. in 2010, discontinued its own
hardware that uses the operating system in August.  “As WebOS continues the transition from making mobile
devices to open-source software, it no longer needs many of the
engineering and other related positions that it required
before,”  Mylene Mangalindan , a spokeswoman for the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “HP is
working to redeploy employees affected by these changes to other
roles at the company.”  The company had undertaken a previous round of WebOS-
related job cuts in September, and former Palm CEO  Jon Rubinstein  left the company in January. Even as it scales back
the operation, Hewlett-Packard is trying to drum up interest in
WebOS as an alternative to mobile platforms from Google Inc.,
Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  While Hewlett-Packard no longer makes TouchPad tablets and
Palm Pre phones, which had used WebOS, the company has said it
might introduce a new device running the software in 2013.
Still, Hewlett-Packard doesn’t expect to make another phone with
the software.  Hewlett-Packard fell less than 1 percent to $26.18 today at
the close in  New York . The shares have lost 40 percent of their
value over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  