-- Ex-Intel Executive Roomy Khan May Testify Against Doug Whitman , U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-28T02:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ex-intel-executive-roomy-khan-may-testify-against-doug-whitman-u-s-says.html
Former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive Roomy Khan, who aided the prosecution of hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , may be called as a witness in Whitman Capital LLC
founder Doug Whitman’s insider trading case, prosecutors said.  If Khan testifies against Whitman, it will be the first
time she has appeared as a government witness at trial. While
Khan was a key informant for the government in its prosecution
of Rajaratnam for insider trading, she never testified at the
trial of the Galleon Group LLC co-founder last year in  New York .  Another possible witness against Whitman is Karl Motey, an
independent consultant from  California  who pleaded guilty and
has testified at another insider-trading trial in New York, the
U.S. said today in a filing in federal court in Manhattan. The
government also disclosed that it may call a third witness, an
unidentified New York business person who has cooperated in a
federal investigation of insider trading.  The third person was described in the filing by prosecutors
as a “parallel tippee of Roomy Khan’s” who received “inside
information” about  Google Inc. (GOOG)  “around the same time as
Whitman.”  Whitman was indicted Feb. 10 on charges that he part in two
separate insider-trading conspiracies, allegedly using illegal
tips on Google,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
to make more than $900,000 for his  Menlo Park , California-based
hedge fund.  He’s charged with two counts of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and two counts of securities fraud. If
convicted, he faces as long as five years in prison on each
conspiracy charge and 20 years on each securities fraud charge.  Shared Tips  Khan, who pleaded guilty and said she shared tips with
Rajaratnam, gave the U.S. evidence that helped lead to a wiretap
of his phone. He was convicted by a jury last May of all 14
counts against him and is serving an 11-year prison sentence.  Khan allegedly tipped Whitman about earnings at Polycom, a
maker of video-conferencing equipment, and search-engine
operator Google before they were made public, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission alleged in a civil lawsuit
against Whitman.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  said in today’s
filing that testimony by the unidentified third witness “and
corresponding parallel trading activity will corroborate  Roomy
Khan ’s testimony with respect to her providing Google inside
information to Whitman.”  Transfer to California  In today’s filing, Leibowitz also objected to Whitman’s
request that his case be transferred from Manhattan to northern
California.  Whitman has said most of the witnesses who will testify
reside in California. His lawyers also argued that his wife and
a child live there and a trial in New York would be disruptive.  “At its heart, this is a Silicon Valley case and not a
Wall Street case,” his lawyer,  David Anderson , said in a
Feb. 16 court filing.  Leibowitz disputed the defense attorney’s assertion that no
criminal conduct occurred in New York. He also said that Khan,
who used to be Whitman’s neighbor in California, now resides on
the East Coast.  “The testimony of Khan and this cooperating witness will
show, among other things, that Whitman’s claims in his
memorandum artificially minimize the impact of the illegal
conduct on the Southern District of New York,” Leibowitz said
in his filing. “At the very heart of the conspiracy and the
substantive  insider trading  charges in this case, the defendant
voluntarily caused his criminal conduct to occur in the Southern
District of New York.”  Silicon Valley  Asked about today’s government filing, Anderson through a
spokesman reiterated his claim that it’s a Silicon Valley case,
not a New York case.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York, who is
presiding over the case, has scheduled a hearing for Feb. 29 on
Whitman’s request to move the case to California. A trial is
scheduled for July 30 in New York, court records show.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Whitman, 12-
cv-01055, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  