-- Ex-News Corp. Exec Brooks Loaned Police Horse
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-28T15:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ex-news-corp-exec-brooks-loaned-police-horse.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit who was arrested
last year in probes of tabloid phone hacking and police bribery,
had a retired police horse in her stable from 2008 to 2010.  Brooks, a horse-riding enthusiast who resigned from London-
based News International two days before her arrest in July,
housed and fed the animal as part of a program for horses that
are retired from service with mounted officers, the  Metropolitan
Police Service  said in an e-mailed statement today.  “It is mind boggling that the police even knew Rebekah
Brooks might have wanted a horse,” said  Mark Lewis , a lawyer
for phone-hacking victims who says police previously worked with
News Corp. to contain the phone-hacking scandal. “It isn’t that
the relationship was too close, it was a long way past that.”  A judge-led inquiry triggered by News Corp.’s voice-mail
interceptions is widening to examine the relationship between
 U.K. police  and the press after a criminal probe in 2006 failed
to uncover the extent of the practice. An inquiry lawyer, Robert
Jay, said yesterday the public feared the relationship between
the police and News International was “at best inappropriately
close, and if not actually corrupt was very close to it.”  Brooks, who hasn’t been charged and is free on bail, edited
the now-defunct News of the World tabloid, where the phone-
hacking scandal started, and later edited News Corp.’s Sun daily
newspaper, which is at the center of a bribery investigation.
She has denied wrongdoing.  ‘Foster Parent’  The loan from the police “is something good and charitable
for the horse and also good for the foster parent, if you will,
given the benefit of being able to ride,”  David Wilson ,
Brooks’s spokesman, said today in a phone interview. “Her
husband Charlie is a horse-racing trainer and she absolutely
shares his love of horses.”  The News of the World’s royal reporter  Clive Goodman  and
private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed in 2007 for
accessing voice mails of members of the royal household. The
company has since admitted the practice was more widespread. At
least two top Met Police commanders resigned last year over
claims officers ignored the scandal.  Wilson declined to comment on Brooks’s relationship with
the police or why she received the horse on loan rather than
someone else who may have wanted to care for the animal.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News International, declined to
comment.  The police officer in charge of probes into bribery and
phone hacking yesterday told the inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, that the Sun had a “culture” of corrupt payments to
public officials and police. Ten current and former Sun
journalists have been arrested in the bribery investigation.  The inquiry also heard testimony that police limited their
investigation into phone-hacking in 2006, and tipped off Brooks
about the status of the probe. The police held thousands of
pages of unexamined evidence in storage until civil lawsuits by
victims in 2010 forced them to review the documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  