-- Texas Health-Care Services Accused by U.S. of $374 Million in Phony Bills
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/texas-doctor-accused-in-374-million-u-s-health-care-fraud-case.html
Seven people in  Texas  billed U.S.
government health programs for $374 million in services that
weren’t provided or necessary in the largest at-home health-care
fraud scheme, according to the Justice Department.  A doctor, the office manager of his practice and five
owners of at-home health agencies were arrested yesterday on
charges related to their participation in the fraud, the
department said in a statement. In court papers, the U.S.
described door-to-door efforts to recruit thousands of patients
who didn’t need services, a boiler room where falsified
documents were signed and overseas bank accounts.  The suspects were indicted in U.S. District Court in Dallas
on charges including health-care fraud, and accused of sending
$350 million in bogus bills to  Medicare (FFSOMED)  and $24 million in
fraudulent bills to  Medicaid (USBOMDCA) .  The Obama administration has said it’s cracking down on
those who steal from government health programs for the elderly,
poor and disabled. There are no reliable figures for how much
government health programs lose to fraud annually. Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, estimates the Medicare loss from
fraud, waste and abuse at $60 billion to $100 billion annually,
according to his spokesman,  John Hart .  ‘Cottage Industry’  The indicted doctor, Jacques Roy, 54, of Rockwall, Texas,
made a “cottage industry” out of signing up patients for
services they didn’t need, according to a government detention
memo filed with the court.  Authorities say that, between January 2006 and November
2011, Roy and others at his direction certified more Medicare
beneficiaries for home health-care services and had more
patients than any other medical practice in the U.S.  “Dr. Roy and his co-conspirators for years ran a well-
oiled fraudulent enterprise in the  Dallas  area, making millions
by recruiting thousands of patients for unnecessary services and
billing Medicare for those services,” said  Lanny Breuer , the
assistant attorney general for the Justice Department’s criminal
division, in a statement.  Roy’s attorney, Patrick McLain of Dallas, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  The case is the largest health-care fraud case as measured
by billings since the Justice Department and Health and Human
Services created a first strike force to combat Medicare fraud
in 2007, Breuer said in the statement.  Total Amount  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, couldn’t
immediately provide the total amount of money paid out by
Medicare and Medicaid to those involved in the alleged fraud.  The government identified a potential fraud by using data
analysis targeting suspicious billing spikes, according to
Daniel Levinson, the inspector general for the Health and Human
Services Department. Analysts discovered that Roy certified more
than 5,000 patients for home health care in 2010, while 99
percent of doctors signed off on 104 or fewer people, Levinson
said in a statement.  Staff and contractors at the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services discovered the “first indications of
improprieties” in late 2008, began investigating in 2009 and
referred the case to  law enforcement  in 2010, said Ted
Doolittle, deputy director for policy of CMS’s center for
program integrity, in an interview.  “These are difficult and painstaking cases to build,”
said Doolittle. “They take a lot of man hours” to check on
individual beneficiaries and see whether they are homebound and
in need of treatment, he said.  ‘Aberrant Claims’  CMS should have spotted the “aberrant claims 5 years ago
when they were filed,” said Kirk Ogrosky, a partner at Arnold &
Porter LLP in  Washington  and former federal prosecutor who
coordinated Medicare fraud cases. “No single doctor can see as
many patients as this doctor claims and the government knew it
at the time he filed them.”  Roy and other physicians at his company, Medistat Group
Associates, certified that 11,000 patients over five years were
eligible for home health-care services such as physical therapy
that are supposed to be reserved for the homebound, according to
the  Justice Department .  Roy relied on home health-care agencies to recruit
patients, according to the indictment. The health agencies
canvassed neighborhoods, going door-to-door to recruit patients
that were sent to Roy or other doctors working for him,
authorities said. The doctors then certified that the patients
were eligible for home health services even though they didn’t
need them, according to the government’s detention memo.  In a Medistat boiler room, employees worked all day placing
Roy’s signature on approvals for home health services, the
government alleged in the memo.  Fake Identity  Roy created a fake identity and had documents, including a
driver’s license and birth certificate with an assumed name,
according to the memo. Roy had bank accounts overseas, including
in Grand Cayman, according to the government. Millions paid to
Roy by government health programs are unaccounted for, the
government said in the memo.  One of the indicted home health agency operators is accused
of paying recruiters to find patients at a Dallas homeless
shelter, according to the indictment. Two others promised free
health care and other social services such as  food stamps  as
incentives.  The government suspended 78 other home health agencies
associated with Roy based on “credible allegations of fraud
against them,” according to a Justice Department news release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  