-- Texas Interim Congressional Maps Approved That Might Allow May 29 Primary
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/texas-interim-congressional-maps-approved-that-might-allow-may-29-primary.html
Texas ’s congressional primaries may
be held May 29 after interim election maps delayed by a
redistricting battle were approved by a panel of U.S. judges in
 San Antonio .  The maps were redrawn by a three-judge panel that has
overseen a legal challenge brought by voting rights groups and
Democratic lawmakers against new election districts created last
year by the Republican-controlled Texas Legislature. Opponents
claimed the Legislature’s maps were racial gerrymanders intended
to prevent the election of Latinos.  “This interim plan is not a final ruling on the merits of
any claims asserted” by voting rights activists in the San
Antonio court challenge or a parallel lawsuit brought by the
 state of Texas  in federal court in  Washington , U.S. District
Judge Orlando Garcia said in a two-page ruling yesterday.  The six-month redistricting fight delayed Texas’s primary
election schedule and knocked the state out of the influential
Super Tuesday contests on March 6, when more voters participate
in party primaries and caucuses than on any other date. Election
officials had told the San Antonio panel they needed the new
maps by the end of this week to hold party primaries on May 29,
as the judges requested.  Four New Districts  Texas gained four new Congressional districts to
accommodate 4.3 million new residents added since 2000,
according to the 2010  U.S. Census . Hispanics, who more often
vote for Democrats than Republicans, accounted for about
65 percent of the growth. Republican Governor  Rick Perry 
approved the maps, which provided no new districts that favored
the election of Latinos, according to opponents of the state’s
maps.  Opponents challenged the state’s maps in San Antonio
federal court, while Texas filed its own lawsuit in federal
court in Washington seeking “pre-clearance” of the Republican
maps by the  Justice Department . All states with a history of
voting rights violations must obtain such approval before the
maps can be used in an election, according to provisions of the
Voting Rights Act.  “The interim Congressional redistricting plan complies
with the mandates of the Voting Rights Act by creating two
additional Latino-majority Congressional Districts,” Nina
Perales, lead attorney for the Latino Redistricting Task Force,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “This litigation has
achieved what the State of Texas failed to include in its
legislatively enacted Congressional redistricting plan --
districts that recognize the significant population growth of
Latinos in Texas.”  ‘Substantial Improvement’  Texas Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said the interim
districts are “a substantial improvement from maps previously
issued by the San Antonio court.”  “As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s unanimous, clear
direction to the district court, these new interim maps more
accurately reflect the decisions of elected Texas legislators,”
Abbott said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Abbott said the San Antonio court’s interim Congressional
map only modified districts that were challenged by the
activists. An earlier version issued by the court was declared
by the U.S. Supreme Court to be not deferential enough to
lawmakers.  “In doing so, the court properly rejected the demands by
some plaintiffs to draw drastic and over-reaching interim
maps,” Abbott said.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11A536 (Congressional map), U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  