-- Medical Device Loophole Needs Closing by Congress, FDA Device Chief Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-02-28T16:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fda-device-chief-says-approval-loophole-needs-closing.html
The  Food and Drug Administration ’s
top medical-device regulator said the agency needs more power to
block unsafe products and prevent repeats of faulty hip implants
and vaginal mesh that sparked thousands of patient lawsuits.  House Democrats  introduced legislation this month to let
the FDA reject devices that have designs based on past products
that were recalled for safety flaws. The agency now lacks that
authority in many cases, creating a “loophole” that’s
challenged the credibility of some device approvals, said
 Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s Center for Devices and
Radiological Health.  The bill’s sponsors cited health complications caused by
products like the hip replacements and vaginal implants made by
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , which they
said were approved despite concerns with earlier versions of the
technology. Shuren, while not endorsing the bill, said the
agency supports a legislative fix.  “It’s good for patients and it’s good for companies and it
assures that if there’s a problem with the new device, it gets
addressed before it goes to market,” Shuren said by telephone.
“The challenge now is if there’s a problem, it can get
replicated” through future generations of devices.  In October, Bloomberg News reported that the agency
approved vaginal mesh implants even though some traced their
designs to a product recalled by  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , of
Natick, Massachusetts. The devices, used by 300,000 women to
treat weakened pelvic muscles, have sparked hundreds of lawsuits
from patients who say they lead to internal injuries,
incontinence and painful sex.  Trade Group Criticism  The device industry’s Washington, D.C. trade group, the
 Advanced Medical Technology Association , criticized the
Democratic proposal in a statement on Feb. 2, saying the bill
would add regulatory burdens for manufacturers who already
struggle with long FDA reviews.  The agency already has “abundant authority to carry out
its mandate’” and the legislation “will not contribute to
patient safety,” according to the group, which represents
device makers including J&J, Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) 
and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , of  Abbott Park ,  Illinois . The
association stands by those concerns, a spokeswoman, Wanda
Moebius, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Shuren said a change may make approvals easier by reducing
the negotiations conducted by the FDA when it has concerns about
a product’s design. Manufacturers could still show why a past
device’s flaws had been corrected or aren’t relevant for a new
application, he said.  Approval Program  The debate centers on the agency’s 510(k) program, the
system used to clear 90 percent of medical products in the U.S.
each year. The process can allow devices on the market without
human testing if the FDA deems them “substantially equivalent”
to previously approved versions, known as predicates.  By law, the FDA has to approve devices that cite an
eligible predicate unless the older device has been ordered off
the market by the agency or a court order, Shuren said. Because
most companies opt for voluntary recalls before they reach that
point, the devices can continue to serve as a basis for future
products, Shuren said.  As a result, the FDA has approved items including drug-
infusion pumps, heart and lung pumps and medical humidifiers for
children despite concerns over predicates, Shuren said.  High-Profile Devices  On average, the agency clears 28 devices a year that cite a
predicate known to be recalled, he said. While that’s “a small
number” compared with the 3,000 devices reviewed annually
through 510(k), it includes products like the vaginal meshes
whose high-profile failures have shaken consumer faith, he said.  Changing the law “will bolster the strength of the 510(k)
program, which repeatedly comes under criticism, and oftentimes,
it’s for just a handful of cases,” Shuren said.  A device is five times as likely to be recalled with a
design flaw if it was based on a predicate that was itself
pulled for safety problems, Shuren said, citing FDA records.  The legislation, HR3847, was introduced Feb. 1 by four
Democrats led by Representative  Edward Markey  of  Massachusetts .
Besides giving the FDA more power to reject devices, it would
require manufacturers to submit information about recalls of
predicates used in an application. The agency also would be
required to review previously cleared products to see if any
have safety issues in their “device lineage.”  While the FDA isn’t taking a position on Markey’s bill,
“we would be glad to work with him to provide technical help,”
an agency spokeswoman,  Karen Riley , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  