-- Fed Sells Remaining $6 Billion of Maiden Lane II Assets to Credit Suisse
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-29T00:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fed-sells-maiden-lane-ii-assets-to-credit-suisse.html
The Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York
said it sold the remaining $6 billion of mortgage bonds in its
Maiden Lane II LLC portfolio, which were assumed in the
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   The New York Fed sold the securities to  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , according to a statement posted on the district bank’s
 website  today. The New York Fed said that taxpayers earned $2.8
billion, including $580 million in interest, on their $19.5
billion loan to the Maiden Lane II vehicle, which was created in
2008 to buy holdings that AIG handed the Fed in exchange for a
cash injection.  Today’s sale was prompted by an unsolicited bid from Morgan
Stanley for the securities and was the third such sale this
year. The New York Fed halted regular and more public auctions
last year of about $10 billion after traders blamed the sales
for damaging prices in credit markets. The New York Fed used its
two previous sales in 2012 totaling about $13 billion to retire
its loan to Maiden Lane II.  “The completion of the sale of the Maiden Lane II
portfolio has resulted in significant gains for the public and
marks an important milestone in the wind-down of the
extraordinary interventions necessitated by the financial
crisis,” William C. Dudley, president of the New York Fed, said
in the statement.  Piecemeal Sales  After inviting more than 40 broker-dealers to take part in
the auctions last year, the New York Fed has been turning to a
more limited number of dealers in response to reverse inquiries.
It began selling the bonds piecemeal after rejecting a $15.7
billion bid from New York-based AIG for the entire pool in
March.  The sales this year haven’t curbed a rally in home-loan
bonds. Typical prices for the most-senior bonds tied to option
ARMs have climbed to 55 cents on the dollar from 49 cents in
October and November, according to Barclays Capital data. That’s
still down from last year’s high of 65 cents in February. Option
ARMs allow borrowers to pay less than the interest they owe by
increasing their balances.  “This was a significantly better process than what
occurred last year,” said Jason Callan, head of structured
products at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC in
 Minneapolis , which oversees about $170 billion in fixed income
assets. “This puts the concern of these forced sales or
liquidations behind the market.”  ‘Competitive Process’  Barclays, Credit Suisse, Bank of America Corp., Morgan
Stanley and RBS Securities Inc. were included in this sale’s
“competitive process,” according to the New York Fed’s
statement.  “Credit Suisse and its clients are pleased to have won
this competitive auction, and happy to be playing a role in the
redistribution of these assets,” Steven Vames, a spokesman for
Credit Suisse, said in an e-mailed statement. A “significant
portion” of the assets has already been allocated to clients,
and Credit Suisse plans to distribute the remainder, Vames said.  The portfolio included securities backed by the types of
home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as so-
called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgage debt.  The Fed made another loan to help bail out AIG to a vehicle
called Maiden Lane III LLC, and was owed about $9.3 billion
under that facility as of Feb. 22, according to the New York
Fed’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  