-- FHFA Home Sales, EU Trade Rules, ‘Gekko’ Returns: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-28T13:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fhfa-home-sales-eu-trade-rules-gekko-returns-compliance.html
The Federal Housing Finance Agency
will begin inviting bids from investors to buy packages of
foreclosed properties to be offered as rentals.  The agency yesterday said it will send  detailed information 
to investors who qualify to participate in the bulk-sales pilot
program. Foreclosures will be marketed in Atlanta,  Chicago , Las
Vegas,  Los Angeles , Phoenix and parts of Florida, according to a
statement posted by the agency on its  website  yesterday.  The program is limited to properties owned by Washington-
based Fannie Mae, which sells and guarantees home loans. The
subprime lending collapse left the company with more than
122,000 foreclosed homes, also known as real-estate-owned or
REO, when loans that it guaranteed failed. Fannie Mae and its
smaller rival, Freddie Mac, were taken under government
conservatorship in 2008 amid mounting losses. Freddie Mac will
not participate in the pilot programs.  Under the pilot program, the first large-scale bulk sales
effort by FHFA, investors will agree to be equity partners with
 Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   The agency announced its intent to commence the program and
invited investors to apply on Feb. 1.  To participate, investors must show that they have the
experience and financial capacity to purchase and manage the
properties, the agency said. Once they qualify, they’ll receive
detailed information about the properties. To bid on the homes,
qualified investors must post a security deposit and sign a
confidentiality agreement to gain access to detailed
information, according to the news release.  Compliance Policy  EU Seeks Power to Ban Firms From Its Public Procurement Market  The European Union’s executive will seek the power to block
companies based outside the EU from bidding for public
procurement contracts in  Europe  as part of plans to boost the
bloc’s arsenal against trade discrimination.  The EU’s top financial-services and trade officials plan to
propose next month that the  European Commission  in Brussels
should have the power to ban companies from winning public
procurement contracts in the region if they are based in
countries that “repeatedly discriminate” against European
firms,  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the commission, said
today in an e-mail.  The measure will be part of a broader proposal that will
also clarify what access foreign companies get to EU public
procurement markets through free-trade agreements and other
accords, Hughes said. The aim of the initiative is to “re-
establish a fair competition on the European market,” Hughes
said.  The measure will be presented on March 21 by Financial
Services Commissioner Michel Barnier and Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht. It comes as the EU clashes with  China  over
possible subsidies for Chinese steel exports.  Barnier Says EU Should Stop Bank-Lending Cuts Amid Capital Boost  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, called on national regulators to take “all necessary
measures” to stop  banks  reducing loans to businesses and
households in order to boost their capital.  Barnier made the remarks in a written  response  to a
parliamentary question.  The  European Central Bank ’s decision in December to provide
longer term loans to banks has “released some of the funding
tensions” in the interbank-lending market, Barnier said in the
response, which is dated Feb. 27. This should limit the risk of
a “disruptive” reduction in lenders’ activities.  Regulators at the European Banking Authority are forcing
some banks in the 27-nation region to boost their core capital
to 9 percent of their assets, weighted for risk, to boost market
confidence, in anticipation of capital rules agreed on in 2010
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  Thai Regulator to Tighten Rules on Bill of Exchange Sales  Thailand’s Securities and Exchange Commission will tighten
rules on bill of exchange sales to help protect individual
investors.  Companies must sell a minimum of at least 10 million baht
for each bill of exchange, Vorapol Socatiyanurak, the
regulator’s secretary-general, told a press briefing in Bangkok
today. The new rule will take effect from July 1, he said.  The rule change came after commercial banks raised funds
for loan expansion through short-term securities, which are not
covered by deposit insurance, he said.  Compliance Action  California Seeks Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Foreclosure Halt  California Attorney General Kamala Harris is seeking to
suspend foreclosures on Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  loans.  In a letter to Edward DeMarco, acting director of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, Harris requested a suspension of
foreclosure sales in California for the more than 60 percent of
loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Harris wants the sales halted until “your agency has
completed a thorough, transparent analysis of whether principal
reduction is in the best interests of struggling homeowners as
well as taxpayers,” according to the Feb. 24 letter.  More than 500,000 Californians have lost their homes to
foreclosure since 2008, and another 500,000 homes are in the
process, or at “imminent risk,” of foreclosure so far in 2012,
Harris said in the letter.  Stefanie Johnson, a  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the letter. The FHFA regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Separately, the  Federal Reserve  released documents showing
how U.S. mortgage servicers pledged to overhaul faulty
foreclosure practices that led to this month’s $25 billion
settlement with state and federal authorities.  For more, click here.  Douglas’s Gordon Gekko Is FBI’s Latest Insider-Trading Crusader  Gordon Gekko, the character played by actor Michael Douglas
in the movie “Wall Street,” is the  New York  FBI office’s
newest weapon in its arsenal to combat insider trading.  The message from Douglas in a public service announcement
set to be unveiled yesterday won’t be “Greed, for lack of a
better word, is good.” In a first for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, Douglas, reprising his role in the 1987 film,
will urge fund managers and Wall Street analysts to avoid taking
the same route to the federal penitentiary as his character
does, FBI Special Agent David Chaves said in an interview on
Feb. 24.  Chaves, a supervisor of one of the FBI’s securities and
commodities fraud units in New York, said some television
stations have agreed to broadcast the spot.  Chaves and his fellow agents in New York are behind the
insider-trading initiative called “ Perfect Hedge ,” in which
they teamed up with the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the
sources of inside tips and those profiting from them.  The five-year enforcement effort has yielded criminal
charges against more than 60 people. More than 50 have either
pleaded guilty or been convicted after trial in New York.  For more, click here.  China Baoan Says Under Regulator Probe for Disclosure Breach  China Baoan Group Co. (000009)  received a notice yesterday from the
China  Securities Regulatory Commission  which said the company
will be investigated for infringement of disclosure rules,
according to a statement the company filed to the Shenzhen Stock
Exchange.  BPCE Unit Fined 800,000 Euros on Risk Controls, Les Echos Says  Groupe BPCE’s biggest regional banking unit was fined
800,000 euros ($1.1 million) by French regulators for inadequate
market-risk controls, Les Echos reported, citing unidentified
sources.  BRED, a unit of BPCE’s Banque Populaire, introduced
increasingly complex products without beefing up its risk
controls, the regulators found, according to the newspaper
report. The regulators disclosed the penalty on Jan. 2 without
naming the bank that was sanctioned, Les Echos said.  BRED spokeswoman Nathalie Avril wasn’t available for
immediate comment.  SEC’s Ex-Top Lawyer to Repay $556,000 in Madoff Ponzi Funds  The family of David M. Becker, the former top lawyer for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, agreed to pay
$556,017 to settle claims over inherited money that was linked
to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  The payment is equal to the entire amount of profits that
Becker and his brothers inherited from a Madoff account held by
their mother, who died in 2004, according to a  statement 
yesterday by Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Irving H. Picard,
the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm.  Picard, in a November 2010 lawsuit filed in bankruptcy
court in New York, had originally claimed that the Beckers
received $1.5 million in fictitious profits.  Becker, who left the SEC in 2011 to return to private legal
practice, faced criticism last year after Picard’s lawsuit was
made public, suggesting he may have had a personal financial
interest in policies he worked on at the SEC related to how
Madoff customers should be compensated.  William Baker III, Becker’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that Becker made full disclosure of his
mother’s account while he was at the SEC and followed the
agency’s ethics procedures. Federal prosecutors declined to open
a case on the matter.  Japan’s FSA to Start Nationwide Probe of Asset Managers  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency will undertake a
nationwide investigation of asset management companies,
Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said.  Investment firms will be required to submit status reports,
Jimi said at a news conference in  Tokyo  today. The FSA is
probing 263 asset managers after it suspended  AIJ Investment
Advisors Co. (0202964D)  for a month for incurring possible losses.  The agency is considering all possible preventative steps
following AIJ’s case, Jimi said.  Courts  Speculation Limits Judge Says He’s ‘Skeptical’ of CFTC Rule  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission arguments in
support of the agency’s limits on speculation are being
questioned by the judge presiding over a challenge to the rule
by two Wall Street groups.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins said during a hearing in
 Washington  yesterday that he is “kind of skeptical” about
mandated position limits.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
urged Wilkins to put the rule on hold while he considers their
legal challenge. The groups argue that the CFTC never studied
whether the regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or
quantified the costs tied to implementing the rule.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken 2010’s Dodd-Frank law, filed lawsuits
in two federal courts in Washington in December challenging the
rule setting caps on the number of contracts a trader can have.  Jonathan Marcus, a lawyer for the CFTC, said the harm some
of the groups’ members claim they’ve incurred seeking to comply
are “miniscule” when compared to the companies’ annual revenue
and income.  Wilkins said he will issue a ruling “quickly.”  The agency voted 3-2 at an Oct. 18 meeting to approve the
final regulation.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  HSBC Says U.S. Money-Laundering Enforcement Measures ‘Likely’  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s largest bank, said U.S.
prosecutors are likely to take criminal or civil enforcement
measures involving the bank amid a money laundering probe.  The bank has been sent subpoenas and other requests for
information by U.S. agencies including the U.S. Department of
Justice and the U.S.  Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations  relating to the Bank Secrecy Act, London-based
HSBC said in a filing yesterday.  “The change in disclosure reflects the fact that some form
of formal enforcement action is likely,” London-based spokesman
Brendan McNamara said by phone yesterday. “We take compliance
matters extremely seriously.”  The bank said on Jan. 25 it would cooperate with the U.S.
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations probe and
repeated its support of efforts to combat money laundering.  Ex-Nigerian Delta Governor Pleads Guilty to Money Laundering  Former Nigerian Delta State Governor James Ibori pleaded
guilty in  London  to stealing millions of dollars from the West
African nation while he was in power.  Ibori, who governed the state for eight years, entered the
guilty pleas to 10 charges including money laundering and
conspiracy to defraud yesterday, when his trial was scheduled to
begin. Police estimate he embezzled $250 million to live “a
life of luxury,” the U.K.’s Department for International
Development said in a statement.  Interviews/Speeches  Levitt Praises Proposed Changes to Money Market Funds  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said the money market mutual fund industry
is “absolutely frantic” about proposed S.E.C. changes to bring
fair value accounting to the industry.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Geithner on EU Crisis, Iran Oil, U.S. Financial Reform  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner talked in
Mexico City about Europe’s sovereign debt crisis following a
meeting Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers.  He also discussed the impact of new sanctions against Iran
on oil, and changes in the U.S. financial-service industry.  For the video, click here.  Barnier Confident U.S. to Follow EU Basel 2.5 Implementation  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that he is confident that the U.S. will follow the
EU’s lead in boosting how much capital banks must hold against
assets they intend to trade and against securitizations.  The EU’s move was in line with an agreement in the Basel
committee, Barnier told reporters yesterday in Brussels.  Separately, Barnier said that creating a public EU credit-
ratings company would be a “costly matter.”  Lawmakers in the  European Parliament  are weighing including
the establishment of an EU ratings company in a draft law on
boosting competition to offer credit-rating assessments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 