-- First Solar Reports Loss as Charges Equal 20% of Market Value
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/first-solar-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-restructuring-charges.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s
largest maker of thin-film solar panels, reported a loss in the
fourth quarter as panel prices declines and it took charges
equal to almost 20 percent of its market value.  The company took a $393 million writedown of goodwill, and
spent $60 million for restructuring expenses and $164 million
for warranty payments to replace flawed equipment, Tempe,
Arizona-based First Solar said yesterday in a statement.  First Solar introduced a manufacturing issue in 2008 that
lasted for about a year and caused premature power loss in some
panels, leading to warranty claims of $125.8 million in the
fourth quarter, or more than half the total spent on the glitch
to date. It also put aside $37.8 million to cover future claims.  “The bloom is off the rose,” said  Mark Bachman , an
analyst at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston  who has a “neutral”
rating on the shares. “These charges about 10 times what they
said they were going to be when they first reported the issue.”  The company reported a net loss of $413 million, or $4.74 a
share, from net income of $155.9 million, or $1.80 a share, a
year earlier, according to the statement. The company was
expected to earn $1.02 a share, the average of 18 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose to $660 million from $609.8
million.  Panel Failures  First Solar increased the amount it sets aside for warranty
claims by 1 percent to reflect potentially higher failure rates
in hot climates, Chief Financial Officer Mark Widmar said during
a conference call with analysts. “As our geographic mix of
sales has shifted to hot climates we increased our warranty
accrual,” Widmar said.  First Solar’s pretax writedown of $393 million was mostly
to account for the value of project developers it purchased.
Excluding these expenses, the company’s profit was $1.26 a
share.  First Solar reduced its 2012  forecast . It expects to report
sales of $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion, compared with a December
forecast of $3.7 billion to $4 billion.  Solar panel  prices  decreased 50 percent last year as a
global glut increased competition and governments from  Germany 
to the U.S. reduced incentives for renewable energy. In
response, First Solar lowered its sales forecast, production and
capital spending plans, and ousted its chief executive officer.  “The German plan to accelerate and deepen cuts suggests
flat 2012 worldwide demand and continued pricing pressure,” Rob Stone, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in Boston, said in a note to
clients. He reduced First Solar’s rating to “neutral” from
“outperform” partly because of the incentive reductions
planned by Germany, the largest solar market.  Declining Shares  The statement was released after the close of regular U.S.
trading yesterday. First Solar rose less than 1 percent to
$36.40 at the close in  New York , giving it a market value of
almost $3.15 billion. The shares have dropped 75 percent in the
past year.  During the fourth quarter, Chairman and interim CEO Michael
Ahearn sold its $2 billion Topaz solar plant to MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   He also closed a research project in  Santa Clara ,
 California , that was developing solar modules using copper-
indium-gallium-selenide, or CIGS, technology and fired 100
workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  