-- FirstRand Profit Declines 48% in First Half After Insurance Asset Spinoff
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-02-28T06:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/firstrand-profit-declines-48-in-first-half-after-insurance-asset-spinoff.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South  Africa ’s
second-biggest financial services company, said first-half
profit fell 48 percent as it spun off and sold insurance assets.  Net income dropped to 6.59 billion rand ($874 million) in
the six months through December from a restated 12.6 billion
rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said in a
statement today. Earnings per share adjusted to exclude the
effect of the disposal in 2010 rose 26 percent to 1.02 rand,
beating the 1-rand median  estimate  of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The increase in earnings was delivered through very
strong operational performances from  First National Bank  and
WesBank, driven by loan and customer deposit growth, new
customer acquisition, expanding lending margins and robust
transactional volumes,” FirstRand said in the statement today.  FirstRand spun off and merged its insurance unit Momentum
Group Ltd. and sold Outsurance in 2010, using some of the
surplus capital to pay a special  dividend  last year. Like
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , FirstRand wants to
grow in Africa to boost profit as its domestic market slows.
FirstRand has said it wants to buy a Nigerian lender to expand
in the continent’s most populous economy.  Cost Control  “The prior year base was already quite strong so to grow
off that base is a great achievement and shows how strong the
First National Bank, WesBank franchise is at the moment,”
Neville Chester, who helps oversee the equivalent of $35 billion
at  Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. Management has “done an excellent
job in managing the business through these difficult markets and
importantly they have achieved it by growing the top line as
much as by controlling costs,” Chester said.  FirstRand has climbed 16 percent in Johannesburg this year,
making it the best-performing stock on the six-member  FTSE/JSE
Africa Banks Index (JBNKS) .  “Achieving revenue growth is likely to remain a challenge
and, therefore, achieving a sustainable return on equity and
cost-to-income ratio continues to be a balancing act between
investment and cost management,” FirstRand said. The dividend
rose to 44 cents from 35 cents a year earlier, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  