-- Fisker Taps New CEO, Ponders Private Funds for Stalled Plant
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-28T21:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fisker-taps-new-ceo-ponders-private-funds-for-stalled-plant.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., the maker of
plug-in luxury sports cars, named an industry veteran its new
chief executive officer and said it may turn to private
investors to restart a stalled Delaware plant project.  Tom LaSorda, Fisker’s vice chairman and a past president of
the predecessor of Chrysler Group LLC, is taking command of
Anaheim, California-based Fisker Automotive effective
immediately,  Henrik Fisker , who has led the closely held company
since its founding, said today in a conference call. Henrik
Fisker, 48, shifted to executive chairman.  The carmaker on Feb. 6 said it stopped working on its
Wilmington, Delaware, auto plant after the U.S. Energy
Department blocked access to a federal loan, citing unmet
milestones. The Energy Department awarded Fisker $529 million in
loans in April 2010 from a program intended to spur development
of advanced-technology vehicles.  “We are having other funding options than the DOE,”
Henrik Fisker said. “We are right now assessing our different
funding options.”  The  California  company’s Karma plug-in electric sports car
that starts at $102,000 is now “fully” on sale in the U.S. and
 Europe , said Henrik Fisker, who designed it. That vehicle is
produced by a contract manufacturer in  Finland , and U.S. loans
Fisker received can’t be used for its production costs.  “LaSorda is a manufacturing guy; this is something he
knows up and down,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics
Inc., an auto consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan . “What
Fisker is finding out is that the hardest car to do for any
startup is the second model.”  Wilmington Plant  Fisker planned to begin making its second model, the Nina
sedan, at a Wilmington plant by 2013 before regulators halted
access to the loan. Fisker said this month it has cut 26 jobs at
the factory until the program restarts. The plant was formerly
owned by General Motors Corp., which filed for bankruptcy in
2009 and emerged as  General Motors Co. (GM)   The U.S. awarded Fisker $169 million for engineering of the
Karma and $359 million for production of the Nina. Fisker said
it has drawn down $193 million from the loans and raised $850
million in private capital. Henrik Fisker said in a December
interview the company had hired about 100 people in Wilmington.  Congressional Scrutiny  The Energy Department’s loan programs are under
congressional scrutiny since the September 2011 bankruptcy of
Solyndra LLC, a loan-guarantee recipient. Beacon Power Corp., an
energy-storage company, and Ener1 Inc., a supplier of batteries
for electric cars, both filed for  bankruptcy protection  after
receiving Energy Department aid.  LaSorda’s promotion “will enhance the company’s
credibility, but that will only get you so far,”  Jeremy Anwyl ,
vice chairman of Edmunds.com, an automotive data and pricing
company in  Santa Monica , California, said by e-mail.  “The odds are stacked against Fisker,” Anwyl said. “The
car may be an interesting toy for people who have $100,000 to
spend on such a thing, but Fisker will run out of those people
quickly, and how tolerant of glitches will those people be?”  The new CEO said the odds were on Fisker Automotive’s side.  “I wouldn’t have taken the job if I didn’t feel the future
was bright,” LaSorda, 57, said today. The former Chrysler
executive said he has invested in Fisker Automotive as a sign of
his confidence.  Prediction of Profitability  The Energy Department declined to comment on the changes at
Fisker. The status of the company’s loan and repayment hasn’t
changed, said  Damien LaVera , a spokesman for the department.  Fisker is planning for the possibility it won’t be able to
access the remaining U.S. loan funds and will be successful
solely based on Karma sales, LaSorda said.  “Can we make this a sustainable business? The answer is
yes,” he said. “In 2013 we’ll be profitable, just with the
Karma by itself.”  Fisker Automotive has produced about 2,000 Karmas. Of that
figure, 840 have been delivered to dealers in the U.S. and
 Canada , LaSorda said.  The Energy Department may permit Fisker Automotive to
resume drawing loans funds as “they see us deliver the monthly
numbers,” LaSorda said. “We have a new business plan and we’re
getting strong support from our financial partners.”  The company’s investors include Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, Palo Alto Investors LLC and the lithium-ion battery maker
 A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  