-- Forest, Richter Schizophrenia Drug Met Clinical Trial Goals
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-28T21:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/forest-richter-schizophrenia-drug-met-clinical-trial-goals-2-.html
Gedeon Richter Nyrt. (RICHT)  and  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  said that the experimental antipsychotic drug
cariprazine met the goals of two late-stage clinical trials for
the treatment of schizophrenia.  The companies plan to seek approval for the drug this year
to treat schizophrenia and bipolar mania, they said in a
statement today. Budapest-based Richter and New York-based
Forest previously reported successful late-stage trials for
bipolar mania.  “This drug has blockbuster potential and could be a game
changer for Richter in the long run,” Adriana Marin, a
Bucharest-based analyst at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  who recommends buying
the stock, said by telephone.  Patients treated with cariprazine showed “significant
symptom improvement” in each study compared to those receiving
placebo, the companies said. One study, of 617 patients, looked
at two different fixed doses of the drug versus  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Abilify medicine or placebo. The other tested 446
patients on either flexible doses of the drug or placebo.  “By successfully meeting the primary endpoint in each of
these studies, we now have three positive schizophrenia trials
and three positive bipolar mania trials,” said Marco Taglietti,
Forest’s senior vice president for research and development.  Share Performance  Forest rose 1.1 percent to $32.70 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 8.1 percent this year.  The company’s medicines include the antidepressant Lexapro,
which loses patent protection this year, and Alzheimer’s drug
Namenda. It’s also seeking approval, with  Almirall SA (ALM) , for a
drug to help patients with a chronic  lung disease  breathe more
easily.  Richter and Forest plan to start selling cariprazine in the
U.S. in 2014, Zsuzsa Beke, Richter’s communications director,
said in an interview. The drug may be registered in the European
Union in 2015 after additional Phase III clinical trials, which
are under way, she said.  Richter climbed 2.9 percent to 39,105 forint in Budapest,
for its biggest one-day gain in almost a month. The stock has
returned 14 percent this year,  compared with  a 1.7 percent loss
for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  “This is a success story and investors’ perception of the
Richter stock will change as now Richter has proved that it’s
capable to create,” said Attila Vago, an analyst at Concorde
Securities in Budapest.  Niche Markets  Today’s announcement is proof that Richter can enter niche
markets and compensate for the erosion of revenue from generic
products, Vago said, adding that 40,000 forint is a “realistic
share price.”  Richter will probably get a milestone payment from Forest
in the last quarter of 2012, said Beke, who declined to comment
on the amount.  Sales of cariprazine would help Richter offset a government
squeeze on pricing for medicines in  Hungary . Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  plans spending cuts on drugs, transportation and
other areas to help meet budget targets this year and next,
according to a decree published Feb. 22. Richter, which also
makes the Plan B “morning after” contraceptive, said yesterday
that it won European Union marketing approval for the Esmya
treatment for uterine fibroids.  Patients enrolled in the cariprazine studies had scores of
80 to 120 on a scale that measures the severity of symptoms such
as hallucinations, emotional withdrawal, guilt and anxiety.  Those in the fixed-dose study had a 6-point reduction in
their scores when taking 3 milligrams of cariprazine daily,
while those taking 6 milligrams had an 8.8-point decrease.
Schizophrenics in the second study who took 3 milligrams to 6
milligrams had a 6.8-point reduction, while those receiving 6
milligrams to 9 milligrams had scores that were 9.9 points
lower. The changes in both studies were “statistically
significant,” the companies said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  