-- Former NBA Star David Robinson Wins $15 Million From Texas Teachers’ Fund
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-28T19:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/former-nba-star-david-robinson-wins-15-million-from-texas-teachers-fund.html
Admiral Capital Group, a private-
equity firm started by former San Antonio Spurs star  David Robinson , received $15 million to invest for the  Texas  Teacher
Retirement System under the fund’s emerging managers program.  “Our goal is to work with managers to help them grow,”
Stuart Bernstein, director of the program, said yesterday by
telephone. “The superstars today are not necessarily going to
be the superstars 10 to 15 years from now.”  Admiral, which focuses on real estate, has bought five
 office buildings  and hotels in California, Nevada and Texas
since 2009. It is among 80 relatively new investment firms that
have received $1.7 billion from the pension fund since 2005,
Bernstein said. The plan oversees $104.3 billion of assets and
has 1.3 million active and retired members and their dependents.  USAA Real Estate Co. invested $50 million in New York-based
Admiral in September 2010, becoming a major shareholder in the
management firm, Bernstein said. An affiliate of San Antonio-
based United Services Automobile Association, the company owned
and managed more than $5 billion in property at the time of its
agreement with Admiral. It provides administrative support for
Admiral and advises on investments, Bernstein said.  While pension funds typically tie their commitments to past
 investment performance , Admiral is too new to have an
established record, Bernstein said. The pension agreed to make
the capital commitment Feb. 15 at a board meeting.  Daniel Bassichis, 37, an Admiral co-founder, said both he
and Robinson, 46, had no comment on the Teacher fund investment.
Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed, Bernstein said.  Robinson, a U.S. Naval Academy graduate and Olympic gold
medalist, played for 14 years with the  National Basketball
Association ’s San Antonio franchise, helping to win two
championships. Known as the Admiral, he was inducted into the
sport’s Hall of Fame in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 