-- Former Democratic Senator Kerrey Weighs Run in Nebraska Again
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-28T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/former-democratic-senator-bob-kerrey-weighs-running-after-11-year-hiatus.html
Former Nebraska Senator  Bob Kerrey 
may reverse a decision not to seek the state’s open U.S. Senate
seat in November’s election, said a Democratic campaign
consultant who has worked with him.  “Kerrey is reconsidering, but has not made a decision,”
said Paul Johnson, the campaign consultant.  Kerrey announced on Feb. 7 that he had decided against
running for the Senate. The state’s candidate filing deadline is
March 1. He left the chamber in 2001 after two six-year terms.  A Kerry candidacy would rekindle Democratic hopes of
retaining the seat and bolster the party’s effort to keep its
Senate majority. Republicans currently are favored to pick up
the seat after Democrat  Ben Nelson , who has held it for two
terms, decided to retire.  Democrats control the  U.S. Senate , 53-47, and must defend
23 of the 33 seats on the ballot this year. Nelson’s retirement,
announced in December, made him the seventh incumbent Democrat
to decide not to seek re-election in 2012.  Kerrey, 68, served in the Navy SEAL special forces unit
from 1966 to 1969, lost part of one leg in the Vietnam war and
was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor. He served as
governor of Nebraska from 1983 to 1987, and was elected to the
Senate a year later. He unsuccessfully sought the Democratic
presidential nomination in 1992.  Kerry helped Nelson, 70, win the seat he gave up in the
2000 election.  New School  After leaving the Senate, Kerrey was president of the New
School University in  New York City . He serves on the boards of
 Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) ,  Jones Group Inc. (JNY) , and  Scientific Games
Corp. (SGMS)   Republicans vying for the Senate seat include Nebraska
Attorney General Jon Bruning; Don Stenberg, the state’s
treasurer and former attorney general; and state Senator Deb Fischer.  Democrats who are candidates for Nelson’s seat include
Steven Lustgarten, a video producer; Chuck Hassebrook, executive
director of the Center for Rural Affairs; and Larry Marvin, who
lost a Senate bid in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  