-- Forrest Appeals to Australia’s Top Court to Keep Fortescue Post
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-28T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/forrest-appeals-to-australia-s-top-court-to-keep-fortescue-post.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  founder
 Andrew Forrest  is fighting Australian regulators to maintain
management control over the company that made him the country’s
third-richest person.  Forrest faces removal from his chairman post after the
Australian Securities and Investment Commission won an appeals
court ruling last year that said he and Fortescue, the country’s
third-biggest exporter of  iron ore , broke regulatory rules and
misled shareholders with a description of contracts with three
Chinese companies. He’s appealing to the highest court in the
land to reverse that decision.  The High Court’s ruling will have ramifications for
corporate directors in Australia beyond Forrest and Fortescue
after the appeals court narrowed the extent to which directors
and executives can rely on business judgment for decisions, said
Georgie Farrant, a partner at Baker & McKenzie in Sydney.  The issue of business judgment is “one of the big things
we’re hoping to get guidance on from the  High Court ,” said
Farrant, who isn’t involved in the case. “It’s the first time
the High Court has an opportunity to look at this issue.”  The appeals court ruled that business judgment isn’t a
defense for making an inaccurate disclosure to shareholders.  A two-day hearing before a panel of High Court judges is
scheduled to begin today in Canberra. In 2004, Fortescue said in
letters to the stock exchange and in media releases that the
Perth-based company had binding agreements with China
 Metallurgical Construction Group Corp (MLCGCZ) .,  China Harbour
Engineering Co. (GHAICZ)  and  China Railway Engineering Corp (CRECCZ) . to build an
iron ore mine, a port at  Port Hedland  in  Western Australia  and a
railway, according to court records.  Share Surge  Fortescue shares rose more than eightfold in Sydney trading
in seven months following the first announcement of a Chinese
partnership on Aug. 23, 2004. The stock fell 25 percent on March
24, 2005, the most in more than two years, after the Australian
Financial Review newspaper reported that day that China
Metallurgical wasn’t prepared to build or finance the project
under the arrangements in place at the time.  Forrest, known as Twiggy, has a net worth of $5.3 billion
according to this year’s Forbes  list  of the 40 richest
Australians. He holds a 32 percent  stake  in Fortescue, valued at
A$5.3 billion ($5.7 billion), according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Only Gina Rinehart, chairman of Hancock Prospecting Ltd.,
with a net worth of $18 billion, and Ivan Glasenberg, chief
executive of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , with $7.2 billion, have
more wealth in  Australia  than Forrest, according to Forbes.  E-Mails  Forrest’s lawyers, in a filing to the High Court, cited e-
mails from Oct. 3, 2004, to support his assertion that he
believed Fortescue had binding contracts with the Chinese
companies.  “It is at this stage non-binding, but is intended to
become binding on the 20th of this month at a signing ceremony
in Beijing,” Forrest wrote in an e-mail.  Forrest “clearly” believed that the framework agreements
were binding contracts, the lawyers said in the filing.  According to Australian business  law , as long as directors
or officers of a corporation make a business judgment in good
faith, with no material personal interest and rationally believe
the judgment is in the best interest of the corporation, then
they’re deemed to have met the requirement that they discharged
their duties with the required degree of care and diligence.  Forrest claimed the benefit of the business judgment rule,
saying it was his judgment that allowing Fortescue to make the
disclosure was based on good faith and for a proper purpose.  Decision Overturned  The appeals court rejected the argument, saying the
business judgment rule doesn’t extend to inaccurate public
statements.  A person must show he or she took “all steps that were
reasonable to ensure compliance with the entity’s disclosure
obligations,” the three-judge appeals panel wrote in the Feb.
18, 2011, ruling, overturning a lower court’s decision that
cleared Forrest and Fortescue of wrongdoing.  “Forrest was unable to point to any steps he took to
ensure that the agreements were binding,” the panel wrote.  If upheld by the High Court, that ruling means directors at
all companies will have to ensure that anything they sign is 100
percent accurate,  Baker & McKenzie ’s Farrant said.  “The facts must be there,” she said. “If they’re not,
don’t say it.”  The appeal case is:  Australian Securities and Investments
Commission  v. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. WAD23/2010. Federal
Court of Australia - Full Court (Perth)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 