-- Fortress Profit Falls 60% on Decline in Hedge Fund Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-28T21:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fortress-profit-falls-60-on-decline-in-hedge-fund-fees.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
asset manager whose chief executive officer resigned last month,
said fourth-quarter profit fell 60 percent as hedge fund fees
declined.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, were $50 million, or 9 cents
a share, compared with $125 million, or 24 cents, a year
earlier, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
That fell short of the 10-cents-a-share  average estimate  of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fees declined in the fourth quarter as assets fell from a
year earlier and hedge funds declined globally. Fortress is
under the leadership of co-founder Randal Nardone after former
CEO  Daniel Mudd  resigned last month amid a government lawsuit
stemming from his tenure as the chief of mortgage financing
company  Fannie Mae .  “The market is not without significant potential risk,”
Stuart Bohart, the firm’s president of liquid markets, said on a
call today with analysts and investors. “So we feel relatively
good about our ability to pound out returns but we know we’ll
need to be fleet-footed.”  Fortress fell 2.8 percent to close at $3.89 in New York
trading. The stock has gained 15 percent this year, compared
with a 9.1 percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Assets under management declined 2 percent to $43.7 billion
from $44.6 billion at the end of the 2010. Assets in private
equity funds dropped to $9.3 billion from $11.9 billion a year
earlier.  Raising Money  Fortress raised $4.2 billion in 2011, with about half going
to its credit private equity funds and a third to liquid  hedge
funds , and returned $3.9 billion to limited partners in its
private equity business, Daniel Bass, the firm’s chief financial
officer, said on the call. The company declared a fourth-quarter
dividend of 5 cents a share.  Distributable earnings from Fortress’s credit hedge funds
fell to $9 million from $32 million a year earlier. Investors
pulled $1.7 billion from its liquid hedge funds in 2011, and the
firm said it’s returning $1 billion more this quarter.  Fortress’s distributable earnings don’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules, the
company’s net loss attributable to Class A shareholders widened
to $91 million in the fourth quarter, or 49 cents a share, from
$13 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier.  Distributable Earnings  Global hedge funds declined 0.3 percent on average in the
fourth quarter,  according to  the Bloomberg Active Indexes for
Funds. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks gained 7.1
percent in the quarter, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
which tracks the largest U.S. companies, rose 11 percent.  Distributable earnings from the firm’s fund management unit
fell 29 percent to $253 million for the year, driven by lower
incentive income from funds and a decline in investment income,
according to the statement. The firm’s private equity funds
generated earnings of $93 million in 2011, down 27 percent from
a year earlier, while the funds’ carrying value increased 9.3
percent on Fortress’s financial services and senior living
investments.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest private equity
firm and a bellwether for the buyout industry, earlier this
month posted a 12 percent decline in profit after a drop in
performance fees and investment income.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  said fourth-
quarter profit fell 68 percent as investment income sunk. Both
firms are based in New York.  ‘No Impact’  Private equity firms pool investor money to take over
companies by buying out shareholders, using mostly debt, with
the intention of later selling the companies or taking them
public for a profit. Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of
capital whose managers may buy or sell any asset. Managers of
both types of funds charge annual management fees, traditionally
1.5 percent to 2 percent, and receive a portion of investment
gains equal to 20 percent.  Nardone, a Fortress principal, is serving as interim chief
executive officer after Mudd resigned last month. Mudd took a
leave of absence on Dec. 21 to respond to allegations by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that he understated by
hundreds of billions of dollars the subprime loans held by
Fannie Mae, where he was CEO from 2004 to 2008.  Fortress said in a Dec. 16 statement that the complaint
against Mudd “does not relate to Fortress,” and Nardone said
on today’s call that he doesn’t anticipate any “major” changes
in the firm’s course or strategy under his leadership.  “The transition has had and will have no impact on the
investment teams or processes,” Nardone said. “Most of my new
direct reports were my old direct reports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  