-- Studios Work With Hard-Drive Makers on Movie Storage
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-28T18:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/fox-warner-said-to-work-with-hard-drive-makers-on-movie-storage-devices.html
Movie studios owned by  News Corp. (NWSA) 
and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  have enlisted hard-drive makers to create
storage devices for films and TV programs, part of their push to
spur online purchases.  Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment and Warner Bros.
Home Entertainment will work with  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  and  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  on methods to store and watch shows on TVs, Blu-
ray players, tablets and phones, the companies said today in a
statement. The first products are scheduled this year.  The effort, dubbed “Project Phenix,” is part of
Hollywood’s effort to coax consumers to buy digital copies of
programs instead of renting them. The storage hardware would
complement the studios’ cloud-based system, called UltraViolet,
by letting users play films on multiple devices when offline.  “The simple message is you’re collecting all your content
and putting it in one place to be able to access a full high-
definition experience,” Danny Kaye, Fox’s executive vice
president of global research and strategy, said in an interview.  The companies formed a joint venture called the Secure
Content Storage Association. It was established in August,
according to the  website  of the Austrian Competition Authority.  Studios are trying to counter shrinking DVD sales fueled by
low-cost rentals from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox
kiosks. Their focus is on UltraViolet, which lets consumers buy
videos from retailers, store them online and on approved
devices, and play them on any device.  Offline Viewing  The goal of the latest venture is to let consumers watch
movies and other content even when they don’t have access to the
Internet, Mike Dunn, president of Los Angeles-based Fox Home
Entertainment, said in an interview.  The studios and device makers have been discussing at least
one product, dubbed “The Egg,” that would connect to home
networks and store movies and shows. Consumers could use USB
memory cards to take content outside the home. That may be just
one of many uses, said Bert Hesselink, chief technology officer
of branded products at  Western Digital , based in Irvine,
California.  “I might also download it from a kiosk or from a store
where the content might be available, using a USB 3.0-type
transfer, which is very fast,” Hesselink said in an interview.  Such devices could improve UltraViolet’s chances, because
they would be classified as physical products, such as Blu-ray
discs, that don’t require renegotiating digital rights from
content creators,  Richard Doherty , research director at
Envisioneering Group, said in an interview.  Ready to Play  For example, hard drives could be partitioned for
participating studios and loaded with entire libraries at
stores, Doherty said. The titles would be unlocked as consumers
make UltraViolet purchases.  “The business model actually is a good one because a lot
of young people don’t want to duplicate the huge libraries of
their parents, but they do understand physical media,” Doherty
said.  Previous retail efforts to offer devices that combine
digital rights with storage haven’t been successful. Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk in 2009 collaborated with the music
industry for a device called the slotRadio player and a memory
card with 1,000 popular songs from Billboard’s music charts.  The UltraViolet effort is backed by retailers,
entertainment and technology companies through the Digital
Entertainment Content Ecosystem, whose members also include
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount
Pictures.  Retailers  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , owner of the CinemaNow website, and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are also part of Ultraviolet, although
neither website has begun using the system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  