-- Frankfurt Airport Seeks to Prevent Strike Spreading to Air Traffic Control
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-28T23:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/frankfurt-airport-strike-may-spread-as-tower-staff-urged-to-join.html
Frankfurt airport ’s ground crew is
scheduled to resume a strike over pay this morning as workers
await a labor-court ruling on whether they can continue their
protests longer than scheduled.  The Frankfurt Labor Court last night approved an
application by their employer  DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung GmbH ,
airport owner  Fraport AG (FRA)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Germany ’s
biggest airline, to stop a sympathy strike by control-tower
staff. Fraport and Lufthansa have filed a separate injunction to
halt the current ground-staff strikes.  The further strikes were “disproportionate” and would not
solely serve to support the other strikes, the court said in an
e-mailed statement, adding that it would allow an appeal. Three
spokesmen for the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union, which
represents the ground controllers, did not immediately respond
to calls to their mobile phones after normal business hours.  The GdF union had called on about 100 members of tower
crews to join the action from 5 a.m. to 11 a.m. today to show
“solidarity” in the dispute over pay and the outsourcing of
employment contracts.  About 200 flights, or 16 percent of the scheduled total,
were scrapped yesterday in the latest action by ground
controllers slated to run until 5 a.m. on March 1, according to
Fraport.  The labor court is due to hear this morning the second
injunction application, in which Fraport and Lufthansa will seek
to stop the GdF union from continuing the ground controllers’
action beyond 5 a.m. on March 1, when it’s slated to end.  Most Affected  Lufthansa, whose main hub is  Frankfurt , is the party most
affected by the dispute, with losses “significantly” in excess
of 10 million euros ($13 million) so far, Stefan Lauer, a board
member at the Cologne, Germany-based carrier, said yesterday.  Talks aimed at ending the dispute broke down Feb. 24 after
Fraport offered terms similar to those agreed at Munich airport.
That deal was worth less than one proposed before the start of
mediation, according to the GdF group, which has said it will no
longer give 24 hours’ notice of any further action.  The union has said it favors proposals from mediator Ole von Beust for a two-step monthly wage increase of between 200
euros and 1,600 euros. It also wants any outsourced jobs to move
to a single company on a single contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  