-- France’s Ban on Armenian Genocide Denial Is Unconstitutional, Court Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-28T18:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/france-s-ban-on-armenian-genocide-denial-is-unconstitutional-court-rules.html
A French court said a law
criminalizing some statements about the mass killing of
Armenians by  Turkey  in the last century was unconstitutional.  France ’s Senate passed the bill in January, making denial
of genocides recognized by France, including  Armenia , punishable
by as long as a year in prison and a 45,000-euro ($60,500) fine.
The French “legislature committed an unconstitutional harm to
freedom of expression and speech,” the constitutional court
said in a statement on its  website  today.  The measure, presented by a member of President Nicolas Sarkozy’s party, was re-written to remove direct references to
Turkey and the Armenians. The move raised tensions with Turkey
and the Turkish Foreign Ministry condemned it as “an example of
irresponsibility.”  Sarkozy “asked the government to prepare a new bill,
taking into account the decision” of the court, according to an
e-mailed statement that noted “the immense disappointment and
profound sadness” of those who supported the law.  Turkey froze political and military relations with France
after the lower chamber’s Dec. 22 vote. Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said Sarkozy’s governing party used it to
shore up public support before presidential elections in May.
Sarkozy also opposes Turkey’s membership in the European Union.  Eight members of France’s National Assembly issued a
statement “regretting” the court’s decision and saying they
submitted a resolution “to reaffirm the fight against disputing
the existence of genocides.”  “This recognition has a clearly symbolic weight,” the
lawmakers said. “Only the denial of the Jewish genocide
constitutes a crime today.”  Sarkozy will meet with representatives of the Armenian
community in France about the ruling, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  