-- France Telecom Plans Regional Sales Clusters to Build Deals
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-29T08:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/france-telecom-plans-regional-sales-clusters-to-build-on-deals.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the biggest
French phone company, seeks to bolster cooperation between units
in  Africa  and the  Middle East  to improve networks and promote
its Orange brand following acquisitions in  Morocco ,  Iraq  and the
Democratic Republic of Congo.  “If we had units  everywhere  in a given zone, say west
Africa, then we could launch the same phone package, maybe with
the same price, across countries in that region,” Elie Girard,
the Paris-based company’s head of strategy and development, said
in an interview at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. “We
could get economies of scale on the cost side and synergies on
the sales side.”  France Telecom is considering small  acquisitions  in regions
such as West Africa, where Burkina Faso, Togo and Benin are the
few blank spots left in its footprint, he said. “We’re not
actively seeking targets, but we will look at specific
opportunities.”  France  Telecom  gained  4 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 11.63
euros at 9:20 a.m. in Paris.  France’s former phone monopoly, which operates in 20
countries in Africa and the Middle-East, has been shedding
assets in  Europe  to tilt operations toward faster-growing
markets in Africa and the Middle East. Following recent deals to
enter Morocco, Iraq and the Democratic Republic of Congo, the
company faces several challenges in these markets, Girard said.  Sharing Towers  “In Morocco, we want to strengthen our marketing. In Iraq
it will be about rolling out a network outside of the current
Kurdistan coverage. In Republic of Congo, we want to modernize
our network and work on rebranding,” he said.  To cut costs in its  emerging markets , the company also
plans to share towers. Girard has said France Telecom is
finalizing a sharing deal of telecom masts and towers in one
African country and will seek to replicate this type of deal
elsewhere on the continent.  “We’ve got work to do to make sure value is created on the
deals we’ve already made,” he said.  France Telecom has set a goal to  double revenues  in
emerging markets between 2010 and 2015. The company has said it
could reach this target by increasing its shares in its
Moroccan, Tunisian and Iraqi units, where it holds minority
positions alongside local partners.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  this month agreed to buy most of
billionaire Naguib Sawiris’s stake in their Egyptian mobile-
phone venture, increasing the French company’s control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona via 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  