-- Free Agent Plaxico Burress Says He’d Love to Join Eagles With Michael Vick
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-28T19:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/free-agent-plaxico-burress-says-he-d-love-to-join-eagles-with-michael-vick.html
Plaxico Burress  is a free agent
after spending last season with the  New York Jets  and said he’d
love the chance to catch passes in Philadelphia this year from
Eagles quarterback  Michael Vick .  “It’s an exciting time for me being a free agent, having
the opportunity to be in a place where I want to be and
Philadelphia is obviously one of those places,” Burress said in
a  radio interview  with 97.5 The Fanatic in Philadelphia.
“Nothing else would make me happier.”  Burress, 34, grew up in Norfolk,  Virginia , and played high
school football against Vick, whose hometown of  Newport News  was
less than an hour away. The two remain close, speaking by phone
at least once a week, Burress said.  The players share a bond beyond football, both having
returned to the  National Football League  after missing two
seasons while serving time in prison.  Vick, 31, spent 18 months in a federal prison for his role
in an interstate dogfighting ring and in 2010 was named the
NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year with the Eagles. Burress spent
20 months in jail on a weapons charge after shooting himself in
the leg while a member of the  New York Giants  and returned last
season to catch eight touchdowns for the Jets, tied for the team
lead.  “For us to get together and be able to play together on a
professional football team, especially coming from where we come
from and the things we’ve been through, I think it would really
be a special deal,” Burress said. “I really believe that he
can bring a championship to Philadelphia and I would love to be
a part of that.”  Game Shape  Burress said Jets’ management had “left the door open” on
whether he wanted to return to  New York . Burress caught 45
passes for 612 yards last season, when he said it took him until
Week 6 or 7 to get back into game shape after missing two
seasons, and then minicamp during the NFL lockout and training
camp because of an ankle injury.  “Going into this year I’ll be a lot stronger and get back
to doing some of the things that I know I can do,” said
Burress, who caught the winning touchdown pass in the Giants’
Super Bowl victory after the 2007 season.  The 6-foot-5 Burress, who has 63 career touchdown
receptions, said he wants to provide a big target near the end
zone for the Eagles, whose offense features All-Pro running back
LeSean McCoy and Pro Bowl wide receiver  DeSean Jackson  in
addition to Vick. Burress said the Eagles were interested in
signing him last season before he joined the Jets.  “Coming to Philadelphia and instituting myself into that
offense, it just adds a unique dynamic to what’s already in
place,” Burress said. “We’ll see what happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  