-- GE to 3M Pension Pain Mounts as Rates Boost Liabilities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ge-to-3m-pension-pain-mounts-as-fed-rate-policy-boosts-company-liabilities.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 3M Co. (MMM)  will join big U.S. employers in making a record $100
billion in 2012 pension contributions, 67 percent more than two
years ago, as low interest rates boost companies’ liabilities.  Payments may total $400 billion from 2011 through 2015 to
ease underfunding at the 100 largest defined-benefit programs,
according to consultant Milliman Inc., which estimated that
assets in January were enough to cover less than three-fourths
of projected payouts.  “It’s been called the wall of contributions,” said Alan
Glickstein, a senior retirement consultant at  Towers Watson &
Co. (TW)  in  New York . “All of a sudden this thing jumps up and stays
there for a few years. That’s what it looks like -- a wall.”  Companies from defense contractor  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  to
aviation-electronics maker Honeywell International Inc. are
caught in a vise: the Federal Reserve Board’s vow to keep rates
at current levels until 2014 means pension plans’ fixed-income
investments are stagnating just as new rules shorten the time
available to shore up funding.  “They’re going to have to kick money in,” said John Ehrhardt, a consulting actuary at Seattle-based Milliman.
“We’re basically seeing historically low interest rates driving
historically high employer contribution requirements.”  That’s money that won’t go back to shareholders through
dividends or buybacks, or toward expansion, said Kevin
McLaughlin, a pension risk management specialist with consultant
Mercer in New York.  Seven Years  Under the federal Pension Protection Act, which was passed
in 2006 and mostly took effect in 2008, tighter accounting rules
gave employers seven years to fully fund their  retirement plans 
and required them to use a specified, market-based rate of
return to compute liabilities instead of a company estimate.  Those liabilities are calculated by projecting future
payments and discounting to the present based on  interest rates 
pegged to a basket of corporate bonds. Liabilities rise when
rates fall -- and the Fed has held its  discount rate  at 0.75
percent since February 2010, down from as high as 6.25 percent
in June 2007. The Fed said Jan. 25 it expected rates to stay at
current levels until 2014.  3M’s pension plan in the U.S., which started 2011 with
assets of $11.6 billion, shows the challenge for employers.  Assets rose to $12.1 billion by year’s end because of
investments and contributions, even after payments of $680
million, according to a Feb. 16 filing. At the same time, the
funding shortfall more than tripled, to $2.4 billion, because
projected benefit obligations rose 18 percent to $14.5 billion.  ‘Liabilities Did Increase’  “With the declining interest rates here in 2011, our
liabilities did increase,” 3M Chief Financial Officer David Meline said Feb. 23 at a Barclays Plc industrial conference.  While 401(k) savings accounts are more common at younger
companies, traditional manufacturers such are among the
employers most affected by the pension pinch because they’re
still making payments under defined-benefit plans.  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based 3M’s 2012 pension contribution will almost
double to as much as $1 billion.  Pension expense is “a variable that we consider among many
when we look at a company and what it could mean to their
profitability,” said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist
at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion. “If that were something that we said we wouldn’t
want to own, we’d probably have a fairly limited universe of
companies we could buy.”  S&P Industrials  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index (S5INDU) , whose 61
companies include manufacturers such as Boeing with defined-
benefit programs, climbed 10 percent this year through
yesterday, topping the S&P 500’s 8.7 percent gain.  Boeing’s pension cost will jump to $2.6 billion, 63 percent
more than a year earlier, the company said in January. GE told
investors in December it plans to add $1 billion, the first
contribution since 1987, and expects to add about $2.1 billion
in 2013. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company closed its
U.S. defined-benefits pension plan to all new hires this year.  Honeywell (HON)  probably will make a contribution of as much as
$1 billion, after low interest rates dashed a goal of full
funding in four years, CFO Dave Anderson said. The plan was 83
percent funded at the end of 2011.  ‘Little Bit Longer’  “I’d hoped to be there by 2015 to have more of a full
resolution of that issue, but it’s going to take a little bit
longer probably,” Anderson said in an interview. “Interest
rates are at historic low levels and there’s no change in sight
for that.”  Pension sponsors usually average rates over 24 months, so
2012 may be the peak year for companies’ pension contributions,
said Glickstein of Towers Watson.  “We have a very unusual governmental intervention in the
wake of a financial crisis,” he said. “Whatever other merits
it may have, it’s clearly distorting the measures of pension
obligations and putting a lot of extra pressure on plan
sponsors.”  Lockheed Martin anticipated the rise in liabilities by
pumping $6 billion into its plan over the last three years,
curbing the projected 2012 contribution to $1.1 billion,
according to a company filing.  Many pension plans, including GE’s, were overfunded before
the December 2007 onset of the worst recession since World War
II. Then pension assets began shriveling as stocks slumped, and
lower interest rates increased liabilities.  Funding Levels  For the 100 largest defined-benefit plans, average funding
levels sank to 74 percent in January from 105 percent in 2007,
according to Milliman. Some companies may need to funnel cash to
their pension plans for years.  Pension plan assets at Atlanta-based  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
covered only about 40 percent of obligations at the end of 2011,
down from 47 percent the previous year, according to the
carrier’s latest annual report. The funding shortfall widened to
$11.5 billion from $9.3 billion in 2010, the filing showed.  Even after Delta ended pilots’ pensions before its 2007
bankruptcy exit and closed other plans to new hires, CFO Hank Halter said Jan. 25 that the airline still expects to contribute
as much as $675 million in 2012. Defined-benefit programs taking
new employees fell 26 percent in six years to 20,381 in 2009,
according to the latest U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.
figures for plans with 25 or more workers.  The threat of future contributions is driving many sponsors
of defined-benefit plans to seek ways to blunt risk, said
Jeffrey Saef, chief of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s
investment strategy and solutions group in  Boston . That often
means using more fixed-income investments to help match pension
assets more closely to liabilities, he said in an interview.  Clients struggling with the cash drain from pensions have a
universal query, Saef said: “‘When will it go away?’”  With Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s thumb on interest
rates, that won’t be any time soon, said McLaughlin, the Mercer
consultant.  “Right now, everybody is hoping for the best, which is
equity markets performing and interest rates not falling any
lower,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  