-- Genting Profit Rises 66% as New York Casino Lifts Revenue
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-02-29T03:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/genting-profit-surges-66-as-new-york-city-casino-boosts-takings.html
Genting Bhd. (GENT) , which controls  Asia ’s
second-biggest gaming company by market value, said fourth-
quarter profit jumped 66 percent, with maiden revenue
contributions from its New York City casino.  Net income  surged to 772.9 million ringgit ($258 million),
or 20.94 sen a share, for the three months ended Dec. 31, from
465.4 million ringgit, or 12.57 sen per share, a year earlier,
the company said in a filing to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange
yesterday. Revenue climbed 24 percent to 5.06 billion ringgit on
increased takings at its core Singapore, Malaysia and U.K.
casinos and gaming resorts.  “The growth in the global gaming industry in 2011 was
driven by key Asian markets,” the group said in its statement.
“The economic challenges in  Europe  and the U.S. continue to
cloud the short-term outlook of the Asian economies. Uncertain
economic climate also presents some potentially attractive
investment opportunities” for  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) , it said.  The Kuala Lumpur-based group is extending its overseas
reach from its roots as owner of Malaysia’s only casino resort.
It opened a casino at the Aqueduct Racetrack in New York City
last quarter, where it also plans to build the country’s biggest
convention center. Its  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM)  unit has also
pitched proposals for a $3.8 billion casino-and-hotel project in
Miami. It’s already the U.K.’s biggest casino operator and owns
Resorts World Sentosa, one of Singapore’s two gaming resorts.  One-Off Gains  Genting rose 0.6 percent to 10.60 ringgit at 11:15 a.m. in
Kuala Lumpur trading, tracking a similar gain in the  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index. (FBMKLCI)  The stock has fallen 3.8 percent this year
and trades at about 13 times estimated earnings, compared with
the 21-times average for 16 gambling operations companies
worldwide tracked by Bloomberg.  “Genting is the cheapest gaming stock in the world with
resilient base earnings from gaming, plantation and power
segments,” Yee Mei Hui, analyst at HwangDBS Vickers Research
Sdn. wrote in a note to clients today. She kept a “buy” rating
on the stock with 13.70 ringgit price target.  Genting was upgraded to “buy” from “hold” at  Hong Leong
Financial Group Bhd. (HLFG)  as its 2011 profit was better than
expected, analyst Low Yee Huap wrote in a report. Credit Suisse
Group AG raised the stock’s price target to 13.70 ringgit from
13.30 ringgit previously.  Profit was boosted by the reversal of a previous 308.6
million-ringgit impairment loss, Genting said. The group booked
operating revenue of 95.3 million ringgit from its New York City
casino, which marked its debut on Oct. 28.  “Resorts World Casino New York City’s performance has been
encouraging since its initial opening,” Genting said.  The company has expanded into businesses that include palm
oil and power generation to cushion swings in casino takings.  Genting’s  plantations  division saw profit contributions
drop 13 percent to 124.1 million ringgit on lower product prices
and higher costs. Pretax profit from power increased 3 percent
to 157.1 million ringgit on higher energy tariffs in Malaysia
and  China , the company said.  -- Editors: Barry Porter,  Garry Smith   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  