-- German Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerated in February
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-28T13:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/german-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-february-on-energy.html
(Corrects euro-area inflation forecast in seventh
paragraph.)  Inflation (GRCP2SAY)  in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, unexpectedly accelerated in February as energy
prices rose.  Inflation (GRCP2HYY) , calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, quickened to 2.5 percent from 2.3 percent in January,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists expected the rate to drop to 2.2 percent, according
to the median of 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . Prices
rose 0.9 percent in the month.  An escalation in tensions between Iran and opponents of its
nuclear research program has driven  oil prices  up 9.6 percent
this year. That threatens to keep euro-area inflation above the
European Central Bank’s desired level of just below 2 percent,
even as the region’s economy is forecast by the European
Commission to contract this year.  “The oil-price development is pretty nasty,” said  Klaus Baader , co-head of euro-area economic research at  Societe
Generale  in  London . “The return below the ECB’s 2 percent mark
in Germany may not happen now until later in the year. Consumer
demand is also contributing to price pressures.”  The German economy contracted 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter as government spending cuts across the euro area damped
demand for the country’s exports. The commission forecasts
German growth will slow to 0.6 percent this year from 3 percent
in 2011.  Euro-Area Contraction  By contrast, it projects economic contractions in Italy and
Spain of 1.3 percent and 1 percent respectively. The 17-nation
euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent in 2012, the commission
said on Feb. 23.  Euro-area inflation will slow to 2.6 percent this month
from 2.7 percent in January, according to a Bloomberg survey.
That report is due from the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg on March 1.  The EU on Jan. 23 agreed to ban imports of oil from  Iran 
starting July 1, as well as imports of petrochemicals. Iran said
on Feb. 20 that it stopped selling oil to France and Britain in
a move designed to pre-empt European sanctions.  “If we look at the disturbing developments in the  Middle
East , that could translate into higher inflation,” ECB
Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in a speech in
London today. “That could make life a bit more difficult.”  The ECB cut its main  interest rate  twice in the fourth
quarter to a record low of 1 percent as the effects of the
region’s debt crisis threatened to choke growth.  “Oil prices have risen very strongly in recent weeks and
that will be the main component in inflation,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “At the same
time, the economy is slowing in comparison to last year and that
will ease price pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  