-- GM Seen Doubling Cadillac With New Models to Catch Lexus
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-28T14:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/gm-seen-doubling-cadillac-with-new-models-to-catch-lexus.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , having regained
global sales leadership from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , is planning new
Cadillac models to more than double sales and surpass the
Japanese automaker’s Lexus brand as the No. 4 luxury line.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing the Detroit-
based automaker to turn Cadillac into a global player with the
scale to better compete with German leaders  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-
Benz. Within 10 years, GM wants to be solidly in the fourth spot
currently held by Lexus, said a person familiar with plan.  Cadillac, which peaked more than three decades ago, must
choose the right new models to meet Akerson’s goal, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. The U.S. brand must find a way to reach younger buyers
than Mitt Romney’s wife, who drives two SRX sport-utility
vehicles. The median Cadillac customer last year was 63 years
old -- the age Ann Romney turns in April -- according to  J.D.
Power  and Associates.  “We are working on more new Cadillacs than at any point in
the brand’s history,”  Don Butler , GM vice president for
Cadillac marketing, said earlier this month in an interview in
 Chicago . “We’re constantly talking about what’s the best way to
become this global player.”  The automaker is weighing several vehicle options for
Cadillac,  Mark Reuss , president of GM North America, said in an
interview last month. Executives are considering a sedan larger
than the XTS, a sport-utility vehicle smaller than the SRX and
a new Escalade on the same vehicle architecture as the popular
Buick Enclave, Reuss said.  Product Decisions  “It’s a question of what products they’re offering,” said
Alan Baum, an independent auto-industry analyst based in West
Bloomfield, Michigan. “When they were offering the Escalades,
they were unique products, certainly, but they were also
products that had relatively modest demand.”  David Caldwell, a GM spokesman, declined to comment on
Cadillac’s sales goals. GM sold 199,000 Cadillac cars and SUVs
last year, including 152,000 in the U.S., the company said. IHS
Automotive estimated that Cadillac finished 2011 as the sixth or
seventh best-selling luxury brand in the world behind Volvo and
possibly Land Rover.  The world leader is BMW followed by Audi, which overtook
Daimler last year, when each brand sold more than 1 million.
 Lexus  finished with an estimated 408,000 sales, more than double
Cadillac’s 2011 sales, IHS said. Cadillac’s best year was 1978,
when it sold 350,000 cars.  Pre-Manning Peak  That peak preceded the birth of Eli Manning, the pro
football quarterback who received a Cadillac Escalade hybrid as
a prize for being the most valuable player in the 2008 Super
Bowl championship game. Manning, 31, received a Chevrolet
Corvette this month when he won the award again.  GM slid 0.8 percent to $26.24 at 9:48 a.m. New York time.
The shares gained 31 percent this year before today.  Akerson met with his senior leadership team at GM’s design
dome in Warren,  Michigan , in the middle of last year about the
future of Cadillac and that’s when the 10-year vision for the
brand was outlined, a person familiar with the meeting said.  The CTS sedan and SRX have helped improve Cadillac sales
and image in recent years. GM will begin selling a large sedan,
the  XTS , and a small sedan, the ATS, this year to help broaden
its lineup. The ATS will be sold in the competitive segment that
includes the BMW 3-Series and Mercedes C-Class.  The automaker has also said it will make a plug-in hybrid
Cadillac called the ELR, using technology similar to the
Chevrolet Volt. The company hasn’t said when it will go on sale.  While considering a broader lineup, GM’s Reuss said the
company needs to make wise choices and doesn’t want to add too
many models to the brand.  Bad Movie  “We’ve seen that movie; it’s a bad one,” Reuss said of
over-expanding the Cadillac range. “Capital is not an endless
bucket that we have access to.”  Part of the discussion has involved changing the Escalade,
which has been designed as a body-on-frame vehicle like a
pickup, into a crossover model with a unibody structure to
improve the mileage, Reuss said. GM’s Lambda platform is the
basis of the Buick Enclave, which gets about 19 percent  better
mileage  than an Escalade, and could be used for the Cadillac
model. U.S. fuel-economy requirements for those SUVs and other
light trucks start increasing in 2016.  “If we were to do that, it would be something not like a
Lambda today, but rather something that makes a different
statement,” Reuss said. “It could look bigger than that.”  The debate also involves whether Cadillac should make a
smaller SUV to compete against BMW’s X3, which helped drive the
German-brand’s 13 percent sales increase in the U.S. to overtake
Lexus as the nation’s top-selling luxury brand last year.  ‘International’ Appeal  The SRX is too big for most global markets, as is the Buick
Enclave that could serve as a basis for the next Escalade, said
Baum, the analyst.  “They have to make products that are more compatible with
what international drivers want,” Baum said. “Some crossovers
might do that.”  While Cadillac will need aggressive growth to make fourth-
place globally, the brand has an opportunity reach more
customers as  Baby Boomers  are replaced in showrooms by a younger
generation that may be open to a different take on luxury, said
 Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive.  “The market is also changing in the next 10 years quite
dramatically,” she said. “We’ll have the top of Gen Y coming
into peak earning years while Gen X is in peak earning years.”  Another key to growing globally will be establishing
Cadillac as a legitimate luxury brand beyond  North America , she
said.  “Cadillac will have to get love from  China ,” Lindland
said. “They have a significantly harder road to go in  Europe ,
and they know that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  