-- Goldman Sachs Joins Wells Fargo Disclosing Threat of SEC Enforcement Move
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-29T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/goldman-sachs-reports-wells-notice-from-sec-tied-to-mortgage-backed-bonds.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among banks warned by
federal regulators that they may face civil claims tied to sales
of mortgage-backed securities.  Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo said yesterday that they
received Wells notices from the Securities and Exchange
Commission, warning that agency staff may recommend enforcement.
The SEC has issued such notices to multiple banks including
JPMorgan, the nation’s largest, in probes focusing on mortgage
securities, said people with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified because the communications weren’t public.  “It’s a big deal given the level of anticipation that has
been in the markets about whether there would be further
actions,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a former SEC lawyer now with
Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,  Maryland .
“These cases were complicated and time-consuming and the
government has said for a long time that its investigations were
continuing. These Wells notices are the manifestation of these
investigations coming to their conclusion.”  Almost four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, Jason Anthony, special counsel for the
agency’s structured products unit, said last week. He didn’t
identify companies under scrutiny.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs got a so-called Wells notice Feb. 24 relating
to disclosures for a late-2006 offering of $1.3 billion in
subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, the company
said in an annual report. The New York-based firm said it “will
be making a submission to, and intends to engage in a dialogue
with, the SEC staff seeking to address their concerns.”  The notices show the enforcement staff has concluded that
violations occurred, Frenkel said. They’re also the first time
during the agency’s investigations that banks will have an
opportunity to defend themselves, he said.  The investment bank paid $550 million in 2010 to settle SEC
claims that it misled investors on a mortgage-linked investment
in 2007. In that case, the company said it made a “mistake” in
omitting disclosures.  Wells Fargo, which revealed the SEC’s warning in an annual
report, said the government has been examining whether it
properly described facts and risks in offering documents.  Fair Lending  Government agencies are also looking at whether San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo may have violated fair-lending laws
or other regulations when making home loans, the firm said. The
company is providing information requested by various agencies
conducting investigations, it said.  Spokesmen for Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo, New York-based
JPMorgan and the SEC either declined to comment on the
investigations or didn’t respond to messages.  The SEC said in January it will help form a state and
federal working group that will share information and coordinate
inquiries involving residential mortgage-backed securities.  “We already have issued scores of subpoenas, analyzed more
than approximately 25 million pages of documents, dozens and
dozens of witnesses, and worked with our industry experts to
analyze the terms of these deals and the accuracy of the
disclosures made to investors,” the agency’s enforcement
director,  Robert Khuzami , said at the time.  Wells Fargo was among five mortgage servicers that agreed
this month to a $25 billion settlement of state and federal
probes into shoddy foreclosure practices. The deal allowed
regulators to continue pursuing the industry over claims
regarding the packaging of loans into securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 