-- Gold’s Use to Back Value of Dollar Would be Impractical or ‘Even Damaging’
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/gold-s-use-to-back-value-of-dollar-would-be-impractical-or-even-damaging-.html
Gold’s use to back the value of the
dollar would be impractical and there is little scope for the
metal to play a more formal role in the international monetary
system, U.K. research institute  Chatham House  said.  While a higher gold price may reflect a lack of confidence
in key currencies and low returns on other assets, there’s no
consistent correlation between bullion and economic variables
that could be used to inform policy decision making, according
to a task force that discussed possible roles for gold. The
metal can be used to hedge against  currency devaluation  and
other risks as part of a portfolio, but not on its own, it said.  Richard Nixon , the former U.S. president, abandoned the
Bretton Woods arrangement four decades ago. Between 1968 and
1971, the metal and the dollar were officially exchanged at a
fixed rate after the system had tied gold at about $35 an ounce,
according to the World Gold Council. Central banks are expanding
bullion reserves for the first time in a generation as prices
gained for 11 consecutive years, reaching a record in September.  “Reintroducing gold as an anchor would undoubtedly be
impractical or even damaging, given bullion’s deflationary
bias,” the  task force , which held discussions over eight
months, said in a report today. “Gold can serve as a hedge
against declining values of key fiat currencies, and can also be
useful for central banks looking to diversify their foreign
reserves.”  Gold Standard  While the gold standard may no longer exist, nations and
international organizations still have 30,877 metric tons of
bullion reserves, valued at about $1.77 trillion, according to
the London-based council. Gold for immediate delivery reached a
record $1,921.15 an ounce in London in September.  The dollar has been the world’s reserve currency since the
U.S. and allies agreed at the 1944 Bretton Woods conference to
peg it to a rate of $35 an ounce of gold. It remained the most-
traded legal tender after global currencies began freely
floating in the early 1970s. The greenback dropped 12 percent
against a basket of six major currencies since March 2009. The
U.K. suspended the gold standard in 1931, Chatham House said.  “Greater discipline on financial markets might have been
helpful in inhibiting the reckless banking and excessive debt
accumulation of the past decade,” the task force said.
“However, with the onset of the global crisis, had gold had a
more formal role to play, the rigidity it imposes might also
have been a handicap when a more flexible policy response was
required.”  SDR Inclusion?  Including gold in the International Monetary Fund’s Special
Drawing Rights system probably wouldn’t bring substantial
benefits, and adding developing economies’ currencies to the
basket would be more desirable, according to the task force.
SDRs were created in 1969 and are an artificial currency that
IMF members use to settle accounts with each other and can be
converted into hard currencies.  Chatham House was founded in 1920 and is based in  London .
Members of the gold task force include  Gerard Lyons , chief
economist at Standard Chartered Plc, Meghnad Desai, professor
emeritus of the  London School  of Economics and a member of
Britain’s House of Lords, and Catherine Schenk, a professor of
international economic history at the University of Glasgow.  “For gold to play a more formal role in the international
monetary system, it would be imperative for it neither to hamper
the system’s performance nor to create unacceptable constraints
on national economic policies,” the task force said. Gold may
“continue playing a significant role in the international
monetary system, serving as a valuable hedge and safe haven,
particularly in times when tail risks predominate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  