-- Gold Leads Precious Metals Rally on Investor Demand for Dollar Alternative
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-02-28T19:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/gold-gains-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-etp-holdings-expand-to-record.html
Gold advanced to a three-month high
and silver posted its biggest gain in eight weeks as investors
bought precious metals as an alternative to a weakening dollar.
Platinum and palladium also rose.  The dollar fell for the third time in four sessions against
a basket of currencies and the euro rose to a three-month high
as the  European Central Bank  prepares to allot a second round of
three-year loans to help the region’s banks tomorrow. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of stocks climbed as a gauge of U.S.
consumer confidence jumped to a one-year high.  “The euro is stronger against the dollar and that’s one of
the major supportive factors” for gold,  Peter Fertig , owner of
Quantitative Commodity Research Ltd. in Hainburg,  Germany , said
by telephone. Higher equities are “also supportive” for
commodities, including gold, he said.  Gold futures for April delivery advanced 0.8 percent to
settle at $1,788.40 an ounce at 1:30 p.m. on the Comex in New
York, after climbing to $1,792.70, the highest level for a most-
active contract since Nov. 14.  Prices are up 14 percent this year after a 10 percent
increase in 2011, the 11th consecutive annual gain, as investors
sought to diversify from equities and some currencies. The
dollar index has declined 1.2 percent this month while gold
advanced 2.8 percent.  Supporting Gold  “The dollar’s weakness is supporting gold,” Rick Trotman,
a senior research analyst at MLV & Co. in  New York , said in a
telephone interview.  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by gold
extended a  climb  to a record 2,398.2 tons yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  NYSE Euronext’s Liffe said it began options trading in gold
and silver futures yesterday. The contracts will be available as
options on 33.2 ounces of gold and 1,000 ounces of silver, the
exchange said in a statement posted on its website.  Silver futures for May delivery rose 4.5 percent to $37.205
an ounce on the Comex, the biggest gain since Jan. 3. Earlier,
the metal rose to $37.295, the highest for a most-active
contract since Sept. 22. It’s the best-performing precious metal
this year, up 32 percent.  “The funds seem to be very actively buying silver today,”
 Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage Services
LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
April delivery rose 0.5 percent to close at $1,723.50 an ounce.
The metal gained 5 percent last week. Palladium futures for June
delivery rose 2.1 percent to $722.20 an ounce, the biggest jump
in a week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  