-- Google Will Answer Privacy Questions Over Safari ‘Cookies’
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-16T16:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/google-privacy-policy-doesn-t-meet-european-standards-cnil.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will cooperate with
privacy regulators looking into how its advertising “cookies”
were enabled by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser.  Google has been removing the files since discovering that a
temporary link created between Safari and Google’s servers
enabled other ad cookies to be set on the browser program, the
company said today. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier
that Google is being investigated by U.S. and European Union
regulators for using Safari users’ information and bypassing the
Apple software’s privacy settings.  “We will of course cooperate with any officials who have
questions,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said in an
e-mailed statement. “We didn’t anticipate this would happen,
and we have been removing these advertising cookies from
Safari.”  Google’s privacy policy is under review by  France ’s data-
protection agency acting on behalf of other European regulators.
The world’s largest Web-search provider defied two requests by
the National Commission for Computing and Civil Liberties, known
by its French acronym as CNIL, to suspend changes to the policy
while it was determined whether those changes comply with
European privacy standards.  CNIL is preparing a list of questions to send to Google
next week, a spokeswoman for the agency said today. She declined
to comment on whether the questionnaire would cover the Safari
cookies, and declined to be cited by name, citing CNIL policy.  European regulators “are very concerned, because they are
persuaded that these new rules are not at all compliant with the
existing European laws,” EU Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding 
said March 1, when Google’s privacy changes took effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  