-- Google+ Users Are Spending Less Time on Site, ComScore Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-28T03:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/google-users-spent-less-time-on-site-in-january-comscore-finds.html
Google (GOOG) +’s U.S. users averaged just
3.3 minutes on the site in January, down from the previous month
and a fraction of the time  Facebook (FB) ’s members devoted to its
service, according to research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   The average amount of time spent on Google Inc.’s social
network declined from 4.8 per minutes in December and 5.1
minutes in November, Reston, Virginia-based  ComScore  found.
Facebook’s users, meanwhile, were on its site for about 7 1/2
hours in January, up from about seven in December.  Google unveiled the social-networking service last June,
aiming to keep users on its site longer and boost ad revenue.
The company said last month that Google+ had topped 90 million
members, more than double the amount in October. Still, its user
base is dwarfed by Facebook’s 845 million-plus members.  One area where Google is catching up is display advertising
-- a market Facebook currently leads. By next year, Google will
account for 19.8 percent of the industry, generating $3.68
billion in ad sales, according to EMarketer Inc. Facebook will
have 17.7 percent, or $3.29 billion, the New York-based research
firm estimates. Google, which has the world’s most popular
search engine and smartphone operating system, is benefiting
from its ties to large advertisers, EMarketer said.  Shares of  Mountain View , California-based Google fell less
than 1 percent to $609.31 today. The stock has declined 5.7
percent this year. Facebook, based in Menlo Park,  California ,
filed earlier this month for an initial public offering. The
company is seeking to raise $5 billion in the deal, making it
the biggest Internet IPO on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  