-- Gross: Investors Should Embrace Defense
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-28T14:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/gross-says-investors-should-embrace-a-defensive-strategy-amid-zero-rates.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said investors should embrace a defensive strategy
because of the limits of zero-bound  interest rates  and systemic
debt risk in global financial markets.  “An instant replay of these past few decades would have
shown that accelerating asset prices weren’t due to any
particular wisdom on the part of academia or the investment
community but an offensively minded  Federal Reserve  and their
global counterparts who were printing money, lowering yields and
bringing forward a false sense of monetary wealth that was
dependent on perpetual motion,” Gross wrote in a commentary
posted on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website today.  Emphasize income, de-emphasize derivative structures that
are fully valued and be willing to accept returns lower than
historical averages, Gross wrote. The period of muted growth in
developed economies, high unemployment and orderly deleveraging
Pimco dubbed the “new normal” in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis is morphing into a world of credit and zero-
bound interest-rate risk, Gross said last month.  “The offensively oriented investment world that we have
grown so used to over the past three decades is being
stonewalled by a zero bound goal-line stand,” Gross, the
founder and co-chief investment officer of Pimco, wrote today.
“Investment defense is coming of age.”  Back in Treasuries  After saying that the rally in Treasuries was over and
eliminating Treasuries from his portfolio last year, Gross has
boosted the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in
his $250.5 billion Total Return  Fund (PTTRX)  to the highest level since
July 2010. In January, he raised the holdings to 38 percent,
while increasing his portion of mortgage debt to 50 percent, the
highest since June 2009.  The Total Return Fund has gained 2.82 percent this year,
beating 95 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The world’s biggest bond fund has returned 6.44
percent over the past 12 months, placing it in the 48
percentile, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries with maturities from five to seven years have
been the focus of purchases with longer-term debt unattractive
due to risk of a pick-up in inflation, Gross said in an
interview Feb. 3 on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene 
and Ken Prewitt. The Fund increased its allocation of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, to 8 percent, Gross
said that day.  Fed Pledge  “Leveraging has turned into deleveraging,” Gross wrote
today. “Fifteen percent yields have turned into zero percent
money.”  U.S. debt  entered a  bull market  in the 1980s, after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  raised interest rates to as high
as 20 percent to tame inflation. In the years that followed,
inflation and interest rates declined, pushing up bond prices,
which move inversely to yields. The 10-year Treasury  yield ,
which reached a high of 15.8 percent in September 1981, fell to
a record 1.67 percent on Sept. 23, 2011. The 10-year note yield
fell two basis points today to 1.90 percent.  The Fed cut rates to zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008
and pledged in January to keep the target rate at or near zero
until at least late 2014.  “It is Main Street that has failed to keep up with  Wall
Street  and corporate America in the race to see who can benefit
more from lower yields,” Gross wrote.  “As the interest
component of personal income gradually weakens, the ability of
the consumer to keep up its frenetic spending is reduced.”  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.36 trillion of  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  