-- IBM, Hewlett-Packard Cede Some Server Share to Dell
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-02-29T17:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ibm-biggest-seller-of-servers-last-quarter-after-thailand-floods.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the biggest sellers of server
computers, lost market share to  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in the fourth quarter
amid supply disruptions caused by flooding in Thailand,  Gartner
Inc. (IT)  said.  IBM had server sales of $4.68 billion in the quarter for a
33.7 percent market share, down from 35.4 percent in the same
period last year, Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner said today
in a statement. Hewlett-Packard’s 26.9 percent share of revenue
contracted from 30.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Dell
captured 14.8 percent, up from 13.1 percent.  Total server sales fell 5.4 percent from a year earlier to
$13.9 billion, according to Gartner, as flooding in Thailand
disrupted supplies of hard-disk drives made in the Southeast
Asian country.  “The effect of the Thai flood was more about execution
than exposure and in that respect Dell performed better than
HP,” said  Brian Alexander  of Raymond James & Associates Inc. in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida , in a telephone interview today. “HP,
which prides itself on having a world class  supply chain , was
worse off this time,” said Alexander, who doesn’t cover IBM. He
rates Dell a “strong buy” and Hewlett-Packard an
“outperform.”  Dell’s Sales Growth  Of the top five global vendors, Dell was the only supplier
to post server revenue growth, Gartner said. IBM’s server
revenue dropped 10 percent compared with a year earlier,
Hewlett-Packard dropped 16 percent and Dell gained 7.3 percent.
While the total value of global-server shipments fell, the
number increased 4.5 percent in the fourth quarter.  “Many providers could not meet the demand in the last
weeks of 2011,” Jeffrey Hewitt, Gartner’s research vice
president, said in the statement. “We expect the negative
impact of these drive-supply issues to continue” this quarter.  “We saw this report as very positive for IBM, because in
markets that really matter to us a lot -- I’m talking about very
powerful servers -- we greatly outperformed HP,” Steve Eisenstadt, an IBM spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Jim Hahn, a Dell spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
company has been adding new servers and continues to work to
mitigate the impact of flooding in  Thailand .  “The situation has stabilized and our visibility is
improving,” Hahn said.  Mylene Mangalindan, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  