-- Libya’s Post-Qaddafi Government Is Hobbled as Misrata’s City-State Thrives
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-29T07:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/libya-hobbled-as-misrata-s-armed-city-state-thrives.html
Armed militiamen inspect ID papers
under an archway made of battered ship containers at the main
checkpoint outside Misrata with a stern message for visitors:
strangers keep out.  The guards deny entry to  Libya ’s third-biggest city for any
non-Misratans who have no local contacts to vouch for them,
fearing they may be Qaddafi loyalists planning attacks.
Residents of the city, which bore the brunt of the eight-month
rebellion against  Muammar Qaddafi , also remain distrustful of
the National Transitional Council in the capital, Tripoli, 117
miles (188 kilometers) to the west.  Misrata’s militias, which number 250, according to New
York-based Human Rights Watch, take orders from the city’s
military council and were among dozens of armed groups in Libya
that refused an NTC request in December to lay down their
weapons. The divisions show how the new western-backed central
government is struggling to assert authority across the North
African nation, which holds  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  “Rather than tearing Libya apart, it is more likely to
lead to a dysfunctional government, a government that is hobbled
by incapabilities because it has been so subverted and hollowed
out by regional interests,” said Shashank Joshi, associate
fellow at the London-based  Royal United Services Institute .  With Fawzi Abdel A’al, a lawyer from Misrata, as the
interior minister in the National Transitional Council, the city
“is fairly powerful in the central government, so it’s in a
position to preserve its independence and autonomy,” he said.  Screening Visitors  The militias’ policy of deterring outsiders is damaging for
an otherwise improving business environment, said Farouk Ben
Ahmeda, 37.  “The traders here do business with guys from Tripoli, from
Bani Walid, and the checkpoints are deterring them from
coming,” said Ahmeda, a former militiaman who is setting up an
import business. “It’s time to relax a little.”  The Misratan militias’ fame grew in October when they
captured Qaddafi near his hometown of Sirte, about 120 miles
east of Misrata. He died in captivity and video emerged on the
internet showing him being taunted and beaten.  London-based  Amnesty International  this month  accused  the
militias in Misrata and elsewhere of “operating lawlessly,”
committing widespread human-rights abuses against suspected
Qaddafi loyalists, African immigrants and refugees.  Amnesty and  Human Rights Watch  have called on a Misrata-
based militia to release two British journalists and three
Libyans it detained while they were filming in Tripoli on Feb.
21.  Reports of Torture  Doctors Without Borders  suspended its operations in Misrata
on Jan. 26, saying detainees were being tortured and denied
medical care. During the six months that its teams spent working
in Misrata’s detention centers, they treated 115 people for
torture-related wounds. The group said it reported all cases to
the authorities and that no action was taken.  Some houses of Misratans thought to have supported Qaddafi
are being destroyed, while others are being spray-painted with
the word “traitor.”  The policy of screening visitors is necessary to deter
Qaddafi loyalists who may want to attack the city, said Abdul
Fatah Alghannai, a 26-year-old medical student who worked in the
city’s casualty wards during the fighting.  “If they’re not from Misrata, somebody has to vouch for
them,” he said in an interview yesterday. “It means Misrata is
the one city in Libya where the streets are safe to walk at
night. But we have nothing against Libyans. We are Libyan.”  Electoral Progress  Misrata, which had about 517,000 residents before the war,
according to the  United Nations , this month held Libya’s first
election since Qaddafi’s demise. The vote for a 28-seat local
council took place after protests led to the ouster of self-
appointed councilors who assumed power during the uprising.  An electoral register of 101,000, about 67 percent of
Misrata’s voting-age population, was compiled in 20 days,
according to Mohamed Berween, head of the Misrata Electoral
Commission. National elections for a 200-seat constitutional
assembly that will draft a new constitution are set for June 23.  The economy of Misrata, mainly a trading center, has seen
some improvement. Tripoli Street, Misrata’s main thoroughfare
that was shattered by fighting, is being revamped. The power
company is fixing street lights, and shops are being repaired,
their doors that were green by law under Qaddafi are being
painted white.  Freighters are berthed at Qasr Ahmad, the deepest and most
modern container port in Libya that accounted before the war for
about 52 percent of the country’s container traffic. It’s the
only Libyan port open 24 hours a day.  No More Bribes  Since liberation, it has been reorganized and is run by
local officials from the port authority in partnership with
Misrata Free Port, a state-owned company.  “It used to be 10 to 15 days in port and you had to pay
money under the table,” Nasser Mokhtar, a clothing importer,
said. “Now, it is very easy, nobody asks for a bribe.”  Bureaucratic delays in obtaining permits, rather than
politics or security, are the biggest problem facing businesses
in Misrata now, said Mustafa Algwaire, who returned to Misrata
in 2007 after spending 15 years in the U.K. where he graduated
with an MBA in tourism management. He now runs one of a group of
take-away shops that have opened since the war and specializes
in “Kentucky-style” chicken.  Central Government Failure  “When you have been living under a regime for 40 years,
it’s difficult to change,” he said. “The bureaucrats, they
didn’t like Qaddafi, but they liked the system.”  Misratans aren’t alone in voicing criticism of the failure
of the transitional council to push forward reconstruction, pay
salaries and account for spending of oil revenue.  Benghazi, the eastern city where the revolution began last
February and the birthplace of the NTC, has been beset by
protests in recent weeks by Libyans demanding greater
accountability and transparency from the government. Tripoli has
been hit by strikes and sit-ins over unpaid wages.  Misratans say their emerging autonomy results from central
government inaction, not a desire for isolation.  “Nobody wants to see Misrata independent from Libya,”
said Abu Bakar Essaddami, who runs a haulage company in the
city. “We just want a country with law, a country with proper
governance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  