-- Michigan Primary to Test Santorum as Romney Challenger
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-29T01:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/michigan-primary-tests-santorum-challenge-to-romney-before-super-tuesday.html
Mitt Romney said  Rick Santorum 
sought to “kidnap” the Republican presidential nomination
process by encouraging Democrats to vote in today’s Michigan
primary.  Romney is trying to avoid the embarrassment of losing in
the state where he was born and his father was a popular three-
term governor. Santorum is attempting to prove he’s a legitimate
front-runner who can win in bigger states and not just generate
a short-lived surge in an unsettled campaign.  With some polls open in the state until 9 p.m. Eastern
time, Santorum had 40 percent of the vote and Romney 39 percent,
with 10 percent of precincts reporting, according to the
 Associated Press . Running third was U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas  with 11 percent, followed by former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  with 7 percent.  Voting in  Arizona , site of the day’s other primary, also
ends at 9 p.m. Eastern time. Romney is favored to win that
contest.  Santorum’s campaign made automated phone  calls  to  Michigan (BEESMI) 
Democrats to urge them to vote for their candidate, citing
Romney’s opposition to the $82 billion federal automotive
bailout, which Santorum also opposed.  ‘Dirty Tricks’  Romney earlier today told reporters the calls are the
“dirty tricks of a desperate campaign.”  “Republicans have to recognize there’s a real effort to
kidnap our primary process,” Romney said in Livonia, Michigan.  Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor, said he
believes that the economy will ultimately trump other issues as
the most important for voters, even as he struggles to win over
the fiscal and social conservative base of his party amid a
challenge from Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator.  “It’s very easy to excite the base with incendiary
comments and we’ve seen throughout the campaign if you’re
willing to say really outrageous things that are really
accusative and attacking President Obama that you’re going to
jump up in the polls,” Romney said. “I’m not willing to light
my hair on fire to try and get support. I am who I am.”  ‘Economic Lightweight’  Romney, a former private equity executive who acknowledged
today that he’s made some “mistakes” in his campaign
messaging, said Santorum is “an economic lightweight” in terms
of understanding how to create more jobs.  “The reason that I think people will find him hard to
elect in a general election, if he were to become our nominee,
is that he doesn’t have the very attribute and skill that is
most in demand on the part of the American people right now,”
he said.  In response, Santorum, 53, told reporters today in  Ohio  --a
state that will hold a primary next week -- that he’s offering a
“conservative message” that will appeal to Republicans.  “He’s the one out there appealing to moderates to vote for
him. I’m not,” he said. “I’m appealing to conservatives to
vote for me.”  Romney has cited an effort to weaken the opposition as an
explanation for why he voted for former Senator Paul Tsongas, a
Democrat, in that party’s 1992 presidential primary.  “When there was no real contest in the Republican primary,
I’d vote in the Democrat primary, vote for the person who I
thought would be the weakest opponent for the Republican,” he
said during a 2007 interview with ABC News.  At his news conference, Romney drew a distinction between
his vote 20 years ago and a campaign strategy.  “It’s very different being a candidate for president,
buying ads, and telling Democrats to go, to go mess into a
Republican primary and to vote against me,” he said.  Super Tuesday  Today’s results could determine who has the momentum before
Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states will hold contests with
more than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed to win the
Republican nomination at stake.  Michigan will award 30 delegates based on how the
candidates do in each of the state’s congressional districts,
while the winner in Arizona will get all 29 delegates. That’s
one reason Santorum has concentrated on Michigan, and it may
mean that the overall vote-total winner in the state won’t
necessarily collect the most convention delegates.  Neither Gingrich nor Paul competed aggressively in
Michigan, concentrating instead on states voting next month.  Gingrich Help  Gingrich, who campaigned in  Georgia  today, may get a boost
from  Sheldon Adelson , chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , who
is planning to give a fresh infusion of cash to a political
action committee backing the former U.S. House speaker,
according to a person close to the organization who wasn’t
authorized to publicly discuss its finances.  The undisclosed amount will fund pro-Gingrich television
ads to run in seven states that hold contests in early March,
the person said.  The group, Winning Our Future, had $2.4 million as February
started, according to Federal Election Commission reports.
Almost all of its $11 million in donations in January came from
Adelson and his wife. Data compiled by Bloomberg show he is
among the top 20 wealthiest people in the world.  Winning Our Future uploaded several versions of two new
television ads to its YouTube channel.  Gasoline Issue  One ad, titled “It’s Time to Choose Newt,” opens with a
man saying, “ Mitt Romney ” and sighing loudly. It uses a
person-on-the-street format. A woman says, “Not everyone in
 Washington  likes Newt,” and another chimes in, “but maybe
that’s a good thing. He got things done.” Later, echoing
Gingrich’s gas-price theme in recent days on the campaign trail,
a woman says “We’re looking at $5 or $6 gas -- Romney’s not the
type to pump his own gas.”  A 30-second version of the ad began airing this morning in
Atlanta, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a
company that tracks advertising. The super-PAC has plans to air
ads in several Super Tuesday states, including Georgia.  Spending in Michigan on television commercials by Romney’s
campaign and a political action committee backing him has
outpaced expenditures on behalf of Santorum by a ratio of about
3-to-2, according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.  The Romney campaign and Restore Our Future spent $3.12
million to air ads 6,229 times on  Michigan  broadcast television
stations through Feb. 27, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red
White and Blue Fund, a PAC supporting him, spent $2.15 million
to air ads 5,337 times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Livonia, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  