-- Micron Biggest Winner as Elpida Bankruptcy Sidelines Rival: Tech
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-28T00:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/micron-biggest-winner-as-elpida-bankruptcy-sidelines-rival-tech.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  will probably
emerge as the top winner from the bankruptcy of  Elpida Memory
Inc. (6665) , whose filing yesterday sidelines the last Japanese maker
of computer memory chips and gives rivals the chance to scoop up
factories on the cheap.  Elpida filed for  Japan ’s biggest bankruptcy in two years
after chip prices plunged and it failed to win a second
government bailout. The elimination of a top maker of dynamic
random access memory would give the rest of the industry more
control over production, helping to ease the price swings that
have left Micron unprofitable for six of the past 10 years.  Elpida’s creditors will look for ways to recoup losses
through the sale of such assets as a plant in Hiroshima valued
at $1 billion by Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. For potential buyers
such as Micron, that price tag would be about a fifth of the
cost of building a new equivalent facility. That would fit with
Micron’s strategy of trying to  buy  up capacity cheaply, rather
than making acquisitions that outstrip the company’s $1.9
billion in cash and compel it to take on debt.  “Micron is clearly the winner,” said Dan Berenbaum, a New
York-based analyst at MKM Partners LP. “Now it’s a question of
how much does Micron pay for the assets.”  Micron shares jumped 7.7 percent yesterday amid speculation
that the company, the fourth-largest DRAM maker, might seek to
acquire some of Elpida’s plants. Dan Francisco, a spokesman for
Boise, Idaho-based Micron, declined to comment.  Elpida has facilities that are responsible for about 18
percent of DRAM industry output, making it the No. 3 supplier. A
push to take the plants offline or use them for other kinds of
chips would help ease oversupply and stem industrywide losses.  Falling Demand  The computer-memory industry has been grappling with a
decline in demand, brought on by a global consumer shift to
smartphones and tablet computers, which need less memory and
typically use a different type of chip.  Elpida’s troubles were exacerbated by DRAM prices falling
below the cost of production. Industry sales last year dropped
26 percent to $29.2 billion, according to an estimate by Gartner
Inc. That followed a 72 percent surge in 2010.  The Japanese chipmaker was the product of a 1999 merger
between the memory businesses of NEC Corp. and Hitachi Ltd.,
which exited the industry.  ‘Ten-Foot Pole’  If Micron makes a bid for some DRAM facilities, Elpida’s
creditors will get an offer that’s “tough to swallow,” because
the U.S. company knows it’s not likely to face any competition,
said Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates
Inc.  “Nobody else is going to touch DRAM with a ten-foot
pole,” said Mosesmann, who has a “strong buy” rating on
Micron shares. “Micron is very practical. They don’t want all
of Elpida.”  Earlier this month, Micron’s management told Mosesmann and
other analysts the company is monitoring events in Japan to see
if there are opportunities. Executives declined to comment on
whether Elpida is one of them and what the company might do.  “It just doesn’t feel like there’s going to be any fresh
capital put into the DRAM business,” Micron President  Mark Adams  said in an interview on Feb. 9. “If we’re right, then the
industry is mature enough that consolidation could make a lot of
sense.”  Elpida has  total  debt of about $4 billion and has reported
five straight quarters of losses. Micron, which has been making
acquisitions and driving industry consolidation for more than 10
years, has about $1.95 billion of debt, approximately equal to
its cash reserves. The company has a target range for its debt-
to-capital ratio of 20 percent to 25 percent. Its current cash
plus market capital of $8.4 billion give it a debt-to-capital
ratio of about 18 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Debt Guidelines  If Micron stays within those guidelines -- giving it the
latitude to borrow about another $500 million -- it’s not going
to have enough leeway to buy its Japanese rival, said  Daniel Amir , a San Francisco-based analyst at Lazard Capital Markets
LLC.  “They probably won’t just buy out Elpida,” Amir said.
“They are not willing to break the bank. It’s not like they’re
going to spend $2 billion.”  Samsung Electronics Co., which dominates the memory-chip
business and is the only consistently profitable company in the
industry, has said it will concentrate on running its own
business, making it an unlikely bidder for Elpida’s assets.  “Samsung is not going to come to their rescue,” said
Raymond James’s Mosesmann.  Profit Struggle  Excluding Samsung -- which is also the world’s second-
largest maker of mobile phones and the biggest maker of liquid
crystal displays -- DRAM makers have struggled to make money.  Matching supply with demand poses a constant challenge in
the market for DRAM for personal computers, where plants take
years to come online and can’t be shut down cheaply. With
factories costing billions of dollars to build, companies such
as Elpida have found themselves facing debts they have trouble
repaying.  In six of the past 10 years, industry companies have spent
more cash than their operations have generated. Even including
Samsung, whose share price has more than tripled, memory makers
as a group have lost 40 percent of their market value since
October 2002.  If output from Elpida’s plants is slowed down or halted,
all of its rivals will benefit as supply gets closer to demand
and prices stabilize, according to Shawn Webster, an analyst at
Macquarie Capital USA Inc.  “Any time a competitor is in distress, it’s a positive for
everybody else,” said Webster. “If you pull supply offline,
that could help everybody in the DRAM industry.”  Micron CEO  Earlier this month, Micron lost longtime Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Appleton , who died in a plane crash. Mosesmann and
other analysts speculated that his death might slow any possible
negotiations for industry consolidation, because Appleton had
been the driving force behind previous transactions.  Micron, which got its start with an investment from local
potato magnate J.R. Simplot, became one of the largest makers of
computer memory when it bought the memory operations of Texas
Instruments Inc. in 1998. Since then, it has acquired plants
from Toshiba Corp., bought control of a Japanese joint venture,
and formed partnerships with  Taiwan ’s Nanya Technology Corp. and
 Intel Corp . to secure access to more production.  In 2008, as  Germany ’s Qimonda AG headed for bankruptcy and
sought investments, Micron bought out its interest in  Inotera
Memories Inc. (3474)  Qimonda subsequently went out of business, and its
chipmaking equipment was sold off.  Micron has also walked away from opportunities. In April
2002, it abandoned a transaction under which it would have
acquired the memory operations of  South Korea ’s Hynix
Semiconductor Inc., the second-largest DRAM maker, after the
companies couldn’t agree on terms.  ‘In No Rush’  One way that Micron might consider a purchase of Elpida
would be if it could get cheap financing for a transaction from
Elpida’s creditors, which are facing the dilemma of knowing that
restructuring the company’s debt wouldn’t be enough to make it
competitive again, according to Betsy Van Hees, a San Francisco-
based analyst at Wedbush Securities. Elpida needs more money to
invest in making its production more efficient, she said.  When asked on Feb. 10 whether he would take Micron’s debt
level above 25 percent of its capital to make an acquisition
that would consolidate the industry, Chief Executive Officer
Mark Durcan told analysts he was going to be “very careful
about putting the company in a position where we’re not
confident we can deal with any additional debt.”  Still, he would consider taking the debt ratio higher if
there was a good enough opportunity, he said.  “If they can get the current creditors to finance the deal
at a very low  interest rate , then it might make sense,” said
Van Hees. Unless that happens, “they are in no rush to do
anything.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 