-- High Levels of Selenium May Raise Diabetes Risk, Research Analysis Finds
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-02-28T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/high-levels-of-selenium-may-raise-risk-of-diabetes-review-finds.html
Supplements of selenium, a trace
mineral that may help prevent some cancers, might increase the
risk of  Type 2 diabetes  if taken in large quantities, according
to a review of existing studies.  To help prevent raising the chance of developing diabetes,
people with selenium levels of 122 micrograms per liter or
higher in their blood shouldn’t take selenium supplements,
 Margaret Rayman , a professor of nutritional medicine at the
University of Surrey in the U.K., said in the review published
today in  The Lancet medical journal . Rayman surveyed studies
published between January 1990 and February 2011.  Selenium is a naturally occurring mineral found in soil and
foods and is essential in small amounts for good health. A low
selenium level in the blood has been linked with an increased
risk of death, poor immune function, and cognitive decline. A
healthy level has been shown to enhance male fertility, have
antiviral effects and provide some protection against cancers of
the prostate, lung, colon and bladder.  “Over the last 10 years, the use of selenium supplements
has become widespread, largely due to the belief that selenium
can reduce the risk of cancer and other diseases,” The Lancet
said in a statement today. “But the evidence also suggests that
selenium has a narrow therapeutic range and at high levels might
have harmful effects such as increasing the risk of Type 2
diabetes.”  Varied Levels  People who take a 200-microgram daily dose of the mineral
for seven years have a 50 percent higher risk of developing Type
2 diabetes, compared with those on a placebo, according to a
2007 study at the Warwick Medical School in the U.K.  Selenium levels vary significantly worldwide, with higher
intake in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Japan  and less consumption in
 Europe , said Rayman, the researcher. Average intake for Britons
is below recommended levels, said Graham Keen, executive
director of the Health Food Manufacturers Association in the
U.K., in an e-mailed statement.  “This shows that for many in the U.K., there is a strong
need to increase selenium in their diet,” Keen said.  Diabetes is a chronic illness in which the body either
doesn’t produce enough insulin to process blood sugar or fails
to use insulin effectively. About 552 million people, or one in
10 adults, may have diabetes by 2030, compared with about 366
million now, if nothing is done to curb the epidemic, the
International Diabetes Federation said in a report in November.
As many as 183 million people have the disease and don’t know
it, the Brussels-based federation said.  Type 2 diabetes, often the result of excess body weight and
lack of physical activity, accounts for at least 90 percent of
all cases of the disease, according to the federation. Type 1
diabetes develops early in life and robs people of their ability
to make insulin, according to the  World Health Organization .
While the exact cause of Type 1 is unknown, scientists believe
it occurs when the immune system attacks the pancreatic cells
that produce insulin.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  