-- Highfields Capital’s Jacobson Calls for Management Change at CoreLogic
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-28T17:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/highfields-capital-s-jacobson-calls-for-change-in-management-at-corelogic.html
Highfields Capital Management LP,
the $11 billion investment firm run by Jonathon S. Jacobson,
said it was disappointed in  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) ’s decision to
“continue business as usual” and called for a management
change.  CoreLogic said yesterday that its board voted to end a
strategic review that it began in August to explore options
including a sale or merger of the company, and divestiture of
some of its businesses.  “The board’s decision to abandon the strategic review
process and continue business as usual is troubling in light of
the company’s long history of financial and operational missteps
despite its irreplaceable, world-class assets,” Jacobson, the
founder of Boston-based Highfields, said in a statement today.  Highfields, CoreLogic’s largest shareholder, said that
since 2007 it has provided advice to the  Santa Ana , California-
based seller of property and credit data. The investment firm
said CoreLogic management’s failings include its inability to
forecast performance and meet financial projections from a 2010
investor day presentation and constant revisions of earnings
guidance in 2011 and this year.  D. Van Skilling, CoreLogic’s chairman, said the firm
entered this year with “excellent momentum,” citing the
successful execution of cost reduction programs.  “The company is optimistic about its prospects for the
coming year, and its strong cash position gives it additional
flexibility to drive stockholder value,” Skilling said in
yesterday’s statement.  ‘Dismal’ Track Record  CoreLogic gained 5.4 percent to $14.88 at 12:27 p.m. in New
York trading. The firm’s shares have gained 15 percent this year
after slumping 30 percent in 2011.  “Our preference is to get leadership in place who can
better manage this business and restore shareholder
confidence,” Farhad Nanji, a managing director at Highfields,
said in a telephone interview.  In today’s statement, Highfields said CoreLogic has a
“dismal” track record in acquisitions, including buying shares
of  First Advantage Corp. (FADV)  in November 2009 for an implied value
of $1.1 billion even as the company was falling short of its own
internal projections. First Advantage’s businesses were either
shut down for a loss or sold at significant discounts to cost,
and what is left is worth far less than what CoreLogic paid,
Highfields said.  Jacobson said that “current management has proven without
a doubt that it is incapable of managing expenses and seizing on
revenue opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  