-- LightSquared’s CEO Ahuja Steps Down, Falcone Named to Board
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-28T20:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/lightsquared-ceo-ahuja-resigns-as-venture-s-backer-falcone-named-to-board.html
LightSquared Inc. said today Chief
Executive Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  resigned after regulators this
month blocked its proposed wireless venture, saying it would
cause interference with navigational equipment.  Ahuja, who has been LightSquared’s only chief executive
officer, will be replaced temporarily by co-chief operating
officers Doug Smith and Marc Montagner, the company said in a
statement. Ahuja will remain chairman and  Philip Falcone , the
billionaire backing the venture, will join the company’s board.  LightSquared, which is trying to compete with  AT&T Inc. (T)  and
 Verizon Wireless , was blocked by the Federal Communications
Commission this month over concerns about potential disruptions
to global-positioning systems. The agency is taking comments on
its proposal to rescind permits.  “Ahuja lost his credibility by continually stating his
absolute confidence that this will get resolved,” said Tim Farrar, an analyst at research firm TMF Associates Inc. in  Menlo
Park ,  California . “As this moves forward, the focus will be
more toward litigation and away from building a network,” said
Farrar.  Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund has
invested about $3 billion in closely held LightSquared. Last
week, after skipping a $56.3 million payment to its partner
 Inmarsat Plc (IMASY) , a British satellite operator, the company said it
was cutting 45 percent of its 330-person workforce.  Shrinking Effect  “Sanjiv has shown great leadership in bringing the
LightSquared vision to this point, including leveraging his
experience in the telecom industry to sign dozens of critical
partnerships across the country,” Falcone said in the
statement. The Reston, Virginia-based company is “committed to
working with the appropriate entities to find a solution to the
recent regulatory issues.”  LightSquared said it expects to name Ahuja’s replacement in
the near future.  As of the end of January, Falcone carried his investment in
LightSquared’s equity at $1.5 billion, or about half of what his
hedge fund had invested to date, according to a Harbinger
document. Falcone has hired Moelis & Co. and other advisers to
help study alternatives for the company.  Wholesale Model  LightSquared has planned to offer wholesale service to
partners so retailers, consumer electronics companies and
wireless operators could use its network to offer their own
services. It announced agreements with companies including
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and Best Buy Co.  Another partner, FreedomPop, a startup backed by Skype
Technologies SA co-founder Niklas Zennstrom, ended its agreement
with LightSquared and signed a wholesale agreement with
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , on Feb. 15.  Ahuja said LightSquared could bring lower costs and more
innovation to the U.S. wireless industry. Last year, he said the
service would allow retail partners to cut in half their
customers’ mobile-data costs.  The FCC said this month that it wouldn’t allow LightSquared
to proceed with its network after federal agencies determined
its signals interfere with global-positioning system devices.  “There are no mitigation strategies that both solve the
interference issues and provide LightSquared with an adequate
commercial network deployment,” Lawrence Strickling,
administrator of the  National Telecommunications and Information
Administration , said in a letter to the FCC.  New Inquiry  Separately, Republican leaders of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee that oversees communications policy today
asked the FCC and other regulators for details of their handling
of LightSquared’s application.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  was asked to produce
records of contacts with Harbinger, LightSquared, navigation-
gear makers and with other U.S. officials, including White House
workers, according to a letter the committee released by e-mail.
The request was signed by members led by Representative  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the committee.  Tammy Sun, a spokeswoman for the FCC, in an e-mail said the
agency will cooperate with the committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  