-- India, Turkey Hurt Most by Rising Oil Price, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-02-28T08:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/india-turkey-hurt-most-by-rising-oil-price-morgan-stanley-says.html
India and  Turkey  are “most
negatively” affected by rising  oil prices  because the countries
run high current-account deficits and are net importers of the
commodity, according to Morgan Stanley.  “A sustained rise in commodity prices will also bring
about higher input costs, which could revive upside risks to
inflation” for Asia, excluding Japan, Morgan Stanley analysts
led by Chetan Ahya and  Jonathan Garner , wrote in a report dated
yesterday. “If the upside risks to inflation materialise, the
tactical easing in monetary policy that we are forecasting may
be delayed.”  Oil prices climbed to $109.77 a barrel last week, the
highest level since May 3. Crude costs will become the next
“risk item” for investors as European debt concerns ease,
according to UBS AG. While  India  buys three-quarters of its oil
from abroad, Turkey imports almost all of its energy
requirements, according to the Ankara-based statistics office.  “Oil prices are already approaching levels where worries
have arisen in the past,” Larry Hatheway, London-based chief
economist at UBS, wrote in a report today. “For oil-consuming
countries, rising prices will begin to crimp purchasing power.”  Indian stocks have rallied this year, with the benchmark
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbing 15 percent as foreign funds
poured a net $7.1 billion into local equities amid optimism
slowing  inflation  will prompt the central bank to cut  interest
rates . The  Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  has risen
15 percent in 2012.  Shielding Growth  The  Reserve Bank  of India has signaled readiness to join
 emerging markets  from Brazil to Indonesia in cutting borrowing
costs after inflation slowed in January to the lowest level in
more than two years. Pressure to shield the economy is rising
after the government forecast the smallest expansion in three
years as the global recovery falters and officials struggle to
restrain budget and trade deficits.  India’s government said in December that it may fail to
meet its budget-deficit target of 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the year to March as it struggles to sell stakes in
state companies and a slowing economy lowers tax collection. The
country is expected to run a current-account deficit of 2.7
percent of GDP in 2012, Morgan Stanley said.  “The impact of higher oil prices will also be partly felt
on the fiscal balances for India, Indonesia and Malaysia due to
the provision of fuel subsidies,” the Morgan Stanley analysts
said. “India’s twin deficits means that its balance sheet is
the weakest to absorb the impact of higher oil prices.”  India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand,  Asia ’s biggest
fuel subsidizers, will probably all miss fiscal deficit targets
due to higher oil outlays, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in
a note in March last year.  Morgan Stanley is overweight on emerging-market energy
stocks and likes capital goods and software makers, according to
the report. Transportation industry has most stocks hurt by
rising oil prices, the report said.  Ahya is a Hong Kong-based economist while Garner is chief
Asia and emerging-market strategist for Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 