-- Indonesia ‘Sweet Spot’ to Drive Infrastructure Stocks Advance, Nomura Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-29T09:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/indonesia-infrastructure-stocks-poised-to-advance-on-spending-nomura-says.html
Indonesian infrastructure stocks are
poised to advance as an $18 billion government spending plan
boosts the outlook for shares in Southeast Asia’s largest
economy, Nomura Holdings Inc. says.  Companies including  PT Jasa Marga (JSMR) , Indonesia’s largest
toll-road operator,  PT Semen Gresik (SMGR) , the biggest cement
producer, and  PT Perusahaan Gas Negara (PGAS) , the No. 1 gas
distributor, may help drive a 15 percent gain in the benchmark
Jakarta Composite Index in 2012, Wilianto Ie, Nomura’s head of
equity research for Indonesia, said yesterday.  Indonesia’s President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono plans to
boost government spending by 19 percent to 168 trillion rupiah
($18 billion) this year to improve railways, airports and roads.
The nation’s parliament approved in December a land-acquisition
bill to help accelerate projects. The economy grew 6.5 percent
last year, official data showed this month. That’s the fastest
pace since 1996, data compiled by Bloomberg show, outperforming
neighbors including  Thailand  and the  Philippines (PHGDPYOY) .  “Indonesia is in a sweet spot,” Ie, 43, whose Indonesia
equities research was ranked among the top six by Institutional
Investors magazine last year, said in an interview in Singapore.
“We like infrastructure stocks, as the land-acquisition bill
was passed last year.”  The government expects to complete a presidential
regulation to implement the law in March, Coordinating Minister
for the Economy Hatta Rajasa said in Jakarta yesterday.  Debt Ratings  The Jakarta Composite Index gained 2.1 percent to 3,985.21
at the close, the biggest advance since Nov. 4. Semen Gresik
shares gained 3.7 percent to 11,250 rupiah, while Gas Negara
jumped 7.1 percent to 3,750 rupiah, the biggest advance since
Sept. 27. Jasa Marga rose 1.1 percent to 4,700 rupiah, the
highest close since Feb. 15.  The benchmark index climbed 3.2 percent in 2011, the third-
most in  Asia , as two  interest-rate  cuts in the fourth quarter
boosted the outlook for economic growth.  Fitch Ratings  upgraded
Indonesia’s sovereign-debt ratings on Dec. 15, followed by
Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 18, allowing some foreign
funds whose allocations are restricted to investment-grade
countries to buy Indonesian stocks.  Ie forecast in June that the nation would regain its
investment-grade rating by the end of 2011 or early 2012. He
also recommended buying Indonesian stocks in January 2011 even
as the Jakarta index was posting Southeast Asia’s biggest losses
and overseas investors sold that month the most of the nation’s
shares since 2005. The index climbed 19 percent in the next six
months, peaking at a record on Aug. 1.  ‘Blanket Buy’  Indonesian shares have gained 4.3 percent this year, Asia’s
fourth-worst performer after  Sri Lanka , Malaysia and Mongolia.
That compares with a 18 percent gain in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. (MXEF)  Ie forecast the Jakarta index will rise 15
percent from last year’s closing level of 3,821.99.  Morgan Stanley upgraded Indonesia to “overweight” from
“equal weight” on Feb. 17, saying stocks are “oversold” and
valuations attractive, according to a report on Feb. 17.  “An acceleration in infrastructure investment will help to
support higher growth in a non-inflationary environment,”
analysts  Jonathan Garner  and Pankaj Mataney wrote in the report.  The Jakarta Composite is valued at 13.5 times  estimated
earnings , its lowest level relative to the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index since April 2010.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index has
risen 10 percent this year after slumping 22 percent in 2011.
 India ’s BSE India Sensitive Index has surged 15 percent this
year after dropping 25 percent last year.  Growth Forecast  “Once the rush into China and India has stabilized,
 Indonesia  will start to stand out, and we are quite close to
that,” Ie said. “We have a blanket ‘buy’ for infrastructure
stocks.”  The $707-billion economy in Indonesia, the world’s fourth
most-populous nation, has expanded more than 6 percent for five
straight quarters, a sign it’s weathering a decline in global
demand that has hurt growth across Asia.  The central bank unexpectedly cut the  benchmark interest
rate  on Feb. 9 for the first time in three months, taking
advantage of easing inflation to support growth. It expects
growth of 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent this year, supported by
strong domestic demand and investment, even as external trade
may slow. The  World Bank  forecast in January that the global
economy will grow 2.5 percent in 2012.  “Our economy is relatively closed and exports are not a
key driver,” said Ie. “That’s one of the reasons why the
global economic situation will have a limited impact on us.
Commodities prices and inflation are relatively subdued and
purchasing power remains relatively high. The strong
fundamentals of Indonesia will prevail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  