-- Interpublic CEO ‘Not Counting’ on Europe Recovery, Olympics
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-28T17:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/interpublic-ceo-not-counting-on-europe-recovery-olympics.html
Interpublic Group of Companies Inc., 
the second-largest U.S. advertising company, forecast the London
Olympics this summer won’t be enough to offset a tough ad market
in  Europe  because of the sovereign-debt crisis.  Interpublic is targeting a 3 percent revenue increase this
year, excluding acquisitions, as the crisis in Europe plays down
significant growth in  emerging markets , Chief Executive Officer
Michael Roth said in an interview.  “Europe is still our clients’ biggest concern as it’s an
important market for us, and we are not counting on a
recovery,” Roth said yesterday at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona. “The Olympics will certainly help, but taking some
of the uncertainty in Europe away will be more helpful.”  Advertising executives have said companies in Europe are
scaling back plans for ad spending, even as events such as the
Olympics, the European soccer championships and the U.S.
presidential elections this year promise to give the industry a
boost.  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  CEO Maurice Levy said last month its
clients on the continent had curtailed their initial marketing
plans for the year.  Interpublic dropped as much as 1.5 percent to $11.63 in New
York trading today, the biggest intraday decline in more than
two weeks. Publicis rose 0.9 percent in Paris. WPP, the world’s
biggest advertising company, gained 2.5 percent on the London
exchange.  Worst Case  The findings fit with what U.K. marketing executives said
in the latest Bellwether report from the London-based Institute
of Practitioners in Advertising. Companies are the most
pessimistic they’ve been since the last recession and plan
slower growth in ad spending, according to the survey.  The worst case scenario for New York-based Interpublic will
be the crisis spreading to more non-European markets, Roth said.
“I don’t think that will happen so it’s only if there’s a real
economic disaster that I’d be concerned about,” he said, adding
a gradual economic recovery should start soon, helping the
company recover a 5 percent average sales growth in order to
boost profit margins.  British companies ranked their business prospects for the
first quarter of this year as the worst in 11 quarters and said
their planned increases for ad spending in 2012 are weaker than
in any recorded year before 2009, according to a survey of 300
organizations. Digital marketing has become the fastest-growing
part of the U.K. ad industry as companies look for ways to save
money, according to the institute’s report.  Latin America, Asia  Faster-growing markets in  Latin America  and  Asia  may help
Interpublic achieve that revenue growth as those markets are
already compensating the loss of clients in Europe, Roth said.  “So far we are seeing our clients spend money clearly in
emerging markets such as China, India or  Brazil , where there’s
great growth, with also good performance in the  United States (X) ,
and I expect that to continue,” Roth said.  “Digital, social media and integrated offerings are the
areas where we see major growth,” the CEO said.  Brazil represents one of the most promising markets for
Interpublic, Roth said, adding the company is targeting “high
double digit” growth in the country.  Turkey ,  Russia  and the
 Middle East  are other markets growing fast, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Barcelona at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  