-- Investment-Grade Yields in U.S. Plunge to Lowest Since 1986
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-28T18:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/investment-grade-yields-drop-to-lowest-in-more-than-two-decades.html
U.S. investment-grade bond yields
plunged to the lowest in more than two decades yesterday as the
Federal Reserve pledges to hold  interest rates  near zero through
at least late 2014 and investors seek higher returns.  The yield on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Master index fell to 3.44 percent yesterday, passing the
previous low of 3.45 percent reached in August. That’s the least
in the bank’s data going back to October 1986. While yields are
at a record low, relative spreads above Treasuries are at 208
basis points, the least since August, suggesting that investors
may wager spreads will narrow further.  The Fed’s low interest-rate policy is encouraging buyers to
take extra credit risk as they seek higher returns, increasing
demand for such securities. Borrowers from Burbank, California-
based  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
are taking advantage of borrowing costs at all-time lows. As
investors seek a haven from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil,
that is driving down Treasury yields, while investors are buying
higher-grade corporate bonds for the potential extra returns.  “Over the past couple of weeks, we have seen that record-
low yields have not discouraged the buying interest,” U.S.
credit research analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. led by Arun Kumar wrote in a report today. “Almost all investors we speak
with report that they continue to see inflows into their funds
even with yields at these levels. This includes investors from
overseas as well.”  Yields Tumble  Yields on investment-grade debt have tumbled from 4 percent
a year ago and 4.55 percent in February 2010, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. That’s down from as high as
9.3 percent in October 2008 as credit markets froze in the
aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. U.S.
investment grade corporate bonds have returned 3 percent in the
first two months this year, the data show.  Investment-grade borrowers have issued $195.3 billion of
U.S. dollar-denominated debt in 2012, surpassing the $188.3
billion offered in the similar period last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year’s issuance was $883.5
billion.  Disney, the biggest U.S. entertainment company, sold $1.4
billion of debt this month, including $1 billion of 1.125
percent five-year notes, a record low for the company for that
maturity, Bloomberg data show.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer services company based in
Armonk,  New York , obtained a record-low coupon on three-year
notes when it sold $1.5 billion of 0.55 percent notes due in
February 2015 this month, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  