-- Hip Devices May Be Bigger Concern Than Breast Implants, BMJ Says
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-02-28T16:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/hip-devices-may-be-bigger-concern-than-breast-implants-bmj-says.html
Failing metal-on-metal hip
replacements made by manufacturers including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
may harm more people than leaking breast implants made in
France, according to an investigation by the British Medical
Journal and the British Broadcasting Corp.  Hundreds of thousands of people worldwide may have been
exposed to high levels of toxic cobalt and chromium ions that
can seep into tissues and destroy muscle and bone, leaving some
patients with long-term disability, the BMJ and  BBC  said in a
statement today. Studies also show that metal ions can seep into
the bloodstream, spreading to the lymph nodes, spleen, liver and
kidneys, they said.  J&J recalled two metal-on-metal devices in August 2010
after some patients required repeat procedures when the implants
stopped functioning properly. French and German officials in
December recommended that thousands of women have surgery to
remove breast implants made by Poly Implants Protheses SA, after
reports the products were leaking industrial silicone inside
patients. The recalls have heightened scrutiny of European Union
rules for medical devices that faced doubts from doctors seeking
an overhaul.  Different Levels  “Why is it that people are afforded different levels of
protection depending on whether they have a heart attack,
diabetes, or a hip replacement in their old age?” said Nick
Freemantle, professor of clinical epidemiology and biostatistics
at  University College London , in an article in the BMJ. “The
methods of device regulation seem to be more from the 1950s than
the 21st century.”  The BMJ and BBC looked at hips made by companies including
J&J of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ; Warsaw, Indiana-based  Zimmer
Holdings Inc. (ZMH) ; and  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  of London.  A spokeswoman from J&J and a Zimmer spokesman weren’t
immediately available to comment.  Smith & Nephew didn’t have an immediate comment on the BMJ
and BBC report today. At the request of the FDA, the first 400
patients who used the company’s Birmingham Hip Resurfacing
System were followed in a study that found that 99 percent were
satisfied or extremely satisfied after 10 years, Smith & Nephew
said in a statement this month. The BHR hip’s metallurgy and
design contribute to its success, the company said.  Testing Requirements  The hips, like other medical devices, didn’t have to
undergo clinical testing like that required of drugs before they
were used in patients, the BMJ and BBC said. Manufacturers have
changed the design of the implants, replacing plastic with metal
materials, over the last decade to improve movement and decrease
dislocation, without conducting safety studies, they said.
Regulators failed to identify the changes or warn doctors and
patients of potential risks, according to the report.  In the U.K., 65,000 metal-on-metal implant operations have
taken place since 2003, according to the  Medicines and
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency .  The ASR Acetabular implant from J&J’s DePuy Orthopaedics
Inc. unit was removed or replaced 29 percent of the time after
six years, compared with a 9.5 percent failure rate for all
metal-on-metal implants, the National Joint Registry of  England 
and  Wales  said in September.  The MHRA today recommended that doctors conduct annual
magnetic resonance imaging scanning for the life of implants
that are 36 millimeters (1.4 inches) or larger. This updates
guidance issued in April 2010 that patients be monitored for at
least five years after the operation.  U.K. Advice Updated  “Most patients with metal-on-metal hip replacements have
well functioning hips and are at a low risk of developing any
serious problems,” Susanne Ludgate, clinical director of the
MHRA, said today in a statement. “We are updating our patient
management and monitoring advice to surgeons and doctors because
this type of hip replacement has a small risk of causing
complications.”  Unlike the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s government-
run reviews for medical devices, the EU relies on a
decentralized network of about 70 “notified bodies.” The
closely held, mostly for-profit firms are hired by companies to
check their products. The reviewers must be accredited by one of
the bloc’s 27 member nations. Approval by any one of them allows
companies to sell a device throughout the EU.  While the EU and U.S. require manufacturers to prove new
products are safe, only the FDA mandates they also show devices
are effective. That means studies for European approval are
typically less in-depth than those required in the U.S,
according to Carl Heneghan, a physician and director of the
University of Oxford’s  Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine .  “No pre-market system can ensure all devices are safe, but
they can certainly make it more likely,” Heneghan said in the
BMJ statement. “Creating an independent system for post-
marketing analysis for implantable medical devices that is
robust and increasing international coordination around device
alerts and withdrawals should go some way to sorting out the
current mess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  