-- Ip Fails to Win Enough Nominations to Enter Hong Kong Leadership Contest
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-29T10:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ip-seeks-support-to-join-hong-kong-leadership-race-before-today-s-deadline.html
Regina Ip, Hong Kong’s former
security chief, failed to muster enough nominations to enter the
race to be the city’s next leader, losing her bid to stand as an
alternative to the scandal-hit  Henry Tang .  “Though we’ve tried very hard to gain support in the last
few days, ultimately we didn’t have enough votes,” Ip, 61, told
reporters today as the nomination period closed. Her failure
means Tang, the front runner, will face off against former
government adviser Leung Chun-ying and lawmaker Albert Ho.  The run-up to the March 25 election, when a 1,200-member
committee will select Hong Kong’s next chief executive, has
highlighted a growing divide between the rich and the rest of
the city in the leadership they want. Tang’s popularity sank
after he blamed his wife for building a basement twice the size
of most homes in the city without government permits.  Ip “has a lot of support among the public, but
unfortunately our system isn’t one-man, one-vote,” said Emily Lau, a lawmaker from the  Democratic Party  of  Hong Kong .  Tang, 59, has refused to heed public calls to quit the
contest after securing 390  nominations  from business executives
including  Li Ka-shing , Hong Kong’s richest man. Leung, the
preferred candidate in public opinion polls, has got 305.  ‘It was close, but not close enough,” Ip said after
failing to get the minimum 150 nominations needed. “I think
it’s a shame. I have received much support from my supporters.”  Selection by Committee  Since the British handover to China in 1997, the city of
7.1 million has picked its leader through an election committee
comprising of executives, civic, labor and professional group
delegates, lawmakers and representatives to China’s political
bodies. Two-thirds of Hong Kong people polled by the South  China 
Morning Post this month said Tang, a former chief secretary,
should quit the race after he admitted knowing about the
basement he said was built by his wife.  “The scandal surrounding Tang was a blow to his
popularity, and people are concerned with how he can govern,”
said Ma Ngok, an associate professor in political science at the
Chinese University of Hong Kong. “The key is the Hong Kong
businessmen on the committee who I believe don’t want to see
Leung get elected.”  Ip has questioned Tang’s integrity, and said she wanted to
offer the election committee more choice by standing. She left
government in 2003 after 500,000 people took to the streets in
protest at her attempt to introduce an anti-subversion law. She
founded the New People’s Party in 2010.  Ip, who declined to say how many nominations she received,
said she didn’t have enough time after only declaring her
intention to run on Feb. 20.  Beijing’s Preference  The election’s outcome may hinge on China’s government,
which hasn’t formally made any preference known. This will be
the last time the city’s chief executive is picked by committee,
because China has pledged to permit universal suffrage in 2017.  Tang has the backing of the businessmen on the committee,
including  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  Chairman Li,  Henderson Land
Development Co. (12)  Chairman Lee Shau Kee, and  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16)  Co-Chairman  Thomas Kwok .  Tang’s popularity dropped after newspapers, including  Apple
Daily  and the  South China Morning Post , reported that the
basement contained a wine cellar, movie theater and gym. The
government has started an investigation.  Leung, a policeman’s son, has promised to speed the
construction of public housing and alleviate poverty. Among his
supporters are  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  Chairman Ronnie Chan,
Shui On Land Ltd. Chairman Vincent Lo and  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) 
Deputy Chairman Arthur Li.  Lawmaker Ho has also filed to join the race with 188
nominations. He’s pledged to put in place a retirement fund,
improve health care and adopt stricter guidelines on pollution.  The  candidates  need to get at least half of the 1,200 votes
on March 25 to be chief executive. A new election will be held
if a winner doesn’t emerge after two rounds of voting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  