-- Islamic Debt Spurred in $15 Billion Opportunity for Greener Gulf
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-28T08:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/islamic-debt-spurred-in-15-billion-opportunity-for-greener-gulf.html
A body promoting development of debt
sales to tackle climate change, with sponsors including National
Australia Bank Ltd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, plans to spur green
Islamic bond markets as the  Middle East  diversifies from oil.  The  Climate Bonds Initiative , which has advisers from
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch, will
set up a panel to help create financial products complying with
Islamic shariah law, Chairman Sean Kidney said. It will work
with the  Clean Energy Business Council , an Abu Dhabi-based group
with members including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and GDF Suez SA.  “We’re looking closely at a couple of prospective bond
issuances,” Kidney said, declining to elaborate. The group will
design principles for issuers and investors in Islamic debt,
known as sukuk, Kidney said in an interview. It will focus on
the Middle East, North Africa and  Muslim countries  in  Asia .  “If you look at current projects across the region, and if
a fraction of those were to be financed with green sukuks, then
you’re talking about $10 to $15 billion,” said Nasser Saidi,
CEBC chairman. “The time is right for a green sukuk.”  Oil-rich Gulf nations are seeking to diversify away from
fossil fuel production and toward green-energy projects as they
look to longer-term sustainable development of their economies.
Higher international crude prices also encourage the countries
to sell more of their oil abroad. Prices have risen 10 percent
in 2012, after more than doubling in the previous three years.  Building a renewables industry allows more crude to be
exported, said Indraj Mangat, a partner at Eversheds LLP.  “There’s a realization that rather than burning it cheaper
and at subsidized rates in their own region, they should
probably sell” more of it abroad, he said.  The Climate Bonds Initiative gets funding from foundations
and banks on a project-by-project basis and doesn’t yet have
specific financing for the green sukuk plan, Kidney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  