-- Italy’s Borrowing Costs Fall at Bond Auction as ECB Prepares Bank Funding
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-28T13:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/italian-borrowing-costs-fall-in-government-auction-as-ecb-readies-bank-aid.html
Italy  sold 6.25 billion euros ($8.4
billion) in bonds, meeting the maximum target for the auction,
as prospects for a second-round of European Central Bank three-
year loans to banks shored up demand for new debt.  The Treasury sold 3.75 billion euros of a new 10-year bond
to yield 5.5 percent, the lowest for similar maturity debt since
September and down from 6.08 percent at the last auction on Jan.
30. Investors bid for 1.4 times the amount offered, down from
1.42 times last month.  The Rome-based Treasury also sold 2.5 billion euros of 2017
bonds to yield 4.19 percent, down from 5.39 percent at the last
auction of similar securities on Jan. 30. The sale will help the
Treasury cover 37 billion euros in bonds maturing this week.  “The 5.5% yield on the new 10-year issue is symbolically
important and could mark a turning point in the crisis. But it’s
early days as far as auctions of longer dated maturities are
concerned,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy  London , said in an e-mailed comment.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 8 basis points to
5.34 percent at 2:05 p.m. Rome time. That was the lowest since
Sept. 8 and the decline narrowed the difference with similar-
maturity German debt to 353 basis points.  The auction comes one day before the ECB’s second round of
three-year loans to the region’s banks under its long-term
refinancing operation. The ECB’s move to shore up funding to
lenders has left them more willing to buy European bonds, and
Italy’s 10-year yield has declined 141 basis points since the
first round on Dec. 21. Lo  ECB Loans  Financial institutions may ask for 470 billion euros of ECB
loans, approaching the 489 billion-euro take-up in December,
according to the median estimate of 28 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The unlimited three-year loans by the ECB, coupled with
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s efforts to rein in the nation’s
debt and spur economic growth, has helped fuel seven weeks of
gains by Italian bonds, the longest streak in the euro era.  The Italian auction comes as European leaders prepare to
debate whether to bolster the region’s bailout firewall at a
summit in Brussels on March 1-2.  Last week they approved a second bailout for  Greece  worth
130 billion euros that included an accord for the biggest
sovereign debt restructuring in history. Creditors agreed to
forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and exchange their
remaining holdings for new Greek bonds and notes from the
European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s temporary
bailout fund.  “Italy and the euro zone are by no means out of the woods
yet,” so today’ auction “is again a battle won in a long
ongoing war,”  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in London, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  