-- Lithuanian GDP Grew Faster Than Estimated in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-02-28T14:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/lithuania-revises-fourth-quarter-economic-growth-higher-to-4-4-.html
Lithuania ’s  economy  expanded at a
faster rate than previously estimated in the fourth quarter on
stronger growth in the  construction industry .  Gross domestic product rose 4.4 percent from a year
earlier, up from a 4.3 percent preliminary estimate released
Jan. 30, the  statistics office  in the capital, Vilnius, said
today by e-mail. It grew a seasonally adjusted 1 percent from
the previous quarter, compared with an initial estimate of a 0.9
percent contraction. GDP advanced 5.9 percent in 2011.  Growth is slowing after reaching the second-fastest pace in
the European Union in the third quarter as the euro-region debt
crisis damps demand for the Baltic country’s goods in its main
export markets.  “The GDP numbers reflect the changing focus of growth:
from foreign trade and manufacturing to private consumption,”
 Annika Lindblad , a Nordea Markets economist in Helsinki, said
today by e-mail. The main danger “remains the heightened
downside risks for global trade on a weakening global economy,
with especially the euro area problems casting a shadow over the
still export-oriented recoveries of the Baltic countries.”  The yield on Lithuania’s 2012 dollar bond fell 0.07
percentage point today to 5.76 percent, the lowest since the
bond began trading in January.  The economy will expand 2 percent this year, Lindblad
forecasts, as consumer and business confidence weaken along with
exports. GDP will probably grow 2.3 percent, the European
Commission said Feb. 23, trimming an earlier 3.4 percent
estimate.  Industrial production, which accounts for about 20 percent
of economic output, fell 2.1 percent in December, the biggest
drop since January 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  