-- Liu’s Mayoral Campaign Treasurer Charged With Aiding in Donation Scheme
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-29T03:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/liu-s-mayoral-campaign-treasurer-charged-with-aiding-in-donation-scheme.html
Fraud charges against his campaign
finance chief have New York City Comptroller John C. Liu
considering “how to move forward” in his bid for mayor.  Jia “Jenny” Hou, Liu’s campaign treasurer, was charged
with attempted  wire fraud , conspiracy and obstruction of justice
in helping to funnel illegally large contributions into a fund
to finance a drive for “a citywide elective office in 2013,”
according to a criminal complaint unsealed today in New York.  Hou is the second person tied to the comptroller’s campaign
to face a criminal complaint in U.S. district court. Xing Wu
Pan, a fundraiser, was indicted Feb. 15 on wire fraud charges
stemming from a plan to direct $16,000 in contributions to the
campaign. Liu wasn’t named in today’s document.  “We’re going to sort through all this stuff and figure out
what the next course of action will be,” Liu told reporters
today when asked whether he is putting his campaign on hold.  “Our campaign has acted properly at all times,” Liu said.
“I am aware that the complaint suggests that there are
instances where that is not the case. I’m going to review all
the stuff that has transpired today and we’ll figure out how to
move forward from here.”  Hou, 25, of Queens,  New York , was responsible for campaign
financial disclosures, including reporting donations by
individuals. Each count against her carries a prison term of as
long as 25 years.  ‘Stunning’ News  “The news today was stunning and I hope that she will be
treated fairly,” Liu said. “Jenny Hou is a young person but
one whose intelligence and diligence and hard work has been
among the very top percentiles of individuals of any age that I
have known.”  At an appearance before U.S. Magistrate Judge Theodore Katz
in Manhattan, Hou was released on a $100,000 personal
recognizance bond. Katz ordered her to surrender all her travel
documents and directed that she restrict her movements to the
New York City area.  “Jia Hou, a campaign treasurer, was a central figure in a
coordinated scheme to break the city’s campaign finance laws,”
 Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. “Hou
concealed the use of straw donors, subverted the city’s
electoral system, and obstructed justice.”  Hou’s lawyer, Martin Adelman, said she intended to plead
not guilty to the charges.  Fact Finding  “I’m going to review this complaint with my client, get
the objectives and facts and then we’re going to see how we’re
going to proceed,” Adelman said in an interview before Hou’s
court appearance.  Asked whether he knew of Hou’s actions, Liu told reporters
repeatedly that the campaign acted properly, despite suggestions
in the complaint “that there are instances where it’s
otherwise.”  Hou used at least 40 people to pose as legitimate donors in
order to send the campaign large, illegal contributions far
above the individual limit set by the city’s Campaign Finance
Board, prosecutors said.  Using this method, Hou was also able to fraudulently
increase the amount of matching funds the board provided to the
campaign, the U.S. said. She worked with individuals who served
as intermediaries in connection with fundraising events where
the fake donors were reimbursed, prosecutors said.  Hou was also charged with obstructing a federal grand jury
investigation in November. She allegedly failed to produce
documents in response to subpoenas and falsely claimed that she
had complied with investigators’ requests.  The case is U.S. v. Hou, 12-mag-539, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  