-- Japan Set for Return to Growth on Retail Sales
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-28T07:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/japan-set-for-return-to-growth-on-retail-sales.html
Japan ’s  retail sales  exceeded
economists’ forecasts in January, signaling a recovery in
 consumer spending  will help the world’s third-largest economy
return to growth this quarter.  Sales rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, after a 2.5
percent increase in December, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo 
today. The median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 0.1 percent decline. Sales gained 4.1
percent from a month earlier.  Car sales jumped 24 percent, the most in 22 years, after
the government re-introduced a subsidy for buyers of energy-
efficient cars. A pick-up in household spending and
reconstruction work after last year’s earthquake and tsunami is
forecast to underpin an expansion in gross domestic product this
quarter after a contraction in the final three months of 2011.  “The unusual surge in retail sales in January is mostly
due to the special factor of government subsidies for eco-
cars.” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe
Generale SA in Tokyo. “Excluding that factor, Japanese
consumption is resilient.”  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent as of 4:35
p.m. in Tokyo and the yen gained after touching a nine-month low
yesterday. The currency traded at 80.62 per dollar.  A separate report today showed that Japanese exporters can
remain profitable as long as the yen is 82 yen per dollar or
weaker. The appreciating yen has eroded exporters’ earnings,
with the yen-dollar  exchange rate  stronger than the breakeven
rate released by the Cabinet Office since April 2011.  Export Slump  The yen’s climb to a postwar high in October led to a slump
in exports and caused the Japanese economy to shrink an
annualized 2.3 percent in the final three months of last year.
RBS Securities Japan Ltd. has forecast an expansion of 1.6
percent this quarter.  Elsewhere in Asia,  South Korea  posted its first current-
account deficit in nearly two years as exports dropped due to
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the Lunar New Year holiday. The deficit
was $772.2 million in January, the first shortfall since
February 2010.  In the U.S., a report from the Commerce Department may show
orders for durable goods fell 1 percent in January after a 3
percent gain the previous month, according to a Bloomberg News
survey.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
may have fallen by 3.6 percent in December from a year earlier,
according to the median forecast of economists. In November, the
decline was 3.7 percent.  The Confederation of British Industry may say U.K. retail
sales fell 12 points in February after falling to minus 22
points in the previous month, the lowest in almost three years,
another survey indicated.  Increasing Confidence  In Japan, a recovery in household demand, which slumped in
the aftermath of the March 11 disaster as weaker confidence and
electricity shortages kept people at home, is helping retailers.  Yamada Denki Co. (9831) , an electronics-store operator, forecast
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates on Feb. 9.  Seven & I
Holdings Co. (3382) , a convenience store chain, plans to open 300
outlets over the next three years that include self-service gas
stands, the Nikkei newspaper reported on Feb. 21.  The consumer confidence index climbed to 40 in January, the
highest since February 2011, the Cabinet Office said on Feb. 9.
Monthly wages including overtime and bonuses rose for the first
time in 7 months, increasing a revised 0.1 percent in December
from a year earlier, according to the Labor Ministry data
released Feb. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  