-- Japan’s Kan Gets Mixed Assessment on Fukushima Disaster Response
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-28T10:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/japan-s-kan-gets-mixed-assessment-on-fukushima-disaster-response.html
Japan’s former Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  received a mixed assessment of his handling of last year’s
Fukushima nuclear disaster from an independent panel.  Officials at the prime minister’s office managed the crisis
in a “haphazard” manner, the commission, set up by a private
foundation, said in a 403-page report released today. At the
same time, it praised Kan for preventing a total pullout of
workers from the Fukushima nuclear-power plant.  A government report in December highlighted failures of
regulators and  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  following the March 11
earthquake and tsunami that caused meltdowns and radiation
releases at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, 220 kilometers
(137 miles) north of Tokyo. Today’s report, commissioned by the
Rebuild  Japan  Initiative Foundation, was based on more than 300
interviews that included government officials and regulators.  Top government officials “without expert knowledge and
experience continued haphazard countermeasures,” and orders
from the prime minister’s office “may have raised the risk of
creating unnecessary confusion and worsening the accident
further,” the report said.  Still, a turning point during the crisis was when Kan
rejected a request from the plant’s operator, known as Tepco, to
withdraw completely from the power station, the report said.  “Even though Tepco pulled out about 600 workers, the so-
called Fukushima 50, who risked their lives, stayed and
continued their activities,” Koichi Kitazawa, the head of the
commission, told reporters in  Tokyo  today. “Kan’s biggest
achievement may be the fact the Fukushima 50 stayed.”  ‘Worst-Case Scenario’  The six-member commission is the first to complete its
probe into the Fukushima disaster. Three other investigations
have yet to reach their final conclusions.  Today’s report also said top government officials discussed
a “worst-case scenario” that would have required evacuating
Tokyo. Yukio Edano, chief cabinet secretary during the crisis,
feared a “ chain reaction ” in which a loss of control at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant would have led to breakdowns at the
nearby Fukushima Dai-Ni and Tokai nuclear stations, he was
quoted as saying.  Under that scenario, reported to government officials on
March 25, residents within a radius of more than 250 kilometers
of the crippled plant might have needed to evacuate, according
to today’s report. The government didn’t publicly discuss the
possibility at the time.  ‘It Wasn’t Wrong’  “If we made it public, some people could have overreacted,
even though it was an unrealistic scenario,”  Goshi Hosono , the
minister in charge of the crisis, who was a special adviser to
Kan in early days after the disaster, said in a Feb. 23 group
interview. “The approach for  crisis management  is preparing
measures to deal with situations that may never happen. That’s
what we did. It wasn’t wrong.”  The March 11 crisis was also the topic of a report today by
the Greenpeace International environmental group, which blamed
government officials, regulators and the nuclear industry for
causing the disaster by failing to address known hazards.  “This was, to us, clearly a man-made disaster,” Jan Vande
Putte, Greenpeace’s international radioactivity safety adviser,
said at a press conference in Tokyo. “The authorities failed to
support the people from the beginning, denied them
information.”  The Greenpeace report cited several occasions on which
officials acknowledged the risks a tsunami posed to the
Fukushima reactors and failed to make sure those risks were
addressed.  Subpoena Powers  A panel conducting a parliamentary inquiry with subpoena
powers is also expected to hold hearings with Kan and other
government officials and regulators. A government panel led by
Yotaro Hatamura, professor emeritus at the  University of Tokyo ,
didn’t include input from top government officials in an interim
report released Dec. 26, because of time constraints.  A panel set up by Tepco released its preliminary report on
Dec. 2, reiterating its analysis that major buildings and
equipment at the Fukushima plant weren’t directly damaged by the
earthquake that preceded the tsunami.  Tepco declined to cooperate with hearings held by
Kitazawa’s commission, according to today’s report.  About 30 experts including researchers, lawyers and
journalists working with the six commissioners carried out
interviews, surveys and data analysis, the commission  said  on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  