-- Asian Factory Production Gains Add to Signs of Global Resilience: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-29T05:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/japan-s-industrial-production-rises-a-more-than-anticipated-2-.html
Japan and  South Korea  reported
larger-than-forecast  industrial production  in January amid a
strengthening U.S. recovery and signs that  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis may be contained.  Japanese output rose 2 percent from the previous month, the
Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. That exceeded the median
estimate of 1.5 percent in a Bloomberg News  survey  of analysts.
Korean production climbed 3.3 percent, a government report
showed, versus a forecast 0.5 percent decline.  A Chinese manufacturing index for February, due to be
released tomorrow, will show a third straight expansion, a
separate survey of analysts indicates. Asian stocks are poised
to enter a bull market by rallying 20 percent from a two-year
low in October, while the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  closed
above 13,000 in  New York  for the first time since 2008.  “The U.S. is improving, Europe is stabilizing, and  Asia  is
chugging along at a healthy pace,” said Matthew Circosta, an
economist at Moody’s Analytics Australia Pty Ltd. in Sydney, who
correctly predicted Japan’s output. “ China  is likely to have a
soft landing.’”  In Japan, industrial production is at the highest levels
since the earthquake and tsunami last March, with today’s report
indicating that manufacturers will boost output this month and
next. Exports of vehicles from Japan increased 4.1 percent in
January.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  advanced 0.9 percent to 129.43
as of 2:44 p.m. in Tokyo. A close above 128.82 would mark the
beginning of a  bull market .  Australia, India  Elsewhere in the region, Australia’s retail sales advanced
in January for the first time in three months, gaining 0.3
percent from a month earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said.
India’s gross domestic product rose 6.1 percent last quarter
from a year before, less than the 6.3 percent forecast by
economists, reinforcing evidence of Asia’s slowdown at the end
of 2011, when economies including Japan’s and Singapore’s shrank.  In the U.S., a report today may show the world’s biggest
economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter, which would be the fastest in more than a year. In
Greece, lawmakers have ratified a 3.2 billion-euro ($4.3
billion) package of spending cuts, taking Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  one step closer to securing a rescue package to avert
financial collapse.  Japan ’s economy, the world’s third-biggest, may be aided by
progress in containing Europe’s debt crisis, a weakening yen and
monetary easing in emerging nations, said Jun Kawakami, an
economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  ‘Excessively Pessimistic’  “There’s no need to be excessively pessimistic about the
outlook for Europe,” Kawakami said before today’s report.  In South Korea, the finance ministry and central bank today
said that the world economy may be set for a “modest recovery”
that will aid the nation’s exports. Europe’s economy is
“sluggish,” while the U.S. is showing signs of improvement and
demand will be maintained in emerging economies, the officials
said.  Japan’s currency has weakened since the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
announced extra monetary stimulus and set an inflation goal on
Feb. 14, trading at 80.41 as of 1:48 p.m. today in Tokyo,
compared with a postwar high of 75.35 in October.  Besides the boost to exports from declines in the yen,
manufacturers are benefiting from incentives for purchases of
environmentally friendly cars and a fading of disruptions to
supply chains from flooding in  Thailand . Car sales jumped 24
percent in January from a year earlier, the most in 22 years, a
government report showed yesterday.  ‘Firm Footing’  “The revival of the eco-car subsidies will likely help
domestic production maintain a firm footing,”  Kyohei Morita ,
chief economist at Barclays Capital in  Tokyo , said before
today’s report. Nissan Motor Co. is forecasting a net income for
2011 of 290 billion yen ($3.6 billion) and earlier this month
Toyota raised its net income forecast for the year by 11 percent.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s 2.5 trillion yen ($31
billion) extra budget, passed by the parliament this month,
included 300 billion yen for the subsidy program. The program
will help automakers increase sales by 900,000 vehicles in their
home market during 2012 after a record 14 percent drop in 2011,
Toshiyuki Shiga, chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers
Association, said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  