-- Jewelers Desire Platinum for Asians After Gold Vaults
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a ,   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-02-29T11:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/jewelers-want-platinum-for-asians-after-gold-vaults-commodities.html
Platinum is luring jewelers away
from gold after investors pushed up bullion prices to records
escaping market turmoil.  Gold surpassed platinum as the most expensive metal used in
jewelry in August for the first time since December 2008. Gold
demand from jewelry makers dropped 3 percent last year,
according to the World Gold Council. Platinum use climbed 1.8
percent, according to an estimate by  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT) , a
global marketer and distributor of the precious metal.  “Each time gold rallies and hits new key psychological
levels, jewelry demand is impacted,” said  David Wilson , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The switch last year,
with gold overtaking, should be supportive for platinum jewelry
demand.”  Platinum jewelry’s appeal is spreading, driven by China,
which accounts for about 68 percent of consumption. In  India ,
the world’s biggest market for gold ornaments, the grayish-white
metal’s popularity is gaining among young women, with the switch
partly explained by the surge in  gold prices , Platinum Guild
International country manager Vaishali Banerjee said in Mumbai.  “All retailers are reporting a strong uptake” in India,
Banerjee said. “2012 will be a stronger year for platinum.”  The yellow metal has climbed for 11 successive years and
peaked at $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6 before retreating to
close at $1,784.23 an ounce in  London  yesterday, data on
Bloomberg show. Platinum closed at $1,718.50 an ounce the same
day, up from a three-year average of almost $1,546 an ounce.  ‘Platinum a Bargain’  “Consumers have begun to see platinum as a bargain since
gold reached parity with platinum,” Johnson Matthey said in its
preliminary report for 2011. Even so, gold’s use in jewelry
still dwarfs that of platinum by a multiple of about 25. The
gulf between consumption levels in rings, necklaces and
bracelets signals the potential for platinum’s growth.  Demand for gold from jewelers fell to 1,962.9 tons, or 63
million troy ounces, dragged lower by a 13 percent slump in the
second half, the Council said. Jewelry accounted for 47 percent
of gold purchases last year.  Platinum’s use in jewelry rose to 76.7 tons, or 2.5 million
ounces, according to Johnson Matthey.  Morgan Stanley in January forecast demand for platinum to
rise, reversing its outlook for the metal in January from a
report in April 2011. The bank expects jewelers’ consumption of
platinum to climb 8.9 percent this year and by as much as 36.7
percent from last year through 2017, compared with its earlier
estimate of a 21.7 percent slump through 2016.  Gold Price Forecast  Gold’s bull run may last for a further five to eight years,
with the price of the precious metal more than doubling to as
high as $5,000 an ounce, Christopher Wyke, Schroders Investment
Management product manager for emerging market debt, commodity
and currency funds, said Feb. 24.  In the near term, gold probably will remain more expensive
than platinum through next year, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Investment demand
for gold in 2011 climbed 7 percent to a record 52.7 million
ounces, or about $79.2 billion, the Council said Feb. 16,
boosted by concerns that economic growth would slow because of
the euro region crisis.  Edel Tully, the  UBS AG (UBSN)  analyst who had the closest average
forecast for the metal in the London Bullion Market Association
survey for 2011 prices, takes a more conservative view on gold,
estimating it will fall from $2,050 this year to $1,300 in 2015.
She expects platinum to rise to $2,031 from $1,675.  Jewelry, Catalytic Converters  Jewelry is the second-largest application for platinum,
accounting for 31 percent last year, while use in automobile
catalytic converters slowed in the past five years, according to
Johnson Matthey.  Even a resurgence in price may fail to take the shine off
platinum.  “The end consumer that is going to buy platinum is less
price sensitive,” said Jeremy Baker, the manager of Harcourt’s
Belvista Commodity Fund, part of the Vontobel Group, which
oversees about $50.5 billion in assets. “The jewelry component
is also growing a lot more in  China  and Asian markets. For that
market, I wouldn’t say it is price sensitive.”  Gross domestic product per capita in China has more than
doubled since 2000, according to the  World Bank . The net worth
of the 70 richest members of the National People’s Congress rose
to 565.8 billion yuan ($89.8 billion) last year, a gain of $11.5
billion from 2010, according to figures from the Hurun Report, a
Shanghai-based publisher of magazines that tracks China’s
wealthy. The legislature has about 3,000 members, some of the
Asian nation’s most powerful politicians and executives.  Chinese Demand  Chinese demand for platinum probably grew 2 percent to 52.4
tons, or 1.68 million ounces, last year, while India’s
consumption reached 2.9 tons, or 93,200 ounces, last year,
according Johnson Matthey.  In the U.S., where platinum jewelry mainly means wedding
rings,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  agreed to buy platinum directly from
Billings, Montana-based  StillWater Mining Co. (SWC) , starting last
year. Tiffany celebrates its 175th anniversary this year.  Gold and platinum may face competition from another member
of the platinum group of metals as producers seek to promote use
of palladium for jewelry.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  is looking for rising palladium
demand from jewelers, Anton Berlin, head of marketing, said in
an interview on Feb. 13. The Russian mining company accounts for
40 percent of global palladium sales and about 12 percent of
platinum.  Palladium’s Properties  Palladium, at almost half the price of platinum, is used in
jewelry to whiten gold in alloys. Jewelry accounts for 6 percent
of consumption. It traded at $710 an ounce on Feb. 28.  The metal is gaining attention in its own right for having
the same rarity and strength as platinum, while being less
dense and less expensive, said Stephen Webster, creative
director of  Garrard , the world’s oldest jewelry house.  Webster is also founder of Stephen  Webster Ltd. (WBA) , which
counts Madonna,  Christina Aguilera  and Sir  Elton John  among
clients. Both Garrard and Stephen Webster Ltd. are owned by
Californian billionaire  Ron Burkle .  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  