-- Johnson Controls Disputes Lead Link as China Battles Pollution
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-02-28T15:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/johnson-controls-disputes-lead-link-as-china-battles-pollution.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , named by
 Shanghai  as the primary source in a lead-poisoning case last
year, said it “disagrees” with any link between its plant in
the city and the incident that sickened 49 children.  “We are confident that the plant was operating well below
the levels specified by Chinese environmental regulations,” the
company said in an emailed statement late yesterday. “Based on
all available facts, Johnson Controls disagrees with any
interpretation linking our plant’s operation” to the lead
contamination incident.  The city said in a  statement  over the weekend that Shanghai
Johnson Controls International Battery Co. and two local
companies were responsible for the leak after they expanded
their operations or exceeded emission standards. Johnson
Controls, the largest U.S. auto supplier, said it will
continuing working with the government in a “transparent and
cooperative manner” on “scientifically” assessing the issue.  China  has cracked down on heavy-metal pollution as
authorities seek to assuage public outrage sparked by incidents
including acid contamination from copper mines and drinking
water being threatened by cadmium spills. The government has
estimated it needs about 3.4 trillion yuan ($536 billion) to
protect the environment in the five years through 2015.  One-Off Cases  “Cracking down on individual factories for individual
cases of pollution is certainly important for China’s
environmental protection effort,”  Elizabeth Economy , director
for Asia Studies at the New York-based Council on Foreign
Relations and author of “The River Runs Black,” a book on
China’s environment, said in an e-mail. “The greater remaining
challenge, however, is to reform local governance to allow a
robust system of environmental protection that moves beyond one-
off cases to emerge.”  The government had ordered  Milwaukee , Wisconsin-based
Johnson Controls and the other two companies to suspend
operations after excessive lead was found in the blood levels of
the children in September. It intends to conduct a review of
lead-related industries and strengthen monitoring of pollutants
to prevent a recurrence of the incident, according to the
statement.  Tip of the Iceberg  Nine cases of lead poisoning were reported in China from
January to August last year, according to the official Xinhua
News Agency. This year, there have already been as many as four
cases,  according to  Greenpeace.  “The recent lead-poisoning incidents are the tip of the
iceberg in terms of the severity of heavy-metal poisoning,”
said Wu Yixiu, Beijing-based toxics campaigner at  Greenpeace .
“China is obviously taking tougher measures to tackle heavy
metal pollution, particularly of lead.”  China issued last year its first heavy metal measurement
 five-year plan , which aims to tackle five key industries
including lead batteries. The government also released a
document containing information on  1,962 lead battery makers ,
including volume and discharged wastewater -- the first time
China has published pollution information on specific companies,
according to Greenpeace’s Wu.  “The five-year plan is regarded as the toughest measures
taken by the Chinese government to address heavy metal
pollution,” Wu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  