-- JPMorgan Sees Clients With Less Than $100,000 Unprofitable
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-02-28T22:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/jpmorgan-views-clients-with-less-than-100-000-to-invest-as-unprofitable.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, said about 70 percent of customers with
less than $100,000 in deposits and investments will be
unprofitable following regulations that cap lenders’ fees.  “I’m trying to give you a proxy for what the banking
industry has to look forward to if you don’t take into account
business bank clients and getting more of the affluent wealth
wallet,” Todd Maclin, chief executive officer of consumer and
business banking at the New York-based company, said today at an
investor presentation.  The biggest U.S. banks are grappling with lost revenue from
regulations that cap debit interchange fees and overdraft
charges, making customers with low deposits more expensive for
lenders to manage. JPMorgan, run by CEO  Jamie Dimon , sees its
greatest opportunity with affluent customers that have more
relationships with the company, Maclin said.  “Lost revenue has to be replaced with higher share of
wallet and customer penetration,” Maclin said. “You have to
get your costs and where you spend your time, to the fullest
extent possible, more in line with where the opportunity is.”  JPMorgan said there is a “significant opportunity to
deepen affluent relationships” and a “limited opportunity to
deepen relationships” with customers who have less than
$100,000 in deposits and investments, according to slides at the
presentation.  ‘Better Customers’  “We will see banks pulling out of certain markets, looking
closely at where they have market share,” said Bert Ely, an
independent bank consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia. “If
you shrink the customer base too much, it will kill the bottom
line. You have to avoid the downward spiral where you try to
drive away customers and trim customers, and you lose your
better customers because they aren’t happy with what you’ve
done.”  The  Federal Reserve  has held  interest rates  at  record lows ,
putting pressure on profit margins as banks make less money from
deposits. The Fed has decided to keep the rates near zero
through at least late 2014.  “When you are in this interest-rate environment, retail
customers aren’t generating the interest income they used to,”
Ely said. “The low interest rates would have a negative impact
no matter what happens with regulations.”  Bank of America  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  of  Bank of America Corp ., the second-
biggest U.S. lender by assets, has said his strategy is to
broaden relationships with the lender’s 8 million so-called
preferred clients that are 1.5 times as profitable as the retail
group. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company gives these
customers incentives such as removing monthly service fees on
checking accounts for using a Bank of America  credit card ,
mortgage or Merrill Lynch brokerage account.  Bank of America abandoned a plan to charge some debit-card
users $5 a month for the service after JPMorgan and San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  decided against imposing
similar fees.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  had already
rejected the idea. Maclin said JPMorgan will implement “follow-
on pricing” for fees in the future.  “When the world lets us charge something more akin to your
gym membership or your card, we’ll be right there with them,”
he said. “In this environment, we’re just not going to rock
that boat, and we have a brand and a franchise where we can make
it up other ways over time.”  Regions Financial  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-largest U.S. bank by
deposits, launched a fee-based service last year that provides
customers with money transfers, bill pay services, check cashing
and reloadable prepaid cards. Since the program started in July,
half of the customers who have started the service were existing
Regions clients and half were new, said John Owen, head of
consumer services group at the Birmingham, Alabama-based lender.  “If I can start off by cashing their check or loading a
prepaid card, and then move them into traditional banking, which
means moving them into a savings account or checking account,
that’s what I want to do,” Owen said today in a phone
interview. “We’re trying to get more people into the banking
system.”  Regions “would love to” take on clients shunned by larger
banks, Owen said. “We’ll take all we can get in our 16-state
 footprint ,” he said.  Maclin said it’s possible that fees for checking accounts
could reach $20 one day, which he said the bank would
“celebrate.”  ‘Invaluable’ Branches  JPMorgan’s branches are “invaluable” to its so-called
affluent customers, according to the presentation slides. The
company said it may open 900 “potential” new branch buildings
in 2012, especially in California, Florida and Atlanta.  “Branches are not that expensive relative to all the
opportunity and the other expenses that we have in running this
place, given our scale,” Maclin said. “We would acknowledge
with everybody else out there that it is entirely possible that
they could go away one day. If they do, we will make a lot more
money than we’re making right now. Until they do, we’re going to
make sure we’ve got them so no one else can take our location.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  