-- JPMorgan’s Dimon Assails Newspaper Pay Levels in Bank’s Defense
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-28T22:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/jpmorgan-chief-dimon-assails-pay-practices-at-newspapers-in-bank-s-defense.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  assailed the pay practices of the newspaper
industry today as he sought to deflect criticism of bank pay as
viewed through the compensation ratio.  “Obviously our business, in  investment banking  in
particular, all of our businesses, we have high capital and high
human capital,” Dimon said today at a presentation in  New York ,
where the bank is based. “Newspapers -- I went and got this one
day just for fun -- 42 percent payout ratio, which I just think
is just damned outrageous.”  Lawmakers and journalists have criticized bankers for the
size of their salaries and bonuses and regulators have blamed
compensation for fueling the financial crisis. Dimon, who runs
the biggest and most profitable U.S. bank, previously cited the
 media industry  during a January investor call in which he sought
to show why using compensation payout ratios is wrongheaded.  JPMorgan paid the 25,999  employees  in the investment bank
an average of $341,552 last year, or about 34 percent of the
unit’s revenue, according to figures posted Jan. 13.  “Worse than that, you don’t even make any money!” Dimon
said, directing his comments to those in the media covering the
company’s investor day and drawing laughter from his audience.
“We pay 35 percent. We make  a lot of money .” JPMorgan posted
$19 billion in profit last year.  Gannett Co., the McLean, Virginia-based media company that
produces 82 daily publications including  USA Today , earned $518 million
last year. The stock has dropped 8.7 percent in the past year,
while JPMorgan has fallen 16 percent. Since the end of 2007,
Gannett is down 61 percent, while JPMorgan is off 10 percent.  “Newspapers do make money and they are still quite
profitable, many operating with double-digit margins,” said
Randy Bennett, a spokesman at the Newspaper Association of
America.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Ludtke in New York at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  