-- JPMorgan Says Credit, Swaps Among Trading-Revenue Leaders
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-28T22:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/jpmorgan-says-credit-swaps-lead-trading-revenue-sources-in-rare-breakdown.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said interest-
rate swaps and credit are among the biggest sources of revenue
in its trading businesses, as it broke with most U.S. rivals by
releasing a breakdown typically kept secret.  JPMorgan generates $375 million from credit trading in a
“typical quarter” and $350 million each from interest-rate
swaps and foreign-exchange spot and futures trading, the New
York-based bank said today in a  presentation  to investors. Cash
equities produces about $325 million, while the bank gets $300
million a quarter from asset-backed securities.  While some European banks describe revenue from large units
within their trading divisions, U.S. banks rarely quantify the
makeup of their businesses, which generate about a quarter of
total revenue at the five largest Wall Street banks. JPMorgan
reported $20.2 billion in 2011 trading revenue, which on its own
would make it bigger than  U.S. Steel Corp. (X)  and  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)   “They are pulling up the hem of their skirt so we can see
a bit more leg,” said  Gary Townsend , a founder of Hill-Townsend
LLC in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , which owns shares of JPMorgan.
“They want to make sure the diversity of these operations is
well understood.”  Net Income Target  Jes Staley, chief executive officer of JPMorgan’s
investment bank, said the bank provided the disclosure in order
to show the breadth of the businesses that contributed to market
share gains. The firm’s 17 percent market share in fixed-income
trading is probably a Wall Street record, he said. The trading-
revenue breakdown was included in slides accompanying his
presentation.  JPMorgan’s investment bank is still targeting a 17 percent
return on equity, a measure of profitability, the documents
show. The unit had $467 billion of risk-weighted assets under
Basel 3 as of the fourth quarter and plans to cut that to $413
billion by the end of this year, giving the division a 9.5
percent Tier 1 common ratio.  The bank seeks to eventually produce total net income of
about $24 billion, compared with a record $19 billion last year,
Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein said today in a separate
presentation, without specifying a target date.  Revenue Per Trade  While less than 0.2 percent of all client trades in the
fixed-income business produced more than $500,000 per
transaction, those accounted for about 25 percent of total
trading revenue. About 98 percent of client trades produced less
than $50,000 per trade in 2011, according to Staley’s
presentation.  Equity swaps and options, which produce about $200 million
a quarter, had the highest revenue-per-trade of the products
listed, at $30,000. Interest-rate swaps produced $12,000 per
transaction, with about 30,000 trades per quarter. Foreign-
exchange spot and forwards generated $70 per trade, while North
American cash equities charged about 1.5 cents per share.  The bank’s description of high-volume products didn’t
account for all of its trading revenue. JPMorgan reported an
average of $3.8 billion from trading in fixed-income products,
currencies and commodities, and $1.2 billion from equities over
the last four quarters. The product revenue listed in the
presentation totaled $2.3 billion in fixed-income and $675
million in equities.  Staley said the disclosure highlighted “about 70 percent”
of trading revenue. It excluded revenue tied to trading with
other banks, and also didn’t include other areas, such as
structured products, prime brokerage, and net interest income,
he said.  Volcker Rule  JPMorgan’s disclosure comes as banks say the proposed U.S.
Volcker rule, which seeks to bar banks from making bets with
their own money, threatens market-making operations and could
hurt liquidity in the marketplace. The breakdown is probably
aimed at informing regulators and may prompt similar moves from
competitors, Townsend said.  “We’ve always had an idea as to what their product set is,
but it would be interesting to get more information that would
help make clear how penetrating JPMorgan is in a particular
product area compared to others,” Townsend said. “Maybe we’ll
get a better sense of that as time goes on.”  JPMorgan has about 16,000 clients in its markets business,
according to the presentation. Asset managers accounted for 29
percent of 2011 trading revenue, while  hedge funds  provided 23
percent and banks 16 percent. More than half of trading revenue
came from  North America , with one-third coming from the  Europe ,
 Middle East  and Africa region, and 10 percent coming from  Asia .  The investment bank employs 2,500 salespeople and 2,000
traders over more than 110 trading desks, the company said. It
also has 2,000 bankers, 800 research analysts, 4,000 control and
risk employees and 13,000 people working on technology and
operations, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  