-- Irish Open New Front in European Debt Crisis as Treaty Vote Plays on Euro
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-29T07:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/kenny-says-ireland-to-hold-treaty-vote-to-ratify-euro-area-fiscal-compact.html
Ireland will hold a referendum on
ratifying the European fiscal compact after government ministers
sought to frame the campaign as a vote on the nation’s
determination to keep the euro.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny , speaking in the Dublin
parliament yesterday, said the government will name a date for
the ballot in the coming weeks. In contrast to two previous
Irish referendums on European policies, a rejection wouldn’t
sink the treaty, which requires support from just 12 of the 17
euro countries to take effect.  The vote will give the Irish a chance to reaffirm the
nation’s commitment to the euro, Kenny said. In December,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said a ballot on the treaty
would effectively be a vote on Ireland’s membership of the
currency, as the government sought to avoid a repeat of 2001 and
2008 rejections by voters of European treaties.  “This referendum carries huge risks,” Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said. “The euro
area is already very busy with Greece. Opening another front in
Ireland is not good in terms of timing. It may increase
nervousness about the future of the euro area’s perimeter.”  Euro Bailout  The vote may be held in May or June, the Irish Times
reported today, without citing anyone.  German Interior Minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  said Greece
would have better chances of overhauling its economy and
restoring growth if it left the euro area,  Der Spiegel  said last
week, citing an interview.  Ireland, among the first wave of countries that joined the
euro in 1999, was the second euro-region country to seek an
international bailout after  Greece . European Affairs Minister
Lucinda Creighton said last month it would be hard for Ireland
to remain in the euro area if it rejected a new European Union
fiscal treaty, echoing comments by Noonan in December.  Efforts to portray the vote in such terms are “just
scaremongering,” said Shaun Tracey, a spokesman for Ireland’s
 Sinn Fein , the country’s second-biggest opposition party. “We
will campaign only on the wording of the treaty.”  No Veto  “The government presumably wanted the referendum about as
much as a turkey looks forward to Christmas,” said Eoin
Fahy, chief economist at Kleinwort Benson Investors in Dublin in
his blog. “This throws the cat among the pigeons and raises
serious risks about Ireland’s ability to continue to receive
bailout funds after next year.”  While Ireland alone can’t derail the treaty, a rejection
would deprive it of possible future aid once the euro area’s
permanent rescue fund goes into operation. While Ireland’s 67.5
billion ($90.8 billion) euro rescue in 2010 means the state is
fully funded through 2013, the government is aiming for a full
return to international credit markets next year.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds yield 6.81 percent, down from
a euro-era high of 13.8 percent on July 18, as the government
reassured investors that they would be repaid, in contrast to
the losses imposed on Greek bondholders.  Poll  A poll by research company Red C in January showed that 72
percent of Irish favor a referendum on the compact, with 52.6
percent of those who expressed a preference saying they would
vote yes. The poll of 1,008 adults was carried out for the
 Sunday Business Post (POSTBSC)  newspaper between Jan. 23 and Jan. 25.  A yes vote is favored according to odds offered by Paddy
Power Plc, Ireland’s largest bookmaker. A yes vote is 4-6,
meaning a 6-euro stake would return a 4-euro profit, while a no
vote is 11-10 which would mean an 11-euro profit on a 10-euro
wager. The euro strengthened to $1.3470 today.  The compact agreed to by 25 of the EU’s 27 members
requires nations to virtually eliminate structural deficits,
creates an “automatic correction mechanism” and enshrines the
new measures in national law.  The treaty also provides for tighter control of tax and
spending by governments that overstep the bloc’s deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product.  “I suspect it will turn into a very difficult campaign,”
said Conall Mac Coille, chief economist at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy. “There is a danger it turns into a
referendum on many other things and not the treaty itself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  