-- Kraemer Says Greek Debt Swap May Impede Portugal Selling Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   L i n d a   Y u e h
-- 2012-02-28T17:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/kraemer-says-greek-debt-swap-may-impede-portugal-selling-bonds.html
Moritz Kraemer, head of sovereign
ratings at  Standard & Poor’s , said the terms of Greece’s debt
restructuring and the  European Central Bank ’s move to isolate
itself from any resulting losses may make it harder for other
indebted euro nations such as Portugal to raise financing.  “Some of the decisions that have been taken recently may
make re-accessing the  capital markets  harder, rather than
easier,” Kraemer said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Linda Yueh in  London  today. “Many of these
decisions may actually make it harder for countries like
Portugal to return to the markets.”  Greece’s credit ratings were cut yesterday to “selective
default” by S&P after the Mediterranean nation negotiated the
biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history. The ECB has
immunity to the losses imposed by the bond-swap plan, designed
to trim  Greece ’s debt burden by 106 billion euros ($143 billion)
and enforced by the threat of retroactive collective action
clauses that prevent holdouts. Kraemer said officials may apply
the same terms to any future sovereign restructurings.  “These are additional risks,” he said. “Investors
probably would want to see these compensated through higher
yields and higher coupons, which in turn makes it harder for the
sovereigns to embark on a sustainable debt trajectory.”  The ECB swapped about 50 billion euros of Greek bonds for
new securities, identical to the old ones in every way save for
identification numbers. The switch makes the ECB senior to other
investors, exempting it from the swap Greece negotiated as it
seeks to reduce national debt to 120 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020 from 160 percent last year, and to meet the
terms of a 130 billion-euro international bailout.  ‘Very Short’  The time Greece’s credit rating will stay in “selective
default” may “be very short,” said Kraemer, who added it
could be resolved by “the middle of March.”  S&P would then “remove the selective default indication
and assign a forward-looking credit opinion on Greece again,”
he said. “It could be in the single B or the C categories.”  Still, “it is certainly a possibility given how high the
debt ratio will be for Greece even after the exchange” that the
country may default again, Kraemer said.  S&P’s BB credit rating on  Portugal  “indicates that the
possibility of a restructuring is not merely theoretical, but
could occur,” he said. “It’s not the base case, but it could
occur for any sovereign that is under pressure.  “The challenges for Portugal are substantial,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Yueh in London at 
 lyueh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  