-- KT Corp. May Reduce Telkom South Africa or Abandon Offer as Share Declines
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-02-29T15:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/kt-corp-may-cut-telkom-bid-price-or-abandon-offer-absa-says.html
KT Corp. (030200)  may cut the price of an
offer to buy a stake in  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  or abandon the
3.8 billion rand ($505 million) transaction, Absa Asset
Management and MMI Asset Management said.  Telkom,  Africa ’s largest fixed-line phone company, and
 South Korea ’s largest phone and Internet company, said on Oct.
14 that Seongnam-based KT offered 36.06 rand a share for 20
percent of Pretoria-based Telkom. Telkom has  dropped  more than a
fifth to its lowest in eight years since announcing the talks as
it faces an antitrust fine of as much as 3.25 billion rand.  “The market is bracing itself for maximum damage,” Chris Gilmour, who helps manage the equivalent of $1 billion at
Johannesburg-based Absa Asset Management, said by phone
yesterday. The  money manager  doesn’t own Telkom stock. KT
“might want to reduce the price and even opt out of the deal.”  Telkom needs a partner to fight increasing competition that
has cut profit excluding one-time items every year since 2006
while a deal provides a growth opportunity in Africa for KT.
Telkom and KT declined to comment to e-mailed requests for
comment from Bloomberg News. The companies are exploring areas
of strategic and business cooperation, Telkom said on Jan. 27.  State Control  The Public Investment Corp., the state-owned South African
money manager and Telkom’s second-largest shareholder with 10.9
percent, said on Oct. 18 it supports the deal.  South Africa ’s
government owns a further 39.8 percent of Telkom.  “The declining Telkom share indicates the market doesn’t
think KT will pay the full price,” Wayne McCurrie, a  fund
manager  at Johannesburg-based  MMI Asset Management (MMI) , said on Feb.
27. MMI  holds  227,000 shares, or less than 0.1 percent of
Telkom, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Telkom is facing charges of abuse of market dominance and
anti-competitive practice by charging excessive prices for
services to other industry participants before the Pretoria-
based  Competition Tribunal . The company has denied the charges
at hearings  started in 2009 .  “It is highly improbable KT would cancel the deal simply
because of a lower share price,”  Chantel Lindeman, head of ICT
Africa at  Frost & Sullivan  in  Cape Town , said today. “That
would be very short-sighted.”  ‘Admission of Guilt’  The  Competition Commission , which makes recommendations to
the Competition Tribunal, asked for the maximum fine of 10
percent of Telkom’s annual revenue. While denying the charges,
Telkom said in closing arguments at hearings during the second
week of February that an appropriate fine would be 27.3 million
rand, according to transcripts e-mailed by the Competition
Tribunal. Judgment on the matter is pending.  “That Telkom offered to pay a certain amount of the fine
can be seen as an implicit admission of guilt,” said Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based Afena Capital,
which manages 18 billion rand and doesn’t own Telkom stock.  Telkom needs the deal to break the state’s grip, he said.
Under the proposed transaction, Telkom will sell new shares to
KT, diluting existing shareholders, while jobs won’t be cut .  “Controlled by the government, this is not a company with
a lot of flexibility,” said Dlamini. “It can’t get rid of
things and employees it no longer needs.”  Maximum caution  Telkom dropped 2 percent to 25.84 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, its lowest since Nov. 5, 2003. The fall extended
its  decline  this year to 11 percent.  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the
largest provider of mobile services to  South Africans , has
gained 16 percent. Telkom in 2010 started its 8ta mobile-phone
company after selling its controlling Vodacom stake to  Vodafone
Group Plc. (VOD)   “The share share has been falling under the weight of the
many negative permutations around the company, including the
possibility that the Koreans can pull out, which would be a sign
of a lack of confidence,” said Dlamini. The outlook for
 earnings  isn’t improving even though Telkom controls most of the
South African fixed-line market, he said.  While there’s “a price for everything,” investors must
exercise “maximum caution” when considering an investment in
Telkom, said Absa Asset Management’s Gilmour. “It would be
safer to stand on the sidelines and let the antitrust matter run
its course.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Kenneth Wong
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  