-- Nestle Nigeria Plans to Focus on Lead Brands to Boost Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-28T15:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/nestle-nigeria-plans-to-focus-on-leading-brands-to-boost-sales.html
Nestle Nigeria Plc (NESTLE) , the country’s
largest food company by market value, plans to spend more money
on boosting output of its leading brands to increase sales in
Africa’s most populous nation.  The local unit of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food
company, has invested over 400 million Swiss francs ($445
million) in  Nigeria  since 2003, opening its second factory at
the start of last year and is planning to invest a further 83
million francs this year, Chief Executive Officer Martin Woolnough said in a Feb. 26 phone interview from Lagos, the
commercial capital.  “We’ve got a lot of money going into the country and that
will be to do with improving capacity on our key brands,” he
said.  Nestle forecast last year that it could double the size of
its business within three years in Nigeria, currently its
second-biggest market in Africa after  South Africa . Annual sales
at the time in South Africa were close to 1 billion francs
compared with 550 million francs in Nigeria, according to the
company.  Maggi food-seasoning products, Milo chocolate-malt drink,
and Golden Morn cereal are Nestle’s best-selling products in the
nation of over 160 million people and will be the focus of the
expansion, Woolnough said.  Nestle Nigeria posted a 33 percent jump in full-year net
income of 16.8 billion naira ($107 million) for the year end
Dec. 31 2011 as revenue advanced 22 percent to 98 billion naira.
The company started exporting products to other central and west
African countries last year, earning about 1.7 billion naira,
Woolnough said.  Tax Concessions  “Exports will continue around our region, but this year
we’ll pick up more towards  Angola  as well,” he said.  Nestle Nigeria forecast that full-year revenue for 2012 to
increase 15 percent to 113 billion naira with net income
expected to be little changed from last year.  The forecast is “conservative,”  Woolnough said. Nestle
Nigeria’s 2011 profit benefited from tax concessions partly
related to the opening of its factory.  “Nestle is very strong fundamentally,” Bunmi Njugo, a
Lagos-based analyst at  Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB)  who rates the stock
as a “sell”, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “The
risk we see to its earnings is basically its huge exposure to
foreign exchange volatility.”  Nestle Nigeria’s financing costs rose more than three fold
to 3.2 billion naira in 2011 due to a devaluation in the
currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer, Woolnough said. The
company has 50 percent of its loans in naira with the rest in
foreign currency.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  in November lowered the
midpoint of its exchange-rate band at its twice-weekly auctions
to 155 naira per dollar from 150 naira as increasing imports and
weaker  oil prices , the source of more than 95 percent of
Nigeria’s foreign income, affected the  exchange rate .  Gasoline Costs  “The value of the naira has caused some impact, but that’s
all managed and we have very low  interest rates  for our offshore
financing,” Woolnough said.  An insurgency by Boko Haram, an Islamist militant group, in
the northern part of the country, along with a strike over fuel
subsidies at the start of the year were considered in making the
forecast, he said.  A week-long general strike last month pushed President
 Goodluck Jonathan ’s to only partially remove a fuel subsidy
after after costs of gasoline more than doubled, while attacks
by Boko Haram killed as many as 256 people in the northern city
of Kano. Nigeria’s  annual inflation  accelerated to 12.6 percent
in January from 10.3 percent in December.  Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy may grow 6.3
percent this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in an e-
mailed report Feb. 21. That compares with last year’s growth of
7.7 percent, it said.  Raw Materials  “The consumer side is not improving if you think of
that,” said Woolnough. “The good thing is we’re still in base
food products, the key there, of course, would be that we’re
going into everyone’s soups, stews and breakfasts everyday.”  Nestle Nigeria is now buying all of its main  raw materials 
locally, including cocoa, soy and corn.  The  company’s shares  were unchanged at 400 naira at the
close in Lagos and have gained 4.3 percent in the past year,
compared with the 23 percent slump of the  Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   “We’re still, roughly speaking, only around one third of
the market share in the categories we operate in,” Woolnough
said. “There’s huge potential still and on top of that the
 population growth  is just staggering.”  Nigeria’s population is growing at an average annual rate
of 2.5 percent, according to  CIA World Factbook  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  