-- New York Municipalities Borrow $200 Million From State’s Pension System
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-28T19:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/new-york-municipalities-borrow-200-million-from-state-s-pension-system.html
New York’s (STONY1)  local governments have
borrowed about $200 million this year from the state’s
retirement fund, $156 million more than last year, when the
program to spread out pension costs was implemented.  About 165 of more than 3,000 local governments, school
districts and agencies opted into the program, which requires
that they pay interest to the $140.3 billion fund on the
deferred portion of their pension payments, Eric Sumberg, a
spokesman for Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , said in an e-mail
today. The state also plans to use IOUs for at least $562.9
million as part of the program this year, Sumberg said.  “While the state’s pension fund is one of the strongest
performers in the country, costs have increased due to the Wall
Street meltdown in 2008-2009,” DiNapoli, a 58-year-old
Democrat, said in a statement. “Amortizing pension costs is an
option for some local governments to manage  cash flow  and to
budget for long-term pension costs in good times and bad
times.”  New York’s retirement fund, the third-biggest U.S. public
pension, had 101.5 percent of the money needed to pay its
obligations in 2010, better than any other state, according to
an annual study by Bloomberg Rankings. To keep it funded after
losses incurred in the financial crisis, the system has
increased the payments made by local governments.  Rising Costs  By 2015, 35 percent of local budgets will be consumed by
pension costs, up from 3 percent in 2001, Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
said yesterday at a meeting of the  New York State Conference of
Mayors and Municipal Officials  in  Albany , the capital.  Under similar circumstances, other states, including
 Illinois , have issued bonds to fund their retirement plans.  New York’s voluntary plan to defer some cash payments was
created in 2010 by DiNapoli. It allows state and local
governments to hold off on paying a portion of pension costs if
they agree to pay interest on the deferred amount. The plan is
meant to smooth out fluctuations in the rate public employers
pay to the system by also allowing localities to build reserve
funds when earnings on the fund are high.  Last year, local governments deferred $43.4 million,
Sumberg said. The totals for this year were reported earlier
today by The  New York  Times.  “It doesn’t make the obligation go away, but gives you the
opportunity to amortize, over a period of time, the increase,”
DiNapoli said yesterday at the mayors conference. “It gives you
help right now, not 30 years from now.”  Cuomo is pushing for a pension overhaul he says would save
$113 billion over 30 years for public employers, including  New
York City , in part by raising the  retirement age  to 65 from 62
for most workers and offering a 401(k)-type option to new ones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  