-- Newmont Says Too Early to Call Conga Project Amid Review
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-28T00:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/newmont-says-it-s-too-early-to-say-whether-conga-will-proceed.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the world’s
second-largest gold producer, said it’s too early to say whether
its proposed $4.8 billion Conga mine in Peru will proceed while
a state-commissioned review is in progress.  Consultants from Spain and  Portugal  hired by Peru yesterday
began a 40-day review of an existing environmental impact
assessment, or EIA.  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based Newmont
halted construction in November at the project in the northern
Andes mountains following clashes between police and opponents
of the development.  “It’s too early to say” if the project will move forward,
Chief Executive Officer Richard O’Brien said yesterday an
interview in Hollywood, Florida.  O’Brien said Conga must be a “viable” project to proceed.
“I don’t think we can call that until we get through with the
EIA review, assuming that happens in a reasonable period of
time.”  Conga may yield 680,000 ounces of gold and 235 million
pounds of copper annually in its first five years. O’Brien said
Jan. 17 that Newmont may increase spending on projects in
 Nevada ,  Australia ,  Ghana  and  Indonesia  if it’s unable to
continue developing the Peruvian mine.  Newmont will seek “a balance between the EIA that we
already have approved and whatever additions that the government
thinks they need to make.”  Reservoir Construction  Under Newmont’s current plan, building Conga will require
the construction of four reservoirs to replace four lagoons.
That’s failed to win over farmers in the region, some of whom
protested in November by blocking roads and destroying Newmont
installations.  The demonstrations stopped after PresidentOllanta Humala
on Dec. 4 granted the country’s armed forces extra power for 60
days, including the right to make arrests without warrant.  Newmont, which owns 51 percent of Conga, is partnering with
 Peru ’s Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA on the project. The U.S.
company also controls Peru’s Yanacocha, South America’s largest
gold mine.  “If we don’t have this done within the next three months,
we are going to be extremely disappointed,” O’Brien said,
referring to the review process.  Newmont may consider selling its Hope Bay project in the
Canadian Arctic, he also said. The company announced last month
it would halt work at the site. Newmont said Feb. 23 it recorded
a $1.61 billion  writedown  on the project. Hope Bay is relatively
expensive to operate because of its location.  ‘Opportunistic M&A’  “Could it be worth something to somebody else? Yes,” said
O’Brien, who was in  Florida  to attend BMO Capital Markets’
Global Metals & Mining Conference. “I think you’ve got the
potential to see that district expand over time, but just not
right now and not on our time frame.”  O’Brien said he views $1,750 to $2,000 an ounce as a
“reasonable estimate” for the gold price in 2012, and that the
price may rise to $2,300 in the next three to four years. Gold
futures for April delivery fell 0.1 percent to settle at
$1,774.90 an ounce yesterday on the Comex in  New York .  Newmont’s strategy is to increase production through a
combination of exploration, project development and
“opportunistic M&A,” he said. He declined to comment further
on the potential for acquisitions.  Newmont is the second-largest gold producer ranked by
revenue, after Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  