-- News Corp. Executives Weighed Spinoff of Newspaper Publishing, Carey Says
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-02-28T21:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/news-corp-execs-weighed-spinoff-of-publishing.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , facing inquiries by
authorities over hacking and bribery at its U.K. newspapers, has
discussed spinning off its publishing business, according to
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey .  Carey had a number of talks with News Corp. executives
about selling or separating the publishing unit from the
company, he said today at the  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  media conference in
 Palm Beach ,  Florida .  “There certainly is an awareness” that New York-based
News Corp. would trade at higher multiples if it didn’t own
newspapers, Carey said in response to a question.  News Corp., based in  New York , owns the Wall Street Journal
and the New York Post in the U.S., as well as the Times, Sun,
and just-introduced Sun on Sunday in the U.K. The company
derives more than 70 percent of its  operating  income from its
television businesses that includes Fox Broadcast and the FX
cable channel. Publishing accounts for less than a fifth of
annual operating income and is “significantly down year-on-year
on profitability,” according to Carey.  News Corp. rose 1.6 percent to $19.81 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have gained 11 percent this year.  For the moment, the company is focusing on increasing
profit margins at the publishing businesses, Carey said. He left
open the possibility the board could consider a spin off.  “As a board, we will and have and will continue to discuss
everything that we think that makes sense,” Carey said.  Sun on Sunday  Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , who paid $5.2
billion for Wall Street Journal owner  Dow Jones & Co. (DJ)  in 2007,
started the Sunday edition of the Sun tabloid this past weekend.
It sold 3.26 million copies in its debut, topping the
circulation of its News of the World predecessor that was shut
down last year following an outcry over reporters who had hacked
into mobile phones.  At least three separate inquiries into the practices of
News Corp.’s U.K. journalists have revealed possible bribery of
public officials and more than 800 potential victims of hacking.
Ten Sun journalists have been arrested in the police
investigation into corrupt payments to police officers and other
public officials. The hacking scandal has cost News Corp. $195
million since July, according to the company.  Bloomberg LP competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  