-- BofA, News Corp., JPMorgan, Apple, Monsanto in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-28T11:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/news-corp-amazon-jpmorgan-apple-monsanto-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp.  and a group of
investors that reached an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement
with the bank won their bid to remove the case from a federal
judge and return it to state court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  overturned a lower
court ruling and granted a request by Bank of America and the
investor group to remand the case to  New York  state court, where
it was first filed, according to a decision yesterday.  “The case was not removable from state court and must be
remanded,” the appeals court said.  The settlement, which would resolve claims from investors
in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds, was filed last
year in New York State  Supreme Court  and was initially set for
consideration at a November hearing. Before that hearing took
place, the case was removed to federal court by entities under
the name Walnut Place that own some of the securities.  The decision sending the case back to state court is good
for investors in Countrywide bonds because it reduces
uncertainty in the settlement,  Barclays Capital  said in a
research note after the decision. Bank of America acquired
Countrywide in 2008.  “The move back to New York state court increases the
likelihood of the settlement going through and pushes the
timeline forward,” Barclays said.  Bank of America along with the group of institutional
investors that negotiated the settlement, including  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , fought the transfer of the case to federal court and
argued the case belonged in state court. They were joined by
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the mortgage bond trustee, which
sought approval for settlement in state court.  “We are pleased the jurisdictional issues have been
resolved and we can now move toward getting the settlement
approved,” Robert Madden, an attorney for the investor group,
said in a telephone interview.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said the lender looks forward to
completing the court proceeding to obtain approval for the
agreement.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, and Owen
Cyrulnik, a lawyer for Walnut Place, declined to comment.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-05988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Verdicts/Settlements  News Corp. to Pay $950,000 to Pop Star Over Phone Hacking  News Corp. (NWSA)  agreed to pay 600,000 pounds ($952,000) to
Charlotte Church, the U.K. pop star, and admitted its News of
the World tabloid hacked her mobile-phone messages for “many
years,” starting when she was 16 years old.  At a court hearing yesterday in London, News Corp. lawyers
said the company regularly harassed Church’s family, put them
under surveillance, hacked the phone of her father and acquired
details of her mother’s “complex medical history” and suicide
attempt to write scoops about the Welsh singer, now 26.  “I would have learned nothing more from an actual trial,
since it is clear that no one from News International was
prepared to take the stand to explain their actions,” Church
said in a statement referring to the company’s U.K. publishing
unit. “In my opinion, they are not truly sorry, only sorry that
they got caught.”  One of about 70 victims to sue News International, Church
settled last week, days before the first civil trial over the
scandal was to begin. The deal comes after a person familiar
with the matter, who isn’t authorized to speak about the case,
said Church’s agent in Los Angeles and publicist in New York
have been identified as the first potential American victims of
the tabloid’s hacking.  Church and her parents, James and Maria, sued in December
after the  Metropolitan Police  showed them evidence the News of
the World’s ex-private investigator, Glenn Mulcaire, who was
jailed for phone hacking, had intercepted their phone messages
as late as 2006 to write stories about them.  Church, who sang at Rupert Murdoch’s wedding in 1999, when
she was 13, settled after News International’s lawyers told a
judge they would seek to question her mother about her mental
state during any trial to potentially reduce damages. As part of
the accord, News Corp. said it coerced Church’s mother into
giving an interview about her attempted suicide.  Judge Geoffrey Vos said he would set another deadline for
new phone-hacking victims to come forward and that a trial could
take place a year from now, if they don’t settle. News
International is making “superhuman efforts” to settle the
cases, he said.  The case is Church v. News Group Newspapers, High Court of
Justice Chancery Division, HC11C03393.  For more, click here.  Amazon, Bookstore Group Settle Suit Over Advertising Claims  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and a trade group for college bookstores
settled a lawsuit over Amazon’s advertising for textbook
discounts, the group said.  The biggest online retailer was advertising discounts of 30
percent on new college textbooks and 90 percent on used ones. In
May, Amazon asked a federal court in  Seattle , where the company
is based, to declare that its advertising wasn’t false or
misleading.  Amazon provided the methodology by which it substantiates
its savings claims to the National Association of College
Bookstores Inc., the group said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. While not endorsing the methodology or the results
obtained, the trade group agreed there’s no current dispute
about the advertising claims, according to the statement.  Amazon and the group agreed not to challenge each other
about the advertising claims for one year. The settlement didn’t
include an exchange of money, the group said.  Mary Osako, spokeswoman for Amazon, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail message seeking comment about the settlement.  The case is Amazon.com v. National Association of College
Stores Inc., 11-754, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BB&T Purchase of BankAtlantic Unit Barred by Delaware Judge  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ’s purchase of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s primary
business unit was barred by a Delaware judge, who said the sale
would harm shareholders.  BankAtlantic shareholders including Hildene Capital
Management LLC sued in November after BB&T announced it would
pay as much as $301 million to acquire BankAtlantic’s retail-
lending unit. The deal excludes Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based
BankAtlantic’s non-performing assets. Delaware Chancery Court
Judge J. Travis Laster said the transaction would trigger an
acceleration of debt that BankAtlantic wouldn’t be able to pay.  “Because this eventuality will inflict irreparable harm on
the plaintiffs, I have entered contemporaneously an order
permanently enjoining Bancorp from consummating the sale,” he
said.  “We need some time to review the ruling and will have a
comment later,” David White, a spokesman for Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based BB&T, said in a phone interview.  Representatives of BankAtlantic didn’t immediately return
voice and e-mail messages seeking comment.  Sealink Funding Bear Stearns Suit Moved to Federal Court  Sealink Funding Ltd.’s lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
over $2.4 billion in residential mortgage-backed securities was
moved to federal court from New York state court.  Sealink sued New York-based JPMorgan Chase and units
including Bear Stearns and EMC Mortgage LLC in September,
accusing them of making misrepresentations about the risks and
characteristics of the loans underlying securities bought
between 2005 and 2007.  The lawsuit was moved to U.S. District Court in Manhattan
by the defendants because it’s related to federal bankruptcy
proceedings and because it involves a party outside the U.S.,
according to documents filed in New York State Supreme Court on
Feb. 24.  The lawsuit was one of several filed in New York state
court during the past six months over residential mortgage-
backed securities by Sealink, an Ireland-based fund created to
manage Landesbank Sachsen AG’s riskiest assets after the German
lender almost collapsed.  Sealink has also sued  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide
unit over $1.6 billion in securities and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  over
$556 million of the investments. The Countrywide case was moved
to federal court in October. Sealink said last week that it
intends to sue banks including Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN)  over $948.8 million in mortgage securities.  The case is Sealink Funding Ltd. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
Inc., 652681/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New York
County, Manhattan.  For more, click here.  Apple Wins Temporary Ruling on German IPad, IPhone Sales  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a German appeals court ruling temporarily
blocking the enforcement of a patent verdict obtained by
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  in December.  Motorola Mobility, which forced Apple to remove some iPad
and iPhone models from its German online store for a short
period, can’t enforce the verdict during an appeal. The ruling
was issued after the iPad maker revised license-agreement terms
it offered Motorola Mobility, the court said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “At the current state of the proceedings, it is to be
assumed that Motorola Mobility would violate its duties under
antitrust rules if it continues to ask Apple to stop the
sales,” the court said in a statement.  Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by Google Inc.,
and Apple are entangled in numerous patent disputes. Yesterday’s
case concerned a so-called standard essential patent that
companies must license to competitors because they can’t produce
the devices without the technology. Cupertino, California-based
Apple has also filed a complaint with the European Union
accusing Motorola Mobility of violating a pledge to license
industry-standard patents on fair terms.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment. Motorola
Mobility’s press office didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Yesterday’s ruling helps Apple’s prospects in the appeals
case, which hinges on the terms Motorola Mobility must accept to
be forced to grant a license. In their December verdict the
Mannheim judges rejected Apple’s offer, saying it didn’t
adequately take Motorola Mobility’s interest into account.  Yesterday’s case is OLG Karlsruhe, 6 U 136/11.  Monsanto Wins Dismissal of Organic Growers’ Gene-Patent Suit  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, won the
dismissal of a lawsuit by growers of organic crops seeking to
have its patents for genetically altered seeds invalidated.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan threw
out the organic growers’ lawsuit in a ruling dated Feb. 24,
saying it represented no controversy and that she had no
jurisdiction over the suit.  Organic farmers, seed companies and food safety groups sued
St. Louis-based Monsanto in March 2011 seeking court protection
against possible lawsuits by the company for patent infringement
if genetically modified crops were mistakenly found among their
yields.  “There is no evidence that plaintiffs are infringing
defendants’ patents, nor have plaintiffs suggested when, if
ever, such infringement will occur,” Buchwald wrote in her
opinion.  The growers, claiming that Monsanto “aggressively
asserted” its patent claims against hundreds of U.S. farmers,
sought a ruling from Buchwald that the patents for genetically
engineered seeds are invalid because they are “injurious.”  They claimed transgenic seeds might contaminate their crops
and that they don’t want to have to fight Monsanto patent claims
should that occur. The company has pursued “baseless litigation
to intimidate farmers and restrict competition with its
transgenic seed,” according to the growers’ complaint.  “Her decision to deny farmers the right to seek legal
protection from one of the world’s foremost patent bullies is
gravely disappointing,” Daniel Ravicher, a lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in an e-mail. “Her belief that farmers are
acting unreasonable when they stop growing certain crops to
avoid being sued by Monsanto for patent infringement should
their crops become contaminated maligns the intelligence and
integrity of those farmers.”  Ravicher said the plaintiffs will appeal.  “The ruling makes it clear that there was neither a
history of behavior nor a reasonable likelihood that Monsanto
would pursue patent infringement matters against farmers who
have no interest in using the company’s patented seed
products,” David Snively, Monsanto’s general counsel, said in a
statement.  The case is Organic Seed Growers & Trade Association v.
Monsanto Co., 11-02163, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Molycorp Board, Majority Holders Sued Over Stock Bubble  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) ’s board was sued on the company’s behalf over
claims that it misled investors about the rare-earth market,
creating a “price bubble” for the shares.  Molycorp’s directors and its controlling shareholders
Resource Capital Funds and Pegasus Capital Advisors devised a
scheme to temporarily inflate the stock’s value and then profit
by dumping more than $1 billion of their personal holdings into
the market in February, March and June of last year, according
to the complaint. The lawsuit, which was made public yesterday,
was filed by Arizona resident Ira Gaines, a trustee of Paradise
Wire & Cable Defined Benefit Plan.  Directors falsely implied that Greenwood Village, Colorado-
based Molycorp could meet increasing worldwide demand of
critical rare earth elements, Gaines said in the complaint.
Directors also omitted that mining experts predict the light
rare earth elements the company may be able to produce this year
will be in oversupply in the next several years, fetching lower
prices, according to the complaint.  Company insiders, including current board members and a
controlling group of shareholders, netted $1.6 billion in
secondary offerings, months before concerns arose about declines
in rare-earth prices and delays in construction at the company’s
Mountain Pass mine, Gaines said in the complaint.  Jim Sims, a spokesman for Molycorp, declined to comment
immediately when reached by phone.  Ross Bhappu, a partner for Denver-based Resource Capital
and Molycorp’s chairman, didn’t immediately return a phone call
seeking comment on the lawsuit. Officials at Pegasus didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Gaines v. Mark A. Smith, CA7282, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Defense Rests Without Calling Financier to Testify  R. Allen Stanford’s lawyers rested their defense without
calling their client to the witness stand in his criminal fraud
trial in Houston.  After the defense completed its case, prosecutors said they
had no rebuttal witnesses. U.S. District Judge David Hittner
told the jury to return to the courtroom on Feb. 29. Lawyers
will have two hours each for closing arguments and instructions
to the jury will take an hour, the judge said.  Prosecutors have accused Stanford of running a $7 billion
investment fraud scheme and misleading investors about the
nature and oversight of certificates of deposit issued by his
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford, 61, has maintained his organization had
sufficient holdings to repay investors and was in the midst of
consolidating its disparate entities when he and the bank were
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February
2009 and their assets seized.  The case is United States v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  Lenders Must Be Named in Foreclosures, New Jersey Court Says  New Jersey ’s  Supreme Court  ruled documents indicating a
bank’s intention to foreclose on a mortgage must name the lender
before a residential property can be seized.  The case involves the foreclosure on an East Orange home
owned by Maryse and Emilio Guillaume, who received a notice of
intention to foreclose in May 2008. That notice included the
name of the mortgage servicer, America’s Servicing Co., while
omitting the name of the lender. Credit Suisse AG made the loan
and assigned it to US Bank NA.  The state high court in Trenton ruled yesterday that the
notice sent to the Guillaumes failed to comply with New Jersey’s
Fair Foreclosure Act, which requires the name and address of the
actual lender, as well as contact information for a loan
servicer. Failure to do so creates “potential for significant
prejudice” to homeowners, the court said.  “A misunderstanding about a lender’s identity could prompt
a homeowner to make a critical error at a time when he or she is
struggling to avert foreclosure,” the court said in the
opinion.  The court ruled that while a trial court judge erred on
that point in interpreting the Fair Foreclosure Act, the judge
reached the correct conclusion in ordering a default judgment
against the couple. The Guillaumes failed to demonstrate either
“excusable neglect” or a “meritorious defense” to their
foreclosure, according to the ruling.  The decision “restores order” to New Jersey’s real estate
market, said Mark Melodia, a lawyer for Minneapolis-based  US
Bancorp (USB) , the parent of US Bank.  “This is a reaffirmation that our Chancery Court judges
are best positioned to determine in a given case whether a
technical defect in foreclosure paperwork requires the
extraordinary step of dismissing the case -- which, like this
one, may have been pending for years before the defect was
identified -- or whether a less drastic remedy, such as sending
a new notice, is the fairer way to proceed,” Melodia, of Reed
Smith LLP, said in a statement.  An attorney for the Guillaumes, Rebecca Schore of Legal
Services of New Jersey, said that while she was pleased with the
ruling on the need to name the actual lender in a notice of
intention to foreclose, she was disappointed that the court
didn’t require dismissal of the complaint.  “We hope that the New Jersey legislature will take this
opportunity to clarify the statute and require dismissal of a
foreclosure complaint where the plaintiff fails to comply
strictly with its requirements,” she said in an e-mail.  The case is US Bank National Association v. Guillaume,
11-068176, New Jersey Supreme Court (Trenton).  Speculation Limits Judge Says He’s ‘Skeptical’ of CFTC Rule  U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission arguments in
support of the agency’s limits on speculation are being
questioned by the judge presiding over a challenge to the rule
by two Wall Street groups.  “I’m kind of skeptical about their position of Congress
mandating position limits,” U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins
said during a hearing in Washington yesterday.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
urged Wilkins to put the rule on hold while he considers their
legal challenge. They argued financial firms including Barclays
Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are losing millions of dollars
preparing for a regulation that is likely to be overturned.  The groups argue that the CFTC never studied whether the
regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or quantified the
costs tied to implementing the rule.  “This is not a country where we look at tens of millions
of dollars in direct costs and the entire restructuring of an
industry and say that’s not irreparable harm,” Eugene Scalia, a
lawyer for the groups, told the judge.  The groups, in one of the financial industry’s highest-
profile efforts to weaken 2010’s Dodd-Frank law, filed lawsuits
in two federal courts in Washington in December challenging the
rule setting caps on the number of contracts a trader can have.  Jonathan Marcus, a lawyer for the CFTC, said the harm some
of the groups’ members claim they’ve incurred seeking to comply
are “miniscule” when compared to the companies’ annual revenue
and income.  Wilkins said he will take the matter “under advisement”
and issue a ruling “quickly.”  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  U.S. High Court Permits Suit on Investing Racketeering Profit  The U.S. Supreme Court allowed a New York City steel
products retailer to proceed with a federal racketeering lawsuit
claiming that a competitor gained an illegal advantage by
investing criminal proceeds in a business.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has fought to restrict
the use of federal racketeering laws in corporate conflicts, had
urged justices to block that sort of claim. Letting the case
proceed “would enable competitors who do not succeed in the
marketplace to harass their rivals” via the courtroom, the
Washington-based business organization said in a brief.  Ideal Steel Supply Corp. filed suit under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act alleging that a rival
company, National Steel Supply Inc., used money from a tax-fraud
scheme to open a competing store that damaged its business. The
justices yesterday declined to hear an appeal by National
seeking to block the lawsuit.  The racketeering law, known as RICO, permits lawsuits
seeking triple damages associated with conspiracies involving a
pattern of criminal activity. Originally targeted at organized
crime, the law’s penalties have made it a weapon in more garden-
variety business disputes.  The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
Ideal can proceed to trial with a claim that closely held
National illegally boosted its business and profit for years by
failing to collect sales tax from customers who paid with cash
at a store in Queens. National used the ill-gotten gains to
start a store in the Bronx, where closely held Ideal previously
had a local monopoly on its niche-market products, according to
the lawsuit.  The Supreme Court, without comment, declined yesterday to
consider Nation’s appeal of that ruling.  The case continues a long-running family feud: the Brancato
and Anza families who own Ideal and National are in-laws and
cousins in addition to being business rivals.  The case is Anza v. Ideal Steel Supply Corp., 11-659, U.S.
Supreme Court, (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Department  SEC’s Ex-Top Lawyer to Repay $556,000 in Madoff Ponzi Funds  The family of David M. Becker, the former top lawyer for
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, agreed to pay
$556,017 to settle claims over inherited money that was linked
to Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  The payment is equal to the entire amount of profits that
Becker and his brothers inherited from a Madoff account held by
their mother, who died in 2004, according to a  statement 
yesterday by Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Irving H. Picard,
the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm.  Picard, in a November 2010 lawsuit filed in bankruptcy
court in New York, had originally claimed that the Beckers
received $1.5 million in fictitious profits.  Becker, who left the SEC in 2011 to return to private legal
practice, faced criticism last year after Picard’s lawsuit was
made public, suggesting he may have had a personal financial
interest in policies he worked on at the SEC related to how
Madoff customers should be compensated.  William Baker III, Becker’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that Becker made full disclosure of his
mother’s account while he was at the SEC and followed the
agency’s ethics procedures.  Becker “was unaware of his mother’s account until long
after it was liquidated and he always expected that he would
return any fictitious profits that he unknowingly received,”
Baker said. “Mr. Becker has done everything possible, both at
the SEC and in his private affairs, to assist the victims of the
Madoff fraud.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 