-- Nigeria Needs Pause in Interest Rate Tightening, IMF Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-02-28T18:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/nigeria-needs-pause-in-interest-rate-tightening-imf-says-2-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
a pause is “warranted” after Nigeria’s  central bank  raised its
benchmark rate by 6 percentage points since 2010 to combat price
pressures.  A “clear” inflation objective will help to anchor
expectations in  Africa ’s top oil producer, the Washington-based
lender said in an e-mailed statement today.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  kept its main  lending rate 
unchanged for the second time at a record high of 12 percent
last month after six increases last year to help offset a
decline in the naira and rising prices.  Inflation  (NGCPIYOY) in Africa’s
most populous nation accelerated to 12.6 percent last month from
10.3 percent in December after the government partially removed
fuel subsidies.  “Inflation is projected to increase temporarily as a
result of the increase in gasoline prices,” the IMF said. “The
main downside risks to the short-term outlook are a further
deterioration in the global environment and an exacerbation of
current violence in northern  Nigeria .”  The IMF called for “greater exchange-rate flexibility” in
Nigeria. The central bank, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, sells
foreign currency at twice-weekly auctions to help keep the naira
at about 155 per dollar. It lowered the midpoint of its currency
target range from 150 in November.  Improved Outlook  “We are in broad agreement with the statement and indeed
we paused in November and January once it became clear that
inflation was trending toward our single-digit target,” Sanusi
said in an e-mailed response to questions about the IMF report.  With stability in the naira exchange rate, a rise in
foreign-currency reserves, high  oil prices  and output and a
“much improved fiscal outlook” under Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, “there is very little pressure to tighten policy
further,” Sanusi said. Still, the rate will remain raised “so
long as monetary easing is seen as constituting a major risk to
inflation.”  Nigeria’s economy expanded an estimated 6.7 percent in 2011
after the non-oil industry grew 8.3 percent, the IMF said.
Growth will be “robust” this year, while inflation will
probably pick up because of higher fuel prices, it said.  President Goodluck Jonathan last month partially scrapped a
fuel subsidy in January, raising fuel prices in Africa’s biggest
oil producer by about half to 97 naira a liter.  Violence Surge  The central bank expects inflation to peak just under 15
percent by the third quarter of this year and to ease to the
bank’s target of less than 10 percent by the end of 2013, Sanusi
said.  Nigeria is the fifth-biggest source of U.S. imports. The
country produced about 2.1 million barrels of oil a day in
January, unchanged from the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 90 percent of Nigeria’s crude is
pumped by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with state-owned
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  A surge in violence in the north of the country poses a
risk to economic growth in Nigeria, the IMF said. The Islamist
militant group, Boko Haram, claimed responsibility for the Jan.
20 coordinated blasts that killed at least 256 people in Kano,
the biggest city in northern Nigeria. It also bombed a church
near Abuja, the capital, on Christmas Day, killing 43 people.  The naira has gained 3 percent this year to 157.6 per
dollar on the  interbank market , after the partial removal of the
fuel subsidy reduced demand for U.S. currency by importers.  “The areas of disagreement with the IMF in 2010 have been
significantly narrowed in 2011 and we are in broad agreement
with all recommendations,” Sanusi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  