-- Noble Profit Declines as Agriculture, Metal and Mineral Margins Shrink
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-28T13:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/noble-follows-glencore-in-posting-lower-profit-as-commodity-margins-narrow.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s biggest
listed commodities trader by sales, reported a 57 percent drop
in fourth-quarter profit, in line with analyst estimates, as
margins in agriculture, metals and minerals narrowed.  Net income fell to $105.7 million in the three months ended
Dec. 31 from $247.5 million a year earlier, the Singapore-listed
company said today in a statement. That compares with the $105.8
million average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 15 percent to $20.1 billion.  Noble follows  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and  Archer Daniels
Midland Co. (ADM)  in posting weaker earnings as volatile markets
eroded trading profits and demand for commodities including
sugar eased. The Hong Kong-based supplier of energy, food and
mining products reported its first quarterly loss in about 14
years in November and its chief executive officer resigned.  “As long as commodity prices are not as volatile as last
year, it’ll be less challenging than 2011,” said Eugene Ng, a
Singapore-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd.  Noble’s agriculture division posted a drop in operating
income margin to 2.78 percent in the fourth quarter from 10.85
percent a year earlier. The metals, minerals and ores segment
reported a margin of 0.73 percent compared with 2.23 percent.  Full-year profit fell 29 percent to $431 million, according
to the earnings statement. That compares with the $432 million
average estimate of 20 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Agriculture Business  The  stock  rose 0.4 percent to S$1.375 in Singapore trading,
before the profit announcement. Noble has slumped 33 percent in
the past year, compared with the 1.4 percent decline in the
benchmark Straits Times Index.  Crush margins for grains and oilseeds were generally weak,
and in some cases negative, throughout the year, even as the
division posted record revenue and volumes in the final quarter,
according to the statement.  The sugar division also reported a quarterly record for
revenue and volumes even as prices were volatile, helped by the
integration of two newly acquired mills in  Brazil , Noble said.  Raw-sugar futures slumped 27 percent in 2011, the most in a
decade.  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , a rival to Noble, said output
of the sweetener may be in surplus again next season, depressing
prices further.  Price Volatility  The trading environment in the company’s aluminum division
was “challenging” in the quarter, as price volatility
continued to erode margins, Noble said. Swings were also seen in
iron ore prices, according to the statement.  Noble will remain “active” in the aluminum business,
Chairman Richard Elman said today on a conference call.  Cotton prices stabilized in the fourth quarter after the
“unprecedented” volatility in the earlier months, Noble said.  Prices of cotton plunged 37 percent in 2011, the most among
24 commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index, as
debt crises in  Europe  and the U.S. slowed economic growth, and
textile makers in  China  canceled purchases.  Ricardo Leiman quit as CEO in November following the
company’s announcement of the $17.5 million loss in the third
quarter. Noble, founded by Elman, named Yusuf Alireza, the
former Asia-Pacific co-president of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., as
its new chief executive officer starting April 16.  “We expect things to pick up by mid of the year, with the
new CEO in place and the new heads of division,”  Carey Wong , a
Singapore-based analyst at OCBC Investment Research Ltd., said
before the earnings announcement.  The company last month named Jose Luiz Glaser, who joined
from Cargill Inc. in August, as chief executive officer of its
agriculture business, the biggest division after energy. Noble
Agri Ltd. accounted for about 26 percent of sales as of Sept. 30.  Noble is planning to list its agricultural assets
separately on the Singapore Stock Exchange, the company said in
October. It aims to raise about $700 million through the spin-
off, two people with knowledge of the matter said in November.  “No decision has been made as of this moment,” Elman said
today.  Energy Division  Demand for coal buoyed earnings at Noble’s energy division,
which accounted for 67 percent of sales in the quarter,
according to the statement. Unit  Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL)  said sales
in the second quarter ended Dec. 31 doubled.  Noble, which owns  64.5 percent  of Gloucester, agreed to
sell part of its stake in the Australian coal miner to Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co. in December. Noble will retain about 13.7
percent of the merged entity and receive A$420 million ($452
million) in cash, it said.  Noble aims to spend $900 million on capital expenses over
the next three years following the Gloucester deal, Chief
Financial Officer Robert Van Der Zalm said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 