-- Northwest Gasoline Drops by Most in Three Years on Unit Starts
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-28T22:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/northwest-gasoline-drops-by-most-in-three-years-on-unit-starts.html
Gasoline in the U.S. Northwest
tumbled by the most in three years after trading switched from
February to March delivery and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  was said to be
starting two gasoline-making units at the Anacortes refinery.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon , fell
25.25 cents to a discount of 5.75 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
4:08 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
largest single-day drop since Dec. 29, 2008, and the first time
the fuel has traded at a discount to futures in eight days.  March gasoline in  Portland  is sold relative to April Nymex
futures, which settled 18.46 cents higher than the March
contract today.  Tesoro planned to introduce feedstock to the catalytic
cracking and alkylation units at the 125,000-barrel-a-day
Anacortes refinery in Washington state today or tomorrow, two
people familiar with the plant’s operations said today. The
units were shut last week after a break in an overhead line
associated with the cracker, one person said.  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in
 San Antonio , declined to comment on the units’ startup. The
refinery is performing maintenance that isn’t expected to affect
Tesoro’s ability “to meet our contractual supply commitments,”
she said in an e-mail.  California-blend gasoline in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  slipped for the
second day, by two cents to a premium of 31.5 cents a gallon
against Nymex futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  fell 0.25
cent to 27.75 cents above futures.  London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  finished repairs on the hydrocracker at
the 266,000-barrel-a-day  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  oil refinery in Southern
California, a person familiar with the work said yesterday. The
gasoline-making unit should be back to normal production within
a few days, the person said.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  flared gases at the 240,000-barrel-a-day
 Richmond (CTRCCRUD)  refinery in Northern California late yesterday “due to
low feed rates and unstability of the plant,” the San Ramon,
California-based company said in a filing to the state Emergency
Management Agency.  Sean Comey , a Chevron spokesman in San Ramon, declined to
comment on the notice.  “We continue to supply products to our customers without
interruption,” he said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  