-- Obama, Romney Should Tell the Truth About Saving Detroit: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-28T00:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-romney-should-tell-the-truth-about-saving-detroit-view.html
Mitt Romney  goes into Tuesday’s
Republican primaries in Arizona and  Michigan  looking strong in
the first and competitive in the second. Especially in Michigan,
though, he had some explaining to do.  Wasn’t he wrong to oppose rescuing General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Corp. with taxpayer money, interventions now widely
seen as  successes ? If he gets the nomination, it’s a question
President  Barack Obama  will put to him again and again.  Truth is, there’s less distance between Obama and Romney on
this than either cares to admit. Obama praises the role played
by the United Automobile Workers and celebrates that he went to
great lengths to rescue an iconic American industry from
profligate management. It was, he boasts, taxpayer money well
spent, with nary a word about union demands for unaffordable
pension and health-care benefits in exchange for labor peace.
This preferred line papers over a lot of what caused Detroit’s
descent.  Romney, on the other hand, cannot decide whether to attack
the intervention as an improper use of public funds or praise it
as a managed bankruptcy of the very kind he favored all along.
Not the deftest of candidates, he does both.  The rescues, including the money spent by the outgoing
President  George W. Bush , came to $80 billion, about $17 billion
of which taxpayers are unlikely to ever get back. The
bankruptcies also forced big concessions on all stakeholders in
return for government support. Essentially, this was the right
outcome -- one that the companies’ managers and the UAW (Obama’s
praise for its role notwithstanding) both resisted.  Bailout and Bankruptcy  Under the circumstances, the combination of bailout and
bankruptcy was right. Bankruptcy without public money would have
meant destruction rather than restructuring. If conditions in
financial markets had been normal, new private creditors might
have forced radical, desperately needed changes on GM and
Chrysler as part of ordinary bankruptcy proceedings. In 2008 and
2009, this was not possible; private lenders were too distressed
even to think about supporting auto companies on the necessary
scale.  Either the government had to put money on the table or the
companies would be liquidated -- not easy to contemplate in
Chrysler’s case and all but inviting disaster in GM’s. Job
losses on that scale would have hammered an economy already on
its knees. Bush took this view, and so did Obama weeks after
being sworn in. The crucial thing was forcing real change on
 Detroit  -- and Obama’s team did so.  The concessions demanded of shareholders, management,
creditors and the UAW were severe. Obama has chosen not to
mention the role the union played in bringing the industry so
low in the first place, and likes to portray the terms extracted
from it as a kind of noble sacrifice.  Nobly or otherwise, the union gave up a lot of ground.
Although the UAW got shares in both companies, this was in
exchange for payments owed to workers’ health-care benefit
funds. The union wanted cash, not shares, for those obligations.
The bankruptcies shut down inefficient plants, forced out tens
of thousands of workers and cut wages for new hires. Some
treasured union work rules, including overtime payments after
working less than 40 hours a week and the “jobs banks” that
paid idled workers for doing nothing, are a thing of the past.  Both restructurings were extremely complex and unavoidably
less than ideal. In the GM case, secured creditors were
protected as they normally are in a bankruptcy, while junior
bondholders did better than they should have. In the Chrysler
deal, in contrast, secured creditors were trampled on in a
manner that still rankles them (despite administration claims
that they would have done even worse in liquidation). The union
made concessions that would have seemed unthinkable not long
before, but enormous pension obligations to union members were
left in place -- a problem lying in wait for the companies.  All in all, if this was a union victory, it is one the UAW
does not care to repeat. Confronting management in the time-
honored way will be more difficult now that the union has a
stake in the companies. It knows that members’ health-care
benefits, paid for by the trusts that hold the shares, will
suffer if the automakers’ finances do.  The unions’ unaffordable demands and the managers’ craven
capitulation have been a large part of Detroit’s problems over
the years. That dynamic may have changed because of these
structured bankruptcies -- and if it has, time will judge the
bailouts a success. Just don’t expect Romney to admit that the
public money was well spent, or Obama to say that the unions
helped make the mess that nearly brought down Big Auto.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 