-- Obama Sets Procedures for Handling Detained Terror Suspects
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-outlines-procedures-for-detaining-suspected-terrorists.html
The Obama administration released
procedures giving civilian prosecutors latitude in devising the
rules for how suspected terrorists should be handled during
detention, interrogation and prosecution.  The administration was required to come with the procedures
issued yesterday under a provision of last year’s National
Defense Authorization Act. Congress had sought to give the
military more control over people accused of plotting against or
attacking the U.S.  “A rigid, inflexible requirement to place suspected
terrorists into military custody would undermine the national
security interests of the  United States , compromising our
ability to collect intelligence and to incapacitate dangerous
individuals,” the policy directive says.  The guidelines say that any suspected terrorist detained by
a law enforcement agency will be handled under standard criminal
procedures until it’s determined that the individual is covered
by the law and should be turned over to the military. The
guidelines repeat President  Barack Obama ’s previous statement
that the directive does not apply to U.S. citizens.  The procedures authorize the Attorney General to waive the
military custody requirement under the provisions of the law
anytime doing so is in the interest of U.S. security, according
to a fact sheet accompanying the order.  Waiving Requirement  The fact sheet also outlines seven circumstances in which
the military custody requirement would be waived, including when
doing so would impede cooperation on counterterrorism, when a
foreign government refuses to extradite suspects if they will be
held by the military or when it would interfere with prosecution
of other suspects.  Other exceptions are suspects who are lawful permanent U.S.
residents arrested in the U.S., those arrested by local or state
 law enforcement , individuals arrested on charges other than
terrorism offenses and when transferring a suspect to military
custody would interfere with securing cooperation.  When he signed the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2012 on Dec. 31, Obama called the provisions
regulating the detention, interrogation and prosecution of
suspected terrorists “ill-conceived.” The administration had
worked with lawmakers on a compromise to address some of the
objections raised by Obama’s national security staff and federal
law enforcement officials, including FBI Director  Robert Mueller .  Full Authority  Still, Obama included a signing statement in which he said
he retains “full and unencumbered ability to waive any military
custody requirement.”  “I reject any approach that would mandate military custody
where law enforcement provides the best method of incapacitating
a terrorist threat,” he said in the statement.  Regarding a section on the executive branch’s authority to
detain suspected terrorists, including U.S. citizens captured on
the battlefield, Obama said he wanted “to clarify that my
administration will not authorize the indefinite military
detention without trial of American citizens.”  He argued that the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military
Force act, as well as rulings by the  Supreme Court , have already
conferred authority to the executive branch to make temporary
detentions.  “This section breaks no new ground and is unnecessary,”
he said.  Critics such as the  American Civil Liberties Union  said the
law gives presidents power to order indefinite detentions by the
military of civilians far from a battlefield and without formal
charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  