-- Obama Signs Executive Order Creating Panel to Probe Unfair Trade Practices
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-28T19:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-to-sign-executive-order-creating-trade-enforcement-panel.html
President  Barack Obama  signed an
executive order creating a U.S. panel to investigate unfair
trade practices by nations including  China .  The Interagency Trade Enforcement Center will bring
together lawyers, researchers, analysts and government agents to
monitor and enforce trade agreements and laws. The panel,
established within U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk ’s office,
will have its director chosen by Kirk, with a deputy selected by
Commerce Secretary  John Bryson .  The center will be ready to open within 90 days, funded by
the trade representative’s office and Commerce, Michelle O’Neill, deputy undersecretary of Commerce for international
trade, told reporters today during a conference call. The panel
will have employees from the departments of Agriculture,
Commerce,  Homeland Security , Justice, State and Treasury, as
well as U.S. intelligence agencies, according to  the order .  “We are doubling down on the administration’s commitment
to strong trade enforcement,” Kirk said during the briefing.
“We’ll continue to press our trading partners” to comply with
World Trade Organization rules “and abide by obligations.”  The effort may aid Obama’s attempt to boost economic growth
and  cut unemployment  by doubling exports to $3.14 trillion by
2015, from $1.57 trillion in 2009. Though the panel will be
empowered to investigate all foreign trade, Obama cited  China (TBBLCHNA)  as
a source of concern in his January State of the Union speech to
Congress.  WTO Complaints  Obama filed five World Trade Organization complaints
against China since taking office three years ago, compared with
seven  George W. Bush  filed from 2001, when China joined the
Geneva-based trade arbiter. Obama imposed duties on Chinese-made
tires, which he said has helped to create more than 1,000 U.S.
jobs.  Obama’s 2013 budget submitted to Congress two weeks ago
asked for at least 50 people and $26 million in funding. Kirk
today said the trade center is the most significant allocation
of resources since the trade representative’s office was created
almost 50 years ago. The agency’s estimated spending for 2012 is
$51 million.  “Signing this order brings us one more important step
closer to the level of trade enforcement we need to counter the
predatory practices of countries like China,” Representative
Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat, said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Now Congress needs to step up and make this new
office a priority by fully funding its operations.”  Obama has promised to boost support for U.S. manufacturers
such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  that face subsidized foreign competition. On
Feb. 17, he announced the Export-Import Bank will finance U.S.
companies for domestic as well as overseas sales to match
foreign competitors’ sources of official funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  