-- Obama’s Nominee Battle a One-Man Fight By Freshman Senator Lee
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-02-28T16:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-s-nominee-battle-a-one-man-fight-by-freshman-senator-lee.html
Never in his brief U.S. Senate
career has  Mike Lee , a Tea-Party backed freshman from Utah,
attracted such attention. In the past month, he was the subject
of the president’s weekly radio address, testified before a
House panel and appeared on television news programs five times.  Lee, a Republican, is the only senator fighting
confirmation of all of President Barack Obama’s executive and
judicial nominees, after the president angered party members by
appointing officials while Congress was on a holiday break.
Through his Jan. 4 action, Obama bypassed Senate confirmation of
his choices and installed the first U.S. consumer financial
watchdog, a position Republicans want to abolish. He also
appointed three members to the National Labor Relations Board.  “I can’t and won’t simply pretend as if nothing has
changed,” Lee, a 40-year-old lawyer elected in November 2010,
said in an interview. “Something has fundamentally changed in
the balance of power between the president and the Senate. And
he has shown a certain disrespect for our confirmation
prerogative.”  As Republicans seek to take control of the Senate in the
November election, Lee might end up posing more of a challenge
to his party than to the Democratic president. Obama is accusing
Republicans of obstructionism, playing off record-low
congressional approval ratings. The question is whether other
Republicans will join Lee or hold back and let him promote
himself as a champion to the party’s right wing.  Low Approval  “Given the low approval ratings for Congress, there’s some
risk,” said  Julian Zelizer , a history professor at  Princeton
University  in  New Jersey . “More obstruction can actually
backfire” for Republicans, he said. A Feb. 2-5 nationwide
Gallup poll of 1,029 adults showed public approval of Congress
fell to 10 percent, a record low.  Lee said he’ll do everything he can to oppose Obama’s
nominees, though any senator’s ability to stop confirmation is
limited. He can deny Democrats the unanimous consent agreements
needed to speed up floor votes on nominations and can place
“holds” on them. As a member of the Judiciary Committee, he
also can slow the advancement of nominees through the panel.  The Constitution allows the president to make appointments
without Senate confirmation when the chamber is in recess.
Republicans maintain that Obama’s appointment of  Richard Cordray 
as director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and
three members to the labor relations board were unlawful because
the Senate held brief sessions every three days during the
holiday break.  FDIC, FTC Officials  The Senate has confirmed four district court judges and one
appellate judge since reconvening in late January. Other pending
confirmations include the U.S. comptroller of the currency, the
chairman and vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and two Federal Trade Commission members.  So far, Republican leaders are supporting Lee’s right to
react as he wishes though they aren’t joining him in seeking to
block all nominees. Senator John Cornyn of  Texas , chairman of
the  National Republican Senatorial Committee , said the party is
trying to find a “measured and appropriate” response to the
appointments and shouldn’t play into the president’s narrative.  Obama reacted quickly after Lee took the Senate floor Jan.
26 to say he would resist confirmations unless the president
would rescind his recess appointments.  “‘We were sent here to serve the American people,” the
president said two days later in his weekly national radio
address. “They deserve better than gridlock and games. One
senator gumming up the works for the whole country is certainly
not what our founding fathers envisioned.”  Clerk to Alito  Lee is a former law clerk to Supreme Court Justice  Samuel Alito  and counsel to former  Utah  Governor  Jon Huntsman . Lee won
his Senate seat after Tea Party support helped him defeat three-
term Republican Robert Bennett at a state party convention.  His father, Rex Lee, was U.S. solicitor general under
President  Ronald Reagan  and the founding dean of Brigham Young
University’s law school. Lee’s older brother,  Thomas Lee , was
appointed to the Utah Supreme Court in 2010.  Rex Lee argued 59 cases before the  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L) , and
Mike Lee said attending argument sessions beginning at age 10
inspired his interest in government.  While Lee grew up mostly in Provo, he lived for several
years in McLean,  Virginia , three doors down from Democratic
Senator Robert Byrd of West Virginia. Lee’s Mormon family’s
monthly “home teacher” was Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid,
a Nevada Democrat and fellow Mormon who was a House member at
the time. Lee was close friends with Reid’s son, Josh, and spent
plenty of time at the Reid household, he said.  ‘First Democrats’  “They were probably the first Democrats I ever knew really
well,” he said. Lee said he learned from the Reids that “if I
was going to tout the virtues of Ronald Reagan and my admiration
of him, I had to be prepared to defend myself.”  Lee is working to boost his clout in conservative circles
in a way similar to Republican Senator Jim DeMint of  South
Carolina , whose political action committee helped bankroll  Tea
Party  candidates in 2010. Lee’s Constitutional Conservatives
Fund raised $31,260 at the end of last year, compared with the
$4.36 million DeMint’s PAC brought in.  In October, Lee asked the  Federal Election Commission  to
let his PAC create a separate super-PAC to take unlimited
donations from corporations, unions and individuals. The FEC
unanimously rejected his request on grounds that federal law
bars unlimited giving to federal candidates.  ‘Progressive’ Constitution  Critics say that’s not his only overreach.  Doug Kendall ,
president of the Constitutional Accountability Center, a
Washington group that calls the Constitution a “progressive”
document, said Lee highlights portions that support his
philosophy while seeking to alter or reinterpret elsewhere in
the document. Kendall pointed to Lee’s push last year to bar
automatic U.S. citizenship to babies born in this country when
their parents are illegal immigrants.  “His muscular, if completely erroneous, assertion of
constitutional support for the Tea Party’s agenda has made him a
hero in conservative political circles,” Kendall said. “His
very career has depended upon politicizing the Constitution.”  Sal Russo, political director of the Tea Party Express,
disagreed.  “He’s willing to stand up against the tide, and do the
right thing and say the right thing, even if in the short run it
might not be politically popular,” Russo said.  ‘Cannot Go Unchecked’  Since calling for a confirmation battle, Lee has appeared
twice on  CNN  and  Fox News , and once on Fox Business, to discuss
his stance. He testified Feb. 1 before the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, saying Obama’s assertion of power
“cannot go unchecked.”  Lee’s Senate Republican colleagues are more circumspect
about nominations.  “What I’d like to do is consider each appointment on its
merits,” said Senator Richard Shelby, the top Republican on the
Banking Committee, which will consider two Federal Reserve Board
nominees.  Some Republican senators up for re-election in November
have distanced themselves.  “That’s not something I would do,” said Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican, of Lee’s quest to block
confirmations.  Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican who faces a
primary challenge from a Tea Party-backed rival, declined to
discuss Lee’s actions. Instead, he praised a decision by Senate
Republican leaders to file a friend-of-the-court brief
supporting a lawsuit that challenges the recess appointments to
the labor board.  Reid said Feb. 17 he will urge Obama to make more than 50
executive-branch recess appointments unless the Senate takes
“significant action” to advance nominations before an April
recess. In an interview, Reid warned of election-year
repercussions if other Republicans follow the freshman senator.  “I think it’s the worst time for the Republicans to be
talking about stopping things,” the majority leader said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  