-- Obama Uses Union Event to Hit Republicans on Auto Bailout
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-28T18:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-uses-union-gathering-to-ridicule-republicans-on-auto-bailout-stance.html
President  Barack Obama  previewed a
theme for his re-election campaign to a union gathering in
Washington, saying the Republican presidential candidates would
have left the auto industry and its workers “hung out to dry.”  Obama spoke to the  United Auto Workers  on the same day the
Republican candidates, all of whom criticized the government
rescues of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, are
competing in a primary in Michigan, home of the U.S. auto
industry.  Without naming any of his potential rivals, Obama ridiculed
their stance and quoted a statement made by  Mitt Romney  in a
Nov. 19, 2008, New York Times op-ed article. He said the success
of the bailout has them trying to “completely rewrite
history.”  “The same folks who said if we went forward with our plan
to rescue  Detroit , ‘you can kiss the American  automotive
industry  goodbye,’’ Obama said at the UAW’s annual legislative
conference. ‘‘Now they’re saying we were right all along.”  Obama’s political advisers have said the campaign will
highlight his decision to intervene in the  auto industry  and
provide billions of dollars government financing at the outset
of his term. While unpopular at the time, and contested within
his administration, the intervention has allowed Chrysler and GM
to return to  profitability  and restore thousands of jobs.  GM last month reported a record $9.19 billion in net  income 
for 2011 as sales rose 7.6 percent last year to 9.03 million
vehicles. Chrysler reported a 42 percent increase in car and
truck deliveries compared with a year earlier.  Economic Benefits  The result has been a boom for the economies in the
electoral swing states of Michigan and  Ohio , as well as  Indiana .
All three have improved faster than that of the U.S. since April
2009 when GM and Chrysler were forced into U.S.-backed
bankruptcies as part of an $80-billion bailout, according to the
Philadelphia Federal Reserve.  Michigan  is expected to lead all
50 states over the next six months, the Fed data show.  The three states also ranked among the top eight performers
for improvement of economic health in the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States from the third quarter of 2009 through the
third quarter of last year.  Political Impact  Obama won all three states in 2008 and the  job increases 
may help him in November. The auto bailout story also fits in
Obama’s broader campaign argument that while the recovery from
the worst recession in seven decades has been sluggish, his
administration’s actions prevented the U.S. from sliding into a
depression.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer  confidence 
rose in February to the highest level in a year and more that
forecast, the New York-based private research group reported
today. A drop in firings, bigger payroll growth and higher stock
prices are supporting consumer sentiment and may spur the
spending accounting for about 70 percent of the economy.  Obama also seeking to portray himself as aligned with the
interest of middle-income Americans in seeking what he’s called
economic fairness.  He said autoworkers made sacrifices under the rescue plan,
including reductions in health-care benefits they had earned,
fewer hours and wages.  “They’re out there talking about you like you’re some
special interest that needs to be beaten down,” Obama said.
“Since when are hardworking men and women -- who are putting in
a hard day’s work every day -- since when are they special
interests?”  Democratic Constituency  Unions are a traditional Democratic constituency, providing
support with campaign spending and volunteers. The UAW reported
$4.8 million in independent expenditures to help elect Obama in
2008, according to the  Federal Election Commission . That was
second among labor unions to  Service Employees International
Union  and its locals, which spent $33 million.  While not billed as a political event, Obama was greeted as
he walked on stage by chants of “four more years” from the
1,700 people in attendance.  Founded in 1935, the UAW claims 390,000 members and another
600,000 retired members in the U.S.,  Canada  and Puerto Rico. It
represents workers at 1,700 employers, according to the union’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  