-- Obama Skirts Deadlock by Using Executive Power to Favor Allies
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-28T16:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-skirts-deadlock-by-using-executive-power.html
President  Barack Obama  is targeting
the concerns of political constituencies pivotal to his re-
election one signature at a time.  Stymied in Congress by Republican opposition, Obama has
used his executive power in recent months to issue a battery of
presidential directives aimed at goals of Democratic-leaning
interest groups and voters in battleground states.  Environmentalists saw the  Keystone XL (TRP)  pipeline stopped and
automobile fuel-efficiency standards raised. Young people gained
new rules to ease repayment terms for student loans. Hispanics
got a policy shifting the focus of deportations to criminals.  Women’s groups watched the White House stand firm against
Catholic bishops on providing free coverage for contraception.
Consumer advocates won the appointment of a financial watchdog
during a Senate recess, and unions got three recess appointments
to the National Labor Relations Board. The NLRB picks, including
one Republican to a seat reserved for the opposition party,
restored a quorum so the board can issue decisions.  While the use of executive power has sparked complaints
among Obama’s critics that he’s abusing his office, such moves -
- which are commonly made by presidents -- can generate
enthusiasm among Democratic voters at a time when the Republican
Party base is fired up about defeating the president, said  Tad Devine , a Democratic strategist.  Energizing the Base  “When you put together a basket of proposals like this and
you demonstrate you have the capacity to deliver on them, you
energize the core constituency,” said Devine, who worked on the
Al Gore and John Kerry presidential campaigns.  Even though Obama pushed through some of the most
comprehensive legislation in decades during the first two years
of his term covering health care, financial rules and economic
stimulus, that isn’t enough to get him re-elected, said Devine.  “The shelf life on progress in the minds of voters is
shorter than it is for fresh fruit,” he said.  The challenge Obama confronts in mobilizing supporters is
clear: 53 percent of Republicans say they are more enthusiastic
than usual about voting in this election compared with 45
percent of Democrats who say so, according to a Gallup/USA Today
 poll  conducted Feb. 16-19.  After spending much of last year failing to strike a debt-
reduction deal with Republicans, Obama looked weak to his core
supporters, said Andrew Baumann, a vice president of the
Democratic polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  ‘Undemocratic and Unhealthy’  The use of executive authority, combined with a more
confrontational approach toward Congress that Obama has pursued
since September, “creates a sense with his base voters that
he’s fighting,” Baumann said.  It has also spurred protests from Republicans and
libertarian groups.  “Even the president’s supporters ought to remember that
the presidency periodically changes hands and it’s undemocratic
and unhealthy to lodge this much power in one person’s hands,”
said Gene Healy, a vice president of the  Cato Institute  and
author of the 2008 book “The Cult of the Presidency: America’s
Dangerous Devotion to Executive Power.”  Since October, the White House has mounted a sustained
campaign of regular presidential announcements to focus public
attention on executive actions. Using the slogan “We Can’t
Wait,” the effort has portrayed Obama as producing results
while criticizing Congress for inaction.  Battleground States  Obama has also incorporated presidential directives with
special resonance to voters in states his re-election campaign
has identified as battlegrounds in the general election.  He announced rules easing  mortgage refinancing  for
homeowners who owe more than their property is worth during an
October trip to  Nevada , an epicenter of the housing bust where
58 percent of residential loans are underwater. The settlement
of federal and state probes into foreclosure abuses this month
also allowed Obama to tout billions of dollars in debt
forgiveness and refinancing aid funded by the industry.  In January, he traveled to Walt Disney World outside
 Orlando , Florida, to announce an initiative to boost tourism.  Addressing a sore point in industrial states such as Ohio,
Obama plans today to sign an executive order creating a U.S.
panel to investigate unfair trade practices by nations including
 China , the White House announced in a statement this morning.  ‘Veteran Gold Card’  The president has also sought to appeal to moderate voters.
He unveiled a “Veteran Gold Card” on Nov. 7 for returning
service members that entitles them to six months of enhanced
counseling at government-sponsored career centers. Last week,
the White House announced voluntary agreements with Internet
companies to provide a “Do Not Track” option on web browsers.  The executive actions figure more prominently in Obama’s
re-election-year strategy than that of President  Bill Clinton ,
who negotiated with Republican leaders on a welfare overhaul and
deficit reduction, said Bill Galston, who was a Clinton domestic
policy adviser.  “Clinton was much more focused on legislation,” said
Galston, an analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .
“But those were different circumstances when it was possible to
talk about a major piece of legislation.”  The White House has signaled it has low expectations for
getting much done with Congress this year. Deputy Press
Secretary  Josh Earnest  said Dec. 31 that a full-year extension
of a payroll tax cut was the last “must-do” legislation before
the election. Congress did that this month.  ‘Small-Bore Goodies’  “The president can spend his days handing out small-bore
goodies to his political allies, but none of these things are
going to create the jobs we need,”  Brendan Buck , a spokesman
for House Speaker John Boehner, an  Ohio  Republican, said in an
e-mail. “But the White House has already made clear they’re
done governing until after the election.”  Deputy White House Press Secretary Jamie Smith said Obama
“remains ready and willing to work with Congress to pass
legislation that ensures everyone gets a fair shake, a fair shot
and plays by the same rules.” She added, “if Congress won’t
act, the American people cannot wait and he will do all he can
to make sure our economy is strong and thriving.”  Obama is hardly the only president to use executive power
to appeal to constituencies. In 2002, President  George W. Bush 
departed from his free-trade support to impose tariffs on steel
imports, a measure popular in  West Virginia  and  Pennsylvania  as
well as Ohio. Five months before the Republican Bush’s 2004 re-
election, he tightened travel and financial restrictions on
Cuba, winning praise from the exile community in  Florida .  Truman’s Move  Even President  Harry Truman ’s 1948 executive order to
desegregate the armed forces may have had political dimensions,
said Adam Warber, an associate political science professor at
Clemson University in South Carolina and author of “Executive
Orders and the Modern Presidency.”  Warber said there’s “anecdotal evidence” that the order,
issued just weeks after Southern delegates walked out of the
Democratic National Convention over civil rights, was partly “a
way to reach out to African-American voters.”  By several measures, Obama has been less active than other
recent presidents in using his powers.  Last year, he issued 34 executive orders and averaged 36
per year during his first three years in office, according to
 the National Archives . That’s fewer than any president since
Franklin Roosevelt during equivalent periods of their terms.  Bush averaged 42 per year during his first three years, and
Clinton just over 50.  Public Profile  Even with Obama’s recess appointments of  Richard Cordray  to
head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and of the three
members to the NLRB on Jan. 4, he has made less use of his power
to bypass the confirmation process than his immediate
predecessors. He has averaged fewer than 11 such appointments
per year against an average of more than 21 per year by Bush and
more than 17 by Clinton, according to the  Congressional Research
Service .  Still, Obama has raised the public profile of his executive
actions.  “He’s not being subtle about wanting to claim credit and
to win favor with constituencies,” said  Julian Zelizer , a
presidential historian at Princeton University.  Obama surrounded himself with home health-care workers on
Dec. 15 and announced a proposed regulatory change to provide
federal overtime and  minimum wage  protection to almost 2 million
such workers. The step was lauded by leaders of the Service
Employees International Union and the American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees.  Assisting Immigrants  Obama has also highlighted steps taken to assist
immigrants, in interviews with the Spanish-language Univision
television network and Univision radio.  The administration said Aug. 18 it would do a case-by-case
review of pending deportation cases that would curtail removals
of illegal immigrants who arrived as young people, college
students, veterans and spouses of military personnel. A
regulation proposed Jan. 6 would allow illegal immigrants who
are immediate family members of U.S. citizens to remain in the
country while they apply for legal residency without a prolonged
absence from the country.  “They coincide specifically with what we asked him to
do,” said Representative Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat
who was arrested outside the White House July 26 protesting the
record level of deportations under Obama. Before the
administrative actions, Hispanic immigration advocates were
“very, very angry and disillusioned” with Obama, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 