-- Obama’s ‘Pretty Strong Teflon’ Deflects Foreign Policy Criticism
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/obama-s-pretty-strong-teflon-deflects-foreign-policy-election-attacks.html
Even as President Barack Obama
benefits from an improving economy, an arc of crises from
 Libya  to  Afghanistan  is pushing U.S. foreign policy worries
into an election dominated by concern over the American and
global economies.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  goes to Capitol Hill
today for the first of two days of testimony that will give
Republicans a chance to quiz her about Obama’s apology for U.S.
troops burning copies of the Koran in Afghanistan and other
issues. The Koran incident sparked a cycle of anti-American
violence that has claimed the lives of four U.S. soldiers and
raised doubts about the administration’s efforts to speed the
withdrawal of American combat forces and hand more
responsibility to Afghan troops and police.  At a Chamber of Commerce event yesterday in Livonia,
 Michigan , Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum
criticized Obama’s handling of the Koran burning. “We should
stop apologizing for America and stand up and defend our
troops,” he said in one of the few sections of his speech that
drew strong applause.  The administration’s challenges aren’t confined to
Afghanistan. Obama’s policies also are being tested by a Syria
verging on civil war; a political standoff with ally Egypt over
trials for 16 American pro-democracy workers; an Iraq struggling
to cope with corruption and civil strife following last year’s
U.S. troop withdrawal; and, most of all, by the rising tension
between  Israel  and Iran over the Islamic Republic’s alleged
pursuit of nuclear weapons.  Israeli Visitors  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  will fly to  Washington 
tonight for more talks with senior U.S. officials on the Iranian
nuclear threat. In less than a week, Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu arrives in the capital and is expected to
meet with Obama and address the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee, the main pro-Israel lobby in the U.S.  U.S. intelligence officials who have met with senior
Israeli officials concluded that an Israeli attack on  Iran ’s
nuclear facilities is increasingly likely, perhaps as early as
this spring. Israel’s leaders, according to the officials, said
they are prepared to act unilaterally without informing the U.S.
in advance. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss private discussions with the Israelis.  Traditional Claims  While polls show that the president has been able to
inoculate himself against traditional Republican claims of
Democratic weakness on defense, the protests and killings in
Afghanistan undermine administration arguments that it
eliminated Osama bin Laden and has made enough progress in
Afghanistan so the U.S. can leave, said  Seth Jones , a senior
political scientist at the Rand Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  “It makes it much more difficult to sell that argument
with events like the rioting and instability and then suicide
attacks that have all come together,” said Jones, who worked
for the U.S. Special Operations Command in Afghanistan last
year.  The “national security wild card” is a conflict with Iran
over its nuclear activities, “which is certainly a possibility
and could sharply raise energy prices,” Anthony Cordesman, a
defense policy analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, said in an interview.  “If Israel attacks Iran, and the price of gas rises by $2
a gallon, you can see this linking back to the economy and
election politics,” Caroline Wadhams, a senior fellow on
national security policy at the Center for American Progress, a
Washington research group with close ties to the administration,
said in an interview. “With Afghanistan, it’s hard to imagine
it would ever become a dominant issue.”  Iraq and Afghanistan  Obama has delivered on the foreign policy issues the White
House thinks voters care most about: the elimination of bin
Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders, the withdrawal of U.S. troops
from  Iraq  and a timetable for a drawdown of troops in
Afghanistan, said two administration officials, speaking on
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
comment.  Republican pollster  Ed Goeas  said his party’s candidates
may not have much to gain by criticizing Obama’s handling of the
situation in Afghanistan.  “Today, as much as a year ago, as much as two years ago,
voters are primarily looking at things through an economic
prism,” said Goeas of the Alexandria, Virginia-based Tarrance
Group, who conducts the nationwide Battleground Poll, a
bipartisan survey of voter attitudes. Obama “gets a certain
amount of credit on fighting terrorism and foreign affairs.”  ‘Pretty Strong Teflon’  Obama “has coated himself with some pretty strong
Teflon,” Martin Indyk, director of the foreign policy program
at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said in an
interview. “I don’t think he has much of a foreign policy
vulnerability from all these untoward events as long as he
sticks with his basic approach: to be tough on terrorism but to
be ending the wars in the greater  Middle East  and bringing the
troops home.”  So far, foreign policy barely registers as an issue in
public opinion polls. Asked for “the single most important
issue in your choice for president,” 51 percent of respondents
said the economy and jobs while 2 percent said terrorism and
national security, according to a CBS News Poll conducted Jan
12-15. The margin of error was plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points.  Asked whether Obama “will keep America safe,” 61 percent
of respondents said “very well” or “somewhat well” describes
the president, according to an Associated Press-Gfk poll
conducted Feb. 16-20. The margin of error was plus or minus 4.1
percentage points.  No Wedge Issue  Republicans have yet to find a “wedge issue” on foreign
policy, said former Democratic Representative Lee Hamilton of
Indiana, a veteran voice on foreign policy and now director of
the Center on Congress at Indiana University in Bloomington.  While Republicans have accused Obama of “apologizing” for
America, most recently after the Koran burning, he said, “I
don’t think it’s a cutting-edge-type issue that will resonate in
the general election.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , in a Feb. 24
policy speech in Detroit, said Obama hasn’t been tough enough on
trade disputes with  China  and has been slow to ramp up sanctions
and other pressure on Iran to avoid having “our future and our
kids’ future threatened by a nuclear Iran.”  The Iran situation “is the toughest one for the president,
and the one that could explode before the election,” Hamilton
said. “His Israeli policy has floundered. Iran is going to stay
on the front burner because of the nuclear program.”  Oil Prices  Oil surged to the highest level in almost 10 months on Feb.
24 as escalating tension with Iran threatens supplies and signs
that a global economic recovery will boost demand. Iran, OPEC’s
second-biggest crude producer, has threatened to block shipments
through the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for about a fifth
of the world’s globally traded crude, if its exports are
blocked.  Oil for April delivery fell $1.21 yesterday to settle at
$108.56 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices
have increased 9.8 percent this year.  An improving job market along with an 8.75 percent surge in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year are helping keep
Americans optimistic in the face of rising gasoline prices. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to the highest level since
April 2008 in the week ended Feb. 19.  Declining Unemployment  The  unemployment rate  declined in January to 8.3 percent,
the lowest since February 2009, and employers added 243,000
workers to payrolls, the most in nine months. Builders broke
ground on more homes last month, and sales of existing houses
climbed in January to the highest level since May 2010.  “By the time the election comes, Obama could be facing
worse problems than high gasoline prices,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “There could be a full-blown war in the
Middle East.”  The turmoil in Afghanistan demonstrates how unforeseen
events can put the administration’s plans in doubt.  Marine General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO commander
in Afghanistan, recalled all coalition advisers from Afghan
ministries in and around Kabul over the weekend after two
American officers were shot in the back of the head in the
heavily guarded Interior Ministry. Those deaths and two others a
few days earlier in the country’s east, cast a shadow on the
future of the training and mentoring effort that’s a key part of
the U.S. strategy to wind down the war.  Democracy Movement  The democracy movement that the administration embraced as
an “Arab Spring” has become increasingly problematic with the
rise of Islamists in  Egypt  following the ouster of President
Hosni Mubarak, a growing death toll in Syria and ethnic and
sectarian strife in Iraq and feuding militias in Libya.  Despite the annual $1.3 billion in aid to Egypt at stake
and Clinton’s two meetings with Egyptian Foreign Minister
Mohamed Amr in recent days, 16 American democracy workers --
including the son of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood -- are
facing trial April 26 for operating without proper registration
and accepting foreign funds, charges the U.S. rejects.  In Iraq, the prospect of a flourishing democracy built on
eight years of U.S. investment of money and lives is fading.
Just a few months after the last U.S. soldier left, “the
country has become something close to a failed state,” Ned
Parker of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York wrote in
an analysis in the March/April issue of Foreign Affairs
magazine.  Syrian Violence  Most pressing is  Syria , a neighbor of Israel, where
violence is spiraling into civil war. President Bashar al- Assad’s military forces have killed about 8,500 people,
according to the Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Clinton returned on Feb. 26 from an inaugural “Friends of
Syria” conference in Tunisia, which demanded Assad immediately
stop the shelling, allow humanitarian workers into the country
and adhere to an Arab League plan that would have him hand power
to a deputy to create a unity government. Assad responded the
same day with a speech on State TV declaring his confidence in
victory.  The Obama administration has rejected a replay of Libya,
where air power by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization helped
rebels topple Qaddafi. Republicans “may try to use the Syria
case as another example of the  United States  not using its power
effectively,” said Wadhams. “But Americans are exhausted with
war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  