-- Occupy St. Paul’s Eviction in London Leads to 23 Protesters Being Arrested
-- B y   S c h u y l e r   C l e m e n t e
-- 2012-02-28T13:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/occupy-london-protesters-evicted-from-camp.html
Occupy  London  protesters were
evicted from their encampment at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London
in an overnight operation that resulted in 23 arrests.  City of London  Police described the eviction as “largely
peaceful” in a statement on its website. Bailiffs employed by
the  City of London  Corp. removed protesters’ tents and equipment
from the churchyard.  Occupy London protesters have been camping outside of St.
Paul’s since the middle of October. They were inspired by the
Occupy Wall Street protest in  New York , which was evicted on
Nov. 15. There is still an Occupy London camp located in
Finsbury Square in the borough of Islington.  “This morning, the City of London Corp. and  St. Paul’s
Cathedral  have dismantled a camp and displaced a small
community, but they will not derail a movement,” Occupy London
said today in an e-mailed statement. “This is only the
beginning.”  The protesters were denied permission last week to appeal a
court ruling that gave the City of London Corp. permission to
proceed with the eviction. About 100 tents were at the site when
bailiffs and police arrived last night, said Sanjay Odedra, a
spokesman for the City of London Corp.  Protesters from the St. Paul’s camp gathered at Finsbury
Square today.  ‘Peaceful Protestors’  “We’ve always said we’re going to be peaceful
protesters,” said Harjeet Kaur, who had been at the St. Paul’s
camp since Oct. 15. Kaur said the tactics of the police clearing
the camp were “completely over the top.”  “The fact that the Occupy London protests ended with
conflict of any kind in this way was avoidable and
unnecessary,” Jenny Jones, the Green Party candidate for London
mayor and a member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said in
a statement.  The church said it regretted that bailiffs had to evict the
protesters.  “In the past few months, we have all been made to re-
examine important issues about social and economic justice and
the role the cathedral can play,” St. Paul’s said in a
statement.  Protester George Barda, standing outside St. Paul’s site,
said the eviction would mean a loss of visibility for the
movement.  “The challenge we now need to respond to is how to remain
vibrant and current,” said Barda, 36, a social justice
campaigner who has been living at St. Paul’s since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Schuyler Clemente in London at 
 sclemente1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  