-- Oil Drops a Second Day on Concern Prices Near 9-Month High May Curb Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-28T13:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/oil-drops-a-second-day-on-concern-prices-near-9-month-high-may-curb-demand.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  on growing speculation that demand may be curbed by a rally
that has driven prices to a nine-month high.  West Texas Intermediate futures slid as much as 0.9 percent
after falling for the first time in six days yesterday. Demand
for oil may deteriorate after London-traded Brent rose to a
record high when priced in euros and pounds, according to Morgan
Stanley. U.S. supplies probably rose to the highest level in
five months last week, a Bloomberg News survey showed before a
report from the Energy Department tomorrow.  “We do not see sustained gains from here, and the market
is likely to pause,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in  London  who predicts that prices will remain little
changed this week. “The market has been overbought lately, with
a substantial geopolitical  risk premium  in London, due to
ongoing jitters over  Iran ’s controversial nuclear program.”  Oil for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
declined as much 94 cents to $107.62 a barrel in electronic
trading and was at $107.67 a barrel at 1:47 p.m. London time.
The contract yesterday fell 1.1 percent to $108.56, snapping the
longest winning streak since January 2010. Prices rose 6.3
percent last week to the highest since May 3 and are up 10
percent this year.  Brent oil for April settlement dropped as much as $1.64 to
$122.53 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.
Prices have advanced 15 percent this year on concern the west’s
dispute with Iran over the Islamic republic’s atomic research
may lead to a disruption in exports from the  Middle East .  Keystone XL  West Texas Intermediate narrowed its discount to Brent for
a second day after TransCanada Corp. said it will proceed with
building a $2.3 billion segment of the Keystone XL oil pipeline
from  Oklahoma  to the Texas coast. The link will help relieve a
supply bottleneck at the delivery point for WTI crude.  The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to  New York- 
traded WTI was at $15.44 a barrel. It reached a record of $27.88
on Oct. 14.  “U.S. demand is particularly weak,”  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty, said by
telephone today from Sydney. “West Texas and Brent contracts
hit technical levels and so we saw some pullback. There’s also
concerns broadly in the market that  oil prices  at these levels
will lead to demand destruction.”  New York crude has fallen since Feb. 24, when the 14-day
relative strength index for front-month contracts climbed to
76.9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A reading above
70 indicates futures have risen too quickly and further gains
probably aren’t sustainable. Today’s 14-day RSI was at about 70.  Indian Rupees  Brent, the benchmark for more than half the world’s crude,
is also approaching an all-time high in Indian rupees and
Brazilian reals. There may be no demand growth for oil this year
as prices at current levels curb use in economies that are
already slowing,  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said by telephone yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories probably rose 1.1 million barrels in
the period ended Feb. 24, according to the median of eight
analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline
stockpiles probably increased  250,000 barrels  while distillate
supplies, a category that includes diesel and heating oil, may
have declined 500,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its inventory data today. The API collects stockpile
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the DOE for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  