-- Oil Tankers Seen Falling 42% as Japan Weakens Most Since Tsunami: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/oil-tankers-seen-falling-42-as-japan-weakens-most-since-tsunami-freight.html
The largest drop in Japanese oil
consumption since last year’s earthquake and tsunami may cause
tanker rates to plunge 42 percent next quarter, threatening the
biggest rally in shares of shipping companies since 2005.  Demand in Japan, the second-largest destination for
supertankers after China, will drop 19 percent in the second
quarter from now, according to the  International Energy Agency 
in Paris. Daily rates for the 1,000-foot-long ships will average
$17,000, compared with $29,280 now, the median of nine analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors may profit by
buying forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and used to
bet on shipping costs, which anticipate $10,883.  The six-member  Bloomberg Tanker Index (TANKER) , including  Frontline (FRO) 
Ltd., rallied 11 percent this year on prospects for daily crude
demand to surpass 90 million barrels for the first time ever.
That’s masking the slump in Japanese consumption and the weakest
annual gain in Chinese oil buying since at least 2006.
Shipowners are relying on both nations to help curb a capacity
glut as the fleet expands to a three-decade high.  “Owners need all the help they can get,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo,
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 36 in percent in the past year. “Such a big decline in
Japanese  consumption  is really negative because it is still such
an essential source of demand.”  Largest Shipbroker  Frontline (FRO) , based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , reported a fourth-
quarter net loss of $343.7 million on Feb. 17 after reorganizing
to withstand the worst rout in rates in 12 years. The most
modern vessels and outstanding orders at shipyards were sold to
a new entity called Frontline 2012 after the company said in
November it risked running out of cash.  Just one of 27 analysts covering Frontline  recommends 
buying the shares after they jumped 22 percent this year in Oslo
trading. The stock will decline 34 percent to 20.53 kroner
($3.66) in the next 12 months, according to the average of 19
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rates for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, fell 7
percent this year. They averaged $22,137 in 2011, the lowest
level since 1999, according to data from London-based Clarkson
Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. A decline to $18,000 may
make tanker rates unprofitable once more after this quarter’s
gains. Frontline, until last month the biggest operator of the
vessels, says it needs $23,900 to break even.  Crude rose 10 percent to $108.68 a barrel in  New York  this
year amid mounting concern that international sanctions on  Iran 
over its nuclear program will disrupt oil supply from the  Middle
East . Fewer cargoes from the world’s biggest producing region
would further weaken demand for tankers.  Cash Reserves  While the projected second-quarter average would still be
unprofitable for many owners, it’s better than several months
last year. Rates were below that level from July to October,
Clarkson data show. A measure of the combined losses of the
members of the Bloomberg Tanker Index will narrow by 50 percent
this year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China is taking steps to accelerate growth. The People’s
Bank of China said Feb. 18 lenders would need to set aside less
cash for reserves, the second such easing in three months.
Exports and imports fell for the first time in two years in
January and new lending was the lowest for that month in five
years, government data show.  Latin America  The IEA doesn’t expect Japanese oil demand to return to the
depths seen after last year’s natural disaster, when consumption
plunged 19 percent to 3.92 million barrels a day in the second
quarter. This year’s projection is for a 19 percent decline to
4.15 million barrels.  Japan ’s economy will expand 2.1 percent in the three months
ending in June, compared with a 1.5 percent contraction a year
earlier, the median of 18 economist estimates shows. The temblor
and tsunami shut about 90 percent of Japanese nuclear capacity,
leaving it more dependent on fossil fuels.  Global oil demand will rise 0.9 percent this year as gains
in parts of  Asia ,  Africa , Latin America and the Middle East
exceed declines in  North America  and  Europe , the IEA estimates.
Seaborne trade in oil will swell 3.1 percent, Clarkson projects.
That’s still less than the 6.5 percent expansion it anticipates
for the VLCC fleet.  The shipping industry has been contending with a capacity
glut since 2009 as the biggest global economic contraction since
World War II coincided with the start of the largest
shipbuilding program in about four decades. Owners  ordered  more
vessels in 2007 and 2008 when daily rates rose as high as
$229,484, and those carriers are still leaving yards across Asia
now.  Container Line  Outstanding orders for VLCCs equate to 12 percent of
current capacity, with 21 new vessels being built, according to
figures from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay Ltd. Each ship
can haul about 2 million barrels of oil, more than  France 
consumes in a day. The VLCC fleet already expanded 15 percent
since the middle of 2008 to its biggest since 1982, with a
combined carrying potential of 1.4 billion barrels of crude, or
more than two months of U.S. demand, the data show.  There are similar gluts across the industry. The Baltic Dry
Index, a measure of costs to haul coal and iron ore, fell 58
percent this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange  in  London .
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSK) , owner of the largest container line,
said Feb. 17 it was cutting capacity from Asia to Europe, the
second-biggest international trade route, after rates tumbled.
About 90 percent of world trade goes by sea, the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations estimates.  Energy Consumer  While the second quarter tends to be the weakest as
refineries carry out maintenance, the projected drop this year
would be the biggest since 2006, excluding the slump in Japanese
oil demand caused by the earthquake and tsunami in March. Growth
in the nation’s economy will slow for at least three consecutive
quarters from June, the median of as many as 18 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Compounding that will be weaker gains in  China ’s net crude
purchases, with state-owned  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ) 
anticipating a climb of 5.9 percent.  China’s economy , the
world’s biggest energy user, should grow 8.2 percent this year,
the slowest pace since 1999, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast in January. Chinese refineries may be using 77 percent
of capacity by May, 7 percentage points less than now, according
to Oilchem.net, a Shandong, China-based researcher.  About 15 percent of laden VLCCs are bound for China at any
one time, with about another 9 percent going to Japan, ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Asian countries’
distance from producing regions in the Middle East and West
Africa ties tankers up for longer relative to European
destinations, increasing income for owners and reducing the
number of available vessels.  Annual Loss  Teekay Corp. (TNK) , located in Vancouver and up 6.7 percent in
New York trading this year, and Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Nordic
American Tankers Ltd. (NAT) , ahead 23 percent, have the biggest
weightings in the Bloomberg Tanker Index. Neither company
operates VLCCs. Each will report a third consecutive annual loss
for this year, analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A big drop in demand from Japan and China would be a
significant negative for oil shipping,” said Marius Magelie, an
analyst at ABG Sundal Collier in Oslo. “The market is already
very, very challenging, because there are just too many
vessels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net . 