-- Oil Drilling Finds Friends Among Greens Embracing Carbon Capture
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-28T05:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/oil-drilling-finds-friends-among-greens-embracing-carbon-capture.html
Oil drilling, long opposed by
environmentalists worried about  climate change , gained a friend
among green groups that say old wells may offer a low-cost way
to keep a gas linked to global warming out of the atmosphere.  At an event today in Washington,  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Arch Coal
Inc. (ACI)  will join their usual green foes to push tax breaks for so-
called enhanced oil recovery, which advocates say will boost
domestic production and curb emissions of carbon dioxide, a
greenhouse gas scientists blame for rising temperatures.  The two-dozen companies and groups “may not agree on many
things,” Judi Greenwald, vice president for technology and
innovation at the  Center for Climate and Energy Solutions  in
Washington, said in an interview. “But this is a solution that
we all can agree on.”  Greenwald assembled a 36-page report, which will be
released today. The group is calling for a production tax credit
for capturing and transporting carbon dioxide. That would
encourage makers of ethanol, natural gas and electricity to tap
the carbon dioxide produced in their industrial processes and
send it through pipelines to  oil wells .  Drilling companies pump carbon dioxide into the earth,
where it acts as a solvent to help extract oil from older
deposits. It helps produce 281,000 barrels of oil a day in the
U.S., or 6 percent of domestic production, according to the
report by the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions and Great
Plains Institute. Once it is pumped deep into the ground, most
of the gas remains trapped, and kept from release into the
atmosphere where it can cause global warming, Greenwald said.  Underground Reservoirs  Most of the carbon dioxide used in oil drilling is pulled
from underground reservoirs and transported to the wells.
Meanwhile, U.S. power plants emitted 2.3 billion metric tons of
carbon dioxide equivalents in 2010, according to the
Environmental Protection Agency.  With investments in pipelines and upgraded technologies to
improve collection of carbon dioxide,  oil companies  could buy
the gas from manufacturers or utilities instead of extracting it
from underground deposits. The cost of carbon dioxide tracks the
cost of oil, with a metric ton usually costing $39 when a barrel
of oil is at $100, said Brad Crabtree, policy director for the
 Great Plains Institute , a Minneapolis-based nonprofit group
working on projects that support renewable energy, and another
report author.  The final report is endorsed by representatives of Atlanta-
based Southern, which produces power from coal; Arch Coal, a St.
Louis-based mining company; and General Electric Co. The
environmental groups include the  Natural Resources Defense
Council  and Clean Air Task Force.  Oil companies discussed the group’s recommendations and
declined to endorse the final report to avoid appearing to ask
for tax breaks while lawmakers and the Obama administration
debate the industry’s current tax liabilities, Crabtree said.  “They are standing on the sidelines about any new
incentives,” he said.  The groups recommends giving the tax breaks to suppliers of
carbon dioxide, not oil companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  