-- Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Decline 4%
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-28T14:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-decline-4-.html
Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
dropped more than forecast in December to the lowest level since
the housing crisis began in mid-2006, indicating foreclosures
are hampering the industry’s recovery.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from a year earlier, after decreasing 3.9 percent
in November, a report from the group showed today in New York.
The  median  forecast of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 3.7 percent decline.  Distressed properties returning to the market mean prices
will stay depressed, prompting buyers to wait for cheaper
bargains and impeding construction. While sales have begun to
stabilize, a rebound in home values may take time, underscoring
Federal Reserve policy makers’ concern that weakness in housing
is blunting their efforts to spur the economic expansion.  “We’re still dealing with a lot of distressed properties
and very low absolute levels of demand,” said Sean Incremona, a
senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , who accurately
projected the 4 percent drop. “We’re not seeing any of the
stabilization in housing activity filter through to prices.”  A separate report today from the Commerce Department showed
orders for U.S. durable goods fell in January by the most in
three years, led by a slowdown in demand for commercial aircraft
and business equipment.  Three Years  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
 slumped  4 percent, more than forecast, after a revised 3.2
percent gain the prior month. Economists projected a 1 percent
decline, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,367.54 at 9:34 a.m. in New York. The 10-year Treasury yield
fell two basis points from late yesterday to 1.90 percent.  Economists’ estimates for the year-over-year change in the
home price index for December ranged from declines of 4.1
percent to 3.2 percent, according to the survey. The Case-
Shiller index is based on a three-month average, which means the
December data was influenced by transactions in October and
November.  The November reading was previously reported as a year-
over-year drop of 3.7 percent.  Home prices adjusted for seasonal variations fell 0.5
percent in December from the prior month, following a decrease
of 0.7 percent in November. Unadjusted prices fell 1.1 percent
from the prior month.  Shows Trends  The year-over-year gauge, begun in 2001, provides better
indications of trends in prices, the group has said. The panel
includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Nineteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline, led by a 12.8 percent drop in Atlanta.  Detroit 
showed the only increase, with prices rising 0.5 percent in
December.  Nationally, prices decreased 4 percent in the fourth
quarter from the same time in 2010 to the lowest level since
mid-2006. They fell 3.8 percent from the previous three months
before seasonal adjustment, and fell 1.7 percent after taking
those changes into account.  “The pickup in the economy has simply not been strong
enough to keep home prices stabilized,”  David Blitzer , chairman
of the S&P index committee, said in a statement. “If anything,
it looks like we might have re-entered a period of decline as we
begin 2012.”  Demand Steadies  Recent reports indicate demand is steadying.  Existing-home (ETSLTOTL) 
sales rose to a 4.57 million annual rate in January, the
National Association of Realtors reported last week. While it
was the best showing since May 2010, distressed properties made
up the largest portion of all purchases since April.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and D.R. Horton Inc. are among builders
benefiting from job growth as well as cheaper properties and
record-low  mortgage rates .  “We’re optimistic,” Doug Yearley, chief executive officer
at Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll Brothers, said in a Feb. 22
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We have orders that are
up significantly. We’re seeing deposits up, we’re seeing traffic
up.”  Excess supply of distressed properties is dragging down
values for all houses. About 5 million houses have been lost to
foreclosure in the U.S. since 2006, according to RealtyTrac Inc.
Banks may seize more than 1 million U.S. homes this year after
legal scrutiny of their foreclosure practices slowed actions
against delinquent homeowners in 2011, it said last month.  “Restoring the health of the housing market is a necessary
part of a broader strategy for economic recovery,” Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in the cover letter of a Fed study on the
housing market that he sent to Congress last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  