-- Hong Kong’s Basement-Gate Points to Shaky Future: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-02-28T21:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/hong-kong-s-basement-gate-points-to-shaky-future-william-pesek.html
Washington had Watergate, Italy
Bunga Bunga-gate, London Murdoch-gate. Now,  Hong Kong  brings us
Basement-gate.  It’s a scandal that many of us outside the city of 7
million might find hard to fathom.  Henry Tang , the favorite to
be Hong Kong’s next leader, has an illegal basement. In my mind,
that’s only a problem if you are storing drugs, trafficking
humans or evading taxes. For Hong Kong residents squeezed by
surging rents and living costs, Tang’s underground aerie, which
he built without a government permit, is outrageous enough.  Even as  poverty  in Hong Kong rises, Tang’s hidden
wonderland contains a Japanese-style sauna, well-stocked wine
cellar, dance studio and theater, according to local media.
Tang’s claims that it’s just a storage space -- one twice the
size of more than 90 percent of private homes in the city -- and
that it’s all his wife’s fault didn’t help.  The basement is really a metaphor for the tensions pulsing
below Hong Kong’s surface. Its people are pushing back as
Beijing foists an unpopular chief executive on the city. Tang
personifies one of the biggest gripes among locals: how  China 
and the  city ’s elite lord over the place and ignore growing
social, political and economic fissures 15 years after the U.K.
handed Hong Kong back to China.  Chinese Proxy  The city’s 99 percent deserve more consideration from the
billionaires who tower over the place,  Li Ka-shing  included.
Predictably, Hong Kong’s richest man and his vast business
interests support Tang ahead of the March 25 coronation, errr,
election. Billionaires don’t tend to bite the hands that feed
them -- like the billionaires in Beijing.  We often think of China’s 1 percent as business moguls
running energy and real-estate companies. There’s money in
politics, too. The wealthiest 70 members of China’s legislature
added almost $90 billion to their bank accounts last year,
according to Hurun Report, which tracks the country’s wealthy.
The 2011 increase is more than the combined net worth of all 535
members of the  U.S. Congress , the president and his Cabinet and
the nine Supreme Court justices. Really, if this value-investing
stuff doesn’t work out,  Warren Buffett  could always see about
getting a Chinese passport and enter government.  China believes that Tang is the best guy to make sure the
 city  stays in line, while keeping the democracy movement under
wraps, pesky environmentalists quiet and Hong Kong’s coveted
image as a free-market Mecca intact.  The way the laissez-faire crowd gushes over Hong Kong has
always been a bit surreal. It’s routinely ranked the  freest
economy  anywhere thanks to its low taxes, unrestricted entry of
foreign capital and rule of law. The Ayn Rand set has tended to
ignore some of Hong Kong’s other qualities, including a pegged
currency, a state-backed Disney theme park, an oligarch economy
ruled over by a handful of billionaires like Li and a leader
anointed by officials in  Beijing. (SHCOMP)   Top-Down Rule  The non-transparent methods of the selection committee of
1,200 that will name a successor to Donald Tsang contrast
sharply with Hong Kong’s reputation as a great place to do
business. How free can the economy be when the vested elite get
to cook the policy-making process? Isn’t that the very
definition of an uncompetitive market? Oddly, recent elections
in the mainland Chinese village of Wukan seemed more democratic
than Hong Kong’s.  Arguments that Hong Kong was better under U.K. rule miss
the point that Chinese control isn’t going away and the city’s
residents aren’t about to get the chance to choose their own
leader. But Hong Kong’s free press is beating a tattoo over
Tang, and public discontent could morph into Arab Spring-like
protests.  The controversy over Basement-gate shows why Hong Kong
needs to move its politics above ground. Is China listening?  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at 
 Jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 