-- Monsanto, Apple, Hermes, Elsevier: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-28T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/monsanto-apple-hermes-koch-industries-intellectual-property.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, won the dismissal of a lawsuit by growers of
organic crops seeking to have its patents for genetically
altered seeds invalidated.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  Manhattan  threw
out the organic growers’ lawsuit in a ruling dated Feb. 24,
saying it represented no controversy and that she had no
jurisdiction over the suit.  Organic farmers, seed companies and food safety groups sued
St. Louis-based Monsanto in March 2011 seeking court protection
against possible lawsuits by the company for patent infringement
if genetically modified crops were mistakenly found among their
yields.  The growers, claiming that Monsanto “aggressively
asserted” its patent claims against hundreds of U.S. farmers,
sought a ruling from Buchwald that the patents for genetically
engineered seeds are invalid because they are “injurious.”  Daniel Ravicher, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the
plaintiffs will appeal.  “The ruling makes it clear that there was neither a
history of behavior nor a reasonable likelihood that Monsanto
would pursue patent infringement matters against farmers who
have no interest in using the company’s patented seed
products,” David Snively, Monsanto’s general counsel, said in a
statement.  Monsanto makes transgenic seeds by introducing the genetic
code of one species into the DNA of another. Its transgenic seed
for soybeans, called Roundup Ready, prevents the plants from
being killed by an herbicide that it also sells.  The case is Organic Seed Growers & Trade Association v.
Monsanto Co., 11-02163, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  New York  (Manhattan).  Apple Wins Temporary Ruling on German IPad, IPhone Sales  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a German appeals court ruling temporarily
blocking the enforcement of a patent verdict obtained by
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  in December.  Motorola Mobility, which forced Apple to remove some iPad
and iPhone models from its German online store for a short
period, can’t enforce the verdict during an appeal. The ruling
was issued after the iPad maker revised license-agreement terms
it offered Motorola Mobility, the court said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by Google Inc.,
and Apple are entangled in numerous patent disputes. Yesterday’s
case concerned a so-called standard essential patent that
companies must license to competitors because they can’t produce
the devices without the technology. Cupertino, California-based
Apple has also filed a complaint with the European Union
accusing Motorola Mobility of violating a pledge to license
industry-standard patents on fair terms.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment. Motorola
Mobility’s press office didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , would
violate its duties if it doesn’t accept the new offer and thus
can’t make use of the verdict during an appeal, the court said.
It didn’t disclose details of Apple’s offer.  Apple made a first request to the appeals court in January
over the issue. At that time, the judges said the terms Apple
offered weren’t adequate, supporting the reasoning of the lower
court in Mannheim,  Germany , that had issued the December
verdict. Apple then revised its offer.  Yesterday’s ruling helps Apple’s prospects in the appeals
case, which hinges on the terms Motorola Mobility must accept to
be forced to grant a license. In their December verdict the
Mannheim judges rejected Apple’s offer, saying it didn’t
adequately take Motorola Mobility’s interest into account.  The case is OLG Karlsruhe, 6 U 136/11.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hermes’ Request for Chinese Trademark Cancellation Rejected  Hermes International (RMS) , the French maker of luxury goods,
lost a trademark challenge against a Chinese company using a
name similar to its Chinese name, Malaysia’s Sun newspaper
 reported.   The Paris-based maker of silk scarves, neckties and leather
goods had sought cancellation of the Chinese trademark for a
menswear company from Guangdong province on the grounds of too
much similarity, according to the Sun.  China ’s Trademark Appeal Board said Hermes failed to prove
the menswear company had acquired its mark illegally or that it
was generally well known, the newspaper reported.  Hermes is known in China as “Ai Ma Shi,” according to the
Sun.  Koch’s Invista’s Trademark Enforcement Bears Fruit in Poland  Koch Industries Inc.’s Invista unit, maker of Coolmax and
Supplex fabric, said in a  statement  that Polish customs has
seized and destroyed more than 2,000 pairs of trousers falsely
bearing Lycra hangtags.  Invista is the owner of the Lycra brand.  The trousers were imported from China, and the stretchy
fiber in the pants wasn’t Lycra, according to the Wichita,
Kansas-based company. The hangtags were counterfeit as well, the
company said.  The items were destroyed in December near Opole,  Poland .
The company said it is presently running “prove your identity”
trademark campaigns in China,  Turkey , and  Thailand .  CitisecOnline.com Changes Name to COL Financial Group  CitisecOnline.com (COL) , a provider of online stock trading
services, said that the Securities and Exchange Commission has
approved its name change to COL Financial Group Inc., the
Manila-based BusinessWorld  reported .  The Pasig City, Philippines-based company changed its name
in the wake of a trademark infringement suit brought in Makti
City Regional Trial Court in the  Philippines  by  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
of New York, according to BusinessWorld.  The court ordered Citisec.com to comply with an agreement
to adopt and register certain names for its operations in the
Philippines and  Hong Kong  without using “citi” as part of the
names, the publication reported.  CitisecOnline began in 1999, and is presently the only
brokerage listed on the Philippine Stock Exchange, according to
BusinessWorld.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Righthaven.com Website Comes Back Online Under New Ownership  The new owner of the  Righthaven.com  domain name has posted
a letter to content creators on its website.  The domain name was put up for auction after Righthaven LLC
failed to pay court-ordered attorney fees for a defendant it
sued in a copyright-infringement case. The Las Vegas-based
company filed more than 100 infringement suits in 2011, chiefly
its attempts to enforce copyrights for content from Stephens
Media Group’s newspapers.  The suits targeted blogs and websites that posted content
without authorization. Courts failed to buy Righthaven’s
argument that it had standing to sue for infringement, noting
that the copyright assignment documents between the newspaper
and Righthaven indicated that Stephens still retained control of
the content.  The domain name was sold at auction Jan. 6 for $3,300. The
new owner is OrtCloud GmbH, which appears to be a Web-hosting
service based in Zug,  Switzerland . Spineful Web Hosting is a
unit of OrtCloud.  The letter published on the website has an image of a
jellyfish inside the red circle-slash design that stands for
negation. It warns content producers, whom it addresses as
“Most Revered Content Creator,” that “to much of the economy
today and certainly to most politicians, you have become little
more than a means to an end.”  The letter announces a partnership with Mark Randazza and
his Randazza Legal Group, which has represented defendants in
copyright-infringement cases, including some of those brought by
Righthaven. The partnership extends to Brown White & Newhouse
LLP, a Los Angeles firm with a criminal-defense focus.  Righthaven.com said it has teamed with a domain name
service that has “a history of treating third party requests
skeptically, but respectfully.” The website also contains a
link to  a page it posted  as part of the webwide protests against
proposed U.S. copyright legislation.  On Feb. 21 a writ of execution was entered against
Righthaven for $34,045.50 in attorney fees. This permits seizure
of Righthaven’s personal property, real property, or a lien
against real property.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Wayne Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-
PMP-RJJ, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For copyright news, click here.  Elsevier Backs Down From Support for Research Works Act  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , the London-based publisher of technical
and scientific journals, has withdrawn its support of a U.S.
bill barring mandated open access to government-funded research.  The publisher said in a statement yesterday that while some
publishers and learned societies supported the proposed  Research
Works Act , “some Elsevier journal authors, editors and
reviewers” oppose the measure.  They told the company that the proposed legislation
“seemed inconsistent with Elsevier’s long-standing support for
expanding options for free and low-cost public access to
scholarly literature.”  This statement comes in the wake of the establishment of
the  Cost of Knowledge website  and a boycott by opponents of
Elsevier’s publishing policies. By yesterday, that site had more
than 7,500 academic signatories who are opposed to Elsevier’s
support for the RWA and proposed copyright legislation. They
were also complaining about what they said was “exorbitantly
high prices” for some of Elsevier’s scholarly journals.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  States Keep Film Incentive Amounts Under Wraps as Trade Secrets  At least two-thirds of the states that offer financial
incentives to film companies to shoot movies with their states
maintain that the amount of money they offer is a protected
trade secret, the Kansas City Star  reported .  States that don’t require public disclosure often get
preference over those that reveal how much they offer, according
to the Star.  A Massachusetts state lawmaker has sponsored legislation
that would mandate disclosure of the identity of those who
receive tax credits, including film companies, the Star
reported.  Among the films nominated for the 2011 Academy Awards,
“The Help” received a spending rebate of $3.5 million from
Mississippi,” and “The Tree of Life” received $434,000 in
incentives from  Texas , while “The Artist” -- winner of the
best picture award -- received none, according to the Star.  IP Moves  Departing Shook Hardy Patent Lawyers Start New Kansas IP Firm  Shook Hardy & Bacon LLP (1171L)  of Kansas City, Missouri, lost a
group of patent lawyers who left to form  Erise IP , the Kansas
City Business Journal  reported .  Partners Eric Buresh and Adam Seitz led a group of five
associates and one patent agent to the new firm, according to
the publication.  The Business Journal reported that Shook Chairman John
Murphy acknowledged that client  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) , the maker of global
positioning navigation systems, has gone with the departing
lawyers to Erise IP.  Buresh and Seitz were non-equity partners at Shook, Hardy,
the journal reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 