-- Moody’s Must Face CDO Suit by Ex-Analyst, Judge Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-02T23:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/moody-s-must-face-ex-analyst-kolchinsky-s-cdo-ratings-lawsuit-judge-rules.html
(Corrects to say Nicolazzo earlier withdrew as Kolchinsky’s
lawyer in sixth paragraph of story published Feb. 29.)  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  must face a lawsuit
over claims it slashed the pay of a former analyst and cut his
duties after he questioned how his colleagues were rating
collateralized debt obligations.  Eric Kolchinsky, the former head of the structured-products
group at Moody’s that rated CDOs, claims in his lawsuit that
Moody’s retaliated against him after he said it was failing to
properly rate the securities. The securities collapsed in value
with the spike in home mortgage defaults in 2008.  “Kolchinsky has sufficiently alleged that Moody’s took
‘unfavorable personnel action’ against him after he reported
what he believed were potential violations of the federal
securities laws,” U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in  Manhattan 
said in yesterday’s decision.  Crotty didn’t rule on the merits of Kolchinsky’s lawsuit
and dismissed some claims, including defamation and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. The judge allowed to proceed a
claim under the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  that protects employees
who report possible violations of securities laws.  “We are extremely pleased that the court dismissed all but
one of the plaintiff’s claims, and we are confident that we will
prevail on the remaining claim once the court has looked at all
of the facts,” New York-based Moody’s said in an e-mailed
statement.  Adam Nicolazzo, a lawyer for Kolchinsky before he withdrew
from the case Nov. 3 according to court records, didn’t
immediately return a phone call yesterday seeking comment on the
decision.  The case is Kolchinsky v. Moody’s Corp., 10-cv-06840,  U.S.
District Court (1071L) , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  