-- Orders for Durable Goods Probably Fell in Jan.
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-decreased-in-january.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably declined in January for the first time in four months
as aircraft demand slowed, economists said before a government
report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
1 percent after a 3 percent increase the prior month, according
to the median forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Demand for durable goods excluding transportation equipment was
little changed after four consecutive gains, economists
projected. Home prices fell and  consumer confidence  increased,
other reports may show.  Factories remain at the forefront of the expansion that
began in June 2009, spurred by a stronger auto demand and
business investment in equipment. At the same time, rising fuel
costs and an economic slowdown in  Europe  may temper the industry
that accounts for about 12 percent of the world’s largest
economy.  “Manufacturing is generally resilient,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York . “We
don’t see it accelerating but it can continue to see a pickup.”  The Commerce Department will report the durables figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates of the 78 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 4.3 percent to a gain of 1.5
percent.  A slowdown in airplane bookings probably contributed to the
overall decline, economists said. Boeing Co., the largest U.S.
aircraft maker, said it received 150 orders last month, down
from 287 in December.  Capital Goods  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, fell 1.4 percent after a 2.9
percent gain, according to the median forecast.  A decrease last month would extend a pattern of declines at
the start of a quarter that are later reversed. Since the end of
2005, orders for non-military capital goods have dropped in the
first month of a quarter in all but three instances.  Orders for business equipment jumped 3.1 percent in
December, the biggest gain in nine months as some companies
rushed to qualify for a government tax credit that expired at
the end of 2011 and allowed for 100 percent depreciation on
equipment purchases. The allowance this year is 50 percent.  “Core capital goods -- a good proxy for business capital
spending -- which surged toward yearend to take advantage of the
expiring full depreciation allowance, are expected to push
higher still as an improving economic environment prompts
businesses to invest,” said  Benjamin Reitzes , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  February Gains  Other gauges showed a stronger pace of manufacturing at the
beginning of the year. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 factory index  rose in January to a seven-month high. The
strength continued into February as regional Federal Reserve
reports showed manufacturing accelerating in the New York and
Philadelphia areas.  Those gains help explain why shares of machinery makers
have outpaced the broader stock market this year. The Standard &
Poor’s Machinery Supercomposite Index, which includes companies
like Cummins Inc. and Caterpillar Inc., has climbed 20 percent
so far this year, compared with an 8.7 percent increase for the
 S&P 500 Index .  Cleveland-based  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , a maker of hydraulic products
and circuit breakers, is among those manufacturers that are
benefiting.  “Durables have had pretty much had a  V-shaped recovery  in
the  United States ,” Jim McGill, chief human resources officer,
said during a Feb. 24 investor meeting. “The good news here is
that this has been sustained primarily by growth in capital
goods. We think that gives us some traction, some confidence in
expecting that the recovery will continue into 2012.”  Consumer Confidence  A rally in stocks that started in late 2011 and a stronger
labor market are bolstering consumer confidence. The Conference
Board’s gauge of sentiment, due at 10 a.m. in New York, climbed
to 63 this month from 61.1 in January, according to Bloomberg
survey median.  At the same time, rising oil prices pose a threat to
sentiment. A gallon of regular unleaded  gasoline  climbed to
$3.70 as of Feb. 26, the highest since August, according to AAA,
the nation’s largest automobile association.  Property values continue to limit a recovery in the housing
market, the industry that precipitated the last recession. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities fell 3.7
percent in December from a year earlier, matching the drop in
the 12 months through November, economists forecast the Feb. 28
data to show.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  