-- Pacific Hydro Seeks ‘Significantly’ Less Australia Solar Funding
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-28T06:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/pacific-hydro-seeks-significantly-less-australia-solar-funding.html
Pacific Hydro Pty, a partner in a
venture planning a 150-megawatt solar farm in  Australia , is
seeking less government funding than it originally wanted after
prices of panels that convert sunlight into electricity fell.  “It’s a significant part of the cost, which means we’ve
been able to offer a significant reduction to the government,”
Lane Crockett, Pacific Hydro Australia’s general manager, said
by telephone from  Melbourne  today. He declined to give the
revised cost of the project, estimated at A$923 million ($995
million) when it was awarded government funds in June.  The cost of solar panels fell 47 percent last year after
the 10 largest makers of traditional silicon devices, including
 China ’s  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , doubled production capacity
in 2010, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  After winning A$306.5 million in federal funds last year,
Pacific Hydro and its partners in the proposed Moree solar plant
failed to sign a supply accord with a retailer in time to reach
a financing deadline. That prompted the government to reopen the
competition to other bidders.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Suntech and TRUenergy Holdings Pty Ltd.,
unsuccessful in the first round of the government’s grant
program, were invited to reapply for Australian funds. Pacific
Hydro said its group submitted a revised application on Feb. 24.  Pacific Hydro, a unit of Industry Funds Management Pty, is
starting its own retail energy arm, enabling the company to
purchase the power from the solar farm, Crockett said. Madrid-
based  Acciona SA (ANA)  will provide engineering and construction
services, Pacific Hydro said Feb. 26.  BP Plc (BP/) , a partner in the project, withdrew from the venture
in New South Wales state after deciding last year to exit the
solar business globally. Pacific Hydro and Fotowatio Renewable
Ventures will take up the ownership stake previously held by BP.  “We had a number of roadblocks in front of us,” Crockett
said today. “We’ve now got around those.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  