-- Panasonic Names Tsuga President After Predicting Record Loss
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-28T11:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/panasonic-names-kazuhiro-tsuga-new-president-replacing-fumio-ohtsubo.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s largest
appliances maker, named Kazuhiro Tsuga as president three weeks
after forecasting a record net loss because of slowing demand
for TVs and production halts caused by floods in  Thailand .  Tsuga, 55, will replace Fumio Ohtsubo, 66, who will become
chairman, the Osaka-based company said in a statement today.
Tsuga, now a senior managing director and president of the
audio-visual products unit, will take over the presidency after
getting shareholder approval at June 27 general meeting.  Panasonic, which forecast a 780 billion-yen ($9.7 billion)
loss in the year ending March 31, joins  Sony Corp. (6758)  in nominating
a younger leader amid worsening earnings as the electronics
makers struggle to turn around money-losing TV operations and
cope with the stronger yen. Earlier this month, Tokyo-based Sony
named  Kazuo Hirai , 51, as its incoming president and chief
executive officer to replace incumbent  Howard Stringer .  “A younger president is promising as it shows commitment
to speed up reform, move away from old culture and become
competitive again,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “The most important
assignment for the new president will be to cut down the scale
of TV operations and boost profits from energy and smart-house
related businesses.”  Fastest Promotion  Tsuga joined the maker of Viera TVs in 1979 and was
promoted to executive officer at the age of 47, according to
Akira Kadota, a Panasonic spokesman. Tsuga helped develop DVD
recorders and headed the automotive systems unit before taking
over the audio-visual products unit in April.  The shares fell 0.4 percent to close at 748 yen in Tokyo
 trading  before the announcement, narrowing its gain this year to
14 percent. The stock has lost more than 60 percent of its value
since June 2006, when Ohtsubo became president.  “We plan to revive earnings and drive growth by pursuing
the goal of becoming an innovative environment company,” Tsuga
said in an Osaka news conference today.  Ohtsubo said he was eliminating jobs, shifting output
overseas and closing display factories in an attempt to
transform Panasonic into a leader in solar panels and
rechargeable batteries amid mounting competition in TVs.  The maker of Lumix cameras on Feb. 3 almost doubled its
loss estimate for the current fiscal year, partly because of
goodwill writedown charges stemming from its purchase of Sanyo
Electric Co.  The world’s biggest maker of plasma TVs bought a
controlling stake in Sanyo,  Japan ’s largest maker of
rechargeable batteries, in 2008 and made it a wholly-owned
company last year to accelerate its expansion in battery
businesses. It also merged Panasonic Electric Works, which makes
lighting systems, electrical wiring fittings and electronic
materials, last year.  Chairman Kunio Nakamura will become an adviser, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  