-- Greek Parliament Votes on Pension, Health-Care Cuts to Secure Aid Package
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-29T08:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/papademos-gets-backing-for-4-3-billion-of-cuts-in-race-for-european-aid.html
Greece’s parliament votes today on
state pension and health-care cuts after the chamber yesterday
ratified a 3.2 billion-euro ($4.3 billion) package of spending
reductions to the 2012 budget.  A total of 202 lawmakers voted in favor of the budget law
and 80 against, Acting Parliament Speaker Grigoris Niotis said
in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV yesterday after a
roll-call vote.  Today’s vote on permanent changes to pension funds and
health-care spending, demanded by the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  in return for the 130 billion-euro
lifeline, will take Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  one step
closer to the country securing a rescue package to avert
financial collapse.  “Things are and will be difficult,” Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told the chamber before the vote yesterday.
“Now we are gaining a safe framework with the decisions of Feb.
21, with private-sector involvement, recapitalization of banks
but it needs work, work, work, unity, consensus, seriousness.”  European governments moved toward a second rescue of Greece
on Feb. 21, calculating that the cost of a fresh bailout, which
includes a writedown of about 100 billion euros of Greek debt,
is a price worth paying to prevent a financial collapse that
could shatter the euro area.  Spur the Economy  Papademos, scheduled to see European Commission President
 Jose Barroso  today to discuss how the EU can help spur the  Greek
economy  back to growth, met with his ministers before the vote
to adopt a decree on the cuts to wages and pensions, measures
that while cutting state spending may also drive the economy
deeper into recession.  The economy shrank 6.8 percent last year and is set to
contract for a fifth year this year. Yesterday’s bill will cut
12 percent off the amount exceeding 1,300 euros for those
receiving pensions from the state, trimming wages for all state
employees, including a 10 percent cut for the police and fire
department. The minimum wage will be cut 22 percent.  Unions plan protests today, part of a European-wide
campaign against austerity measures that will include
demonstrations in Madrid and Lisbon. In  Greece , unions will hold
a three-hour work stoppage from noon and plan to picket the
European Commission offices in Athens at 1:30 p.m.  Firemen, Police  Firemen and police officers marched through the city center
yesterday, wearing their uniforms, decrying a cut in wages that
they say will mean a monthly wage of 585 euros.  Antonis Samaras, the leader of  New Democracy , the second-
biggest party and leading in opinion polls, repeated his call
for elections to be held as soon as the financing package is
wound up.  “With this new loan agreement, with this drastic cutting
of the debt, we have averted the country’s explusion from the
euro,” he told the chamber. “Opening the road to elections, we
have saved social cohesion, at least for now.”  In the most recent vote on austerity measures, Greek
lawmakers on Feb. 13 passed budget cuts as rioters set fire to
almost 50 buildings amid violent street protests.  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  cut Greece’s credit ratings to
“selective default” on Feb. 27 after the country began the
biggest sovereign debt restructuring in history, a key element
to the second bailout.  S&P dropped Greece’s rating from CC, two levels above
default, after the government added clauses to its debt designed
to coerce investors unwilling to take part in the exchange, the
New York-based company said. The downgrade follows a reduction
last week by  Fitch Ratings  to C.  Moody’s Investors Service has said it will cut the nation
to its lowest rating.  The debt exchange aims to reduce national debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last
year, and to meet the terms of the 130 billion-euro
international bailout. The agreed-upon swap, known as private-
sector involvement, will slice about 100 billion euros off more
than 200 billion euros of privately held debt if all investors
participate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  