-- Pentagon to Withold Lockheed F-35 Payments Over Tracking
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-28T21:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/pentagon-to-withhold-lockheed-f-35-payments.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the No. 1
U.S. defense contractor, is the first company to have payments
withheld under a new Pentagon rule intended to correct
deficiencies with internal systems that track cost, schedules,
accounting and purchases, according to the Defense Department.  The Pentagon will withhold about $1 million a month in
billings from Lockheed’s aeronautics division until the unit
fixes longstanding shortcomings with its cost and schedule
tracking system, Shay Assad, the Pentagon’s director of pricing,
said today in an interview.  The money will be paid once the deficiencies are fixed, he
said. The Pentagon today informed Lockheed’s  Fort Worth , Texas-
based aircraft unit that the withholding will start in March
with billings made under a new production contract of about $4
billion for as many as 30 F-35 fighters, Assad said. The funds
held back will amount to 2 percent of billings instead of the
maximum 5 percent, he said.  That’s because Lockheed was deemed to have submitted an
adequate corrective action plan, which is now under review by
the Pentagon’s  Defense Contract Management Agency , Assad said.
The agency manages the new rule for Pentagon contracts.  “This is a step that’s available to the customer under the
terms of the contract,” Joe Stout, a spokesman for Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed, said in an e-mailed statement.  Lockheed increased 29 cents to $88.70 at the close of New
York trading and rose 12 percent in the past year.  Pentagon’s Rule  The Pentagon rule, which took effect Aug. 16, requires all
new contracts to include language spelling out the potential for
withholding payments due to deficiencies, such as those
involving the standard “Earned Value Management” system used
to determine whether companies are meeting cost and schedule
goals.  The requirement, intended to protect taxpayers from
overbilling, focuses on systems that companies use to estimate
costs for bids; purchase goods from subcontractors; manage
government property and materials; and track costs and schedule
progress.  The contract management agency decertified the Lockheed
aircraft unit’s Earned Value system in October 2010. The
company’s system was deficient in 19 of 32 areas, a Pentagon
spokeswoman said at the time.  “We are working closely” with Pentagon contracting
officials “to review and approve” the system, Stout said.  Lockheed ‘Making Progress’  Charlie Williams, director of the contract management
agency, said in a interview “we believe Lockheed is making
progress and has made progress.” Williams said he’s
“optimistic about the results of the review, but we are not
going to make any judgment until we go through it.”  Williams said his agency is reviewing other Lockheed units.
“There are challenges in some places, but we are going through
that deliberately with the company,” he said.  The rule resulted from an August 2009 hearing of the
congressionally mandated  Commission on Wartime Contracting  where
major business-system deficiencies were described in companies
working in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  About 20,000 contractors under the Defense Contract
Management Agency’s jurisdiction can be subject to withheld
payments provided the requirement is in their contracts and a
determination has been made that a system is disapproved.  Williams said his agency is reviewing the systems of many
contractors. “We are starting with the big guys,” he said.
“Our goal is to have sound business practices.”  Assad said the rule was imposed “to ensure we had an
enforcement mechanism when necessary” so that “we can rely on
the business systems that companies are using.”  “We do have some companies with a companywide problem but
it’s usually not that,” Assad said. “It’s usually particular
divisions of companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  