-- Peru Growth at Two-Year Low as Mine Protests Damp Investment
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-02-28T16:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/peru-growth-at-two-year-low-as-mine-protests-damp-investment-1-.html
Peru’s  economy  expanded at the
slowest pace in two years in the fourth quarter as social unrest
threatened mining investment in the third-largest copper
producing nation.  Gross domestic product rose 5.5 percent from the same
period a year earlier, taking full-year growth to 6.9 percent,
the government’s statistics agency said today. Growth slowed
from a revised 6.6 percent in the third quarter and 6.8 percent
in the second quarter.  Private investment slowed as  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  halted
work on its Minas Conga copper and gold mine in November
following environmental protests. Though President  Ollanta Humala  supports the $4.8 billion project, investors doubt he’ll
resolve the dispute and prevent social tensions stalling other
projects, which is hurting business sentiment, said Pablo Secada, chief economist at the Peruvian Economy Institute.  “The only thing that could quicken growth in this global
environment is far stronger private investment, and that depends
on confidence,” Secada said in a phone interview from Lima.
“Humala is supporting Conga and other mining projects
politically, but there are doubts about his ability to
deliver.”  Protests by local communities have also halted investments
by Anglo American Plc and  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO) , the country’s
biggest producer of the metal. Opponents to the expansion of
 Southern Copper ’s Toquepala mine rejected last week the
company’s offer to invest 690 million soles ($258 million) in
health and water projects.  Plans to overhaul labor legislation and an indigenous
consultation law whose bylaws are being finalized by the
government also risk deterring investment, Secada said.  The government pumped up infrastructure spending in the
fourth quarter as part of a $3.5 billion package to offset the
impact of slower global growth on the commodity-dependent
economy.  Household demand rose 6.4 percent in 2011, the fastest in
three years, fueled by rising income, record levels of  consumer
confidence  and employment growth of 5 percent, the central bank
said in a Feb. 24  report .  The sol was little changed at 2.6778 per dollar at 11:23
a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  