-- Peugeot Said to Plan Job Cuts in GM Alliance
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-29T12:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/peugeot-said-to-plan-1-34-billion-rights-offering-amid-alliance-with-gm.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  plans a 1
billion-euro ($1.34 billion) rights offering to raise cash as
part of a partnership with  General Motors Co. (GM) , according to
people familiar with the matter.  GM, the world’s largest carmaker, will buy about 7 percent
of the French carmaker and take part in the new share sale, the
people said, declining to be identified discussing private
talks. The Peugeot family, which owns 30 percent of the Paris-
based company as its  biggest shareholder , agreed to participate
in the rights offer, one of the people said.  The alliance will include restructuring at both carmakers,
resulting in plant closures and  job cuts , said another person
familiar with the deal. The two are still working out the
specifics and will not disclose them for several weeks or even
months due to French political concerns, the person said.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest automaker  after Volkswagen
AG , announced plans this month to sell assets as debt more than
doubled in the second half to 3.4 billion euros. Peugeot and
Detroit-based GM are planning an alliance that may include
developing engines and building vehicles together in Europe, a
person familiar said last week. GM is looking for ways to turn
around its unprofitable Opel brand in  Germany .  Shedding Jobs  “It signifies just how bad the situation must be for
them,” said Erich Hauser, a London-based Credit Suisse analyst,
who has an “underperform” rating on the stock. With the rights
issue, which could dilute current shares by about 30 percent,
and the planned asset sales, “future earnings power is now
fundamentally impaired on a permanent basis.”  Peugeot  dropped  as much as 60 cents, or 3.9 percent, to
14.76 euros and was down 2.6 percent to 14.97 euros as of 1:47
p.m. in Paris trading. The shares have gained 23 percent this
year, valuing the carmaker at 3.49 billion euros. Peugeot
spokeswoman Cecile Damide and GM spokesman Klaus-Peter Martin
declined to comment on the rights offer yesterday.  The French market regulator AMF is following the Peugeot
matter very closely and urges Peugeot to release details of its
plan as soon as possible to respect market disclosure rules, a
spokeswoman for the AMF said today. She declined to be cited by
name in line with the regulator’s policy.  Both companies know they need to shed jobs and factory
capacity and view the pact as a way to get political support to
do so, one person said. The deal also held appeal to GM because
it gives them access to Peugeot’s PSA bank and another lender to
finance vehicle sales in  Europe , the person said.  Political Influence  Political interference and strong unions have hampered both
companies from shutting factories and laying off workers to rein
in costs. French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand warned Peugeot
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin last week against cutting
jobs as a result of the GM deal. President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
who’s running for re-election this year, summoned Varin on Nov.
17 to ask him to reconsider plans to cut as many as 6,800 jobs,
including temporary staff employed by partners.  PSA is projected to use just 62 percent of its European
capacity this year, compared with 74 percent at Opel, according
to LMC Automotive in Oxford,  England . Carmakers risk losses when
they use less than 90 percent of their capacity, according to
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  “If the Peugeot-GM hypothetical tie up becomes a reality,
I sincerely hope it deals with the overcapacity issue,” Fiat
SpA CEO  Sergio Marchionne , who estimates excess European auto
capacity at 20 percent, said yesterday in Brussels. “It’s
essential that the European situation will be addressed, whether
I address it or other people address it, I don’t particularly
care.”  Family Company  Peugeot, whose origins date back to the early 19th century
laminated steel- and toolmaker Peugeot-Frères et Jacques
Maillard-Salins, is still controlled by the Peugeot family.  The company’s current chairman, Thierry Peugeot, is the
great-grandson of Eugene, who jointly led the company with his
cousin Armand when it produced its first automobile in 1891.
Thierry is joined on the board by relatives Roland, Robert and
Jean-Philippe Peugeot, and Marie-Helene Roncoroni.  The share sale to GM would involve a standstill agreement
by which GM would not take a greater holding in the Paris-based
carmaker without permission, the people said.  Peugeot already cooperates with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
on engines for the German carmaker’s Mini brand in 2002,
expanding the partnership with a 100 million-euro hybrid joint
venture last year.  Close Partnership  “They want to demonstrate that the partnership is a close
one, not simply on individual projects such as those Peugeot has
with BMW, which might one day separate,” said  Juergen Pieper , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Bankhaus Metzler, who recommends
selling Peugeot stock. “Peugeot’s dream partner, BMW, clearly
wasn’t interested, which is why they have gone to GM. It is an
alliance of necessity.”  Peugeot’s 2011 sales in Europe plunged 8.8 percent to 1.68
million vehicles, while GM’s dropped 1.9 percent to 1.17
million. The prospects for a turnaround aren’t improving with
auto demand in the region poised to drop for the fifth straight
year in 2012 as the sovereign debt crisis unsettles consumers.  GM, which this month posted a record annual net income of
$9.19 billion for 2011, is planning more cost cuts for its
unprofitable European unit after the last turnaround plan failed
to end losses there. The automaker’s Europe business, including
the Opel brand, lost $747 million last year before taxes and
interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at +1-212-617-2716 or  jsondag@bloomberg.net . 