-- Philippine Peso’s Gain Capping Inflation Boosts Odds for Second Rate Cut
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-02-29T10:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/philippine-peso-s-gain-capping-inflation-boosts-odds-for-second-rate-cut.html
A strengthening Philippine peso
that’s helping contain inflation in the Southeast Asian nation
has boosted scope for the central bank to cut  interest rates  for
a second straight meeting this week.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will reduce the  rate  it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4 percent, according to 14 of 18 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News ahead of a decision tomorrow. Three expect the
benchmark to be left unchanged at 4.25 percent while one
predicts a half-point cut to 3.75 percent.  “Domestic inflationary pressures are easing,” said Betty Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. “To
some extent, the rising peso helps cap import prices and lower
domestic  price levels . That gives the BSP leeway to cut rates to
boost domestic growth.”  Consumer-price gains slowed to a 13-month low in January,
and the governor said this week declining utility costs and a
rising currency have led to further easing. The  Philippines 
joined neighbors from  Thailand  to  Indonesia  in cutting borrowing
costs this year to protect their economies as  Europe ’s debt
crisis saps demand for the region’s goods.  Yields on 6.375 percent bonds due January 2022 dropped to a
record-low this month, as investors bet the central bank will
cut its benchmark rate. The yield slid to 4.87 percent on Feb.
17, the lowest level since the debt was first sold in July 2011.  Bangko Sentral has “room for further calibrated
accommodation” in its benchmark rates as “domestic inflation
remains manageable,” Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in an e-mail
late yesterday in reply to questions.  Boosting Spending  The Philippine peso surged to a six-month high in February,
and is the third-best performer among 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12 months. The benchmark
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  climbed to a record this month.  President Benigno Aquino is increasing spending this year
to a record 1.83 trillion pesos ($43 billion) to help bolster
growth to as much as 8 percent annually. The government is also
accelerating a plan to offer to investors $16 billion of
infrastructure projects from mass rails to airports.  Inflation probably slowed to 2.7 percent to 3.6 percent in
February on peso gains and lower utility rates, Tetangco said
yesterday, adding that price gains should “continue to be
manageable, barring oil-supply surprises due to any acceleration
in the tensions in the  Middle East .” Consumer prices rose 3.9
percent in January.  Companies including Manila Electric Co., Maynilad Water
Services Inc. and Union Bank of the Philippines are predicting
higher profits this year as economic growth boosts demand for
electricity, water and loans. The government has forecast the
$200 billion economy will expand by 5 percent to 6 percent this
year from 3.7 percent in  2011 (PGDYTY) .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  