-- Putin Appeal to Russian Heartland Offsets Moscow Protests as Voting Nears
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-29T13:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/putin-appeal-to-heartland-trumps-moscow-protests-as-vote-nears.html
Vyacheslav Ananiev, co-owner of a
 software company  in Novosibirsk in the middle of Russia, says
there’s only one option for him in next week’s presidential
election:  Vladimir Putin .  Although he didn’t vote for the prime minister’s United
Russia party in legislative elections last December and
sympathizes with the tens of thousands of Moscow protesters who
say the process was rigged, he plans to back Putin on March 4.  “The presidential election is not a subject for a protest
vote,” Ananiev said as he waited for a visiting Putin to see
his  company’s  stand amid several projects at a new technology
park near Novosibirsk, Russia’s third-largest city. “Power here
is centralized and depends on leaders, not parliament.”  Putin’s five-day trip ending last week shows, as do polls,
why the prime minister probably will win in the first round of
voting. Ananiev, 47, says he sees no alternative. Student Olga
Krasnova in Novosibirsk says Russia needs “strong men.” In
Komsomolsk-na-Amure, 6,073 kilometers (3,774 miles) from Moscow,
Air Force Major Alexander Soloviev earns more money because of
defense-spending increases. Aviation factory worker Tatyana
Vinokurova appreciates Putin for the maternal benefits she’ll
receive if she has a second child.  Spending Pledges  Even as protesters in Moscow carry anti-Putin placards, the
majority of voters are lured by the prime minister’s campaign
pledges to raise  government spending  by 4.8 trillion rubles
($170 billion) through 2018. That’s as much as 5 percent of
economic output, according to a Capital Economics estimate.  Putin pledged today that the  retirement age  won’t be raised
and pensions will continue to grow. “Everything we are doing is
devoted to one goal -- improving the quality of life of Russian
citizens,” he told supporters at a meeting in Moscow.  The premier’s support also stems from his economic base:
Russia’s economy grew 4.8 percent from a year earlier in the
third quarter, the sixth-fastest pace among the Group of 20
major economies. Russia’s dollar-denominated  RTS stock index  has
outperformed the  MSCI Emerging Markets index  more than sevenfold
since Putin became acting president on Dec. 31, 1999.  First-Round Win  Putin will probably win Russia’s presidential election with
66 percent of those who plan to vote, according to a poll by the
independent  Levada Center , 16 percentage points more than needed
to give him a first-round victory. Communist party leader
 Gennady Zyuganov  was second with 15 percent.  The survey was conducted from Feb. 17 to Feb. 20 on 1,600
respondents and has a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.
The prime minister’s electorate is concentrated in medium and
small cities and villages, said Lev Gudkov, director of the
independent polling service.  “These are the people who like a strongman who hands out
benefits, who are not ready for a change and prefer to keep the
status quo,” said Nikolay Petrov, scholar in residence at the
 Carnegie Moscow Center . “Protesters are always a minority but
they are much more active and visible than Putin’s supporters.
Countryfolk are traditionally more active voters. Protesters are
concentrated in big cities and the turnout in cities is usually
less than in the countryside.”  Corruption, Transparency  Supporters of Putin are unconcerned about his regime’s
record on corruption, transparency and political freedom, said
Yelena Panfilova, who heads the Moscow office of  Transparency
International . Putin during his eight years as president from
2000 to 2008 didn’t pass “a single anti-corruption law”
whereas current President  Dmitry Medvedev  adopted at least four
major anti-corruption measures and several decrees, she said.  Even after a slight improvement in the past four years,
Russia is still viewed as a significantly corrupt economy,
according to Transparency International’s 2011  Corruption
Perceptions Index . Russia has higher levels of perceived graft
than Pakistan, Cameroon and Niger.  “People who vote for Putin simply don’t know any other
kind of stability,” Panfilova said. “This stability is based
on monopoly of power, monopoly of bureaucracy, monopoly of the
state in the economy. Lack of political freedom, corruption,
human rights abuses are derivatives of this monopoly.”  The alleged plot to assassinate Putin revealed on Feb. 28
may augment his popularity in small and rural areas, said
Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg Politics
Foundation research group, based in Putin’s hometown.  Moscow Support  The premier can expect support in the capital as well: In
the city of Moscow, site of the largest protest rallies, the
official result for Putin’s  United Russia  in the Dec. 4
parliamentary elections was about 47 percent while the Communist
party got 19 percent. In the industrial Novosibirsk region,
which is farther from Moscow than  London  is, United Russia won
34 percent and the Communists got 30 percent.  Exit polls for Moscow showed a smaller margin than do the
election results: United Russia was at 28 percent compared with
the Communists’ 26 percent, according to surveys by the Public
Opinion Foundation.  “People will vote for Putin mainly because they don’t see
an alternative,” said Gleb Pavlovsky, a political adviser for
the Kremlin from 1996 to 2011 who now runs a political
consulting firm. “His core electorate is quite diverse. It is
united by phobias such as fear of change, fear of revolution,
fear of unemployment.”  ‘Battle for Russia’  Putin has championed social and economic calm since taking
over from his predecessor  Boris Yeltsin , whose tenure was marked
by hyperinflation, an attempted coup and the government’s 1998
default. Putin urged solidarity in a Feb. 23 rally in Moscow
attended by as many as 100,000 people. Hundreds of buses that
had brought attendees surrounded the stadium.  “The battle for  Russia  continues,” the prime minister
shouted from a gigantic blue stage in the middle of the sports
arena.  “The victory will be ours!” He vowed to fight
injustice, urged everyone to unite for Russia and warned people
“not to look abroad.”  Mikhail Kusnirovich, chairman of Bosco Di Ciliegi, the
Russian company that owns the GUM department store on Moscow’s
Red Square, was one attendee who said he was impressed.  “I have no doubts he is a leader,” Kusnirovich said as he
left the stadium. “A grownup man who achieved a lot in this
great country has no other motivation than just make the country
good. He is doing this fair and responsibly.”  Putin Opposition  Opposition to Putin coalesced after Medvedev, 46, agreed in
September to give up the chance of a second term to allow Putin,
59, to reclaim the Kremlin. Putin offered Medvedev the premier’s
job in return, a move that together with the allegations of
electoral fraud ignited the largest anti-government protests
since the 1990s. Putin, who has been in power for 12 years, is
seeking a six-year term.  The swap motivated Moscow cafe co-owner Andrei Petrenko to
get involved in the protests. He also went to monitor voting at
one of the polling stations on Dec. 4.  “I would understand if Medvedev decided to stay on for the
second term,” he said in downtown Moscow at a Feb. 4 march that
brought together about 100,000 people. “But when I see that the
president of such a country as Russia says he is so weak that he
should give way to another one, what is this? They should go and
try to lead in Zimbabwe or  Honduras , not Russia.”  Petrenko said that he would run for the municipal council
seat for the first time and he would vote for the communists.  Seven time zones away in Komsomolsk-na-Amure, a defense-
industry center, welder Roman Obukhov, 25, also said he would
vote for Zyuganov.  ‘Live and Steal’  “I just see how these officials live and steal,” Obukhov
said while walking with his wife and one-year-old daughter at
about -30 degrees Celsius (-22 Fahrenheit) on a sunny Feb. 19
near the Amur River. “Here in my land Americans dig gold, wood
is sold to Chinese and I have nothing,” added Obukhov, who said
he earns 25,000 rubles a month.  The area is a leading recipient of aid. In the Khabarovsk
region that is home to Komsomolsk-na-Amure, federal subsidies in
2010 were 23.6 percent of the  regional budget ’s revenue.  Social spending helps attract support from Vinokurova, the
aviation-factory worker in Komsomolsk-na-Amure. The 32-year-old,
who works in quality control at the state-owned Sukhoi plant
assembling Russian fighter jets, says she prefers Putin because
his benefits will let her afford more than one child.  She said she had an eight-year-old daughter and had plans
to have another baby, entitling her to a one-time state benefit
worth about $12,000. “If I have a third child I will get a
piece of land,” said Vinokurova, who earns 15,000 rubles a
month.  Military Rebuilding  Similarly, spending on rebuilding Russia’s army brought
Putin support from the military. Soloviev, the air-force major
in Komsomolsk-na-Amure, said his annual salary has risen to
79,000 rubles compared with 34,000 rubles last year. “We should
look for a change in something else but who the president is,”
said Soloviev as he consumed a dinner of Asian food with his
family at B-2, one of the town’s high-end restaurants.  Putin’s rating is on the rise because he is conducting a
“Stalinist campaign of personality whose main message is, ‘I am
the only one who can guarantee anything in this country. My
departure would be a catastrophe for you,’” said Pavlovsky, who
helped manage Putin’s campaigns in 2000 and 2004 and Medvedev’s
in 2008. About 30 percent of the population always votes for
incumbent leaders, he said.  Some voters see Putin as the least evil of the options.
“All candidates have programs I don’t understand,” said Yana
Ignatieva, 19, who studies economics in Komsomolsk-na-Amure.
“Putin has stability.”  Still, she may reconsider voting for Putin because she
thinks  prices  are rising too fast and there is too much state
corruption.  “Putin will receive my vote whether I vote or not,” she
said. “But I will come to polling station because I want to
vote myself. And maybe I will change my mind and will vote for
anybody but Putin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  