-- RBPlat May Spend Surplus Cash for First Time to Fund Platinum Mine Project
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-28T16:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/rbplat-may-start-spending-its-surplus-cash-as-conditions-stay-challenging.html
Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP) , a
South African producer of the metal, may resort to using surplus
cash for the first time to fund its Styldrift I project after
prices weakened and costs climbed.  This year will be “challenging, from both a market and
operational perspective,” the Johannesburg-based company said
today in a statement. The cost of sales rose 50 percent in 2011
from a year earlier, including a 38 percent increase for labor,
its biggest single expense. Platinum prices have lost 6.2
percent in the past six months to $1,708.13 an ounce.  Platinum companies in  South Africa , which has the largest
reserves of the metal, have suffered from a jump in electricity
costs and worker demands for above-inflation pay increases.
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest producer, has frozen
recruitment and may sell or shut mines in the country. Cost cuts
will be a “key focus” this year,  Royal Bafokeng  said today.  The company, known as RBPlat, reported a decline in net
income to 410.8 million rand ($55 million) last year from 3.17
billion rand a year earlier. The  stock  rose 2.4 percent to 61.71
rand at the close of trade in Johannesburg.  Mine Design Changes  RBPlat is completing revisions to the design of its
Styldrift I mining project to meet government safety
requirements. The company will reduce bord widths, increasing
operating costs, Chief Operating Officer Nico Muller said in a
speech in Johannesburg today. The rate of startup and the pace
of extraction may also be affected by design changes, he said.  Styldrift I, near Rustenburg in the North West province,
will reach a depth of 594 meters (1,950 feet) by September, a
“major milestone,” RBPlat said. The company will complete a
concept study on an expansion of Styldrift II this quarter, and
is also considering a 360 million-rand conversion of a
concentrator at its Bafokeng Rasimone mine, Muller said.  The cost of sales and profit numbers are based on RBPlat
owning 67 percent of the Bafokeng Rasimone mine for 10 months
and 100 percent for two months in 2010, compared with full
ownership throughout 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  