-- Backup Camera Rule Costing $2.7 Billion Put Off by U.S.
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-29T15:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/rear-view-camera-rule-delayed-again-by-u-s-.html
A U.S. rule that may require all
cars and light trucks sold in the country to have rear-view
cameras won’t be issued by today’s deadline and may be delayed
until after November’s presidential election, regulators said.  A 2008 auto-safety law signed by President  George W. Bush 
mandated the Transportation Department to issue the requirement
by the end of 2011. It’s now being pushed back a second time by
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and will be issued by Dec.
31, the department said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “If we have a strong safety agenda, then we have to deal
with the issue of people injuring or killing children as a
result of backover accidents,” LaHood said yesterday in an
interview. “We want to make sure we have a good rule.”  The proposed rule, estimated to cost $2.7 billion, was
listed as one of the five most expensive pending U.S.
regulations in an Aug. 30 letter President  Barack Obama  sent to
House Republican leaders. Requiring backup cameras would add $58
to $203 to the cost of a vehicle, depending on the model and
whether it already has a video screen, the U.S. National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration has said.  “While the department has made progress toward a final
rule to improve rearward visibility, it has decided that further
study and data analysis -- including of a wider range of
vehicles and drivers -- is important to ensure the most
protective and efficient rule possible,” the agency said in its
statement.  Gentex Benefit  The rule may save about 146 lives a year by improving rear
visibility of vehicles, NHTSA estimated in 2010 when it issued a
proposed rule. While the law doesn’t explicitly require a
rearview camera, no other technology currently meets the
standard.  Back-over accidents cause 292 U.S. deaths annually, most
frequently killing children and the elderly. At a cost of $2.7
billion a year for an annual fleet of 16.6 million, the
regulator’s highest estimate, each life saved would cost $18.5
million.  The rule will benefit  Gentex Corp. (GNTX) , a maker of rearview
mirrors that include camera displays,  David Leiker , a Robert W.
Baird & Co. analyst, said in a Dec. 28 report. Gentex, based in
Zeeland,  Michigan , may have revenue growth of as much as 20
percent on shipment growth of as much as 14 percent spanning
three to four years, Leiker said in the report. He recommends
buying Gentex shares.  Children Vulnerable  The company, which reported $1.02 billion in revenue in the
year that ended Sept. 30, competes against  Magna International
Inc. (MG)  as well as makers of systems that display images from
backup cameras in navigation systems.  Gentex fell 12 percent to $24.45 at 10:04 a.m. in  New York 
after sliding as much as 15 percent. The shares declined 17
percent this year.  Fifty children are backed over each week on average, and
two are killed, according to  KidsAndCars.org , a Leawood, Kansas-
based group that advocates a camera requirement. Seventy percent
are backed over by a parent or other close relative, with 1-
year-olds being the predominant age, according to the group’s
data.  Automakers through the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , whose members include  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , criticized the proposal issued in December
2010, saying a single standard doesn’t make sense because bigger
models have larger blind spots.  Backup cameras are standard on 45 percent of 2012-model
vehicles sold in the U.S., according to data compiled by
Edmunds.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based website that
tracks automotive sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  