-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Fall Before ECB Grants Additional Three-Year Loans
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-28T22:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/treasury-10-year-yield-approaches-one-week-low-before-durable-goods-data.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell for the
first time in five days on speculation a European Central Bank
allotment of three-year loans to banks tomorrow will bolster
investor appetite for riskier assets.  Treasuries  erased  gains earlier as  consumer confidence  rose
to a one-year high and stocks rallied, reflecting reduced demand
for haven assets. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is forecast to
retain a cautious outlook on the economy when he gives his semi-
annual monetary policy report to House lawmakers tomorrow. The
ECB may grant the region’s region banks 470 billion euros ($633
billion) in its second longer-term refinancing operation,
according a Bloomberg News survey.  “The market has settled at these yields, and is in an
anticipatory mood with LTRO and Bernanke’s comments coming
tomorrow, which are hard to handicap,” said Russ Certo,
managing director of rates trading at Gleacher & Co. in New
York. “There are a lot of people looking to sell the market,
but they are afraid with more Fed buying and month-end coming
and more fallout from overseas.”  Thirty-year bond yields rose three basis points, or 0.03
percent, to 3.07 percent at 5:01  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent securities
maturing in February 2042 fell 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101.  Benchmark 10-year note yields gained two basis points to
1.94 percent, after touching 1.89 percent, the lowest since Feb.
6. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.3 percent.  Longer Term  The 10-year note yield is up 14 basis points this month,
while 30-year bond yields have added 13 basis points.  U.S. Treasuries investors increased bets to the highest
level since December 2010 that the price of the securities will
rise, a survey by JP Morgan Chase & Co. showed.  The percent of longs in the firm’s “all clients” survey
rose to 26 percent for the week ending yesterday. The percent of
net longs in the survey rose to 13 percent from 2 percent the
previous week.  About 60 percent of the clients surveyed were neutral,
making it the lowest level since March 2011 and down from 68
percent the previous week. The survey showed the percent of so-
called “shorts” dropped to 13 percent from 15 percent.  A short position is a wager the price of a security will
fall, while a long position is a bet it will rise.  Bank Loans  The ECB provided euro-region banks with a record 489
billion euros in its first LTRO on Dec. 21. Using the
operations, banks can borrow from the ECB at around 1 percent
and invest the proceeds in higher-yielding securities such as
the 10-year Italian government bond, yielding 5.35 percent.  Ireland said it will hold a referendum to ratify the
European fiscal compact, increasing concern the measure may face
resistance.  “Whenever you think the market will go to higher yields,
something new comes out of  Europe ,” said Jason Rogan, director
of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New
York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  Demand for  U.S. government debt  as a haven from turmoil in
European bond markets has kept 10-year yields within about a
quarter-percentage point of the record low of 1.67 percent
reached Sept. 23.  Treasuries have posted a loss of 0.04 percent this year,
compared with a return of 9.8 percent last year, the most since
2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Fed Operations  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap long-
term borrowing costs under a program it plans to conclude in
June. The central bank bought $4.95 billion of  U.S. debt  due
from May 2020 to February 2022 today.  The Fed will conduct tri-party reverse repurchase
agreements tomorrow as it continues to test one of the tools for
an eventual withdrawal of the central bank’s unprecedented
monetary stimulus. The operations, part of a series first
announced in 2009, don’t represent any change in monetary
policy, the New York Fed said today on its website.  The Conference Board’s index of consumer sentiment increased
more than forecast, to 70.8 from a revised 61.5 in January,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
today. Economists predicted the gauge would climb to 63,
according to the median estimate in a separate survey.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
slumped 4 percent, more than forecast, after a revised 3.2
percent gain the prior month, data from the Commerce Department
showed today in  Washington . Economists projected a 1 percent
decline, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “Along with the weaker economic data and continued
uncertainty out of Europe, we have more Fed buybacks and we are
seeing a need for month-end buying, which is not leaving
investors with any reason to sell,” said  Scott Graham , head of
government bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets unit in  Chicago , a primary dealer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  