-- Treasuries Head for Monthly Loss Before ECB 3-Year Refinancing Operation
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-29T02:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/treasuries-snap-four-day-gain-on-speculation-consumer-confidence-increased.html
Treasuries headed for their first
monthly decline since October on speculation a European Central
Bank allotment of loans today will bolster investor appetite for
higher-yielding assets.  U.S. government securities handed investors a 0.5 percent
loss in February as of yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, dropping as the economy showed signs of
improvement.  Dan Fuss , vice chairman of Loomis Sayles & Co. in
Boston, said he’s avoiding Treasuries because central bank
purchases are keeping yields artificially low.  “The European problem will gradually be solved, and the
 U.S. economy  is recovering,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who helps
oversee the equivalent of $114.8 billion as an investor in  Tokyo 
at Daiwa Asset Management Co., a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest
brokerage. “The focus will shift from  Europe  to the U.S. That’s
negative for Treasuries.”  Ten-year  yields  held at 1.95 percent today as of 11:05 a.m.
in Tokyo, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent security maturing in February 2022 changed hands at 100
15/32. The rate has risen 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, this month.  The ECB may grant the region’s region banks 470 billion
euros ($633 billion), making its second offering of three-year
loans, according a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The amount
compares with 489 billion euros taken by banks at the last Long-
Term Refinancing Operation on Dec. 21, which has helped calm
concerns about liquidity in the European banking system.  ‘Ridiculous’ Treasury Yields  Fuss, who is a member of the management team for the $21.1
billion Loomis Sayles Bond Fund, said he favors sovereign debt
in  Canada ,  Australia  and New Zealand.  Treasury yields are so low that they’re “ridiculous,” he
said yesterday on “The Hays Advantage” program on Bloomberg
Radio. “You have people buying, specifically our own central
bank, along with some of their friends offshore, and holding
prices artificially high.”  The  Federal Reserve  is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
long-term borrowing costs under a program it plans to conclude
in June.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to appear today
before the House Financial Services Committee for his semi-
annual testimony to explain the Fed’s monetary policy and the
outlook for the economy.  At its last meeting on Jan. 25, the Federal Open Market
Committee said subdued inflation and slack in the economy are
likely to warrant keeping  interest rates  “exceptionally low”
at least through late 2014, extending a previous date of
mid-2013 or later. Policy makers also set an explicit inflation
goal of 2 percent for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  