-- Five German States Say Inflation Accelerated in February
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-28T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/three-german-states-say-inflation-accelerated-in-february-1-.html
Inflation (GRCP2SAY)  in five German states
accelerated in February as energy prices increased.  Inflation rates rose in Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bavaria,
Brandenburg, Hesse and Saxony, the states’ statistics offices
said today. Economists forecast that  German inflation ,
calculated using a harmonized European Union method, slowed to
2.2 percent from 2.3 percent, the median of 25 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The Federal Statistics Office will
release that report, based on data from six states, later today.  “ Oil prices  have risen very strongly in recent weeks and
that will be the main component in inflation,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “At the same
time, the economy is slowing in comparison to last year and that
will ease price pressures.”  Concern that sanctions against  Iran’s nuclear program  will
disrupt crude supplies from the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has driven oil
prices 9.6 percent higher this year, even as the global economy
slows. The  European Central Bank  cut its main  interest rate 
twice in the fourth quarter to a record low of 1 percent as the
effects of the region’s debt crisis threatened to choke growth.  The German economy,  Europe ’s largest, contracted 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter as government spending cuts across
the euro area damped demand for the country’s exports. The
European Commission forecasts German growth will slow to 0.6
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011.  By contrast, the commission projects economic contractions
in Italy and  Spain  of 1.3 percent and 1 percent respectively for
this year. The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent in
2012, it said on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  