-- Renee Fleming Shuns Casino, Sings ‘Ariadne’ in German Town
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-28T19:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/renee-fleming-shuns-casino-sings-ariadne-in-spa-interview.html
Renee Fleming has steered clear of
the Baden-Baden  casino , popular with tourists in the elegant
southern German spa resort.  “I am a poor loser so it’s better not to even go there,”
the U.S. soprano says in the bar of the venerable  Brenners Park-
Hotel , where waiters jostle to serve us. (Three came separately
to take our order. That never happens when I’m alone.)  Glamorous in a black jacket nipped in at the waist and
loose black pants tucked into neat ankle boots, Fleming, 53, has
a soft low speaking voice that is sometimes hard to hear above
the tinkling piano in the adjoining room.  The previous night, she was on stage at the  Festspielhaus
Baden-Baden  in the title role of  Richard Strauss ’s “Ariadne auf
Naxos,” an opera-within-an-opera that mixes slapstick and
tragedy with some great music and a debate about fidelity.  Fleming almost didn’t come at all, concerned that her voice
“wouldn’t be big enough” for the role of Ariadne. Conductor
Christian Thielemann persuaded her not to cancel, promising the
orchestra would “support her in the right way,” she says.  Calculated Risk  Thielemann stuck to his pledge, keeping a chamber-orchestra
sound that doesn’t drown out Fleming’s light, warm tone.  “At this stage in my career, I don’t have to take any big
risks,” Fleming says. “You want to take a calculated risk, not
one that leads to people saying ‘yes, but there was that one
time when she made that big mistake,’” she laughs. “It’s
always a shame when that happens, especially if you’ve gotten by
for decades without anything hugely tragic.  “I had said that this would be the one and only time I
would sing Ariadne,” she says. Yet the feedback from those she
trusts has been positive, Fleming says.  “So I might do it again, we’ll see. I haven’t been offered
it yet. Musically it’s a real joy. The two arias are so
beautiful.”  It’s a fair bet that the offers will come. Fleming, who has
made Strauss her special focus, is considered the top soprano in
the U.S. -- if not the world. The “people’s diva” performed at
the Lincoln Memorial for President Barack Obama’s inauguration
concert in 2009, as well as in Beijing during the 2008  Olympic
Games .  ‘More Nuanced’  Fleming says she was shocked to realize that Ariadne was
her first new role in eight years.  “I learned so many roles so quickly as a young singer, I
thought it was time to come back to them and make them better --
deeper, more nuanced,” she says.  Memorizing new roles is “getting harder,” Fleming says
with a rueful smile. “Learning this role was time-consuming.”  She says she has dropped some parts from her repertoire,
usually because they were inappropriate for her voice. She sang
Eva in Wagner’s “Meistersinger” at Bayreuth, “but the second
act was too low for me and didn’t feel great when it was over
and I had to sing something else.”  The role of Louise in the opera of that name by Gustave
Charpentier was “exhausting, and the character is not
interesting, she’s very passive.”  Fleming, who listens to jazz for relaxation when she has
time, says she would like to turn her hand to directing at least
once or twice, perhaps with children or students.  “You can’t be in this business for as long as I have been
and not have developed ideas on the ‘regie’ too,” she says.
“Also my hobbies are art and theater, so at some point I would
love to bring that together and try a couple of things.”  ‘Arabella,’ ‘Streetcar’  Placido Domingo handily picked up a baton to conduct, and
one could easily see Fleming evolving into a stage director.  In the meantime, she is appearing in a new production of
Strauss’s “Arabella” at the  Opera National de Paris  conducted
by  Philippe Jordan  and premiering in June, and in a semi-staged
performance of “A Streetcar Named Desire” as part of a season-
long residency at  Carnegie Hall .  She is also creative consultant at the  Lyric Opera of
Chicago , a position she has held for a year and loves. No one in
the opera world would be surprised if, after her consultancy,
Fleming ended up running a major company.  Management may be something she will do more of later in
her career, she says, though at the moment, she is still
“singing full blast.”  (The opera company announced details today of a world
premiere it has commissioned for the 2015-16 season titled “Bel
Canto,” based on the novel by Ann Patchett, with music by Jimmy
Lopez and a libretto by Nilo Cruz. Stephen Wadsworth will direct
and Danielle de Niese stars in the central role).  “I can’t say anything about it, I am sworn to secrecy,”
Fleming says. “It has been so thrilling to see this project
come together.  Chicago  used to have an incredible reputation for
new works. It should be part of every theater’s profile.  “I am so envious of my colleagues from 100 years ago who
only sang new works, they hardly ever sang revivals,” she says.
“‘Ariadne’ opened in Stuttgart for a beautiful new theater in a
mini-Strauss festival. Now, you would bring out ‘Aida’ or
‘Turandot,’ some real Italian hit -- and it’s the same
repertoire we’re listening to 100 years later.”  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Baden-Baden at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 