-- Retail-Sales Index Climbs to Eight-Month High as Food Sales Hide Weakness
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/retail-sales-index-climbs-to-eight-month-high-as-food-sales-hide-weakness.html
An index of U.K.  retail sales  rose
in February to the highest in eight months as a jump in food
sales masked underlying weakness in the sector, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said.  The gauge increased to minus 2 from minus 22 the previous
month, the London-based business lobby said in a report today.
While a measure of expected sales for next month was at 2,
indicating retailers expect sales to improve in March, stores
remain cautious on the outlook.  Consumer spending  rose 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
the first increase for 1 1/2 years. Still,  Bank of England 
Governor  Mervyn King  said on Feb. 15 that Britain’s economy is
facing “substantial headwinds” as higher unemployment, tighter
credit and the deepest fiscal squeeze since World War II
restrain growth.  “It’s good to see more positive signs on the high street,
but consumers are clearly continuing to focus spending on day-
to-day needs rather than big-ticket or luxury items,” said
Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit and chair of the CBI’s distributive trades
panel. “With disposable incomes under constant pressure,
retailers remain concerned about the general business outlook
for the rest of 2012.”  A quarterly gauge of retailers’ investment intentions for
the year ahead fell to minus 43 in February from minus 4 in
November, today’s report showed. A measure of the  outlook for
business  over the coming three months fell to minus 12 from
minus 8.  Within the monthly survey, the sales index for grocers rose
to 55 this month from 6 in January, while the measure for
clothing stores plunged to minus 41, the lowest since March
2009, from 8, the CBI said.  A measure of three-month sales volumes rose to minus 5 this
month from minus 11 in January. An index of the volume of sales
for the time of year fell to minus 31 from minus 20. A gauge of
orders placed on suppliers was at minus 4 from minus 14. The
survey of 135 companies was conducted between Jan. 26 and Feb.
15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  