-- Rowan Falls After Move Announcement: Houston Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-02-28T18:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/rowan-falls-after-move-announcement-houston-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects amount spent on asset dispositions in first
paragraph.)  Rowan Companies Inc. (RDC) , the offshore-
drilling contractor that shed $1.6 billion of its business units
last year, fell the most in more than three months after
announcing plans to move its legal headquarters to the United
Kingdom.  Rowan, which owns 31 shallow-water rigs and is building 3
ultra-deepwater drillships, fell 5.2 percent to $36.51 at 11:29
a.m. in  New York . Earlier, the shares fell as much as 5.4
percent, the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 17.  The company, a member of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that is based in Houston and legally domiciled in  Delaware ,
plans to exchange U.S. stock for American depositary shares and
rename itself Rowan Companies Plc, the company announced today.
The plan is subject to shareholder approval.  “People are going to get out of it early before the S&P
500 removal gets announced,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in Houston, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s going to be a little bit of noise in the name as it
gets put into a new European index.”  Rowan reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings per share
that was 2 cents higher than the average of 30 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, according to a statement.  The move is planned to be closer to customers in the U.K.,
 Europe  and  Egypt , according to a statement. Rowan estimates 81
percent of sales this year will come from outside the U.S., up
from 10 percent in 2004.  No senior management will relocate to the U.K., Chief
Executive Officer Matt Ralls said in a conference call with
investors today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  