-- Royal Bancshares Unit Co-Owned Firms With Municipal Tax Lien Conspirator
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-28T19:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/royal-bancshares-unit-co-owned-firms-with-municipal-tax-lien-conspirator.html
Royal Bank America, which operates
15 branches in  Pennsylvania  and New Jersey, co-owned two firms
with a lawyer who pleaded guilty to conspiring to rig bids at
municipal tax lien auctions.  Attorney Robert W. Stein, of Huntingdon Valley,
Pennsylvania, was one of two men who admitted last week that he
schemed to eliminate competition by allocating bids at public
auctions by the state’s municipalities.  Stein was a 40 percent owner of Crusader Servicing Corp.
and Royal Tax Lien Services, said Colm F. Connolly, a lawyer for
the two companies. Royal Bank, a unit of  Royal Bancshares of
Pennsylvania Inc. , owns 60 percent of the Jenkintown,
Pennsylvania-based companies, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Both entities have been cooperating with the
government,” Connolly, of Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, said yesterday in an interview. He said Stein was
“effectively terminated” as president of the two companies in
November 2010.  Court papers from Stein’s Feb. 23 guilty plea in  Newark ,
 New Jersey , don’t identify his companies, saying only that he
was president of Pennsylvania corporations -- identified as
Company 1 and a successor, Company 2 -- that bought liens.  David M. Farber, of  Cherry Hill , New Jersey, also pleaded
guilty. Stein and Farber are cooperating in a U.S. Justice
Department antitrust probe, prosecutors say.  ‘Smaller Fish’  They are among five men who have pleaded guilty in New
Jersey since August. Stein’s lawyer, Paul Zoubek, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the cases. Farber’s attorney, Michael Mustokoff, declined to comment. At least three people have
pleaded guilty to similar charges in  Maryland .  “My sense is the investigation is widening,” Vincent
Belluscio, executive director of the state tax collectors and
treasurers association, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“They’re looking for larger investors that are doing the same
thing. They’ve got the smaller fish. I don’t think that’s all
they’re looking for.”  The borough of Newfield in Gloucester County, New Jersey,
has received a Justice Department subpoena seeking documents
from its March 2007 sale of tax liens, said John Eastlack, a
lawyer for the town. Newfield had a population of 1,616 in the
2000 census.  “I assume it has something to do with whoever purchased
the tax liens,” Eastlack said today in a phone interview.
“We’re getting the records together.”  Lien Auctions  New Jersey municipalities auction about $100 million a year
in tax debts on commercial and residential property to
investors, Belluscio said. Bidders on tax liens are supposed to
compete fairly for the right to buy liens and collect taxes on
property, with bidding starting at 18 percent and then going
lower, prosecutors said.  Stein, Farber and others agreed not to bid against one
another at auctions, prosecutors said. That rewarded their firms
with higher interest on liens they bought while forcing property
owners to pay more to retire their tax debts, prosecutors said.  Firms that buy delinquent liens may earn as much as
30 percent on their investment, Belluscio said. In addition to
interest of as much as 18 percent on delinquent liens, tax lien
firms may add penalties of up to 12 percent, he said.  Banks “are very involved” in the process, Belluscio said.
Banks provide loans to lien firms and also package liens they
purchase into bonds that they sell to investors, he said.  Bank’s Stake  Royal Bank acquired its interest in Crusader Servicing as
part of its 2001 acquisition of virtually all assets of Crusader
Holding Corp., and is now gradually liquidating the firm. Royal
Bank formed Royal Tax Lien Services in 2006, according to  Royal
Bancshares (RBPAA)  regulatory filings.  Royal Bancshares said in a March 31, 2010, regulatory
filing that Crusader Servicing and Royal Tax Lien Services are
“subjects” of a U.S. probe into rigged tax lien auctions.  Royal Bank’s tax lien business recovers its investment when
property owners pay off their liens or a property undergoes
foreclosure. The bank said it earned about $1.9 million in
interest income for the nine months ended Sept. 30.  Marc Sanders, a spokesman for Narbeth, Pennsylvania-based
Royal Bank, declined to comment.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Xspand subsidiary and Vienna,
Virginia-based Mooring Tax Asset Group received grand jury
subpoenas in 2009, according to a prospectus that year for New
York City tax-lien bonds that are serviced by the firms.  Justin Perras , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
and Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Julia Mazak, a spokeswoman for Mooring Tax Asset, which
is now known as MTAG Services, didn’t have an immediate comment.  Lien Priority  Tax liens, which are also known as tax certificates, are
secured by claims on the underlying real estate and take
priority over mortgages.  Stein’s lien scheme ran from 1998 to 2009, while Farber was
a member of the conspiracy from 2005 to 2009, prosecutors said.
Farber was a partner in DSBD LLC, which managed investments held
by two funds -- CCTS Tax Liens I LLC and CCTS Tax Liens II LLC
-- that invested in municipal tax liens, court papers show.  In 2009 Farber co-founded a company called Pro Capital LLC
that acquires tax liens in New Jersey,  New York  and  Florida ,
according to Pro Capital’s website. Farber declined to comment.  Farber is also associated with U.S. Material Supply Inc., a
Barrington, New Jersey-based company that sells to European
nations spare parts for American-made tanks and other military
vehicles, according to John Ferguson, who works at the parts
company. U.S. Material Supply is unrelated to Pro Capital,
Ferguson said.  The cases are U.S. v. Stein and U.S. v. Farber, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  