-- Firefighters Continue to Battle Tilbury Power Plant Fire in U.K.
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-28T10:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/rwe-s-tilbury-power-plant-smolders-in-east-england-after-wood-pellet-blaze.html
Firefighters continued to battle a
fire at  RWE AG (RWE) ’s Tilbury power station on the banks of the  River
Thames , 30 miles (48 kilometers) east of London.  Two of the three units at the power station, converted last
year to run entirely on wood pellets rather than coal, were
affected by the fire. The whole station was shut for most of
yesterday. Unit 8 at the site switched on at about 9 p.m. local
time last night and was generating about 95 megawatts as of 9:30
a.m. today, grid data show. The other two units remain shut.  Local brigades are “continuing to remove pellets from the
hoppers while at the same time maintaining a foam blanket on the
affected hoppers to prevent the fuel from re-igniting,”
according to a filing on the Essex County Fire and Rescue
Service website.  RWE, along with  Drax Group Plc (DRX) ,  International Power Plc (IPR)  and
SSE Plc, is looking to boost the use of biomass in its power
stations in the U.K. The fuel is considered to have a neutral
affect on the climate as trees take in carbon dioxide when they
grow and release it when burned. RWE gets a subsidy from the
U.K. government for using the fuel and doesn’t have to pay for
European emissions allowances.  “It is unlikely that this would represent a killer risk to
biomass, but it will raise extra costs near term for monitoring
and perhaps longer term for improvements in storage facilities
and handling,”  Chris Rogers , a utilities analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  Power for the next working day rose for a fifth day to
46.60 pounds ($73.91) a megawatt-hour. The Tilbury station’s
capacity is equal to about 1.7 percent of the amount of
electricity generated at all U.K. plants at 9:50 a.m., according
to National Grid data on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  