-- Ryan Braun’s Drug Test Followed Established MLB Protocol, Collector Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ryan-braun-s-drug-test-followed-established-mlb-protocol-collector-says.html
The man who collected  Ryan Braun ’s
urine sample said he followed the protocol for  Major League
Baseball ’s drug-testing program and that recent criticism by the
player has caused his family emotional distress.  Braun, the reigning National League Most Valuable Player,
had a 50-game suspension for violating baseball’s drug rules
overturned by an arbitration panel. The Milwaukee Brewers
outfielder said the drug-testing process in his case was
“fatally flawed” and that mistakes in handling his sample led
to the failed test, not something he put in his body.  Dino Laurenzi Jr., who’s been collecting test samples for
MLB since 2005, issued a statement yesterday in response to the
comments by Braun, the only major league player to successfully
appeal a drug suspension.  “I followed the same procedure in collecting Mr. Braun’s
sample as I did in the hundreds of other samples I collected
under the program,” Laurenzi said in a statement distributed by
MLB.  Braun’s lawyers focused their appeal on whether the
player’s sample was delivered promptly to a laboratory after it
was collected on Oct. 1. Collectors are instructed to deliver
samples to a FedEx shipping center on the day of the test to
preserve anonymity and ensure the urine isn’t contaminated or
misplaced, Braun said at a news conference on Feb. 24.  “There were a lot of things we learned about the
collector, the collection process, about the way the entire
thing worked that made us very concerned and very suspicious,”
Braun said.  Test Levels  The drug found in Braun’s system wasn’t identified by MLB.
ESPN said it was synthetic testosterone, a muscle builder. Braun
said that the MLB Players Association told him that his
testosterone results were three times higher than any number in
the history of drug testing.  Laurenzi said he collected samples from Braun and two other
players on Oct. 1 following a playoff game, sealing Braun’s A
and B samples with specially numbered tamper-resistant seals.
The samples were placed in a sealed plastic bag, which went into
a sealed cardboard specimen box, Laurenzi said. Those boxes then
went into a FedEx shipping box, which Laurenzi said he took home
because it was after 5 p.m. on a Saturday and there was no FedEx
office within 50 miles that would ship packages that day or
Sunday.  Laurenzi said Comprehensive Drug Testing had instructed
collectors to safeguard samples in their homes until FedEx is
able to immediately ship the sample to the laboratory, rather
than having the samples sit for a day or more at a local office
of the shipping company.  Rules Followed  “The protocol has been in place since 2005 when I started
with CDT and there have been other occasions when I have had to
store samples in my home for at least one day, all without
incident,” Laurenzi said.  He said the samples never left his custody, remained sealed
and were kept in a container in his home in a basement office,
which he said is sufficiently cool to store urine.  Laurenzi said he didn’t tamper in any way with the samples,
which were shipped out Oct. 3 and delivered to the laboratory
the following day.  “It is my understanding that the samples were received at
the laboratory with all tamper-resistant seals intact,”
Laurenzi said. “This situation has caused great emotional
distress for me and my family. I have worked hard my entire
life, have performed my job duties with integrity and
professionalism, and have done so with respect to this matter
and all other collections in which I have participated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  