-- Salazar: ‘All Options’ Considered on Oil Reserves
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-28T20:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/salazar-all-options-considered-on-oil-reserves.html
Using the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve is among options being considered by President Barack
Obama to stem a three-week rise in U.S. gasoline prices,
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  Obama and Energy Secretary Steven Chu “are very involved
and looking at all options,” Salazar told reporters in
 Washington  today, when asked about a potential release of oil
from emergency inventories. “No decisions have been made, so I
can just say that all options are on the table and we will make
sure we make the right decision.”  Salazar, who oversees energy production on federal lands
and off the coast, was urged by lawmakers at a Senate Energy and
Natural Resources Committee today to open more areas for oil and
natural-gas production.  The cost of U.S. gasoline is tied to global crude prices,
uncertainty about supplies from Iran and the  Middle East  and
demand from China and  India , Salazar said. The U.S. reserve, the
world’s largest government-owned stockpile, was previously used
in July and August, under an International Energy Agency effort
to ease shortages of Middle East crude.  Gasoline (3AGSREG)  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.8 cents
to $3.716 a gallon yesterday from Feb. 26, according to AAA
data. Prices, which have increased 43.8 cents so far this year,
are 10 percent higher than a year ago. The price has climbed for
21 days in a row.  Crude, Gasoline  Crude oil for April delivery fell $2.01, or 1.9 percent, to
settle at $106.55 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The contract yesterday slid 1.1 percent to $108.56, ending the
longest upward move since January 2010.  “Releasing oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve would
be, at best, a short-term benefit,” Senator  John Barrasso , a
Wyoming Republican, said today in a statement. “This purely
political move would cause more harm than good.”  The U.S. will have to buy oil to replenish the stocks
released last year and any crude sold this year, Barrasso said.
The Republicans, the  energy industry  and some Democrats oppose a
release now, saying supplies must be available, for example, in
the event Iran, facing sanctions over its nuclear program,
blocks a shipping pathway for a fifth of the crude heading to
the market.  Three House Democrats on Feb. 22 asked Obama to use the
emergency inventories “to combat the rapid price escalations
resulting from speculation.”  “We take no possible response off the table,”  Jay Carney ,
the White House press secretary, responded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  