-- Santander to Buy KBC’s Kredyt Bank to Boost Polish Business
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-28T17:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/santander-kbc-agree-to-merge-zachodni-wbk-kredyt-bank-units-in-poland.html
Banco Santander  SA, Spain’s biggest
lender, agreed to buy  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s Kredyt Bank and combine it
with its Polish division to create the country’s third-biggest
lender valued at about 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion).  Santander will hold 76.5 percent of the merged lender and
KBC about 16.4 percent, the two banks said today in an e-mailed
 statement . The transaction, funded with shares of the Bank
Zachodni WBK unit Santander bought last year, values Kredyt at
about 4.3 billion zloty ($1.4 billion). Kredyt’s stock gained
the most in 18 years in Warsaw trading.  Santander, led by Chairman  Emilio Botin , is expanding in
Poland to help diversify its business across 10 markets from
 Brazil  to the U.K. as profit slumps at home following  Spain ’s
property crash. Chief Financial Officer Jose Antonio Alvarez has
said the Polish market looks similar to Spain’s in 1990, before
lending grew more than fivefold over the next 15 years.  “It looks like a very good and smart transaction for
Santander, a non-cash transaction that allows them to maximize
scale and synergies in Poland,” said Andrea Filtri, an analyst
at Mediobanca SpA in  London .  Kredyt Bank surged 18 percent to 14.1 zloty at the close in
Warsaw. KBC rose 4.7 percent to 17.42 euros while Santander was
little changed at 6.27 euros. Zachodni fell 1.7 percent.  Profit Goal  The agreement is based on an exchange ratio of 6.96 shares
of Santander’s  Bank Zachodni WBK (BZW)  unit for every 100 shares of
Kredyt. That values Kredyt at 15.75 zloty a share and Zachodni
at 226.4 zloty a share at current prices, the banks said.  Other minority investors will hold 7.1 percent of the
merged lender. Zachodni will issue new shares that will be
offered to KBC and Kredyt Bank shareholders in exchange for
their shares, the banks said.  Santander said it has committed to buy a further 5 percent
of the combined bank as it helps KBC reduce its stake to below
10 percent. KBC said it plans to sell its remaining stake. The
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said  on its
website today it was asked to invest as much as 80 million euros
in a share sale by Zachodni.  The Spanish lender plans to deliver annual growth rates of
15 percent to 20 percent at the Polish business and is targeting
profit of 3.1 billion zloty by 2015. Santander expects 322
million zloty in efficiency improvements in  Poland  by 2015 as it
“optimizes” the branch network, cuts marketing and
administrative costs and operates a single computer platform.  “This is a deal that works for both sides,” said Marcin Materna, an equity analyst at Bank Millenium SA brokerage in
Warsaw. Santander “is buying a bank that will be worth a lot
more once it’s brought up to Zachodni’s standards,” he said.  Repaying Bailout  The sale of Kredyt is part of KBC’s strategy of repaying
the 7 billion euros of rescue funds the company received from
the Belgian government during the credit crisis.  “Difficult times have forced us to make difficult
choices,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Vanhevel said in a
statement.  The combined bank will have 3.5 million retail customers
with a 9.6 percent share of deposits and 8 percent of loans, the
lenders said. The merger will broaden the lender’s product line
and increase effectiveness, Zachodni said.  “With this transaction,  Banco Santander (SAN)  will significantly
strengthen its presence in Poland, one of the most dynamic
economies in  Europe , obtaining the critical mass we seek in core
markets,” Botin said in a statement. The impact on Santander’s
core capital ratios will be less than 5 basis points, the bank
said. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.  How Banks Compare  “The deal fits with Santander’s strategy of increasing its
foothold in targeted growth markets and leverage on the initial
acquisition of Zachodni,”  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at Keefe
Bruyette & Woods in London, said in a research note today.  Zachodni has 622 branches and employs 9,383 workers with
total assets of 59.9 billion zloty, according to the statement.
Kredyt Bank, which has assets of 42 billion zloty, had 373
Polish branches with 4,963 staff at the end of 2011.  As part of the transaction, Santander also agreed to buy
Zagiel, KBC’s consumer finance arm in Poland, the banks said.
KBC will continue to provide Swiss franc financing for three
years under existing conditions, they said.  Santander completed the acquisition of Zachodni in March
last year, paying about 4 billion euros for the lender after
 Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  put its controlling stake on sale to
bolster a balance sheet depleted by Ireland’s real-estate slump.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at   cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  