-- Santander Said to Be Close to Purchasing Poland’s Kredyt Bank
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-02-28T00:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/santander-said-to-be-close-to-buying-poland-s-kredyt-bank-for-1-3-billion.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  is close to
buying Kredyt Bank, the Polish unit of Belgian lender  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) , for 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), said a person with
direct knowledge of the transaction.  Bank Zachodni SA, Madrid-based Santander’s Poland
subsidiary, will pay for the transaction in cash and stock, the
person said, asking not to be named because the talks are
private. The purchase may be announced as soon as today.  KBC received 7 billion euros in Belgian rescue funds and is
selling 80 percent of Kredyt Bank to meet its pledge to repay
the government. Poland is among markets in Eastern Europe where
bank assets are up for sale as some Western European owners exit
the region to repair balance-sheet damage caused by the debt
crisis or to qualify for state aid.  An investor seeking to buy a stake of more than 66 percent
in a Polish publicly traded company has to bid for all shares at
a price no lower than the average for the previous six months,
according to the country’s securities regulations.  Zachodni is considering selling Eurobonds this year to
finance its expansion, the bank’s head of financial accounting,
Wojciech Skalski, said on Feb. 13.  Santander, the biggest bank in the euro region by market
value, bought Zachodni in 2010 from Allied Irish Banks Plc for
2.94 billion euros.  Santander has also sold assets to plug a 5.22 billion-euro
capital shortfall identified by European banking regulators. The
bank completed the sale of its Brazilian insurance operations to
Zurich Financial Services AG for $1.7 billion in October and
sold a $958 million stake in Banco Santander  Chile , the South
American country’s biggest bank by assets, in December.  Santander also disposed of a 95 percent stake in its
Colombian unit to CorpBanca, to Chile’s sixth-largest lender by
assets, for about $1.16 billion, and sold a U.S. consumer-loan
business to a group led by private-equity firm KKR & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 