-- Sany to Invest $143 Million in Mobile Crane JV With Austria’s Palfinger
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T16:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sany-to-invest-143-million-in-mobile-crane-jv-with-austria-s-palfinger.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , run by
China’s richest man, and  Palfinger AG (PAL) , the world’s biggest maker
of truck-mounted cranes, will invest 900 million yuan ($143
million) in a venture to make and sell mobile cranes.  The venture, Sany Palfinger SPV Equipment Co., will be
based in Changsha in central China’s Hunan province, Sany said
in a Shanghai Stock exchange  filing  yesterday. The two companies
will also invest as much as 4 million euros ($5.4 million) to
set up a sales unit in Salzburg, where  Austria ’s Palfinger is
based.  The Chinese construction-equipment maker’s agreement with
Palfinger is a “big measure for Sany Heavy’s drive to the
global crane market and overseas strategy” and will raise “the
two companies’ ability to innovate,” Sany said.  The companies are investing even as construction growth has
eased in  China  after the government seeks to cool property
speculation. Home sales rose at the slowest pace in three years
in 2011 and expansion of real estate investments slowed to 28
percent from 33 percent in 2010.  Palfinger’s global sales network and services will
“significantly raise Sany cranes’ globalization,” said Sany,
controlled by Chairman Liang Wengen.  The China venture start this year and will be fully
operational by 2013, Palfinger said in a separate statement. The
sales unit in Salzburg will open immediately and will be fully
operational by year-end, it said.  Palfinger, led by Chief Executive Officer Herbert Ortner,
said in August that expansion to China was a top priority for
management. Ortner said on Feb. 3 that he hoped to announce a
China venture in the “next weeks.”  Expanding in China, where Palfinger already has a plant in
Shenzhen, is the most important step for the company since its
1999 initial public offering, Ortner said this month, adding
that it “hopefully will be our biggest market within the next
five or six years.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  