-- SAP’s Snabe Sees a Third of 2015 Sales From Subscriptions
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-29T08:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sap-s-snabe-says-windows-phone-is-a-very-important-platform-.html
SAP AG (SAP)  co-Chief Executive Officer
Jim Hagemann Snabe predicts subscription-based services, fueled
by mobile and cloud-computing products, will account for a third
of the business-software maker’s revenue in 2015.  SAP is augmenting its traditional software license-revenue
model with offers in which companies lease applications for
shorter time periods. The company has acquired mobile-solutions
provider  Sybase Inc. (SY)  and cloud computing-focused  SuccessFactors
Inc. (SFSF) , and rolled out on-demand enterprise software as it seeks
to boost 2015 revenue to more than 20 billion euros ($27
billion) from 14.2 billion euros last year.  “Where some parts companies want the control themselves
they will buy it upfront because that’s where their
competitiveness lies,” Snabe said at the  Mobile World Congress 
in Barcelona yesterday. “In others they’ll want to consume as
they go, and there will be a subscription market for that. I
believe that in 2015 we will see a healthy balance between the
two.”  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , will begin breaking out
revenue from subscription services this year, spokesman
Christoph Liedtke said. The company began regular offerings of
software with subscription fees with the wider deployment of
Business ByDesign and the acquisition of Sybase in 2010.  In Memory  SAP is integrating its Hana technology, which enables
processing of large amounts of data on the go, with mobile and
cloud products. For example, a company employee can make ad-hoc
changes to a sales presentation on his  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPad and
present the results without delay, where otherwise he may have
to ask colleagues to retrieve that information from a database.  SAP leads rivals by about 1 1/2 years in in-memory
computing and is about a year ahead of competitors in solutions
to make smartphones and tablets safe to use as business tools,
Snabe said. The acquisition of SuccessFactors, which was
completed last week, means SAP has also caught up in cloud
services, which involves delivering applications on demand via
the Web, he added.  Before today, SAP had gained 16 percent in the past 12
months, while  Redwood City , California-based  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  fell
11 percent and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , headquartered in  San
Francisco (FRC) , added about 8 percent. SAP climbed 2 euro cents to
50.62 euros at 9:43 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Sanjay Poonen, the German company’s head of global
solutions, said that Oracle and other database providers may be
held back in responding to SAP’s Hana product.  ’Disruptive’  “In-memory technology is so traditionally disruptive to
database vendors because they have to rethink the database in a
very different paradigm,” Poonen said in an interview. “The
approach typically with the old database vendors is they are
going to throw a lot more hardware at the problem to try and get
the same kind of performance that we’re getting. And we’ll see
how that plays out.”  SAP this week unveiled a partnership with  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  to bring more devices based on Google Inc.’s
Android software into corporate use by reducing security risks
in the software and enable corporate IT to manage the devices.  “From a business use of mobile, we are probably a year
ahead, but it’s a very fast-moving market and if you look at the
smartphones everyone gets it,” Snabe said. “This will be a
fight for speed.”  SAP is also seeking deeper cooperation with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  on Windows Phone, he said, adding that the
operating system is “a very important platform.”  “We’ve always said we’ll support all leading mobile
platforms, and Windows Phone definitely belongs to that
category,” Snabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  