-- Seven-Year Special Repo Clears While Treasury Requests Holdings
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-28T21:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/seven-year-special-repo-clears-while-treasury-requests-holdings.html
U.S. Treasury seven-year notes have
become less coveted in the short-term market for borrowing and
lending debt as the government tries to find out why the
securities were in such short supply last week.  The Treasury Department yesterday asked for information
about positions in 1.25 percent notes of January 2019, with a
threshold of $2 billion as of the close of business on Feb. 21.
That security, the so-called on-the-run or most actively traded
seven-year note last week, came into such short supply in the
repurchase agreement market that investors paid interest on cash
lent to borrow the debt, resulting in a negative repurchase
agreement rate. The Treasury sold $29 billion in new seven-year
notes on Feb. 23.  The Treasury requested that “entities with reportable
positions in this note equal to or exceeding the $2 billion
threshold must report these positions to the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of  New York ” by March 2, according to a press release
published yesterday.  The repurchase agreement, or repo, rate on the 1.25
Treasury note maturing in January 2019 fell to below minus 3
percent on Feb. 22. The rate closed at 0.05 percent on Feb. 24,
the day after the Treasury sold the new debt.  The rate on the security closed today at 0.03 percent,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate closed at 0.19 percent.  Below Zero  Repo rates have traded below zero frequently since May 2009
when a 3 percentage point penalty for failing to meet security
delivery obligations was put in place. The fee, instituted at
the time to reduce failed trades, means that at a repo
rate below negative 3 percent it is more economical for a
counterparty to fail to deliver than to obtain the needed
security in the repo market.  There is no reason to believe that any improper behavior
was involved in the dealing in that security last week, said a
U.S. Treasury Department official who briefed reporters
yesterday on condition of not being identified by name.
Nevertheless, the official said, the Treasury is seeking to
identify the “large-position holders” of the seven-year notes,
hoping to determine that they were continuing to lend into the
repo market during that period.  Traders often short, or sell securities they’ve borrowed in
the repo market ahead of a Treasury sale of new debt of similar
maturity, to profit if prices of the notes fall after the
auction. Typically, lenders of cash receive interest on those
loans, represented by a positive repurchase agreement, or repo,
rate.  Securities Dealers  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at  interest
rates  close to the Federal Reserve’s target rate, which is in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral.
Those in highest demand have lower rates and are called
“special.”  Central banks and the Federal Reserve are exempt from these
position requests.  The large-position reporting program was established in
1996 to guard against market manipulation. In December 2010, the
Treasury announced a test of the program and called for reports
from investors holding $2 billion or more of 3/4-percent
Treasury notes maturing on Sept. 15, 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  