-- Shanghai Raises Minimum Wage 13% as China Seeks to Boost Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T05:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/shanghai-raises-minimum-wage-13-as-china-seeks-to-boost-consumer-demand.html
China ’s financial hub of  Shanghai 
joined Beijing and Shenzhen in boosting the  minimum wage  this
year as policy makers seek to spur consumer  spending  and a
shrinking labor surplus pushes up salaries.  The nation’s most affluent city will increase the wage by
13 percent to 1,450 yuan ($230) a month starting in April, the
Shanghai human resources and social security bureau said in a
statement on its website today. It’s the 19th adjustment since
the city’s minimum wage rule was established in 1993, according
to the statement.  Policy makers in the world’s second-biggest  economy  are
trying both to keep inflation in check and shift the nation’s
economic growth toward domestic demand. Promoting consumption by
raising wages would facilitate such a transition, said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
 Singapore .  Increased company profits over the past decade “means
producers have the wherewithal to increase salaries,” Condon
said.  In 2011, 24 provinces and municipalities raised minimum
wages by an average of 22 percent, according to the Ministry of
Human Resources and Social Security. Shanghai’s rose by 14
percent.  China plans to raise the level by an average of at least 13
percent annually from 2011 to 2015, according to the national
12th Five-Year Plan that covers those years. The government
suspended increases in minimum wages in 2009 to help companies
weather the global financial turmoil. Thirty provinces raised
minimum wages in 2010 by an average of 22 percent.  Beijing, Shenzhen  Shanghai has a population of 23 million. Beijing, the
nation’s capital with 19.6 million people, raised the minimum
wage by 8.6 percent to 1,260 yuan a month on Jan. 1. Shenzhen, a
manufacturing hub of 13 million people bordering  Hong Kong ,
increased minimum payments by 13.6 percent in February. The
southern region of Guangxi increased its wage by about 22
percent in January.  China’s economic expansion slowed last year as  Europe ’s
debt woes curbed global growth and Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign
to cool gains in housing and consumer prices damped demand.
Inflation unexpectedly rebounded to 4.5 percent in January from
a year earlier, as spending during the weeklong-Chinese New Year
holiday pushed up prices.  The nation created 12 million new jobs last year, 3 million
more than the government’s target for 2011, according to the
labor ministry. The urban registered jobless rate was 4.1
percent at the end of 2011, compared with the government target
of keeping unemployment under 4.6 percent.  Labor Pool  China’s working-age population, which has expanded 2.5
percent a year over the past three decades, has almost stopped
growing, according to  Richard Jackson , director of the Global
Aging Initiative at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in  Washington .  “China has passed the demographic turning point, with
little excess labor left,” saidZhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Plc. “I do expect
wages to continue rising at a fast pace, mainly because the
labor market is becoming tight structurally.”  Overseas orders are slumping and rising wages are making it
tougher to do business in China, Stanley Lau, deputy chairman of
the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, said last month. The
group represents Hong Kong business people with factories in the
Pearl River Delta area, which covers a region including southern
 Guangdong province . It has about 3,000 company members, mostly
manufacturers selling goods overseas. “Many  manufacturers are
going to contract or close down,” Lau said.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Sophie Leung in Hong Kong.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  