-- Shanghai Won’t Ease Curbs on Second Home Purchases by Non-Locals
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-28T20:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/shanghai-won-t-ease-curbs-on-second-home-purchases-by-non-locals.html
Shanghai  will only let local
permanent residents buy second homes in the city, its housing
bureau said in a statement on its website yesterday, reiterating
existing policy after earlier reports of changes.  The city government halted a plan to allow some non-local
residents to buy second homes, according to a report in the
 China  Securities Journal yesterday that cited local housing
transaction centers.  The city had planned to ease rules that prevented non-
locals from acquiring second homes by allowing people who have
held Shanghai residence permits for three years to buy, the
newspaper reported.  China’s housing authorities are cracking down on local
government attempts to ease property purchase limits. The
eastern city of Wuhu suspended plans to subsidize some house
sales last week, three days after they were announced, and
Foshan in the south axed its own measures in October. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said this month that the controls will stay until
prices come down to a reasonable level.  Shanghai was one of 40 cities that imposed home purchase
restrictions last year. Housing prices in the city fell in
January for a fourth month straight, the statistics bureau said
on Feb. 18. Liu Haisheng, the head of the city’s housing
authority, said on Feb. 23 that Shanghai wasn’t changing its
housing policies.  Real estate values across the country are starting to fall,
with new  home prices  dropping in 47 out of 70 cities tracked by
China’s securities bureau last month.  Xiangshan county in Zhejiang ended curbs on home purchases
this year, the National Business Daily said, citing unidentified
people at the local property industry association. An
unidentified official from the local real estate management
department denied the change, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  