-- Skype-Like Calls Seen Boosting Vodafone’s Prospects in Battle With Google
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-29T08:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/skype-like-calls-seen-boosting-vodafone-in-battle-with-google.html
Mobile-phone operators, facing the
threat of social media taking the lion-share of new services,
are fighting back with Internet calls that will put them in
direct rivalry with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype Technologies SA.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  will this
summer offer an instant messaging application to combat the
free services provided by WhatsApp and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  that flood
their networks with surging data traffic. Dubbed Joyn, the
global initiative is set to extend to Asian and U.S. carriers
and will also make it possible for the operators to offer
Internet-video calling on new high-speed networks.  “We left it open and they stepped into the space,” Kobus
Smit, the  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  executive responsible for running
the initiative, said in an interview at the  Mobile World
Congress  in Barcelona this week. “And now we are reclaiming it.”  European carriers including Royal  KPN NV (KPN)  have struggled to
adapt to the surging demand for social media on mobile phones,
with consumers increasingly circumventing traditional text
message charges by sending free messages over the Internet.
Operators lost an estimated $13.9 billion in SMS revenue in
2011, as subscribers turned to outside social messaging apps,
according to researcher Ovum.  2 Billion Messages  WhatsApp, a U.S. start-up founded by two former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
employees, is sending 2 billion instant messages a day, up from
1 billion in October, CEO Jan Koum said this week.  The Joyn venture, which will be first offered by Vodafone
and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in  Spain  and by Deutsche Telekom in  Germany ,
marks the first commercial attempt by operators to enable all
their networks for instant messaging among users. Deutsche
Telekom is also considering extending the service to its eastern
European markets, Smit said.  “If they came to market earlier it would have been in a
stronger position to combat these services,” said Neha Dharia,
an analyst at Ovum. “Their traditional revenues from SMS are on
the way down.”  Talmon Marco, CEO of Viber, an instant messaging service
with more than one billion messages sent every month, is also
skeptical.  “The days when most people are using the services provided
by the telcos are coming to an end,” Marco said in an interview
in Barcelona.  “In a world where they all offer the same thing,
partnering with the OTT companies will allow them to
differentiate,” he said, referring to so-called over-the-top
companies such as Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  whose services take up
operators’ network bandwidth.  Voice Over LTE?  Vodafone in November warned of the risk of the
“substitution” of voice and SMS use with data services. The
company has sought to move customers to bundles that include the
different services.  Shares of Newbury, England-based Vodafone fell 0.8 percent
to 171 pence at 8:24 a.m. in  London . Deutsche Telekom added 0.7
percent to 8.88 euros in  Frankfurt . Telefonica rose 0.7 percent
to 12.96 euros on the Madrid exchange.  For the wireless operators, the real opportunity may come
in the next update which will enable video calling over their
faster fourth-generation Internet networks based on the faster
long-term evolution technology. “It’s nothing more than
connecting all the services,” Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao said.
“We need to do it for voice.”  Windows Phone  The service will put Joyn in direct rivalry with Skype, the
world’s most popular Internet-calling service. British operators
have resisted allowing Web-based calls offered by Skype, fearing
that it will eat into their traditional voice revenue.  Vodafone restricts access to Web-based calls on its lower-
priced tariffs unless subscribers pay an additional charge.
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Deutsche Telekom’s U.K. venture bans
access to external services.  Microsoft is stepping up its promotion of Skype, following
its $8.5 billion acquisition of the company last year, by
bringing out the first video-calling application on its new
Windows Phone software.  “Is that going to be addressed by Skype? Yes, I guess
so,” said Graham Trickey, who is coordinating the Joyn project.  A Skype spokeswoman said the company was watching the
operator initiative closely and declined to comment further.  Joyn on IPhone?  The mobile carriers are working to persuade handset
manufacturers to incorporate the application in all their
devices. The venture suffered an early blow this week when  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  said in Barcelona it would pre-install WhatsApp on its new
mass-market phones.  While Apple Inc. hasn’t agreed to allow the Joyn messaging
application on its iPhones, the manufacturer may be compelled to
offer the service on the device as operators build out the
Internet-voice application, Smit said.  “I’m hoping they will come round” he said. “It no longer
becomes feasible not to offer it because it’s the basic
communications service.”  An Apple spokesman didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  KPN, the largest Dutch mobile phone company said in July
last year it needed to increase smartphone bills to prevent
subscribers going round its services.  “You can’t just have free services,” Smit said. “Because 
who is going to pay for it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Barcelona at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  