-- Slovenian GDP Contracted Further on Slower Exports, Survey Shows
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-02-28T09:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/slovenian-gdp-contracted-further-on-slower-exports-survey-shows.html
Slovenia’s  economy  contracted for
the second consecutive quarter in the last three months of 2011
as export growth slowed amid government austerity measures
across  Europe , a Bloomberg survey showed.  Gross domestic product fell 0.9 percent from a year
earlier, compared with a 0.5 percent drop in the third quarter,
according to the  median estimate  of six economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The  statistics office  will publish the report
at 10:30 a.m. in Ljubljana tomorrow.  “It looks like weak domestic demand continued to drag
Slovenian growth down,” Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets
economist at  Capital Economics  Ltd. in  London  said in an e-mail.
“As the eurozone, Slovenia’s key export destination, is on the
verge of a renewed recession, exports are on course to slow
further. This year is going to be a tough year for Slovenia.”  Slovenia had its long-term  credit rating  lowered by Fitch
to A from AA- with a negative outlook on Jan. 27 because of a
lack of financing flexibility in the face of the debt crisis.
The country is sliding into a recession because demand for its
exports in Europe is slowing as nations trim spending to lower
their debt burden.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., the country’s biggest lender,
reported a 239 million-euro ($321 million) loss last year on
surging bad-loan provisions.  Abanka Vipa d.d. , the third-largest
bank, had a 119 million-euro loss in 2011.  ‘Deep Recession’  Europe, where Slovenia sends about two-thirds of all
exported goods, may also enter a “deep recession,” Capital
Economics has said. GDP of the 17-member bloc is forecast to
decline 0.3 percent this year, while the Slovenian economy is
set to drop an annual 0.1 percent, the European Commission said
in a Feb. 23 report. That compares with a 0.2 growth forecast by
the government’s economic institute.  The commission, the executive arm of the European Union,
said Feb. 14 that Slovenia needs an in-depth review of its
imbalances, including “high debt at the banking industry.”  The government of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , which took
power on Feb. 10 after a snap vote in December, pledged to cut
spending by 800 million euros to allay investors’ concern over
public debt that has more than doubled since 2007, when the
former Yugoslav nation adopted the euro.  Since September, when the previous government of Borut Pahor was ousted, Slovenia’s credit ratings have been cut by
Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s 
on a weak outlook for the banking industry and the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  