-- Slowdown Spurs Confidence as Bonds Rally Most in 18 Months: Turkey Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-29T16:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/slowdown-spurs-confidence-as-bonds-rally-most-in-18-months-turkey-credit.html
Turkey ’s  dollar bonds  are poised for
their best month in 1 1/2 years as slowing economic growth spurs
speculation demand for imported goods will ease, narrowing the
country’s record current-account deficit.  The yield on Turkish dollar bonds fell the most since July
2010 this month, outperforming 39 of the 45 emerging markets in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. The  extra yield  for
Turkey over U.S. Treasuries dropped 56 basis points to 338.  The world’s second-fastest expansion after China among
major economies last year helped send the current-account gap to
more than 10 percent of gross domestic product, prompting
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to warn of a possible recession.
Industrial production slowed and capacity utilization fell for a
fourth month, government data show. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci cited slowing growth for two interest rate cuts this year.  “For me, nothing could be better for Turkey than a nice
recession,”  Edwin Gutierrez , a  fund manager  who helps oversee
about $7.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc in London, said by phone on Feb. 27. “Nothing
would do more to address that deficit than to have an import
collapse which would come from a softening of growth.”  Aberdeen bought some of Turkey’s dollar bonds due in 2022
sold this year, Gutierrez said. The yield on the debt fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, today to 5.36 percent,
compared with 6.14 percent when they first traded on Jan. 23,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Achilles Heel  Turkish economic growth may slow to 0.4 percent this year,
from 8.3 percent in 2011, according to a  report  prepared by
International Monetary Fund staff for a meeting of the Group of
20 nations in Mexico City on Jan. 19. The government forecasts
that Europe’s eighth-biggest economy will grow at least 4
percent, down from a pace of 9.6 percent in the first nine
months of 2011, which was topped only by  China  among the G-20.  Turkey’s  current-account  deficit narrowed for a second
month in December, its first back-to-back drop in a year, the
central bank said Feb. 13. The 12-month cumulative deficit
shrank to $77.1 billion, or about 10 percent of output.  “Turkish bonds benefited massively from the previous two
current-account data releases,”  Felix Herrmann , a Frankfurt-
based analyst at DZ Bank AG, said in e-mailed comments. “The
current-account deficit is considered the Achilles heel of the
Turkish economy.”  Lira Rallies  The nation’s central bank has been trying to pare growth
without causing a recession after record-low  interest rates 
spurred demand for imports and sent the current-account g
soaring. Reduced concern about Turkey’s ability to finance the
gap has helped the lira gain 8.5 percent against the dollar this
year, recouping some of last year’s 18 percent loss, the biggest
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank spent about $15 billion of its foreign-
exchange reserves since August last year to support the lira,
central bank governor Basci said Jan. 6.  Turkey’s dependency on foreign financing will leave it
vulnerable to “more serious downside risks over the long
term,”  Ahmet Akarli , Goldman’s economist for the region based
in  London , said in an e-mailed report on Feb. 10. The deficit
will narrow to around 8 percent of GDP by mid-2012 before
widening to around 9.5 percent by early 2013, Akarli said.  Raising Forecast  Goldman boosted its forecast for Turkey’s economic growth
this year to 2.5 percent from 0.8 percent estimated in December.
The bank had predicted a likely contraction for late 2011 and
early 2012, according to a report in December. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch also said in December Turkey faced a possible
recession.  Rising crude prices risk pushing up inflation as Turkey
imports all its oil, the central bank said in the minutes of its
Feb. 21 interest-rate meeting. The bank cut its overnight
lending rate one percentage point to 11.5 percent at that
meeting because the “risk of a rapid capital outflow has
reduced” following monetary expansion in developed economies,
according to the minutes.  The lira strengthened for a third day today, gaining 0.5
percent to 1.7434 per dollar, the strongest in more than a week.
The currency has appreciated 1.9 percent so far in February.  Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  in liras fell for the
second day, dropping 10 basis points to 9.13 percent. They have
fallen 31 basis points in February, after declining 160 basis
points in January.  Default Risk  The cost of protecting Turkish bonds against default using
five-year credit-default swaps fell seven basis points to 242,
compared with a spread of 188 for  Russia , which is rated three
levels higher by  Standard & Poor’s , and 200 for  Poland , rated
five levels higher, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market. Turkey’s credit default swaps have
fallen 35 basis points this month, the most since October.  Turkish contracts cost 26 basis points less than the
average for countries in central and eastern  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Turkey Ba2, two steps below
investment grade, with a positive outlook. S&P also rates Turkey
at two levels below investment grade at BB.  Debt Rally  A decline in the extra yield on Turkey’s dollar bonds over
U.S. notes this month snapped three months of increases,
JPMorgan indexes show.  Demand for emerging market assets has been fueled by signs
of economic recovery in the U.S. and unlimited three-year loans
from the  European Central Bank  to euro-area banks.  The average spread over U.S. Treasuries for dollar bonds
sold by  emerging-markets  declined for a second month in
February, falling 43 basis points to 369 basis points, according
to JPMorgan.  “Turkey’s dollar-denominated bonds have long
underperformed relative to other emerging-market Eurobonds
because of the country risk perceptions,” Bugra Bilgi, a hedge
fund manager at Garanti Asset Management in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments. “It is possible that expectations of
improvement in the current-account deficit fueled buying for
those bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  