-- Boston May Get up to 5 Inches of Snow as Storm Moves into U.S. Northeast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-28T13:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/slush-forecast-for-new-york-tomorrow-snow-for-boston.html
A storm moving across the U.S. and
southern Canada may bring slush to  New York  City tomorrow and
snow to Boston, according to forecasters.  Three to 5 inches (8 to 13 centimeters) of snow may fall
north of New York City and across Boston’s suburbs tomorrow, the
National Weather Service said.  “In Boston there is a better chance that you will see a
decent amount of snow,” said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc . in State College, Pennsylvania. “You don’t
have to go too far north of Boston and we’re talking a foot, and
you don’t have to go too far south and you are talking only a
few inches.”  A winter storm watch has been posted for upstate New York
and parts of  Connecticut , Rhode Island and Massachusetts,
including Boston. The storm has already generated blizzard
warnings in North Dakota, South Dakota and part of Minnesota.  The storm may start as snow and sleet in New York City by
mid-morning tomorrow, then change to rain there, on Long Island
and in coastal  New Jersey , said  Tim Morrin , a weather service
meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “For folks traveling into the interior, into the Hudson
Valley, we are expecting the snow and sleet to last longer,”
Morrin said by telephone. “For the city, not a nice day for
sure but we are not expecting any kind of accumulation on
roadways at least.”  Morrin said areas further from the coast and at higher
elevations stand the better chance of snow.  New England Outlook  In Boston, the worst of the storm will be late tomorrow,
Kines said. In the mountains of upstate New York, western
Massachusetts and southern Vermont, as much as 12 inches may
fall, according to the weather service.  The storm may bring new snow to area ski resorts, Kines
said.  “I am sure they would have liked these storms a month
earlier,” he said.  Minneapolis may receive 3 to 7 inches of snow by late
tomorrow, according to the weather service. In  Chicago , the
storm will produce mainly rain from late today into tomorrow.  Toronto may receive about 1.5 inches of snow and freezing
rain, according to Environment  Canada .  Rain is expected to fall from  Washington  to Philadelphia,
Kines said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  