-- Small Business, Killer of Corporate-Tax Reform: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-02-28T00:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/small-business-killing-corporate-tax-reform-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Like the Republicans, President
 Barack Obama  recognizes that our high corporate-tax rate puts
U.S. companies  at a disadvantage  to their foreign competitors.  The result is less investment and lower wages in our
country. You might think, then, that the administration’s
announcement last week of a “ framework for business tax reform ”
created a rare opportunity for a bipartisan improvement to our
policies. You would be wrong.  There’s no congressional agreement in sight. It’s not just
election-year politics blocking an agreement, and it’s not even
Republican objections to some of the president’s proposals.
What’s emerging as the biggest obstacle to a deal is the
opposition of Republicans’ small-business supporters to a
corporate- tax reform  that ignores the rest of the tax code.  Republicans on  Capitol Hill  -- and business lobbies such as
the  Chamber of Commerce  and  the Business Roundtable  -- raise
three objections to Obama’s proposal. First, they think he
should lower the corporate-tax rate more. Going to 28 percent
from 35 percent is a good start, but would leave the U.S. rate
above the average for the developed world. (We have too few
details to know the proposal’s impact on the effective tax rates
companies pay on investments after deductions.)  Second, many of them object to Obama’s proposals for
special tax breaks for manufacturers as unfair and
distortionary: a step backward from the proper goals of reform.  Third, they disagree with how the administration wants to
treat multinational companies based in America. Obama wants to
subject their foreign earnings to some unspecified minimum tax
as a way of encouraging them to invest here. Republicans think
the main effect of this tax will be to help multinationals based
in other countries out-compete our companies in foreign markets.
They want to follow the practice of almost every other country
in the world and impose no tax on foreign earnings.  A Bigger Problem  Perhaps these differences could be resolved. The bigger
problem concerns the majority of American businesses (the small
businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships and sole
proprietorships) that pay the individual income tax rather than
the corporate tax. They wouldn’t benefit from the reduction of
the corporate rate.  Some of these businesses pay the top individual- tax rate ,
which is scheduled to increase to 39.6 percent with the
president’s blessing. Brian Reardon, the executive director of
the  S Corporation Association , points out that the president
also favors raising taxes on dividends. Put these policies
together,  he says , “and it’s likely the overall impact of the
Administration’s proposal will be to raise the cost of new
business investment compared to the cost today.”  Many Republicans believe that it would be unfair to make
some businesses pay 39.6 percent while others, filing under the
corporate-income tax, paid 28 percent or less. The fairness
argument is complicated, though, because filing under the
individual-income tax generally reduces taxes on investment.  That’s a major reason why so many businesses do it, and why
Congress has encouraged them to do it for decades. Take account
of that, and the effective tax rate on corporate investment
might end up being higher, even under Obama’s proposal, than the
effective rate on other business investment.  But the effective rate may not matter as much politically
as the statutory one. One well-connected lobbyist for a trade
association that represents both small and big businesses says
that a lower rate for the latter would look too bad for
Republicans to support. She adds that her group’s small-business
members would never stand for a reform that ignores all of their
concerns with the  tax code . If she tried to sell the idea to
them, she says, they would probably fire her on the spot.  Little Optimism  Senator  Rob Portman  of  Ohio , the Senate Republicans’ point
man on jobs, wants to move ahead with corporate-tax reform. But
he is one of the few Republicans on Capitol Hill who is
optimistic about it. Most of them agree with Representative  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , the chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee,  who believes  that corporate taxes should be addressed
as part of a larger tax reform that brings rates for individuals
down, too.  But agreement on a comprehensive tax reform seems even more
elusive than an agreement on corporate tax. Democrats and
Republicans at least agree that it is important to bring the
corporate-tax rate down. They have no such common ground on
individual-income taxes. Camp understands such concerns but
still thinks comprehensive reform is what’s needed.  “Nothing’s easy to get done in Congress, so you may as well
be bold,” he told me.  And it’s not as though congressional Democrats are
enthusiastic about corporate-tax reform to begin with.
Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on
the House Ways and Means Committee, greeted the president’s
framework with  a statement  that was both terse and devoid of
praise for the idea of a lower corporate rate.  So reforming taxes on corporations is likely to remain one
of those topics that a lot of people talk about, but nobody does
anything about.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 