-- SNB’s Jordan Says European Situation Is ‘Extremely Alarming’
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-28T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/snb-s-jordan-says-european-situation-is-extremely-alarming-.html
Swiss central bank interim Chairman
Thomas Jordan said  Europe ’s turmoil is “extremely alarming”
and governments must adopt “ambitious” consolidation measures
to avert a default.  “Europe is in a real debt crisis, which is very difficult
and painful to overcome,” Jordan said at an event in Zurich
today. “No private lender is ready to give money to a country,
whose debts are growing boundlessly. At some point there needs
to be a correction; either income is increased or spending is
cut, debt is inflated away or debt servicing is abolished,
causing a state default.”  The  Swiss National Bank  introduced a franc ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro in September after Europe’s worsening fiscal
crisis prompted investors to pile into the currency. While
European governments last week awarded debt-burdened  Greece  a
second bailout package, pushing up the euro, Nobel prize-winning
economist  Paul Krugman  said yesterday the nation may have to
leave the currency region.  Jordan, who was appointed interim chairman after Philipp Hildebrand’s surprise resignation on Jan. 9, said excessive
state debt is also posing a risk to  price stability  and the
independence of central banks. He didn’t make a reference to
Swiss monetary policy or the currency ceiling today.  The situation is “extremely alarming,” Jordan said. “To
avert an inflating away or a sovereign default, it is necessary
in many places to implement ambitious consolidation measures,
even if they can be extremely painful in the short run.”  Switzerland isn’t part of the 17-member euro region. The
SNB will hold its next monetary assessment on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  