-- SNC-Lavalin Tumbles Most in 20 Years Amid Payments Inquiry: Montreal Mover
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-02-28T21:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/snc-lavalin-plunges-as-payments-probe-under-way-montreal-mover.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ,  Canada ’s
largest engineering company, fell the most in at least 20 years
after saying 2011 profit would be less than forecast and opening
a probe into inaccurate documentation of payments by its
construction unit.  An outside  law firm  is assisting in the inquiry after C$35
million ($35 million) of fourth-quarter outlays were found to
have been tied to “projects to which they did not relate” and
had to be logged as expenses, SNC-Lavalin said today.  Fourth-quarter and annual results will be filed by March
30, instead of March 2 as planned, the Montreal-based company
said in a statement. Net income for 2011 will probably be 18
percent, or about C$80 million, below a previous forecast
because of higher expenses at businesses including its Libyan
ventures.  “This is clearly an uncertain situation,” Maxim Sytchev,
an AltaCorp Capital Inc. analyst in Toronto, said in a note to
investors. With the release of quarterly results “being pushed
to the end of March, the stock will be in limbo.”  SNC-Lavalin  plunged  21 percent to C$38.43 by 4 p.m. in
Toronto, its lowest close since May 2009. The drop was the
biggest since at least January 1992, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The internal probe centers on “the facts and
circumstances” surrounding payments “that were documented to
construction projects to which they did not relate,” according
to the SNC-Lavalin statement.  ‘Taking Steps’  “The investigation’s current findings support the
company’s accounting treatment of these payments,” SNC-Lavalin
said. “The board of directors is taking steps to implement
changes and further appropriate actions arising from the
investigation.”  Fourth-quarter results also will include about C$23 million
in costs linked to “a revised position of the company’s net
financial exposure on its Libyan projects,” SNC-Lavalin said.  Projects in the country accounted for about 7 percent of
SNC-Lavalin’s backlog when the armed rebellion against deposed
dictator Muammar Qaddafi broke out last year and all work was
suspended. The Globe & Mail newspaper said last month that two
SNC-Lavalin executives had ties to Qaddafi’s son, Saadi.  SNC-Lavalin is now grappling with a “tarnished” image,
Neil Linsdell, an analyst at Versant Partners Inc. in  Montreal ,
said in a note to clients. “Investors will likely wait for
reports on investigations before warming up to the stock.”  Analysts’ Ratings  Linsdell cut his rating on the shares to neutral from buy.
Bert Powell, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto,
reduced SNC-Lavalin to “market perform” from “outperform.”
AltaCorp’s Sytchev recommends buying the stock, saying he
expects SNC-Lavalin to rebound in three to six months as the
company beats “materially” lower earnings projections.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Duhaime said in May that the
company was excluding all Libyan orders from its revenue backlog
“as a precautionary measure” because of the revolution in the
North African country. SNC-Lavalin had a backlog valued at C$9.4
billion as of Sept. 30.  On Nov. 4, SNC-Lavalin reiterated its prediction that full-
year profit would be in line with 2010 earnings of about C$391.3
million, excluding some items.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  