-- Sokol Gets $1 Million a Year in Retirement, Berkshire Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-28T23:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sokol-gets-1-million-a-year-retirement-pay-berkshire-s-midamerican-says.html
David Sokol , the executive who left
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  amid accusations of
violating insider-trading rules last year, is receiving $1
million annually from the company in retirement payments.  Sokol, who stepped down as chairman of Berkshire’s
 MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co. (329802Q)  in April, collected $750,000
last year tied to the supplemental executive retirement plan, or
SERP, MidAmerican said yesterday in its annual statement. The
payments are being made pursuant to a contract with the company
that was in existence before Berkshire acquired control, a
person familiar with the arrangement said.  Sokol, 55, broke company regulations by trading the stock
of a company that he suggested that Buffett consider buying,
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire said in April. Sokol bought
shares of Lubrizol Corp. in January 2011, less than three months
before Berkshire announced an agreement to acquire the company
for about $9 billion. Sokol has denied wrongdoing.  “Not paying that money would likely involve a lawsuit on
his part,” said Joseph Sorrentino, a managing director at
Steven Hall & Partners, a compensation-consulting firm. “At
some point, some companies just say ‘the time, money and effort
it would involve is not worth the money we would be saving if we
won.’”  Ann Thelen , a spokeswoman for MidAmerican, didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Buffett didn’t respond to a request for
comment. Barry William Levine, an attorney for Sokol at
Dickstein Shapiro LLP in  Washington , didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Surprise Announcement  The company standard that limits payments to executives
fired for cause has exceptions, including one where there is a
prior agreement, MidAmerican said in a filing in 2008 outlining
the supplemental retirement plan for designated officers.  Sokol’s resignation was not requested and came as a
surprise, Buffett said in the March 2011 statement that
announced the departure and disclosed the Lubrizol trades. Sokol
said he was quitting Berkshire to focus on philanthropy and
investing his family’s wealth, according to Buffett.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said in April he made a “big mistake” in his oversight of
Sokol. The MidAmerican CEO until 2008, Sokol cashed out his
executive life insurance policy and was paid $97,686, the energy
company said.  Sokol was paid $231,250 in salary for 2011 and $301,687
when he elected to take “a one-time lump sum payment of his
MidAmerican Energy Company  Retirement Plan ,” MidAmerican said.
Sokol’s total compensation from MidAmerican for 2011 was $10.4
million, including a $10.1 million change in his pension value,
according to the company. Under his agreement, “no cash
severance incentive payment or continuation of benefits was owed
to him,” according to yesterday’s filing.  Gregory Abel , the MidAmerican CEO who added the title of
chairman as Sokol departed, received total compensation of $9.9
million last year, including a $7 million bonus, the unit said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  