-- Son Who Hears Voices Finds Health Care Fatally Dysfunctional
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2012-02-28T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/son-who-hears-voices-discovers-american-health-care-fatally-dysfunctional.html
Minutes before 11 p.m. on Oct. 18,
2010, two strangers sped toward a shared fate on a highway
outside  Seattle .  Behind the wheel of a silver Subaru wagon was Adam Knapp, a
30-year-old schizophrenic 2,400 miles from home. Eighteen days
earlier, he had slit his wrists and swallowed two bottles of
pills in a suicide attempt. Three hospitals admitted him
afterward. None kept him, and now he had taken off in a car
alone.  “He wasn’t ready to come home,” said his mother, Marcia
Knapp, who wanted Adam to stay hospitalized.  Elisa Mefi, 31, was driving a black Ford Explorer. The
unemployed medical clerk had just picked up her younger sister
from work. They laughed and talked about new hairstyles until
they saw the headlights of Adam’s car coming straight at them.  Adam had U-turned directly into oncoming traffic. On impact
with his car, Elisa’s side of the Explorer crumbled like a candy
wrapper. Once his car came to a halt, Adam climbed out, jumped
over a guardrail into traffic and was hit by five vehicles,
police reports say. He died at the scene. Elisa succumbed to
injuries three weeks later.  Their deaths lay bare continuing failures of the U.S.
health care system in treating the seriously mentally ill, and
in protecting the public from their disturbed behavior. Adam’s
parents say he died because a series of hospitals sent him home
too soon in the turbulent final months of his life.  ‘You Killed My Son’  The Knapps, of Dublin, Ohio, say the unwillingness of his
last hospital to seek court-ordered, forced medication for him
also led to his demise.  At Midway Airport in  Chicago , the couple was changing
planes on their way to find Adam when they received a cellphone
message from his sobbing sister with the news of his death.
Finding a quiet spot, Marcia phoned the Ohio State University
Medical Center, which had last seen him.  “You killed my son,” Marcia told the nurse who answered
the phone.  Decades after powerful antipsychotic drugs emptied many
state psychiatric hospitals, fewer than 46,000 of the seriously
mentally ill remain institutionalized in long-term care, versus
559,000 in 1955.  The decline was made possible by the discovery of one
powerful antipsychotic drug after another -- first, Haldol and
Thorazine, and more recently, Abilify, Seroquel and Zyprexa, a
trio in widespread use with $18 billion in annual sales.  Shortened Stays  Less noticed than the drug advances are statistics showing
the diminishment of acute care for the mentally ill -- the kind
of hospitalizations sought during times of crisis. The duration
of these stays has dropped to 7.8 days in 2009, the last year of
available data, from 12.8 days in 1993. Adam’s final stay, at
 Ohio  State University Medical Center in Columbus, lasted a week.  “We were deeply saddened by Adam’s death and wish to
express our sorrow and sincere condolences to his family for
their loss,” the hospital said in a statement. Doctors declined
to speak about the particulars of Adam’s care, according to
David Crawford, a spokesman.  Although stays of all kinds have been shortened by
insurance plans trying to manage care, the 39 percent decline
for mental illness is one of the sharpest -- more than the 29
percent drop for coronary artery disease or the 28 percent
shortening for  colon cancer , according to the U.S. Agency for
Healthcare Quality and Research.  Hurting Others  Doctors now have about a week to assess the efficacy of
antipsychotics that may take two weeks to show results, said
Russell Margolis, director of the Johns Hopkins University
schizophrenia program.  “Those things don’t add up,” he said.  The result: greater relapse and more patients released
prematurely doing harm to themselves and others, according to 20
psychiatric experts interviewed by Bloomberg News. A 2008
Canadian report linked shorter stays to higher rates of
readmission for schizophrenics, and a  2005 study  of U.S.
Department of Veteran Affairs hospital psychiatric patients
connected them to higher suicide rates.  “Patients under these conditions get into more trouble,
become more gravely ill, and some die,” said Ira Glick, chief
of the Schizophrenia Clinic at the Stanford University School of
Medicine.  They are also harming people in the population at large,
according to E. Fuller Torrey, a  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland ,
psychiatrist, who called for more forced medication for
schizophrenics in his 2008 book, “The Insanity Offense.”  Gabrielle Giffords Case  Torrey said he has news and Internet accounts of over 5,000
incidents of violence linked to mental illness since 1998. One
recent addition to his files was Jared Lee Loughner, who shot
and killed six and injured 13 in Tucson last year, including
U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords . Court psychiatrists have
diagnosed Loughner as schizophrenic.  There were 104,617 U.S. deaths due to mental illness in
2008 compared to 42,128 in 1999, according to the National
Center for Health Statistics. Almost all of the increase was
tied to dementia and conditions of old age. Deaths from
schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and severe depression -- three
forms of serious mental illness -- didn’t rise and accounted for
less than 1 percent of the total.  One reason it is so low is that coroners and doctors
misclassify and miss “a lot” of deaths from mental illness,
according to Robert Anderson, the chief of mortality statistics
at the center, who attributes that to misunderstanding how the
diseases cause death, and efforts to avoid stigma for the
deceased and loved ones. Schizophrenia wasn’t named as the
reason for Adam’s death in his autopsy report, which stuck to
describing the trauma from his physical injuries.  The ‘Gentle Giant’  Adam Knapp, who was born in 1979, grew up in Munroe Falls,
a town of 5,000 north of Akron, Ohio. His father, Dan, 58, was a
mortgage banker and his mother, 54, was an office manager and
receptionist. He had a younger brother, Jason, and an older
stepsister, Melissa.  Adam showed no early signs of a tortured mind. He was
athletic, mischievous and did well in school. As a boy on the
swing set, he imagined himself a swashbuckling Indiana Jones. He
hid the Lima beans from his dinner plate under the couch. He
climbed a favorite tree to listen to the birds, watch the seeds
float to the ground, and “let the locusts lull me into a state
of presence,” he wrote in an unsent letter found by his mother
after he died.  At Stow-Munroe Falls High School, he earned straight A’s in
demanding classes, played three sports, and was a baseball
standout -- the kind, former teammates say, whose advice was as
important as his feats. Jason, 29, called his muscular big
brother the “Gentle Giant.”  ‘Magical Times’  “In a roomful of popular, leadership-type kids, Adam would
be the calming force,” said his retired Japanese teacher,
Janelle Wargo. “He would be the one to talk to when people were
upset, and that’s what’s so horrible. In the end, he couldn’t do
that for himself.”  Adam started college in Ohio, and transferred to  Washington 
State University in Pullman in 2001. The Knapps had vacationed
in the state, where Dan’s sister lived and Adam nurtured a love
for the outdoors. Jason also planned to attend college in the
Northwest, so Dan pursued a transfer and the Knapps moved to
Federal Way, a town outside Seattle, after Adam’s junior year.  After graduation, he moved in with his parents and took a
part-time job stocking shelves at Trader Joe’s. He used the free
time outdoors getting in touch with what he called “the rawness
of everything around,” he wrote. He loved to camp, cook
burritos over an open fire and fly-cast for trout on the Grande
Ronde River. “There were so many magical times when that line
met up with a fish,” he wrote. “The whole river is there and I
would hit it just right. It was just like life . . . It’s that
moment where everything is right.”  ‘I’m Hearing Voices’  The first signs of darkness came a year after college, when
he told his mother “I don’t think I’ll live to be an old
person.” Months later, Marcia was watching television in the
family room when Adam returned from a jog and pulled up a chair.  “I’m hearing voices,” he said.  Although her husband believed it was a case of depression
that would fade, Marcia’s research discovered that imagined
voices pointed at schizophrenia.  Greek for “split mind,” schizophrenia is not multiple
personalities. It’s paranoia, speaking in monotone, the
inability to find pleasure, and jumbled thinking. Often, the
delusions and voices are as vivid as real life. Like others with
the condition, Adam often denied he had it.  Shabby Clothes  Adam’s father’s company closed its Washington offices in
2003, so the Knapps moved back to Ohio, where he had found a new
job. Adam refused to come.  A little while after they left, he began living out of his
car, showing up only occasionally at Jason’s apartment to do
laundry. Within a few months, he ceased contact with his
parents. Once well developed and neat, Adam was thin and wearing
shabby clothes. Relatives asked whether he was on drugs. He
showed up at his aunt’s house on Mother’s Day in 2004, convinced
the FBI was stalking him.  The Knapps flew to Washington but failed to coax him back
to Ohio. On her last night in Seattle, Marcia bought dinner for
her sons and gave Adam the doggie bags, hoping he would finish
the leftovers.  Outside, “a homeless person asked for money and Adam said,
‘Man, I don’t have any money but I have this food.’ And he gave
the guy the food and I just started crying,” she said.  Calling The Police  Adam arrived by surprise in Ohio a few weeks later, and
began a six-year journey through the mental-health system that
pitted his erratic behavior against the efforts of his parents
and doctors to help him.  He shifted between delusion and clarity, contentment and
paranoia, deceit and honesty, accepting and rejecting medication
-- swings that are common with his disease. His seven
hospitalizations rang up $142,000 in charges. He used at least
four types of antipsychotics and other  prescription drugs .  Adam went on Social Security disability and was never able
to hold a full-time job. He filed for  bankruptcy protection  with
over $100,000 in  student loans  and credit card debt he had no
hope of repaying.  When he told his parents soon after returning to Ohio that
he was going to kill himself, their hopes actually rose. They
already knew that those who could help wouldn’t act unless they
had evidence of danger to himself or others.  “That’s what we were waiting for, something we could use
to call the police,” Dan said. While he kept Adam busy that
night, Marcia quietly slipped upstairs and dialed 911.  Admitting Himself  At the Ohio State hospital emergency room, a doctor
declined to admit him. Although he had told the police about the
FBI following him, he wouldn’t talk about it in front of the
doctor, who hadn’t read the police report, Marcia said.  “He acted as if he was feeling fine,” she said. “He had
this doctor so buffaloed.”  At home, Adam wouldn’t shower or bathe and left his clothes
on the floor in heaps. He called an old friend, Ward Eaton, and
asked whether he had seen a car following him around. “He told
me it was everywhere he went, he’d look up and there it was,”
Eaton recalled. “I told him I hadn’t seen it. He was really
sick at that time.”  The voices in his head were out of control. In October
2004, he admitted himself to the Ohio State hospital. Because he
was refusing medication, the staff concurred with his parents’
wishes and obtained a court order to give him the antipsychotic
Haldol forcibly, according to hospital records his parents
provided to Bloomberg News. Instead, he took it willingly, along
with follow-up injections during a 24-day stay.  ‘Atypical’ Antipsychotics  The four years that followed encompassed some of the
happiest memories of Adam’s adult life for friends and family,
as he steadily improved. Ward Eaton asked him to usher at his
2005 wedding and Adam showed up wearing a tuxedo and a big
smile. He got a job at the local Trader Joe’s, gained weight,
shaved his beard and dated again.  His reluctant parents relented when he pressed for a return
to Seattle in 2007, making him promise to stay in touch and keep
taking his medication.  Adam was now on Abilify, one of a class of “atypical”
antipsychotics that cause fewer tremors and other side effects
than earlier-generation schizophrenia drugs. He was calling home
in the months that followed to talk about mountain hikes and
fly-fishing.  Then came a phone call in June 2008 -- at 4 a.m. Marcia’s
heart sank. “He said had this big idea -- an epiphany -- that
he wanted to be a physical therapist,” much like other
“grandiose” inspirations that had marked past relapses, Marcia
said. “He wasn’t making sense.”  Speaking in Tongues  Worried sick and suspecting he had gone off his medication,
Dan and Marcia booked a flight. Adam met them at the Seattle
airport and offered no hug or kiss. His stare was cold. Hoping
for diversion, they traveled to a lodge on an Indian
reservation.  “It was a tough couple of days. He looked out the window
and wouldn’t talk,” Dan said. “He just kept crying.”  His paranoia only grew after he agreed again to return to
Ohio. His mother took him to the Ohio State hospital, whose
records say he complained of “being watched” and “people
setting traps for him,” and told doctors he “has computer
knowledge which could ruin the world.”  He refused medications and left after six days. Two weeks
later, his father watched him as he threw water at a mirror in
his bedroom and began to “speak in tongues” with a rapid
stream of babble.  A Critical Phase  In a six-day readmission, he took his drugs and left with a
prescription for Risperdal, later changed to Abilify. He made
the bankruptcy filing in 2009 and agreed to a repayment
schedule. By the following year, he was independent again:
living in his own apartment not far from his parents’ house in
Ohio. He was seeing family and friends, and appeared to be
supporting himself.  No one knew it at the time, but Adam had entered a critical
phase. He was beginning to keep more secrets, to forget where he
was, and was acting bizarrely again, sometimes in another world
only he could see. He didn’t let on that he had stopped taking
his Abilify -- somewhere around April 2010, according to his
mother, based on records of prescription refills she examined.  Trader Joe’s called the Knapps on Aug. 31 and told them he
hadn’t shown up the last two days. He had been talking to
friends about a trip to the Adirondack Mountains in  New York .  His car was found in a ditch off a service road at the Lake
Placid Golf Club three days later. Asleep inside, he woke up and
told police he thought he was in  Massachusetts .  Urging Forced Medication  At Champlain Valley Physicians Hospital in Plattsburgh, New
York, he wound up in the care of Scott McMahon, a psychiatrist
who took a special interest in the case.  “Here was this young, really muscular athletic guy and he
was obviously really intelligent,” said the 43-year-old doctor.
“I liked to hike and bike too, and I immediately identified
with him.”  Uncooperative throughout his stay, Adam wouldn’t wash or
attend group sessions. “On one occasion, he was found in
another patient’s room emptying urine into plastic containers”
and told staffers “I am doing some tests in here,” hospital
notes say.  Dan and Marcia successfully urged the staff to get an order
for forced medication. Adam went back on Abilify. McMahon pushed
Anthem Blue Cross & Blue Shield, Adam’s insurance company, to
cover more time. The Indianapolis-based Wellpoint Inc. unit had
agreed to previous extensions, but this time, 11 days after he
went back on medication, it said no.  Seven More Days  The hospital appealed the decision and lost, according to
McMahon, who said Adam was still sick and needed at least seven
more days to get the drug dosage right.  “They just want to know if he’s killed anyone or tried to
kill himself in the last 24 hours,” said McMahon. “No? Then
he’s got to go. These people have no morals or conscience.”  “Anthem does not dictate when a patient should be admitted
or discharged from care,” the company said in a statement
released by Jill Becher, a spokeswoman.  Marcia pounded on Adam’s bedroom door after he ignored a
call to dinner the night after his Plattsburgh release.  “I’m going to break this down,” she said.  “You’re not going to like what you see,” he warned.  When he opened the door, Marcia screamed for Dan’s help.
Adam was bleeding from a gash on his left wrist and had a
smaller wound on his right wrist.  Swallowing 30 Pills  Adam told police he didn’t want to live anymore. He had
swallowed 30 Abilify pills and the remnants of a bottle of
decongestant, and in the emergency room, he said he wanted to
“leave my shell,” according to Dublin Methodist Hospital
records. Eight sutures closed the wound on his left wrist.  After three days, he was transferred to Riverside Methodist
Hospital in Columbus, an affiliated hospital with a psychiatric
unit, for specialized care. He was discharged after four days.  The Knapps opposed his release because, they said, they
believed he was still paranoid, and they pushed, again
unsuccessfully, for a powerful injection of medication like the
one that had worked in his earlier hospital stay in 2004.  “We were really angry because they never wanted our
input,” Marcia said.  Adam agreed with his parents to “criteria” for his
release that included increasing his Abilify, no driving, no
alcohol, and no locks on his doors, according to a discharge
summary signed by Robert Huestis, his Riverside physician.  Although his parents were “traumatized” by Adam’s
behavior, Huestis wrote that they acknowledged that some of the
“most florid” symptoms of his disease weren’t present. The
Knapps said they never agreed to that assessment or to the terms
of his release.  Another Hospital Stay  At home that night, Adam feared an attack by unknown
enemies. When he decided to sleep in a downstairs room, his
mother agreed to lie across the doorway to protect him.  Nobody could sleep. Around midnight, Lucy, the family’s
boxer, was outside barking and suddenly went silent. Marcia
moved to the door to check on the dog. Adam pleaded with her to
keep it closed.  “Whoever just killed Lucy was going to kill me,” she
recalled him saying. Lucy was fine.  At dawn, Adam said he needed to go back to the hospital.
Once admitted, he turned down an “injectable med,” Ohio State
medical records say. Dan and Marcia said their plea for a court
order forcing medication was ignored.  ‘Still Paranoid’  Adam’s discharge meeting was held Oct. 15. He had become
more social the week he was there, playing ping-pong at times,
eating well, and his “symptoms lacked any acute features that
warranted continued inpatient treatment,” according to notes
written by his attending doctor, Stephen Pickstone.  Dan and Marcia were convinced Pickstone’s perception was
based on Adam’s ability to hide his illness. The Knapps
“verbalized an eagerness to have the patient return to their
home,” Pickstone wrote.  ”That’s nothing but a lie,” Dan said. “What I said is,
’How can you send him home? He’s still paranoid.’”  Pickstone declined to comment through Crawford, the
hospital spokesman.  After his release, Adam wanted to go with his mother to his
aunt’s house near Akron and insisted on driving. She gave in,
deciding it would relax him. At a restaurant, Adam took the car
keys off the table without being noticed and told his mother he
was going outside to make a call. Instead, he jumped in his car
and took off.  Police pinged his mobile phone and found it near a
reservoir near the restaurant. Adam took the Ohio license plates
off the car, making it harder to find him. He replaced them with
New Jersey plates from the car’s previous owner.  Another ‘Gentle Giant’  Like Adam, Elisa Mefi was single, and the oldest child in a
tight-knit family, although hers was larger. The daughter of
Tina and Max Mefi, who came to Washington in 1977 from Samoa,
Elisa had over 200 relatives in the Seattle area.  To her two younger sisters, eight nieces and nephews and
parents, who all lived under the same roof, she was simply
“E.” Her sister June called her the family brain, someone who
organized gatherings and coordinated help for relatives in
trouble.  Elisa attended Seattle public schools and would grow to be
five-foot-eleven, with a kindly demeanor that earned her the
nickname “Gentle Giant” -- the same thing that some people
called Adam.  Fatal U-Turn  Elisa sang in her church choir and went to Bible class
weekdays after school. After a lackluster academic performance
in high school -- she finished but didn’t graduate, her mother
said -- she signed up for Job Corps, a federal training program.  It was a turning point. She got a job and began helping
support the family.  Until she was laid off from her $10.50-an-hour job as a
medical records clerk in 2010, she contributed to the $1,200
monthly rent and utility bills. With leftover money, she took
her nieces and nephews to the movies and McDonald’s.  The night of the crash, Elisa and a cousin picked up
Elisa’s sister, Pookah, from the gas station where she worked as
a cashier. Elisa made the trip two or three times a week,
usually taking city streets to stop for food on the way back.
This night, Pookah wasn’t hungry so Elisa headed north on Route
509, the same direction as Adam before he made his U-turn.  Pookah said they were talking about her decision to get her
hair colored the next day “when I heard my cousin say, ‘What
the hell?’ I looked up and it was a car coming toward us.”  Four Other Vehicles  Elisa tried to avoid Adam’s Subaru by pulling over to the
side. “The car came toward us still,” Pookah said.  After the impact, she opened the door and fell to the
ground in time to glimpse Adam from the back.  His Subaru had hit the Explorer and careened toward an
Acura Integra, which struck the rear of Adam’s vehicle,
according to the police report. Adam pulled himself from the
wreckage and ran. He jumped over the guardrails into the
southbound lanes where a small pickup truck hit him.  “All I saw all of a sudden was a flannel shirt bouncing
off my hood,” Todd Rabe, the driver, told Seattle’s KOMO-TV.  Four other vehicles struck him, the last an ambulance. The
driver had seen Adam make his U-turn, and circled back to help.
He and his partner jumped out and worked unsuccessfully to
resuscitate Adam.  Pookah, hysterical, called her mother, Tina. As her
daughter described the scene, Tina realized the accident was
less than a mile from their home.  ‘Be Strong’  With traffic jammed, the Mefis couldn’t get close by car
and parked on a side road. On foot, Max managed to get through
to the mangled Explorer. He peered inside to see Elisa pinned
behind the wheel.  ‘Dad, my side is paralyzed,” she said. “I can’t move.”  “Be strong, E,” Max told her.  Suffering from head and neck trauma, and multiple
fractures, Elisa had surgery four times before Nov. 6, when she
died. A video shows her hospital room filled with relatives
singing in Samoan as they wipe away tears.  Death turned the Mefis’ den into a shrine. More than a year
after the accident, the red roses from Elisa’s funeral are
brittle in their vases. Centered on one wall is two-foot-square,
color headshot of Elisa, surrounded by smaller photos
interspersed with Samoan leis made of small white seashells.  The roses will stay there ”forever,” Elisa’s mother said.  ‘Did We Do Enough?’  The Knapps say coping with the guilt is difficult.  “Days sitting in house, when we have down time, that’s the
worst,” Dan said. “I start thinking about the wouldas, couldas
and shouldas. Did we do enough? It comes and goes, and every now
and then, I tell Adam I love him and thank you for helping me
get through the day.”  Marcia asked herself aloud why she let Adam behind the
wheel the night he took off. The car keys? “I should have
picked them up from the restaurant table,” she said.  Adam’s funeral was Oct. 24, 2010. Elisa’s was four weeks
later. At her crypt last April, Elisa’s family celebrated what
would have been her 32nd birthday with cakes and flowers.  Along the banks of the Hoh River, one of Adam’s fishing
haunts, family and friends gathered last June under fair skies.
They each reached into one of his fishing creels for a handful
of his ashes to spread on the river. They walked the water’s
edge and ate a picnic lunch.  If she had it to do again, Marcia said she would have
fought harder to keep Adam in the hospital.  “Honestly, you just have to scream,” she said. “You have
to scream, you have to yell, you have to do whatever it takes to
have your child medicated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  