-- Sony-led Group Seeks EU Approval for EMI Publishing Deal
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-28T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sony-led-group-seeks-eu-approval-for-emi-music-publishing-deal.html
A Sony Corp.-led group sought
European Union approval for its $2.2 billion purchase of EMI
Group’s publishing unit, a deal that will create the world’s
second-biggest music catalog.  The European Commission set an initial deadline of April 2
to rule on the deal, it said on its website today. Sony said
yesterday it made the merger filing and was “confident that the
transaction will be approved.”  The deal would give the Sony group control of EMI’s
publishing rights to classics such as ‘ New York , New York’ and
‘Stand By Your Man,’ adding to Sony’s portfolio of songs by
 Elvis Presley , the Beatles and  Bob Dylan . Sony/ATV Music
Publishing, the joint venture formed in 1995 that is co-owned by
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Michael Jackson ’s estate, will oversee the new
business.  Impala, a group of independent record labels, said EU
regulators should block both the Sony deal as well as  Vivendi
SA’s (VIV)   Universal Music Group ’s bid for EMI’s recorded music
business, because they would increase prices and reduce
competition in the  music industry . Impala challenged the EU’s
2004 approval for Sony and Bertelsmann AG to create the Sony BMG
record label at the EU courts, forcing a reexamination by
regulators. The deal was eventually approved in 2007.  Sony’s acquisition of EMI “would increase its negotiating
power to an unacceptable extent” over collecting societies that
gather and distribute revenues for copyright owners and in
negotiating operating terms for the industry, Impala said in an
e-mailed statement.  The Sony consortium includes billionaire  David Geffen  and
the Mubadala Development Co.,  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign wealth fund.
Geffen, 68, made his fortune founding and selling Asylum Records
and Geffen Records.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  