-- Bond Risk Falls in Europe Before Second Round of ECB Lending
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-28T11:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign and corporate bonds fell before the
 European Central Bank  provides a second round of unlimited funds
to banks tomorrow to help ease the region’s crisis.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments fell two basis points to 344 at
10 a.m. in London. A decline signals improvement in perceptions
of  credit quality .  European banks will probably borrow 470 billion euros ($632
billion) in three-year funds from the ECB, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Investors shrugged off a suspension of
the use of Greek bonds as collateral after  Standard & Poor’s 
downgraded the nation to “selective default” and a request for
a ruling on whether swaps should pay out.  “Everybody is waiting for the outcome” of the ECB’s
financing operation, said  Maureen Schuller , an analyst at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam. “If it falls significantly short of
expectations, it may be perceived as not doing enough to ease
refinancing concerns for banks. If it’s too big it may signal a
too-heavy reliance on the ECB.”  The  International Swaps & Derivatives Association  said late
yesterday it has been asked to rule on whether credit-default
swaps on  Greece  should trigger after the ECB exchanged about 50
billion euros of the nation’s bonds for new securities to
sidestep losses being imposed on private investors. The switch
makes the ECB effectively, though not legally, senior to other
bondholders, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Legal Change  There must be a legal change in the ranking or priority of
bondholders for credit-default swaps to be triggered, according
to ISDA rules. The group’s determinations committee decides
whether contracts can be paid out.  A similar request on Irish swaps was rejected last year
when the committee ruled subordination hadn’t occurred because
of the International Monetary Fund’s preferential creditor
status in that nation’s rescue.  The cost of insuring corporate debt also fell with the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly high-
yield credit ratings dropping eight basis points to 572.5,
according to JPMorgan. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell two basis points to
130 basis points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers decreased 5.5 basis points to 210 and the
subordinated index dropped 8.5 to 356.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  