-- Soybean Reserves Shrinking Most Since ’96 Amid Brazil Drought: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-28T21:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/soybean-reserves-shrinking-most-since-96-amid-brazil-drought-commodities.html
Global reserves of soybeans are
shrinking the most in 16 years as demand for food, feed and fuel
rises, creating the biggest-ever exports for U.S. farmers.  Inventories (US38ESWR)  at the start of the next season on Oct. 1 will
be 20 percent lower than a year earlier,  Jefferies Bache LLC 
predicts. Prices that rose 8.7 percent since Dec. 30 will gain
another 6.7 percent to $14 a bushel by June, the New York-based
commodities trader estimates.  China  signed deals in the week
ended Feb. 17 to buy 13.4 million metric tons from the U.S.,
about what its own farmers grow in a year. The  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  anticipates record global  exports  in 2012.  The oilseed’s gains contrast with outlooks for wheat and
corn, with the United Nations forecasting record supplies of
cereals this year in response to prices that more than doubled
since 2005. Soybean futures in  Chicago  fell to a 14-month low in
December, spurring U.S. farmers, the world’s top growers, to
consider switching more land to grains just as drought curbed
harvests in South America, the largest producing region.  “Tight supplies will continue until the end of next
year,” said  Dan Cekander , the director of grain research at
Newedge USA LLC, the biggest broker on the Chicago Board of
Trade, where contracts for about 24.4 million tons of soybeans
traded daily last year. “The smaller crop in South America
means China will buy record quantities of U.S. soybeans.”  Agriculture Index  CBOT futures rose 20 percent since the December low and
gained 0.8 percent to close today at $13.125 a bushel at 1:15
p.m. in Chicago. Wheat prices that fell to a 16-month low in
December are up 2.4 percent this year while corn has gained 1.7
percent. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities rose 3 percent, while the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities gained 11 percent.  Hedge funds  doubled  bets  on higher prices in the past month
and are now the most bullish since September, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. The most widely held option for
delivery after the U.S. harvest gives owners the right to buy at
$16 before Oct. 26, CBOT data show. The premium for July futures
over the November contract has more than quadrupled since Feb. 9
to 31.25 cents a bushel, reflecting mounting concern that
supplies will be tight in the first half of the year, exchange
data show.  Commodities Team  Morgan Stanley’s commodities analysis team, led by New
York-based Hussein Allidina, told investors in a report Feb. 21
that they still favored buying the November contract even after
the rally. Soybeans are a better bet than corn over the next 12
months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s analysts, led by  Jeffrey Currie  in  London , wrote in a report Feb. 22. Rabobank’s team,
led by Sydney-based Luke Chandler, said in a report Feb. 20 it
was most bullish on beans among agricultural commodities.  Slower economic  growth  in China may put a brake on the
rally. The country, which accounts for about 60 percent of
imports, will expand 8.5 percent this year, compared with 9.2
percent in 2011 and 10.4 percent in 2010, according to the
median of 21 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
nation imported fewer  soybeans  for a second month in January, in
part because of a weeklong public holiday, government data show.  Global growth will slow to 3.3 percent this year, from 3.8
percent in 2011, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in
January. The euro region of 17 nations will contract 0.5
percent, the Washington-based group said. The 27-nation European
Union is the second-biggest soybean importer.  Switching to Corn  “China is not going to buy as many soybeans as people
think,” said Chad Henderson, a market analyst at Prime
Agricultural Consultants Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin . “The
global economy is barely treading water, and the European debt
crisis isn’t over.”  U.S. production may increase more than forecast as higher
prices discourage growers from switching to corn. While farmers
can still make about $128 an acre more from corn, that compares
with $215 in November, according to the Morgan Stanley report.
The November soybean contract, reflecting anticipated prices
after the U.S. harvest, now costs 2.3 times more than December
corn futures, up from a ratio of 1.99 in November, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Drought in  South America , where farmers are harvesting this
month, caused “irreversible crop damage” and will reduce
global production by 7.2 percent, Hamburg-based research company
Oil World said in a report today. The Rosario Cereals Exchange
cut its forecast of  Argentina ’s crop on Feb. 23 by 10 percent
from its January estimate.  Reduced Supply  Brazil and Argentina, the largest growers after the U.S.,
will collect 120 million tons, the USDA said Feb. 9, down from a
December forecast of 127 million. The reduced supply will mean a
22 percent jump in exports by the U.S. in the year that begins
Sept. 1, to a record 42.2 million tons, the USDA said Feb. 24.
It anticipates global exports of 92.79 million tons.  Demand for  soybeans  increased at almost four times the pace
of  population growth  in the past decade, government data show.
About 66 percent of soybeans go into meal fed to livestock, 16
percent into vegetable oil used in cooking and biofuel
production, and most of the rest is consumed directly as food.
Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, is using soy-
based foam in car seats and head restraints.  Meal  consumption  tripled since 2002 in China, the world’s
largest pork consumer. Its farmers will produce 676.3 million
pigs this year, government data show. To provide enough feed,
soybean  imports  will have to increase 62 percent in the next
decade, the USDA said Feb. 13. China was the largest buyer of
U.S. farm products in 2010 and 2011, supporting more than
160,000 American jobs, according to government data.  Arable Land  During Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s visits to Iowa and
 California  earlier this month, China signed 21 agreements to buy
U.S. soybeans, the U.S. Soybean Export Council said. The Asian
nation has 21 percent of the world’s population and less than 9
percent of its arable land.  Pork (CNPORKWH)  prices in China increased to a
record in September and are still 25 percent above the five-year
average, government data show. Inflation rose to a three-year
high of 6.5 percent in July.  “Rising pork prices were an important part of China’s
inflation problem, and the government is keenly aware that it
needs to improve pork production,” said  Richard Feltes , the
vice president of research for R.J. O’Brien & Associates LLC, a
Chicago-based futures broker. “China is going to need to buy
more soybeans from the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  