-- Soybeans Climb to Highest in Five Months as Rains Come Too Late for Brazil
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-02-28T10:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/soybeans-climb-to-highest-in-five-months-as-rains-come-too-late-for-brazil.html
Soybeans advanced to the highest
level in more than five months after rainfall in  Brazil , poised
to be the largest shipper, came too late to aid parched crops
and global stockpiles may shrink the most in 16 years.  Soybean and corn-growing areas in Brazil will get rain this
week, slowing the harvest, forecaster Somar Meteorologia said
yesterday. Hot, dry weather damaged Brazil’s crops during the
growing season, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a report yesterday.
Rabobank International said on Feb. 20 prices will average
$12.81 a bushel in the first quarter. So far, the average is
about $12.30 a bushel.  “South America’s production shortfall and strong U.S.
export demand” are driving prices higher, said Erin
FitzPatrick, a London-based analyst at Rabobank. The bank’s
price forecasts “are a bit higher on the outlook for  China ’s
imports. That latest forecast implied higher prices.”  Soybean futures for May delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$13.06 a bushel by 10:16 a.m. London time on the  Chicago  Board
of Trade, after earlier touching $13.1175 a bushel, the highest
price since Sept. 22. A close higher would be the seventh
straight gain, the longest winning streak this year.  China Sales  Exporters in the U.S., the biggest grower, had agreed to
sell 19.2 million metric tons of soybeans to China as of Feb.
16, for shipment in the year through Aug. 31, including the 16.2
million tons that they already exported, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Feb. 24. Total sales for this marketing year
rose from 18.7 million tons a week earlier, it showed.  “There’s been that ongoing concern around the drought
conditions in  South America  and on top of that you’ve got fairly
strong demand for oilseeds coming out of China,”  Michael Creed ,
an agribusiness economist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , said
by phone from Melbourne today. “The market has clearly
tightened and has become a lot more bullish the past few days.”  Corn for May delivery was little changed at $6.4775 a
bushel in Chicago.  Wheat for delivery in May also was little changed at
$6.4775 a bushel. Milling wheat for delivery in the same month
was unchanged at 190.75 euros ($256.35) a ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  