-- Spain Exits Renewables Top 10 After Curbing Subsidies, E&Y Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/spain-exits-renewables-top-10-after-curbing-subsidies-e-y-says.html
Spain , the top-ranked renewable-
energy market for investors five years ago, dropped out of the
top 10 after suspending subsidies for new clean power
generation, an Ernst & Young survey found.  China held on to the lead position as investors looked away
from  Europe , where debt-burdened governments have reduced aid
for solar and wind power projects, Ernst & Young said today as
it published the  Renewable Energy Country Attractiveness Index .
Spain tied with Australia as the 11th best place to invest.  “The sovereign debt crisis continues to stifle the euro
zone, and also policy setters’ ambitions in relation to
renewable-energy deployment,” the consulting firm said in a
statement. “Capital scarcity and increased competition from
 Asia  will continue to put pressure on Western players for the
foreseeable future.”  Spain exited the top 10 for the first time since the index
began in 2003. The country’s government halted subsidies to
renewables in January as it sought to reduce the  budget deficit 
and rein in state-backed electricity-system borrowings that
reached 24 billion euros ($32 billion) at the end of last year.  The outlook in Spain and other European economies for 2012
is “less certain” after 2011 saw record-high investment in
renewables, particularly in solar power, Ernst & Young said. The
company ranked the U.S. in second place, followed by Germany and
India. The U.K. leapfrogged Italy into fifth spot, while  France ,
Canada, Sweden and Brazil rounded out the top 10.  Ernst & Young’s assessment criteria include regulations and
planning barriers, as well as access to capital, land and power
grids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  