-- JPMorgan’s Staley Sees Rule Harmony After London Built City on Arbitrage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-29T00:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/staley-sees-rule-harmony-after-london-built-city-on-arbitrage.html
Jes Staley, chief executive officer
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank, said U.S. regulators
know what’s at stake in harmonizing global trading rules because
they’ve seen regulations push business overseas.  “In many ways, the City of  London  was built on regulatory
arbitrage,” Staley said at an investor conference yesterday. He
used the examples of loan-syndication desks moving to London to
avoid U.S. withholding taxes on interest and firms expanding in
the capital because the U.K. didn’t have an equivalent to the
 Glass-Steagall Act , which mandated separation of commercial and
investment banking.  “The industry is going to respond if there’s a regulatory
arbitrage, not because we’re devious or trying to get around
something, but because it’s self-evident and the regulators
themselves will identify it as they did most effectively in the
U.K. a number of decades ago,” Staley said.  Other nations probably won’t adopt equivalents to the so-
called Volcker rule, which seeks to bar U.S. banks from making
bets with their own money, Staley said. Differences still exist
over regulations requiring firms to move many derivatives to
central clearinghouses, he said.  While New York-based JPMorgan hasn’t seen a decline in
business related to moving derivatives to central
clearinghouses, Staley said, a Germany-based firm may choose to
do a swap with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rather than JPMorgan if it has
to post margin with the U.S. company and not with Deutsche Bank.  JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, has received
“tremendous assurances” that lawmakers understand concerns
about what the industry calls “extraterritoriality” and he
expects global regulators to work toward common agreement,
Staley said.  ‘The Right Place’  “They are going to get the inconsistencies ironed out,
because they recognize the challenge to the global financial
system if they allow the arbitrage to exist,” Staley said.
“They will ultimately get to the right place because they won’t
allow those arbitrages to exist to the level that I think
they’ve occurred in the last couple of decades.”  The U.S. has faced concern that more onerous rules were
causing  New York  to lose ground to London. A study by consulting
firm McKinsey & Co. released in January 2007 concluded that the
U.S. would lose its place as the leading financial center in the
next decade without legal and regulatory changes.  Henry Paulson ,
then U.S. Treasury secretary, said in March 2007 that keeping
the country the world’s dominant capital market “is a high
priority for me.”  Banks and other investors may face “discriminatory” and
competing sets of rules when they trade in derivatives because
of a lack of coordination between the U.S. and European Union,
trade associations said last year in a letter to  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, and  Timothy F. Geithner , the
U.S. Treasury secretary.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  