-- State Street Fined $5 Million by Regulator Over CDO Influenced by Magnetar
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-28T16:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/state-street-is-fined-5-million-over-cdo-influenced-by-magnetar-capital.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, was fined $5 million by  Massachusetts ’ top
securities regulator for failing to disclose the role of a hedge
fund in structuring an investment vehicle that the fund was
betting against.  State Street, acting as investment manager of Carina CDO
Ltd., a collateralized debt obligation that invested in
mortgage-backed securities, allowed Magnetar Capital LLC to
influence the composition of the vehicle even though it knew
that the Evanston, Illinois-based hedge fund was betting on the
failure of some or all of the portfolio, according to a
statement today from Secretary of the Commonwealth William F.
Galvin. Carina subsequently defaulted.  “These deals, which packaged together toxic securities and
sold them to other investors -- mostly institutions -- allowed
the mortgage crisis to continue and caused further harm to the
 U.S. economy ,” Galvin said in the statement.  Magnetar has been linked to 26 CDO transactions, according
to the statement, and was at the center of another case,
involving JPMorgan Chase & Co., in which regulators said it was
improperly allowed to influence the formation of a CDO.
Magnetar, betting housing prices would fall, stood to profit if
assets defaulted. JPMorgan agreed in June to pay $153.6 million
to end a Securities and Exchange Commission suit over the
matter.  “In reaching this settlement, State Street neither admits
nor denies the Massachusetts Securities Division’s findings or
conclusions concerning information contained in the offering
documents for the CDO,” Arlene Roberts, a spokeswoman for
Boston-based State Street, said in an e-mailed statement.  The failure of the CDO, 16 months after it was created,
resulted in about $450 million in losses to investors, according
to Galvin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  