-- STMicroelectronics Rises on Venture’s Job-Cut Plans: Paris Mover
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-28T13:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/stmicroelectronics-rises-on-venture-s-job-cut-plans-paris-mover.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  climbed as
much as 6.4 percent in Paris trading after its chipmaker venture
with Ericsson AB said it will reduce the number of research
sites to lower costs and meet profit targets.  STMicroelectronics, based in Geneva, surged as much as 34.4
cents in Paris and was up 5.9 percent at 5.67 euros at 2:24 p.m,
making it the biggest winner on  France ’s CAC 40 Index. ST-
Ericsson Chief Executive Officer Didier Lamouche said in an
interview today that the venture will have to make “clear
sacrifices” to meet a goal of generating “sustainable” profit.  “We have 44 sites and reducing that is not going to be
done easily,” Lamouche said at the  Mobile World Congress  in
Barcelona, when asked whether he will also cut jobs. “We will
have to do clear sacrifices.”  Lamouche was named CEO in November, the company’s third in
as many years, to help the venture gain share in the growing
market for smartphone chips. ST-Ericsson, based in Geneva,
hasn’t been profitable since its formation in 2009 as its newer
smartphone and tablet chips haven’t been able yet to make up for
a decline in sales of older chip lines.  ST-Ericsson said last month that its fourth-quarter net
loss widened to $231 million from $177 million a year earlier
while net sales fell 29 percent to $409 million. The company
plans predicts to “stabilize” revenue and losses this year and
“improve” sales and earnings in 2013, Lamouche said today,
adding that the company plans to generate a “sustainable”
profit by the end of 2014.  Multiple Vendors  “We have opportunities to reduce costs” Lamouche said. In
addition to fewer sites, the company will make cuts in
purchasing expenses, finance and accounting, he said.  Lamouche said spending on research and development will be
contained by using resources together with the parent companies
and other parties, which he declined to name.  The CEO also said the company is building stronger
relationships with multiple equipment vendors, after years of
relying largely on two companies,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications, the former mobile-phone joint venture
that was acquired by parent  Sony Corp. (6758)   “We are engaging with seven of the nine top handset
manufacturers,” Lamouche said. “With five of them we　are
actually　making　phones with,　and　four of　them　have　put
phones　with　our　products in them on the market.”  ST-Ericsson will announce a strategic plan in a few weeks
to give more details on the cost cuts and other forecasts, the
CEO said.  Stockholm-based Ericsson climbed 0.5 percent to 66.85
kronor in the Swedish capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  