-- Strike in India Shuts Banks as Unions Protest State Asset Sales
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-02-28T07:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/strike-in-india-shuts-banks-as-unions-protest-state-asset-sales.html
Banks closed and bus services were
canceled as millions of Indian government employees joined a
nationwide strike to protest the cost of living and plans to
sell stakes in state companies.  While the stoppage shuttered businesses in some states,
including Kerala and Punjab, its impact was limited. In West
Bengal, where trade unions linked to communist political parties
are powerful, normally congested roads were quiet yet government
offices and schools remained open.  The one-day stoppage was called by 11 unions from across
the political spectrum, including the  Indian National Trade
Union Congress  that’s affiliated to the ruling Congress party.  Vishwas Utagi, secretary of the All  India  Bank Employees
Association, said there had been a “total closure” of state-
run banking services with about 70,000 branches shut.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has faced at
least five earlier nationwide strikes since returning to power
in May 2009. His administration is bidding to curb the fiscal
deficit through selling stakes in state-owned companies, asset
sales that unions say will lead to job losses.  Staff at state-run phone companies, bus drivers and postal
workers are also on strike.  In New Delhi and  Mumbai , transport services ran largely as
normal. G.S. Bawa, a spokesman for the Airports Authority of
India, said flights were unaffected.  Inflation (INFINFY)  above 9 percent during the first 11 months of
last year reduced the purchasing power of India’s poor, where
the  World Bank  estimates about 800 million people live on less
than $2 a day. Inflation fell to 6.55 percent in January.  Job Security  Previous strikes protested fuel prices increases and called
for the rollback of now-stalled plans to allow retailers such as
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to set up supermarkets in India.  Labor Minister Mallikarjun Kharge said Feb. 24 that the
government had taken measures to curb rising prices and improve
the lives of lower-paid employees. The unions are also demanding
adherence to laws on  job security  and extending social security
programs to daily-wage workers.  India has run a deficit every year since at least 1973 to
support growth in its economy, now  Asia ’s third-biggest. The gap
widened to 4.7 percent of gross domestic product last year after
narrowing to a record-low 2.7 percent in the year ended March 31,
2008, according to central bank data.  The shortfall this financial year could be as much 6.6
percent, according to Morgan Stanley. CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
estimates the deficit will be 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  