-- Subaru Named Top Automaker by Consumer Reports as Honda Falls in Rankings
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-28T20:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/subaru-named-top-maker-by-consumer-reports.html
Subaru, a unit of  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270) , was named top automaker in Consumer Reports
magazine’s annual rankings as Honda Motor Co., last year’s
leader, fell to fourth.  Subaru received 75 of 100 points based on the scores of its
seven U.S. models, Consumer Reports said in results released
today at the  National Press Club  in Washington. The Tokyo-based
company earned its score for building “dependable, all-wheel-
drive vehicles with simple interiors,” the magazine said.  “This is great news for Subaru,” said  Rebecca Lindland ,
director of strategic review for IHS Automotive, an industry
forecasting firm. “Consumers still trust Consumer Reports and
will take these recommendations very seriously.”  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , based in Hiroshima,  Japan , was second
with 74 points, followed by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Honda’s ranking
fell as redesigned models scored lower than those they replaced.  “There’s not a lot of separation among the brands at the
top of the list,” Brandy Schaffels, senior editor of
TrueCar.com, a  Santa Monica , California-based auto buying
service, said by phone.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the most improved automaker last year, slid
to 10th place from fifth. The magazine criticized the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company’s electronic interfaces and
transmissions.  General Motors Co. (GM)  ranked 12th.  Chrysler Group LLC, while finishing last among the 13
companies, scored eight points higher than last year, “which is
a really good sign for them because it shows that they’re
improving,” Schaffels said.  Toyota, Nissan  Toyota has the most models the magazine recommends buying,
with 22 out of 26 tested. Nissan was second with 13 of 20
examined.  “There are a lot of good cars out there, and they may not
come from the companies with the most advertisements on TV,”
 David Champion ,  Consumer Reports  senior director of automotive
testing, said in an interview.  Consumer Reports, published by  Consumers Union , evaluates
cars for how well they drive, interior-finish quality, fuel
economy and reliability. Consumer Reports received vehicle
reliability data from about 1.3 million subscribers for this
year’s rankings, Champion said.  “Clearly the things we’re strong on in our vehicles are
recognized by Consumer Reports -- safety and reliability,”
Michael McHale, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Subaru’s U.S. unit,
said. “Scoring well in Consumer Reports is very important for
our customers.”  The rankings by the Yonkers, New York-based publication are
published in the magazine’s annual auto issue.  “People consider Consumer Reports to be a very trustworthy
source because they don’t accept advertising,” said Schaffels,
of TrueCar.com. “Not only that, they are very well known for
their methodical testing style.”  Consumer Reports Magazine’s Best, Worst Car by Category  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  