-- Sun Hung Kai to Sell 3,500 Hong Kong Homes as China Eases Credit Controls
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-29T09:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/sun-hung-kai-to-sell-3-500-hong-kong-homes-as-china-eases-credit-controls.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., Hong
Kong’s biggest developer by market value, plans to sell 3,500
homes this year in the city, seeking to benefit from a rebound
in transactions over the past month.  The company plans to sell those apartments for HK$32
billion ($4.1 billion), Victor Lui, an  executive director  at the
company’s agency arm, told reporters yesterday after  Sun Hung
Kai (16)  posted a 13 percent gain in underlying profit for the six
months ended December.  Hong Kong’s used home transactions have risen at least 7
percent in February from a three year-low a month earlier,
according to Midland Holdings Ltd., the city’s biggest publicly
traded realtor. The city’s home prices have fallen about 5
percent since June because of rising borrowing costs, extra
transaction taxes and higher down-payment requirements.  “We’re still cautious,” Deutsche Bank AG’s Hong Kong-
based analysts Jason Ching and  Tony Tsang  wrote in a report
yesterday. “The recent improvement in market conditions is a
rebound driven by the release of pent-up demand as a result of
mortgage rate cuts.”  U.S. Federal Reserve officials said Jan. 25 benchmark
 interest rates  would probably remain below 1 percent through
2014. Interest rates in  Hong Kong  usually follow those set by
the Fed as the city’s currency is pegged to the  U.S. dollar .  The  property market  may be staging a rebound with sales
increasing in February, analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Bocom International said this month.  Not Slowing Down  Sun Hung Kai’s  shares  fell 0.8 percent to HK$119.40 at the
close in Hong Kong, paring its gain this year to 23 percent.
The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP)  advanced 24 percent  “We will continue to sell our projects according to the
construction progress, regardless of the fluctuation in
prices,” said Eric Chow, another executive director at Sun Hung
Kai’s agency arm. “We’re not slowing down.”  Sun Hung Kai sold 3,037 homes in Hong Kong for HK$38
billion in 2011, according to data compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  The group will this year begin selling homes in northern
areas including  Yuen Long , Tuen Mun and Ma Wan, Lui said. The
company also plans to accelerate sales of some investment assets.  Developers including  Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1)  and
Henderson Land Development Co. may sell as many as 17,000 homes
in the city this year, about 60 percent more than in 2011,
Barclays Capital Research analyst  Andrew Lawrence  wrote in a Feb.
23 report.  Property prices may fall as much as 25 percent by 2013,
estimates Lawrence, who predicted the initial slide in April.  Residential Profit Gains  Sun Hung Kai’s profit from Hong Kong home sales rose to
HK$7.68 billion for the six months under review from HK$5.94
billion a year earlier, after the developer booked profit from
projects including the Imperial Cullinan and The Wings, it said.  Earnings were also boosted by growth in office and retail
rentals in the city, which benefited from the continued influx
of shoppers from other parts of  China . Earnings from investment
properties, which include the International Finance Centre in
Hong Kong’s Central business district, and the International
Commerce Centre, advanced 14 percent to HK$5.28 billion.  For the group,  profit  excluding property revaluation gains
or losses climbed to HK$11.8 billion, or HK$4.58 a share, from
HK$10.4 billion, or HK$4.05 a share, a year earlier. That’s
higher than the HK$11.1 billion median estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  More Land  Sun Hung Kai added 4.9 million square feet of developable
land space in the city, bringing its total reserve to 46.7
million square feet at the end of 2011, the company said. For
other parts of China, the group has land reserves of 85.3
million square feet.  Hong Kong  home prices  have risen more than 70 percent
between early 2009 and June last year, and have since dropped
about 5 percent, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Sun Hung Kai is controlled by the family of co-chairmen
Thomas and  Raymond Kwok , whose combined wealth of $15.4 billion
is third on Forbes magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest
published in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  