-- Swiss Stocks Retreat on Ireland Referendum, U.S. Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-28T16:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/switzerland-stocks-climb-after-german-vote-nestle-gains.html
Swiss stocks  declined for a third
day after Ireland said it will hold a referendum to ratify the
European fiscal compact and reports showed U.S. durable goods
orders and home prices fell more than forecast.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s two
largest lenders, retreated.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
world’s biggest maker of computer mice, slipped for a second
day.  PSP Swiss Property AG (PSPN)  rose after reporting an increase in
2011 net income.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s largest
and most actively traded companies, retreated 0.3 percent to
6,125.09 at the close in Zurich. The gauge has still  advanced
3.2 percent this year  as the  European Central Bank  increased
lending to banks and U.S. economic reports topped forecasts. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also slid 0.3 percent today.  Ireland’s Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said the country will
hold a referendum to ratify the European fiscal compact.  The Irish government has to hold a referendum should a
treaty change the country’s existing constitution. Irish voters
rejected changes to the European treaty in 2001 and 2008, before
reruns passed the proposals.  A U.S. Commerce Department report showed that orders for
 durable goods  fell in January by the most in three years.
Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years slumped 4
percent. Economists had projected a 1 percent decline, according
to the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Weak Indication’  “The figures are disappointing and surprising in light of
the recent improvements in sentiment,” wrote Ralf Umlauf, head
of floor research at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
 Frankfurt , in e-mailed comments. “If February shows no
recovery, it would be a very weak indication for the investment
activities in the first quarter.”  House prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped in December more
than  economists had predicted  to their lowest level since the
housing crisis began in mid-2006.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  won a parliamentary vote on
Greek aid after warning lawmakers that pushing Greece out of the
euro risked “incalculable” damage.  “The temporary rescue of Greece had already been priced
into the markets,” said Christian Zogg, who manages about $540
million at LLB Asset Management in Vaduz, Liechtenstein.
“Investors can’t shake off the prospect that a possible third
package could be necessary in the near future, and that’s
certainly not positive.”  Greece’s credit ratings were cut to “selective default”
by  Standard & Poor’s  after the Mediterranean nation negotiated
the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history.  Financial Shares Fall  UBS and Credit Suisse dropped 0.6 percent to 12.68 Swiss
francs and 0.4 percent to 24.61 francs, respectively. Swiss Re
Ltd., the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, fell 1.8 percent to
53.40 francs.  Logitech declined 1.6 percent to 7.58 francs.  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  dropped 3.3 percent to 47.44 francs, its
six-month low. Nobel Biocare AG retreated 1.7 percent to 10.68
francs.  PSP Swiss Property advanced 1.3 percent to 77.60 francs
after the real-estate company reported that 2011 net income,
excluding changes in fair value, rose 6.6 percent to 404 million
francs ($450 million) and said that the outlook for this year
remains “optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  