-- Syria Shells Opposition Centers as Assad Enacts Constitution
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-02-29T12:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/syrian-forces-shell-towns-in-north-after-assad-says-voters-back-referendum.html
Syrian forces pounded towns where
opposition is concentrated as United Nations officials prepared
to discuss ways of bringing a halt to almost a year of violence.  President Bashar al-Assad has come under mounting
international pressure to stop the killings. UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon and his predecessor  Kofi Annan , the new UN
special envoy to Syria, will meet later today in  New York  to
discuss the violence. More than 7,500 civilians died since the
uprising began in March, according to UN estimates.  The army has been shelling the central city of Homs since
the beginning of the month as well as launching attacks on other
parts of the country, including Idlib in the north and towns
near Aleppo by the Turkish border. Some soldiers have defected
from Assad’s forces as the president seeks to reaffirm his
mandate as Syria’s leader following a Feb. 26 referendum on a
new constitution.  The poll was “too little, too late,” Josh Landis,
director of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University
of  Oklahoma , said by e-mail. “The leaders of the Syrian
revolution are unwilling to accept any measures that will leave
President Assad in power and his security forces in charge of
Syria.”  The European Union dismissed the vote’s validity and said
Feb. 27 it would tighten sanctions on the Syrian government,
freezing the central bank’s assets, banning precious-metals
trading with the country and prohibiting cargo-only flights. The
measures build on an oil embargo approved in September. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who is campaigning for re-election,
said  France  would press Russia and  China  to drop their
opposition to UN sanctions against Syria.  Attacks Intensified  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed at the UN
 Security Council  by Russia and China on Feb. 4. At least 60
people died in army assaults yesterday and the 138 were killed
the previous day, Al Arabiya television reported.  “We have asked the Syrian government and relevant parties
to stop all violent actions to allow for the recovery of
stability as soon as possible,” Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said today, calling on Assad to heed popular
demands for reform.  Tunisia is ready to grant Assad and his family asylum “if
this proposal will contribute to stop the bloodshed and end the
killing of Syrians,” a spokesman for the north African nation’s
presidency, Adnen Mnasser, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Referendum Boycott  The Syrian president issued a decree yesterday, enacting
the new constitution backed by 89 percent of the voters, the
official Syrian Arab News Agency said. The charter promises
democratic elections while limiting presidents to two seven-year
terms. The opposition boycotted the referendum, in which 57.4
percent of eligible voters cast ballots.  Assad’s forces shelled the besieged town of Rastan, killing
and wounding an unspecified number of people, while also
targeting the Khalidiyeh neighborhood and Baba Amr district of
Homs, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said
today. About 37 soldiers defected and crossed into  Turkey , Al
Jazeera television reported, adding to the 60 people who ran
away from Assad’s forces yesterday.  In New York, UN Under-Secretary for Political Affairs Lynn Pascoe told the Security Council that “credible reports” put
the daily death toll at more than 100 civilians a day.  “My office has received disturbing reports of a rapidly
deteriorating human-rights and humanitarian situation,” UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay told the UN’s Human
Rights Council in Geneva yesterday. “Syrian military and
security forces have launched massive campaigns of arrest,
arbitrarily detaining thousands of protesters, as well as
activists and others suspected of anti-government activities.”  ‘Unhindered’ Access  Pillay  called on  Assad to cooperate with the international
community, provide “unhindered” access to  Syria  and release
all political and arbitrary detainees. Referring Syria to the
 International Criminal Court  to stop the violence “will be a
step in the right direction,” she said.  Faisal Khabbaz Hamwi, Syria’s ambassador to the UN, left
the Geneva meeting after making a speech in which he said the
session was aimed at attacking his country under the pretext of
humanitarian needs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  