-- Consumer Confidence Rises to One-Year High
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-28T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-february-consumer-confidence-index-rises-to-highest-level-in-a-year.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed to a 12-month high in February, signaling household
spending will help sustain the expansion.  The Conference Board’s  index  increased more than forecast,
to 70.8 from 61.5 in January, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. Economists projected the
gauge would climb to 63, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Americans are growing more upbeat after unemployment fell to
a three year low and stock-market rally boosted household
wealth, helping them withstand lower  home prices  and higher
gasoline costs. Another report showed durable goods orders
declined in January by the most since 2009 after the expiration
of a tax break allowing full expensing of business equipment
purchases.  “We’re seeing further evidence the labor market is
better,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. in New York. With more improvement, “a
self-sustaining feedback loop will become present whereby rising
income engenders a further lift in confidence, which in turn
lifts spending.”  Stocks climbed, sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average to
its first close above 13,000 since 2008. The Dow rose 0.2
percent to 13,005.12 at the close in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note was little changed at 1.93
percent.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities in the 12 months that ended
in December dropped by the most since July as foreclosures
continued to take their toll on the weakest part of the economy,
another report showed.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from a year earlier, after decreasing 3.9 percent
in the year ended in November, a report from the group showed
today in  New York . The median forecast of 31 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg called for a 3.7 percent decline.  Orders for goods meant to last at least three years slumped
4 percent, also more than forecast, after a 3.2 percent gain a
month earlier, Commerce Department figures showed. Economists
projected a 1 percent drop in durable goods, according to the
Bloomberg survey.  Demand for transportation equipment decreased 3.2 percent,
the most since October 2010, led by a 19 plunge in commercial
aircraft. Orders for  business equipment  fell 4.5 percent, the
biggest decline in a year.  Last month’s decrease in capital goods orders extends a
pattern of declines early in a quarter that are typically
reversed later. Demand for non-military capital goods such as
computers, engines and communications gear has dropped in the
first month of a quarter in all but three instances since the
end of 2005.  European Confidence  In  Europe , economic confidence in the euro area improved
more than forecast in February. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area rose for a second
month, increasing to 94.4 from 93.4 in January, the European
Commission in Brussels said today.  The uptick in European confidence echoed encouraging data
from  Japan , where retail sales exceeded economists’ forecasts in
January, signaling a recovery in  consumer spending  will help the
world’s third-largest economy return to growth this quarter.
Sales rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier, after a 2.5 percent
increase in December, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo  today.  Estimates for the Conference Board gauge ranged from 60 to
67.8 in the Bloomberg News survey of 77 economists.  The group’s measure of  present conditions  increased to 45
from 38.8 in January. The measure of  expectations  for the next
six months climbed to a one-year high of 88 from 76.7.  Other Data  Today’s report parallels other data on consumer sentiment.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 38.4, the
highest level this year, in the period ended Feb. 19. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
sentiment also rose to a 12-month high of 75.3 in February.  The percent of respondents in the Conference Board survey
expecting more jobs to become available in the next six months
increased to 18.7 from 16.4 the previous month. The proportion
expecting their incomes to rise over the next six months climbed
to 15.4 from 13.8 percent in January.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently hard to
get dropped to 38.7 percent, the lowest since November 2008.  Rising equity values are helping boost sentiment. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  today touched the highest level since
May 2008.  “The trend has been improving for both U.S. consumer
confidence and employment,” Jeffrey Lorberbaum, chairman and
chief executive officer of carpet-maker  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) ,
said during a Feb. 24 conference call. “Our long-term outlook
supports a rebound from the low sales levels.”  At the same time, higher fuel costs threaten consumers’
incomes, reducing their ability to maintain current spending
levels. A gallon of regular  unleaded gasoline  climbed to $3.72
yesterday from $3.28 at the end of 2011, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest automobile association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  