-- U.S. House Votes to Ease Restrictions on For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-02-28T21:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-house-votes-to-ease-restrictions-on-for-profit-colleges.html
The House voted to lift some federal
restrictions on U.S. aid to students who attend for-profit
colleges and universities.  House members in a 303-114 vote today passed the bill,
opposed by President Barack Obama’s administration, which would
cancel an Education Department requirement that college campuses
receive state authorization to participate in federal student
loan and aid programs. The rules are scheduled to take effect in
July 2014.  Under current Education Department regulations, a college’s
satellite campus in another state can participate in federal aid
programs, without state authorization, as long as its home
campus has been accredited.  Apollo Group Inc.’s (APOL)  University of
Phoenix, the largest for-profit university in the U.S., has used
that provision for schools in  California ,  Colorado ,  Hawaii  and
 New Mexico , according to its annual report issued Aug. 31, 2011.  The rule was among a broad set of regulations the Education
Department issued in October 2010 to ensure that only eligible
students and programs receive federal aid. The rules also would
affect public and other non-profit universities, though the
target of the regulations is the for-profit schools.  The regulations would “stall the efforts in our country to
make higher education more accessible and affordable to
everyone,” Virginia Foxx, a North Carolina Republican, said
during the floor debate.  The Education Department in 2010  cited  above-average loan
default rates at for-profit colleges, saying 43 percent of
defaults were from students who attended for-profit colleges,
though they represented 26 percent of federal loan recipients
and 11 percent of higher education students.  ‘Students Deserve’  “In a global economy, our students deserve to get what
they pay for,” Representative Ruben Hinojosa, a Texas Democrat,
said in opposition to the House bill.  The Education Department  said  in May 2011 it won’t enforce
the federal-aid ban on schools making “good-faith efforts” to
obtain state authorizations by July 2014.  Today’s bill also would repeal  rules  defining a credit
hour, the unit used for calculating federal student aid. Other
regulations issued in 2010 wouldn’t be affected by the measure.  Prospects for the legislation’s advancement are dim in the
Senate, where Iowa Democrat  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, has sponsored a measure
to reduce the amount of aid designated for active military
personnel and veterans that for-profit schools can receive.  The Obama administration “strongly opposes” the House
bill, the Office of Management and Budget said in a statement
yesterday. Congress shouldn’t prevent the Education Department
from “responsibly administering these programs and ensuring
that consumers and taxpayers are protected from fraud, waste,
and abuse,” according to the statement.  The bill is  H.R. 2117 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  