-- Mortgage Deal Should Aid Wronged Borrowers, Shelby Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-28T17:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-mortgage-deal-should-aid-wronged-borrowers-shelby-says.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Shelby 
questioned the fairness of a $25 billion mortgage servicing
settlement, saying it “appears to come up short” for borrowers
who wrongfully lost their homes.  The top Republican on the Senate Banking Committee spoke at
a hearing today on the state of the housing industry.  Earlier this month, five banks agreed to pay at least $25
billion to end a nationwide investigation of abusive foreclosure
practices after the collapse of the housing bubble.  Homeowners whose loans were improperly foreclosed will
receive about $2,000, Shelby said in his opening remarks.  “Although having the settlement compensate as many people
as possible may make sense politically, settlement funds should
compensate homeowners who suffered actual harm and deter future
violations of law,” the Alabama senator said.  “Homeowners who were wrongfully foreclosed upon will still
likely have to pursue the remainder of their claims in court or
through financial regulators,” Shelby said. “In contrast, many
homeowners who suffered no legal harm appear to be eligible for
compensation as well.”  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, said details of the settlement will be filed
in court this week.  The settlement is similar to a class action agreement in
that it was designed to aid as many victims as possible as
quickly as possible, Donovan said.  Earlier this month, the nation’s five largest mortgage
servicers -- Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Ally Financial Inc. -- reached a settlement
with state and federal prosecutors over flawed foreclosure
practices.  The deal was announced more than a year after  attorneys
general  from all 50 states began an investigation into banks’
use of faulty documents to seize homes, a practice known as
robo-signing.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  