-- U.S. Needs to Train More High-Tech Workers, Dow CEO Says
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-29T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-needs-more-high-tech-workers-to-stay-competitive-dow-says.html
The U.S. needs to train more people
to work with technology through vocational schools and doctorate
programs if it’s to reclaim its leadership in manufacturing,  Dow (DOW) 
Chemical Co. Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said.  “This is the one that keeps me up at night: The human
talent issue that built this country and rebuilding it so that
the American manufacturing base can truly move to advanced
technologies,” Liveris said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Dow, the largest U.S. chemicals producer, last year pledged
grants totaling $250 million to 25 chemical-engineering schools,
including 15 in the U.S., to educate more scientists who can
develop new materials. The Midland, Michigan-based maker of
chlorine, epoxy resins and linear low-density polyethylene
plastic, is having trouble hiring qualified people to work in
its research labs and factories, Liveris said.  Liveris co-chairs President  Barack Obama ’s Advanced
Manufacturing Partnership, which he said will next week
recommend a national focus on vocational schools that can
produce workers capable of running modern factory equipment. The
panel’s report also will recommend creating “incubation hubs”
where universities and private businesses collaborate on new
technologies, he said.  “We are behind in that strategy compared with other nation
states,” Liveris said. “We need Ph.D.s and scientists and
chemical engineers, materials engineers.”  Chinese Laboratories  Liveris, 57, said next week he will be in Singapore and
 China , which are better at educating their citizens to work in
high-technology manufacturing fields.  “China had two foreign labs in 1990 and by 2010 it had
900, including one of ours,” he said. “They have a deliberate
national strategy to attract companies like mine” that have
intellectual property.  Investing in technology education doesn’t guarantee
students will study in that field, Liveris said. The president’s
manufacturing panel also will recommend a national outreach
program to encourage students to attend vocational schools or
pursue engineering degrees, he said.  “We have to change the national psychology,” Liveris
said. “Losing competitive advantage in polymer science,
materials science, and then ultimately biological science, we
should care about that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  