-- U.S. Meatpacker Margins Cut by Livestock Costs, Fitch Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-28T18:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-meatpacker-margins-cut-by-livestock-costs-fitch-says-1-.html
Profit margins for pork and beef
processors in the U.S. are being squeezed because meat prices
aren’t keeping pace with increases in livestock costs,  Fitch
Ratings  said.  The rally in cattle prices and wide swings in the value of
choice beef compared with other grades contributed to the
“precipitous” drop in margins since the end of last year,
Fitch, based in  New York  and  London , said today in a report.
Livestock costs probably will stay high because of “low cattle
supply and strong export demand,” the company said.  Producers are lowering slaughter rates because of negative
margins, and plant closures are possible, Fitch said. Since
2004, average margins for beef were $1 per hundredweight and
more than $5 for pork, Fitch said. Surging meat prices have
boosted costs for companies including Cracker Barrel Old Country
Store Inc. and Denny’s Corp., while margins probably will narrow
for processors such as  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Smithfield Foods
Inc. (SFD)   “Beef and pork processing margins, excluding benefits from
strong by-product and value-added products, are declining,”
Fitch said. “Processor expectations about demand and pricing
have placed additional upward pressure on livestock costs,
causing margins to tighten.”  Cattle Futures  Before today, cattle futures rose 13 percent in the past 12
months, reaching a $1.315 a pound on Feb. 22, the highest ever
for a most-active contract on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Hog futures have gained 5.2 percent this year.  Since the end of 2011, the spread between choice beef and
the select grade “unexpectedly tripled from normal levels” to
$17 per hundredweight, “causing beef processors to bid up
cattle prices,” Fitch said. “A subsequent narrowing of the
choice-select spread” with cattle prices “remaining elevated
resulted in margin contraction,” the company said.  While lower slaughter rates may support margins later this
year, processors face “potential earnings volatility,” Fitch
said. Red-meat and poultry production will decline in 2012 and
exports will “remain strong,” especially to  Asia , Fitch said.  U.S.  pork  exports rose 23 percent in 2011 from a year
earlier, and beef  shipments  surged 21 percent, government data
show. As of Jan. 1, the U.S. cattle herd was the lowest since
1952.  U.S.  shoppers  may pay as much as 5 percent more for beef
this year, compared with a 10 percent gain last year, and pork
prices may rise as much as 4 percent, compared with an 8.5
percent increase in 2011, the USDA has projected. “Price
fatigue” may spur some shoppers to switch to chicken as a
cheaper alternative, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  