-- U.S. States Seek to Contain Harm as Pentagon Plans Defense Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-28T05:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/u-s-states-seek-to-contain-harm-as-pentagon-plans-defense-cuts.html
States that stand to suffer most
from proposed defense cuts are mobilizing to mitigate economic
harm, according to interviews with 10 governors.  President  Barack Obama  wants to cut $31.8 billion from the
$645.7 billion  defense budget  this year and trim costs by 8.5
percent in the coming decade. It will be reduced automatically
by about $500 billion by 2021, or about $55 billion a year, 
after a Congressional committee failed in November to agree on
how to reduce the $15.4 trillion national  deficit .  Amid two wars, defense spending increased to $678 billion
in 2011 from $290 billion in 2001. Cutting the outlay, the
federal budget’s second-biggest expense last year, may raise
another hurdle for states fighting back from the longest
recession since the 1930s. Estimates show that 29 states face
shortfalls for the next fiscal year totaling $47 billion,
indicating a long and uncertain recovery, according to a Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities  report  released yesterday.  “A lot of that will play out at Congress, where people
will have to decide what’s more important: airplanes for the
National Guard or tax cuts for millionaires,” said  Maryland (STOMD1) 
Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat whose state received $19.9
billion in defense spending in 2009, the fifth-most in the
country, according to a Bloomberg Government analysis.  ‘Great Concern’  Perhaps no state is at more risk than  Virgina (STOVA1) .  The Old Dominion, home to the country’s largest naval base
in Norfolk and five of 11 Navy aircraft carriers, relies on
defense for 13.9 percent of its gross product, more than any
other state, according to the analysis.  Virginia is also top among states in defense spending, with
$56.9 billion, according to the study. It and nine other states
accounted for 53 percent of the $527.8 billion military dollars
spent in the U.S. in 2009, the study said.  “It’s a great concern to us,” Governor Bob McDonnell, a
Republican, said Feb. 25 in an interview at a National Governors
Association meeting in  Washington .  A state commission, led by former U.S. Representative  Tom
Davis , is planning for possible cuts. McDonnell said he and
others have had “multiple” meetings with Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta .  McDonnell said he also put $50 million into the state’s new
Federal Action Contingency Trust Fund to offset cuts. Another
work group, led by Lieutenant Governor Bill Bolling, is creating
a strategy for Congress’s automatic reductions.  “We want to make sure Virginia’s great installations and
200-year-plus relationship with the military stay strong,”
McDonnell said.  Guarding the Guard  Governors are particularly concerned about the National
Guard, state military forces federalized in times of need.
Forty-nine signed a letter to Panetta opposing proposed cuts to
the Air National Guard, said Christine Gregoire of  Washington (STOWA1) .
The Democrat is co-chairman of the Council of Governors, a panel
Obama created to focus on security. It met with Panetta at the
Pentagon yesterday to discuss cuts.  “We need to have not only the capacity for the president
to call up our Guard, but for us to call up our Guard in the
case of a natural disaster,” Gregoire said yesterday at the NGA
meeting. “We fear that budget compromises both.”  The governors will get help from the defense industry.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and other defense
contractors spent a combined $33.4 million on lobbying in
Washington last year, a 10 percent increase from 2010, according
to disclosures.  Defined by Failure  “The impact on industry would be devastating,” Lockheed
Chief Executive Robert Stevens said about the cuts on a Jan. 28
conference call with investors.  The company, the biggest U.S. defense contractor, has a
“very clear” position, Stevens said.  “We must not let an automatic budget trigger, a default
position in effect only due to a committee failure, to become
the dominant force for allocating resources in shaping our
nation’s security posture,” he said. “And we strongly urge
action to stop this process.”  General Craig McKinley, chief of the National Guard Bureau
and a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said during the NGA
meetings he was often states’ “lone voice in the Pentagon.” He
urged governors to keep pressure on the White House and
Congress, while remembering that reductions are unavoidable.  “It’s not arbitrary that cuts have had to be made,”
McKinley said during a meeting of the NGA’s Special Committee on
 Homeland Security  and Public Safety. The former Joint Chiefs
chairman, Mike Mullen, “said our greatest national security
challenge is our deficit in our budget.”  Making Friends  Colorado (STOCO1)  Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat whose state
relies on defense spending for 4.3 percent of its output, said
states should foot traditional federal expenses.  Hickenlooper pointed to Fort Carson near  Colorado Springs (CSPG) ,
which he said has the country’s highest re-enlistment rate. The
former Denver mayor and co-founder of Wynkoop Brewing Co.
attributed that to family services provided by the community.  “That’s where the military is going to want to maintain
their investments, in those places where they have the strongest
partnerships,” he said.  Several governors, including Gregoire, Democrat Bev Perdue
of  North Carolina (STONC1)  and Democrat Mike Beebe of  Arkansas (STOAR1) , said they
will ask for reductions that voters will understand.  “It’s disingenuous on some people’s part to say we have to
cut the budget, we have to balance the budget, we have to have
less  government spending  and then turn around and raise holy
Cain about those cuts,” Beebe said. “I always lobby for my
state, but I try not to be a hypocrite about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee, Florida, at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  