-- BOE’s Tucker Says Officials Must Be Ready to ‘Gradually’ Withdraw Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/tucker-says-boe-must-be-ready-to-gradually-withdraw-stimulus.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said policy makers must be ready to “gradually”
withdraw stimulus when the U.K. economy strengthens.  “We must be alert to the need gradually to withdraw
stimulus as and when recovery builds,” Tucker said in a speech
in London late yesterday. “Stimulus can be sustained only so
long as medium-term inflation expectations remain anchored” to
the central bank’s 2 percent target, he said.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee agreed this
month to increase the size of its emergency  bond-purchase
program  by 50 billion pounds ($79.5 billion) after the economy
contracted in the fourth quarter. Tucker, along with Governor
 Mervyn King , will answer lawmakers’ questions on the central
bank’s decision and its economic outlook at a parliament
committee hearing later today.  Tucker, who also sits on the central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee, rejected arguments that policy makers should
ease restraints on banks to aid lending, citing the “lingering
threat of a severe crisis in the euro area” that has left banks
in an “extraordinarily risky environment.”  “While in other circumstances it might have been possible
to relax  capital requirements  if the worst had passed, it is not
a sensible course when the worst might still lie ahead,’ he
said. ‘‘In current circumstances, gradually building resilience
through retained earnings is best for stability and recovery.’’  Europe Risk  Policy maker Ben Broadbent said late yesterday that the
debt crisis remains the biggest risk to the U.K. even after
‘‘important’’ steps by euro-area officials to tackle it.  ‘‘There was some important policy decisions taken in Europe
at the end of the last year; support was provided for the banks
and that’s been very important,’’ he said in an interview with
Belfast-based Ulster Television, referring to the  European
Central Bank ’s long-term loans. ‘‘Over time the situation will
improve. But I don’t think we should imagine, hopeful as it is,
that these more recent policy actions have solved everything.
There are risks that still remain.”  Tucker is due to speak at the Treasury Select Committee in
London starting at 9:45 a.m. He will be joined by King, Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean  and policy maker  Adam Posen .  Tucker said late yesterday that while monetary policy must
help underpin demand, it may prevent the tackling of economic
imbalances.  “We must be alive to the possibility that the alleviation
of current macroeconomic problems could sow the seeds, somewhere
in the financial firmament, of the next set of imbalances,” he
said. “Where risks to stability do emerge, we must use what
other instruments we have to try to temper them.”  ‘Mopping Up’  Countries must become less reliant on central banks
“mopping up” after financial crises and should have “macro
regimes that aim to make chronic imbalances and over-
indebtedness less likely and less threatening,” Tucker said.  In this regard, Britain has a “special responsibility” to
maintain the resilience of its domestic financial system due to
its central role in international finance, he said. Government
finances “should be managed with an eye to the nature and
extent of risk exposures elsewhere in the economy.”  The Bank of England’s quarterly forecasts published this
month show the government’s budget cuts and the crisis in  Europe 
will weigh on growth, though  slower inflation  will help support
a recovery. Annual consumer price gains slowed to 3.6 percent in
January, the least in 14 months.  Minutes of U.K. policy makers’ decision to expand their
bond-purchase plan on Feb. 9 showed Posen and  David Miles  were
defeated in a bid for a 75 billion-pound increase in stimulus,
while Tucker voted with the majority. Their colleague  Paul Fisher  said on Feb. 26 that the risk of the U.K. slipping into
another recession may have been avoided and further signs of
strength would add to the case for ending new bond purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  