-- Hungary Holds Benchmark Interest Rate at EU’s Highest After Forint Surge
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-28T15:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/hungary-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-at-eu-s-highest-after-forint-surge.html
Hungary ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a second month after considering
cutting rates for the first time in a year as a surge in the
forint and lower credit risk outweighed stalling bailout talks.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  today left the  two-week deposit
rate  at 7 percent, the European Union’s highest benchmark rate,
matching the forecast of all 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Policy makers considered cutting the rate by a quarter
point before “overwhelmingly” backing no change, central bank
President Andras Simor told a news conference in Budapest.  Hungary should maintain borrowing costs until agreeing on
an  International Monetary Fund -led loan, which may allow lower
rates, policy makers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said
Feb. 15. The central bank unexpectedly held rates last month as
four first-year members of its rate-setting board, including
Gerhardt and Kocziszky, outvoted Simor and his two deputies, who
sought a third successive half-point increase.  “The central bank is awaiting the results of the EU-IMF
talks” and may cut the main rate if a deal is reached, Istvan
Horvath, a portfolio manager at the Budapest investment unit of
 KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said by e-mail.  Forint Gains  The forint fell 0.1 percent to 291.16 per euro at 4:50 p.m.
in Budapest. It has risen 8.2 percent this year against the
euro, the most among currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged Jan. 5 to come to a
“quick” agreement with the IMF and the EU on a loan. It fell
16 percent in the second half of last year, the most in the
world.  The cost of insuring Hungarian government debt against non-
payment using credit-default swaps fell to 510.7 basis points
today from a record 735 points on Jan. 5, before Orban’s pledge,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices from dealers in the privately-negotiated
market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-month
interest costs in one month, fell 7 basis points to 7.415
percent. The Budapest Interbank Offered Rate traded at 7.36
percent.  Hungary’s risk assessment and investor appetite for risk
has changed “significantly” in the past month, Simor told
reporters today. To ensure a “sustained improvement” in risk,
Hungary needs to come to an agreement on an IMF loan, Simor
said.  ‘Cautious Stance’  “High volatility of financial markets over the recent
period continues to warrant a cautious policy stance,” the
Monetary Council said in a statement after the decision.  Orban is trying to revive talks for a bailout, which he
sought in November after the forint fell to a record low against
the euro and the country’s sovereign-credit rating was cut to
junk. Talks broke down the following month after the EU and the
IMF said draft legislation threatened central bank independence.  Hungary can’t start talks on an international loan until
the government meets preconditions, including addressing
concerns on monetary policy, the judiciary and the data-
protection agency. The EU has no deadline or timeline to assess
Hungary’s Feb. 17 response on the infringement procedures, a
European Commission spokesman told reporters on Feb. 21.  ‘In the Air’  “It’s in the air” that Hungary’s judicial reform may
become a European court case, Deputy Prime Minister Tibor Navracsics told M1 state television today, casting doubt over
Orban’s pledge to resolve disagreements quickly in order to move
on to the negotiation phase.  “Sentiment towards Hungary has generally improved over the
past few weeks, but there are still many risks ahead,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
said in an e-mail today. “In particular, we fear that market
participants may be overly optimistic about the chances of the
authorities securing an IMF program fairly quickly, given the
outstanding issues that need to be addressed.”  The  inflation rate  rose to 5.5 percent in January, the
highest since April 2010, from 4.1 percent in December. The
Monetary Council doesn’t need to react to a one-time jump in
prices, Gerhardt and Kocziszky said.  Policy makers shouldn’t draw “far-reaching conclusions”
from a single data, Simor said.  A “sustained higher inflation path” would justify a rate
increase, central bank Vice President Ferenc Karvalits said Feb.
17. Policy makers target an inflation rate of 3 percent.  ‘Further Confirmation’  “We believe further confirmation about securing an IMF
deal and additional fiscal austerity measures for 2013 may be
needed to improve the inflation outlook and contribute to
further narrowing in risk premiums, which may provide arguments
for the Monetary Council to initiate a gradual rate-cutting
cycle,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said in a report today.  The currency rallying to the 275-285 forint per euro range
may prompt rate cuts of as much as 2 percentage points, as long
as an IMF loan is obtained “swiftly” and investors’ appetite
for risk is maintained,  Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said in an e-
mail.  “We remain skeptical on both fronts,” Shearing said.
“Accordingly, we think the risks to the forint lie on the
downside. We would not be surprised to see it breach 300 per
euro over the coming months. To the extent that  interest rates 
are changed at all over the next three months, we believe the
balance of risks is still skewed towards further hikes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  