-- United Technologies Risks Moody’s Downgrade in Revamping of Goodrich Plan
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-02-28T21:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/united-technologies-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-moody-s-on-takeover-debt.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s credit
ratings are in jeopardy after Moody’s Investors Service cut its
outlook to “negative,” citing a reduced reliance on stock to
pay for the $16.5 billion acquisition of  Goodrich Corp. (GR)   United Technologies may not issue any common shares after
initially saying it would raise as much as $4 billion, according
to Moody’s analysts  Russell Solomon  and Michael Mulvaney.
Focusing on the corporate  bond market  and asset sales “entails
more execution risk,” they said today in a statement.  The cut imperils United Technologies’ ability to keep a
pledge to maintain its A2 grade from Moody’s and equivalent A
rating from Standard & Poor’s. Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  told investors he would “maintain our credit  ratings ,
or work very hard to do that” when the Goodrich deal was
announced on Sept. 21.  “Our best guess is they’re unlikely to do any common
equity at all and they’re more likely to use hybrid securities
that have elements of debt and equity,” Solomon said in a
telephone interview. “We got comfortable that they would be
able to get their credit metrics back in line. Now that the
equity is off the table, they’re pushing our comfort zone.”  Equity Cut  Chenevert said last week he saw a “clear path” for United
Technologies to cut its equity issue for the deal by at least 50
percent, to $2 billion or less.  John Moran , a spokesman for the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company, declined to comment today
beyond Chenevert’s remarks.  Buying Goodrich will add the world’s largest maker of
aircraft landing gear to United Technologies brands that include
Pratt & Whitney jet engines and Sikorsky helicopters, along with
industrial products such as Otis elevators and Carrier air
conditioners.  United Technologies  fell  0.2 percent to $83.47 at the close
in New York.  Moody’s may cut the company’s ratings if it can’t reduce
debt assumed to pay for the acquisition “in short order,”
Solomon and Mulvaney wrote. An upgrade is unlikely until
Goodrich is integrated, they said.  United Technologies said it planned to pay for 75 percent
of the acquisition with the proceeds of debt offerings and 25
percent with money raised through equity issuance when the deal
was announced on Sept. 21. S&P cut its outlook to “negative”
the next day.  United Technologies is also considering selling units
including its pump- and compressor-making business and its
Rocketdyne division to raise cash for the purchase, according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  