-- Vietnam’s Skyscraper Keangnam to Drive Hanoi Rents to 5-Year Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-28T01:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/vietnam-tallest-skyscraper-keangnam-to-drive-hanoi-rents-to-five-year-low.html
Vietnam ’s  Keangnam Hanoi Landmark
Tower , the tallest in Southeast  Asia  after Petronas Towers, is
boosting prime  office space  in the capital Hanoi by half and
threatening to drive rents to a five-year low.  The property, which includes a hotel, luxury apartments and
mall, is adding 100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet)
of office space, said Choi Yong-Ho, marketing manager of
Keangnam Vina, the unit of  South Korea ’s  Keangnam Enterprises
Ltd. (000800)  that built the 346 meters (1,135 feet) tower.  Vietnam’s property market has slowed down as the government
tightened credit to help curb Asia’s fastest inflation. The
additional space from the tower may drive Hanoi’s office rents
down as much as 8 percent in the first half to their lowest
since the fourth quarter of 2006, according to Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc.  “The tower flooded the market with a lot of supply,”
Fraser Wilson, Ho Chi Minh City-based director of Vietnam
Property Fund at Dragon Capital, the biggest private investor in
Vietnam’s stock market, said in an interview on Feb. 24. “That
can only have a negative impact on the rents.”  Keangnam, located in the new western suburb My Dinh, is 30-
minute car ride from downtown Hanoi. Rents at the tower average
$25 per square meter, Choi said, compared with $40 to $45 in the
city center. The figures exclude taxes and service charges.  The new building has leased out 30 percent of its office
space with tenants including  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , Choi said. That’s less than he expected, he said,
forecasting the building to be 70 percent filled by the end of
the year and fully leased by 2013.  Cheaper Option  Keangnam is drawing tenants because prices in the central
business district are “a little higher,” Choi said, adding
that the size of the building allows expansion.  The tower has the same height as the Center in  Hong Kong 
and is higher than  Shanghai ’s Shimao International Plaza and
John Hancock Center in  Chicago , according to  Council on Tall
Buildings and Urban Habitat ’s data.  “With large vacant space coming on stream amidst an
economic slowdown, it affects the overall performance of the
market, both in terms of rental performance and space absorption
rates, which may paint an unpromising picture of the entire
market,” Thai Quang Trung, manager of research and consulting
at  Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL)  Vietnam Co., said in an e-mail.  The vacancy rate for grade A, or the most expensive, office
space in Hanoi rose to 34.5 percent at the end of 2011 from 9.8
percent in the third quarter, the Chicago-based property
brokerage said.  Declining Rents  Rents in the capital decreased 11 percent to an average
$28.90 per square meter in the fourth quarter with Keangnam’s
completion, and may decline further in the first half with
supply from new buildings, Trung said. Choi at Keangnam
estimates rents in Hanoi’s city center to drop 15 percent with
his tower.  The outlook for real estate also may be hurt by the
nation’s economic policies. The central bank will continue to
restrict loans for the property sector, according to a Feb. 13
statement on its website.  Keangnam is counting on growth in My Dinh, where government
offices including the foreign ministry are moving to and the
National Convention Center is located, said Choi.  “Other buildings are coming on-stream in the My Dinh area
soon so it will become a more and more established location
overtime, with more facilities and amenities,” Dragon Capital’s
Wilson said. “For most international companies, occupational
costs are very important when picking their location.”  --Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  