-- Vulcan’s James Says Martin Marietta Talks Started Friendly
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-28T21:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/vulcan-s-james-says-he-sought-friendly-merger-talks-with-martin-marietta.html
Vulcan Materials Co. (VMC)  Chairman Don James first proposed a friendly combination with  Martin Marietta
Materials Inc. (MLM)  before it surprised him in an e-mail with a $4.7
billion hostile takeover bid, he testified as a trial over the
proposed deal started.  James has been trying to stave off an offer from Martin
Marietta that could create the world’s largest producer of sand,
gravel and crushed stone, and Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine Jr. must decide whether the solicitation is contractually
valid.  In discussions with Martin Marietta Chief Executive Officer
Ward Nye in 2010, James today told the judge “we wanted a
friendly, consensual transaction” and a “merger of equals.”
He said negotiations stalled at times on questions of regulatory
approval, buyout consideration, potential financial savings in a
merger and who would run the company.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh,  North Carolina , offered
on Dec. 12 to exchange half a share for each share of
Birmingham, Alabama-based Vulcan and pay a quarterly dividend
equal to 20 cents a Vulcan share to partly restore the dividend
cut to 1 cent last year.  “I couldn’t believe it at first,” when Martin Marietta
informed Vulcan of the surprise hostile bid in an e-mail, James
told Strine. “I was completely distraught.”  Vulcan contends a 2010 agreement between the companies from
previous merger talks doesn’t allow Martin Marietta’s offer to
buy Vulcan’s public shares and solicit votes for five nominees
for its board, according to court papers.  Court Ruling  Martin Marietta filed the lawsuit in December seeking a
court ruling that it didn’t violate the agreement with Vulcan.  “The non-disclosure agreement does not contain a
standstill provision or other limitation on each party’s right
to make public offers to the other’s stockholders,”  Martin
Marietta ’s lawyers said in court papers.  “Vulcan ceased participating in private discussions toward
a negotiated transaction, compelling Martin Marietta to present
its proposals directly to Vulcan’s stockholders,” according to
the complaint.  Vulcan is forecast to lose $48 million this year, according
to the average of 14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Martin Marietta has reported profits since at least 1992, and
earnings this year are forecast to be $114 million, according to
the average of 15 estimates.  ‘Highly Sensitive’  Vulcan claims Martin Marietta obtained “highly sensitive,
material, nonpublic and confidential information,” according to
a Dec. 22 statement in which the company formally rejected the
bid.  Martin Marietta has proposed candidates for five Vulcan
board seats to be filled at the annual shareholders meeting in
May, not enough to control the 11-member board. Vulcan pledged
to sell assets for as much as $500 million to reduce debt and
cut costs by $155 million to rally shareholder support.  “We continue to recommend that shareholders not tender any
shares to Martin Marietta,” James said in a Feb. 23 letter to
employees.  James said he didn’t want information about merger talks to
leak to the public because customers might be concerned about
supply disruptions if the company was “in play” and Vulcan
executives would become distracted. He also said costly
litigation might follow and competitors would be “licking their
chops” at the prospect of available assets.  Lost Business  Under cross-examination, James was asked whether Vulcan
lost business because of the dispute. “Not that I’m aware of,”
he said.  James told the judge that after the hostile bid two large
shareholders, Capital Guardian Trust Co. and Primecap
Management, dumped shares. Primecap sold 5.23 million shares and
Capital Guardian sold 1.04 million shares, according to
 Bloomberg data .  Martin Marietta fell 50 cents to $86.86 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m., which gives the deal a
value of $43.43 a share. Vulcan declined 1.33 percent to $45.36.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  