-- Wells Fargo Says SEC May Bring Case Over Mortgage Securities
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-28T21:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/wells-fargo-says-sec-may-bring-case-over-mortgage-securities-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, was warned by federal regulators that it may face
civil claims tied to the sale of mortgage-backed securities.  The bank received a so-called Wells notice from the
Securities and Exchange Commission amid government inquiries
into whether the company properly described facts and risks in
offering documents, the San Francisco-based lender said today in
the company’s  annual report . SEC lawyers send the notices when
they intend to recommend that the agency bring claims.  Almost four years after mounting mortgage defaults prompted
unprecedented government bailouts of the financial system,
regulators are still examining how banks packaged and sold home
loans to investors. The SEC is looking for evidence that firms
failed to disclose underlying credit weaknesses in mortgage
pools and delinquencies, Jason Anthony, special counsel for the
agency’s structured products unit, said last week without
identifying companies under scrutiny.  Wells Fargo didn’t say when it got the SEC’s warning.
Notice recipients are typically given a chance to dissuade the
regulator from proceeding.  Government agencies are also looking at whether Wells Fargo
may have violated fair lending laws or other regulations when
making home loans, the bank said. The company is providing
information requested by various agencies conducting
investigations.  Wells Fargo  rose  34 cents to $31.36 in  New York , giving the
bank a gain of 14 percent this year.  Foreclosure Settlement  Wells Fargo, whose biggest shareholder is  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said losses from all litigation it
faces could amount to as much as $1.2 billion beyond reserves.
That figure, as of Dec. 31, is down from $1.6 billion in the
third quarter.  The company was among five mortgage servicers that agreed
this month to a $25 billion settlement of state and federal
probes into shoddy foreclosure practices. The deal allowed
regulators to continue pursuing the industry over claims
regarding the packaging of loans into securities.  Wells Fargo’s share of the settlement totals $5.3 billion,
including $3.4 billion in consumer relief programs, $1 billion
paid directly to the federal government and states and $900
million for a refinancing program, the bank said at the time.  The settlement’s refinancing portion will cost $720 million
in lost interest income and the bank will earn $180 million in
credit from the government, Wells Fargo said in the report. The
commitment will mean refinancing 20,000 mortgages with an unpaid
principal of $4 billion, the bank said.  Soured Mortgages  Well Fargo also boosted its estimate for the possible
additional cost of buying back soured mortgages to as much as
$2.1 billion from $1.9 billion in the third quarter. It
represents the lender’s estimate of costs beyond what’s already
in reserve and reflects what’s reasonably possible, rather than
what’s probable, according to the document.  Investors who buy loans are entitled to ask for refunds or
compensation if they find missing or inaccurate data on home
values or the borrower’s income. Since the start of 2007, faulty
lending and  foreclosures  have cost the five biggest U.S. home
lenders more than $72 billion, with at least $5.98 billion
attributed to Wells Fargo, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  