-- Paulsen Predicts ‘Lousy Year’ for Treasuries
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-28T08:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/wells-capital-s-paulsen-predicts-lousy-year-for-treasuries.html
This year will be “lousy” for
Treasuries as the growing U.S. economy hurts bonds and supports
stocks, according to  Wells Capital  Management Inc., a unit of
the biggest  U.S. bank  by market value.  Ten-year yields may climb to 3.5 percent in 2012, James W. Paulsen, the Minneapolis-based chief investment strategist for
Wells Capital, wrote in a  report  that the company distributed
yesterday. The rate was 1.93 percent today as of 8:14 a.m. in
 London .  “This will prove a lousy year for high-quality bonds,”
Paulsen wrote. “We expect the same renewed confidence which has
been pushing the stock market higher this year to also begin
pushing bond yields higher.”  Treasuries have handed investors a 0.5 percent loss this
month as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes, as the  U.S. economy  shows signs of improvement.
An increase in 10-year yields to 3.5 percent by Dec. 31 would
bring a 9.2 percent loss to an investor who bought today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Conference Board’s consumer confidence index probably
climbed to 63 this month, a Bloomberg News survey of economists
showed the group’s report due today. It fell to 61.1 in January
from 64.8 in December.  An industry report yesterday showed more Americans than
forecast signed contracts to buy previously owned homes in
January, indicating the industry that sparked the last recession
is improving.  4.4% Return  The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent in January, the
lowest level in almost three years, the Labor Department
reported Feb. 3.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained  4.4 percent this
month after accounting for reinvested dividends. The 2 percent
Treasury due in February 2022 was little changed today in Asian
trading.  Investors should “stay overweighted in equities,” said
Wells Capital, which oversees $333 billion and is a unit of
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  San Francisco .  “We also recommend underweighting ‘safe haven’ investments
including domestic large caps, the  U.S. dollar , high-quality
bonds, dividend-emphasized indexes, and steady-eddy stock
sectors like consumer staples, utilities, and healthcare,”
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  