-- What You Can Control in a Tough Business Climate
-- B y   K a r i e   W i l l y e r d
-- 2012-02-28T02:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/what-you-can-control-in-a-tough-business-climate.html
     Outside of Timisoara,  Romania , near an industrial
district that borders on beautiful countryside, is one of the
strangest cornfields you will ever see.  Growing up in Iowa and  Wisconsin , I was accustomed to
dense, even fields of high-output corn, the result of years of
technological and process enhancement — as the saying
goes, "knee-high by the 4th of July." I first saw this
cornfield in Romania right around the 4th of July over a
decade ago, and it appeared that about twenty percent of the
rows met the knee-high criterion, but they were scattered. The
other eighty percent were shin-high at best, the plants in
them unhealthy. What could make such a difference in one
field?  It turns out the field was a great example of the failure
of bureaucratic decision-making. At the fall of communism a
decade before I saw the cornfield, there was a lot of
controversy about how to divide up state-owned lands such as
farms. The decision was made, at least in this one small
field, to divide it up two rows at a time. Every two rows were
owned by different micro-farmers. No efficiency of scale could
be achieved because there was no collaboration or alignment
between the farmers. Some micro-farmers, given the same
resources in land, water, and seed, were able to produce
easily twice as much output as their neighboring plot owners.
The only differences, given the exact same resources, were
people and the decisions they made.  Faced with less-than-ideal economic conditions now, many
leaders face a similar situation. We have comparable access to
people, facilities, addressable market, and existing customer
base. Some of us, however, are able to eke out just that
little bit extra, not by placing huge strategic bets, but by
ensuring the strategy we already have in place gets executed.
Aligning people and the decisions they make yields greater
results.  Our organization conducted research with Wharton and
Stanford that supports this. We studied 153 customers across
multiple industries to find out if simply executing your
business strategy, no matter what it was, made a difference in
share price. We set up and tested four hypotheses that we
believe are foundations for a company's ability to execute:  Setting      clear goals and adjusting those goals
when necessary based on changing      circumstances, resulting
in more frequent but more relevant goals;  Aligning      goals throughout the organization, top to
bottom and across;  Identifying      and treating high performers differently
than low performers through      consistent feedback across
the organization;  And      using software at all levels to provide process
support, analytics, and      insights into all of the above.  In farming and in business, there are so many
factors you can't control — from drought to floods to the
Greek bailout — the key is to focus on those areas that
you can control. Your ability to execute is definitely one of
those. In a sense, our people are the seeds of our growth and
shareholder value. We can surround them with resources and
nurture them with benefits, but if we don't communicate
explicitly with them and decide to align our resources in
similar ways, they will make decisions that yield uneven
results. Parts of the organization will perform to world-class
standards, and parts will look like the puny rows of corn in
Timisoara.  And yet demographic shifts mean that giving feedback and
aligning employees is about to get even tougher than it
already is. As Jeanne Meister and I have written
before, nearly half of the workplace will be Millennials —
people born after 1977 — in just three years. As hiring picks
up and  Baby Boomers  retire, we will shift to a younger
workforce who have a need for more feedback than organizations
are used to giving, and will want to see indicators that the
work they're doing matters to the organization. And we won't
be able to rely as much on managers with decades of experience
to herd employees into alignment.  At the same time, the fast, volatile business environment
we're in — the new normal — means we'll need more real-time
capability to adapt, both changing our strategies and ensuring
our employees can shift to meet new strategic directions.  There's an easy question to assess whether your
organization is aligned and executing strategy: If you changed
your company strategy now, are you confident your employees
would align behind that new strategy within a few months?  Can you afford to answer "no" to that question?  Karie Willyerd is the coauthor of The 2020 Workplace. She
is also the CLO of SuccessFactors and the former CEO of
Jambok, a social learning platform acquired by SuccessFactors.
The views expressed here are solely the views of the author.  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business. 