-- What Rick Santorum Doesn’t Understand About John Kennedy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-28T18:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/what-rick-santorum-doesn-t-understand-about-kennedy-s-1960-speech-view.html
In a  famous speech  52 years ago,
presidential candidate  John F. Kennedy  said he believed that
“the separation of church and state is absolute,” and promised
that as a Roman Catholic, he would not take orders from the
pope.  Thanks in part to that speech,  Rick Santorum  didn’t need to
devote even half a second’s thought to whether his own Roman
Catholicism might be a handicap in running for president. It
simply isn’t. Yet Santorum says reading Kennedy’s speech “ makes
me throw up .”  This is a vivid image. The whole subject of vomiting is one
most politicians would just as soon stay away from. So give
Santorum credit for guts. Well, perhaps “guts” is not the best
word. But give him credit.  Having done so, we have to wonder: Is Santorum reading the
same speech we’re reading? He asks, “What kind of country do we
live in that says only people of nonfaith can come into the
public square and make their case?” But the  United States  is not
that kind of country, and Kennedy’s point was close to the
opposite of Santorum’s summary. We are a country whose
Constitution prohibits any “ religious test ” for public office.
The very point of Kennedy’s speech was that he, as a Catholic,
had as much right to be in “the public square” as any Protestant
or nonbeliever.  In fact, the only Americans who are effectively excluded
from running for president because of popular prejudice against
them would be “people of nonfaith,” as Santorum calls them.  Santorum is tapping into one of the truly puzzling
fantasies of our politics in recent years: the apparently
widespread belief that Christians -- Catholic and Protestant --
are an oppressed group, being crushed by the forces of
secularization in places like Washington and Hollywood. In fact,
not only do Christians constitute the vast majority of American
citizens, but the United States also has the highest percentage
of regularly practicing believers in the developed world. Three-
quarters of Americans tell pollsters that they pray  at least
once a week , two-fifths say they attend a house of worship every
week (the vast majority of them Christian), and more than four-
fifths of Americans self-identify with some religious
denomination.  Furthermore, we have a national culture far more steeped in
religion than other countries. More ceremonies that open with a
prayer, more concessions by the majority to minority religious
customs (such as keeping kosher or stopping your work to roll
out a carpet and pray to Allah several times a day), more
references to God in speeches by politicians and business
executives.  The belief that Christianity is under attack is another
example -- possibly the reductio ad absurdum example -- of the
 central role  that claims of victimization and the taking of
umbrage play in American politics. If you’re not a victim,
offended at something somebody said or did, you’re nobody. It’s
a testament to the way the public square has been opened up (by
multiracial  Barack Obama , by Mormon  Mitt Romney , and by Jewish
 Joe Lieberman ) that a Catholic like Santorum is now the
spokesman for a brand of cultural exclusivity that for centuries
was defined in part by its loathing of Papists and its attempts
to restrict their rights.  It’s true that religious values inform many people’s views
on a topic such as abortion, and sometimes other people suggest
that these views are for that reason invalid. These other people
are wrong. People of faith have every right to participate in
the public debate, and they have every right to express views
that derive from religious belief. But when these views are
challenged, they do not have the right to accuse their opponents
of bias against religion.  Kennedy made it all sound a bit too easy in his famous
speech. There is private life and public life. There are
religious issues and secular issues, religious institutions and
secular institutions. “I am not the Catholic candidate for
president,” he said. “I am the  Democratic Party ’s candidate for
president, who happens also to be a Catholic.”  No one just “happens” to be a Catholic, or a Jew or a
Protestant or a Muslim or a nonbeliever -- at least, not a
devout one. It goes to the core of who you are. And “who you
are” is a legitimate question for voters when you’re running for
president.  The freedom of religion clause of the  First Amendment  is
famously double-edged. Government must walk a narrow path
between policies that “establish” religion and policies that
hinder its “free exercise.” The  Supreme Court  hasn’t always been
a model of clarity about where that path goes. But the notion
that religion has been driven out of public life is absurd. When
Santorum says, “I don’t believe in an America where the
separation of church and state is absolute,” it is a vision of
America that is very different from ours.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 