-- Wheat Planting in Kazakhstan Threatened as Dryness Persists
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-28T11:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/wheat-planting-in-kazakhstan-threatened-as-dry-weather-persists.html
Dry weather in Kazakhstan, the
second-largest wheat exporter in the former  Soviet Union , may
persist and threaten planting after a record  crop .  The country, estimated by the U.S. government to more than
double its harvest and raise shipments to an all-time high in
2011-2012, will continue to have dry weather with temperatures
warming to above normal in March through May, said Telvent DTN
Inc. in a Feb. 26 forecast. Most of the wheat is planted in the
spring, according to the  United Nations .  “Our lands are not irrigated, we are fully dependent on
our continental climate,” Almaz Zaripov, founder and director
of closely held exporter Kazakhstan Food Co., said in a Feb. 23
interview. “If there is a drought, the harvest will be small.”  Lower  supply  from  Kazakhstan  may curb a 20 percent slump in
futures in the past year. Prices plunged as global production
and inventories jumped to records and exports climbed to the
second-highest in at least five decades. The May-delivery
contract rose 0.7 percent to $6.57 a bushel on the Chicago Board
of Trade at 7:02 p.m. in  Singapore .  “There are many indirect signs that Kazakhstan will have a
problematic crop in the next season,” said Dmitry Rylko,
general director at the Moscow-based Institute of Agricultural
Market Studies, known as IKAR, which tracks grain output in the
former Soviet Union. Exports will “most likely” decline in the
next season, he said on Feb. 23.  Record Output  Production may surge to a  record  22.7 million metric tons
in the season ending June, from 9.64 million tons a year earlier
when drought hurt crops, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
Feb. 9. Exports may  jump  by more than half to an all-time high
of 8.5 million tons, it said.  “Considering that Kazakhstan is already down on soil
moisture, I think planting will quite likely be done with less
than desirable soil moisture,” said  Bryce Anderson , an
agricultural meteorologist, who tracks growing conditions using
satellite images from agencies including  NASA . The nation may
not get enough rain in the next couple of months to replenish
it, he said in a Feb. 26 interview.  Planting in 2012 is unlikely to increase because of
shortages of elevators, storage and transportation equipment,
the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  said Feb. 13.  While dry winters are not always followed by dry summers in
Kazakhstan, that pattern is “not unusual, interspersed with
thundery activity,” according to  Jim Dale , a senior risk
meteorologist at British Weather Services. Dale correctly
predicted in April that drier conditions in  China  would persist
through May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  