-- Winsway Seeks More Mines as It Concludes Grand Cache Purchase
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-28T08:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/winsway-seeks-more-mines-as-it-concludes-grand-cache-purchase.html
Winsway Coking Coal Holdings Ltd. (1733) ,
which processes and transports coal to  China  from Mongolia, is
seeking mines in Australia, Canada and Russia as it concludes
the purchase of Canadian miner  Grande Cache Coal Corp. (GCE)   “You should expect some additional activity as far as
acquisitions are concerned,” Executive Director Paul Struijk,
who oversees acquisitions, said today in an interview in Hong
Kong. He declined to provide details about potential targets.  Winsway, which is buying Calgary-based Grande Cache jointly
with Japanese trading house Marubeni Corp. for about C$1 billion
($1 billion), said today the majority of its shareholders voted
in favor of the deal in a meeting in Hong Kong, clearing the
last hurdle. Hong Kong-listed Winsway will have 60 percent of
the company, with Marubeni holding the remaining shares.  Future acquisitions will also be done with a partner,
Struijk said. Winsway will seek more opportunities with Marubeni
and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , which has a 5.1 percent stake in
Winsway, he said.  Winsway is aiming to expand annual production of clean coal
at Grande Cache to more than 3.5 million metric tons from 1.4
million tons last year, according to a statement today.  The shares gained 0.5 percent to HK$2.20 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock dropped 4 percent this year,
compared with a 17 percent gain in the key Hang Seng index.  Winsway fell 8.6 percent on Jan. 19, the day Jonestown
Research, a short seller, released a report through website
InvestDOOR saying the company overstated inventories and the
volume of Chinese imports. Winsway denied the allegations and
called the report “dead wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  