-- World’s Biggest Tea Auction Halted Over Kenya Tax Dispute
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2012-02-28T13:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/world-s-biggest-tea-auction-halted-over-kenya-tax-dispute-3-.html
The world’s biggest tea auction,
held weekly in  Kenya , will resume tomorrow after the government
held talks with the industry over a tax dispute that had halted
sales of the leaves for two days.  “The matter has not been resolved,” said Tom Muchura,
managing director of Africa Tea Brokers Ltd., which buys leaves
at the weekly sale in the port city of Mombasa, in an interview
today. The auctions will resume while talks continue after the
government agreed to levy a new tax on the so-called hammer
price, a lower price than the customs prices that it had planned
to use, he said.  Kenya’s Agriculture Ministry last month introduced the tax
on tea exports and imports equivalent to 1 percent of the
customs value, according to the  East African Tea Trade
Association . The duty may make Kenya’s tea less competitive, the
Mombasa-based industry body, known as the EATTA, said in an e-
mailed statement today. EATTA confirmed that auctions will take
place today and tomorrow.  While selling tea from Kenya, the world’s biggest exporter
of black tea, the auction also markets leaves from at least nine
other African countries including Rwanda and Madagascar.
 Unilever Plc (ULVR) ’s Lipton tea unit and James Finlay (Mombasa) Ltd.
are among the biggest buyers of tea at the sales. The leaves are
exported to nations including  Pakistan , the U.K., Russia and
 Egypt .  Foreign Currency  At this week’s auction 7.94 million kilograms (17.5 million
pounds) of tea were on offer, according to Tea Brokers East
Africa Ltd., another brokerage that purchases leaves at the
sales. Last week tea at the auction sold for an average of $2.66
a kilogram. An auction in Colombo, Sri Lanka is the closest
rival to Mombasa in terms of sales volumes with 6.87 million
kilograms sold on that auction on Feb. 23,. according to the  Sri
Lanka  Tea Board.  The auction was founded in 1956 in Nairobi, Kenya’s
capital, and moved to Mombasa in 1969, according to Africa Tea
Brokers. They usually take place every Monday and Tuesday.  Tea is the biggest source of foreign currency in Kenya,
East Africa’s largest economy. The country produced 377.9
million kilograms of the crop last year, earning 109 billion
shillings ($1.32 billion). Agriculture accounts for 21 percent
of Kenya’s total economic output.  ‘Higher Price’  The Kenyan shilling rose for the first day in three,
gaining 0.1 percent to 82.60 to the dollar as of 4:40 p.m. in
Nairobi. Shares of  Sasini Ltd. (STCL) ,a tea producer, fell on the
 Nairobi Stock Exchange  while those of Williamson Tea Ltd.,
 Limuru Tea Co. (LMTC)  and  Kapchorua Tea Co. (KPTC)  were unchanged.  “The new levy will make Kenya’s tea uncompetitive in the
global market since it will sell at a higher price,” according
to EATTA’s statement. “This is in sharp contrast to exporters
in producing countries like  India  who get cash incentives for
both bulk and packet-tea exports.”  The tax is also not applicable to tea sold on the Mombasa
auction from other countries and will therefore disadvantage
Kenyan farmers, EATTA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  