-- World Soybean Crop May Fall Most Ever on Dryness, Oil World Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-28T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/world-soybean-crop-may-fall-most-ever-on-dryness-oil-world-says.html
The world soybean harvest may fall
the most ever in the 2011-12 crop year as dry weather slashes
production in  South America  and the U.S., Oil World said.  Output may drop a record 19 million metric tons from the
prior period to 246.5 million tons, the Hamburg-based researcher
said in a report today. Output will tumble 13 million tons in
the Southern Hemisphere to a three-year low of 125 million tons
and slide 6.7 million tons to 121.4 million tons in the Northern
Hemisphere, according to Oil World.  “Soybean prospects deteriorated considerably in South
America,” Oil World said, forecasting a “staggering” decline
in the global harvest. “Considerable crop losses have already
occurred, partly exceeding 40 percent.”  The oilseed has gained 8.3 percent this year on the Chicago
Board of Trade, rebounding from a 14 percent retreat in 2011, as
a La Nina weather system cuts production in South America.
Global soybean stockpiles are poised to fall 18 percent to 62.6
million tons, the report showed.  Soybean production in  Brazil , expected by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to be the biggest exporter in the crop
year, may fall 9.1 percent to 68.5 million tons, Oil World said.
The harvest in the U.S., the second-biggest shipper, will fall
8.2 percent, according to the report.  Argentina, Paraguay  “In  Rio Grande  do Sul, soybean areas received only
scattered rainfall during Feb. 1 to Feb. 23, while temperatures
were above normal,” Oil World said, referring to the Brazilian
state. “While beneficial rains were received lately in many
parts of  Argentina , production prospects deteriorated
considerably in Brazil and  Paraguay .”  Output also is set to fall in  China , the biggest global
soybean importer and consumer, Oil World said. The country’s
crop will decline 8.7 percent to 13.6 million tons, according to
the report. Global processing of the oilseed will rise 2.1
percent to 226.2 million tons, the researcher said.  The production shortfall in South America will increase
dependence on U.S. inventories, according to the report. U.S.
shippers will export 10.6 million tons of soybeans from March
through August, up 18 percent from the prior year, Oil World
said.  “The crop failure in South America will raise the world
market’s dependence on U.S. supplies,” the researcher said.
“We already expect some shift to occur from now on, resulting
in a year-on-year increase of U.S. soybean exports. An even
larger shift to U.S. origin is likely to occur in September to
February, the first half of next season’s U.S. crop year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 