-- Xtreme Sales to Double for Third Year on Growing Battery Demand
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-02-28T20:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/xtreme-sales-to-double-for-third-year-on-growing-battery-demand.html
Xtreme Power Inc., a closely held
maker of power-storage systems, expects sales to double for a
third consecutive year on strong demand for batteries that can
retain electricity for the grid, its new chief executive officer
said.  Revenue for the Kyle, Texas-based company will exceed $60
million this year, up from about $30 million last year and $15
million in 2010, CEO Alan Gotcher said in an interview
yesterday.  The sales are driven by growing interest in systems that
can store electricity when it’s not needed and quickly deliver
it to the  power grid  when demand exceeds supply, said Gotcher,
who became CEO on Feb. 2 after serving as chief technology
officer since August. The technology also helps counter the
intermittency of renewable energy sources like wind and solar.  “Putting storage on the grid is a challenge,” said
Gotcher. Using batteries is a “paradigm shift.”  The company has contracts to develop six storage projects.
The largest is a  36-megawatt system  it’s building at a 153-
megawatt Texas wind farm owned by  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)   Xtreme has completed two systems for wind developer  First
Wind Holdings Inc. (WIND)  with a total of 16.5 megawatts of storage
capacity at wind farms in Hawaii and has a contract for a third,
a 10-megawatt project. “When you already have one system
running and then they order another, I think that’s a strong
statement,” Gotcher said.  Xtreme will have positive  cash flow  in 2013. Gotcher is
considering an initial public offering and would be receptive to
a takeover bid. Xtreme is “totally open” to finding a
strategic investor, he said.  The company was founded in 2004 and its backers include  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and the South Korean steelmaker  Posco. (005490)  It
makes its systems at plants in Texas and Oklahoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  