-- Yahoo Demands Facebook License Its Intellectual Property
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-28T22:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/yahoo-says-it-wants-facebook-to-agree-to-license-technologies.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  asked  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to
license technologies covered by its intellectual property and
threatened to take legal action if the companies don’t reach an
agreement.  “We must insist that Facebook either enter into a
licensing agreement or we will be compelled to move forward
unilaterally to protect our rights,” Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Internet portal, is looking for
ways to  revive growth  after losing ground to Facebook in the
display-advertising market and trailing Google Inc. in Web
searches. Yahoo said it has made “substantial” investments in
innovation and that other companies have already agreed to
license those technologies.  There are about 10 to 20 patents in question and they
include technologies related to advertising and messaging,
according to a person familiar with the situation, who asked not
to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
hasn’t yet been able to “fully evaluate” Yahoo’s claims, said
Larry Yu, a spokesman for the  Menlo Park , California-based
company.  ‘Difficult Position’  Patent portfolios are becoming more valuable as companies
seek to build up their intellectual property, according to Ron Laurie, managing director of  Palo Alto , California-based
Inflexion Point Strategy LLC, which counsels companies on patent
acquisitions. Facebook, which filed to go public earlier this
month, is an easy target for competitors, he said.  “It’s no secret that Yahoo is in a difficult position,”
Laurie said. “And when companies get in that position, they
often turn to their patents.”  Yahoo lost its No. 1 spot to Facebook last year in the U.S.
market for display advertising, which includes video and
graphically based marketing messages, according to EMarketer
Inc. Yahoo last month reported fourth-quarter revenue of $1.17
billion, excluding sales passed on to partner sites. That fell
short of  analysts’ estimates  of $1.19 billion.  Facebook, which has grappled with lawsuits over
intellectual property in the past, faces potential threats from
other large companies.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest e-
commerce company, owns certain social-networking patents that
predate Facebook by seven years, according to  M-Cam Inc. , a
patent advisory service.  “As we’ve seen over the past few years in the mobile
device field, patent assertion can ultimately lead to blocking
the sale of a product, or, at the very least, an innovation
tariff that drags down earnings,” according to a report by M-
Cam. “That’s only if Amazon wants to play hardball.”  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based Amazon,
declined to comment.  Yahoo’s move was previously reported by the New York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  