-- Dow Average Tops 13,000 on Confidence Data as Euro Rises Before ECB Loans
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-28T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/yen-gains-for-second-day-as-oil-copper-fall-on-europe-japan-stocks-drop.html
U.S. stocks climbed, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to its first close above 13,000 since
2008, as confidence jumped to a one-year high and oil retreated
for a second day. The euro gained before the  European Central
Bank  provides funds tomorrow to support banks.  The Dow added 23.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,005.12
and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  closed up 0.3 percent to
1,372.18 at 4 p.m. in New York. The euro strengthened 0.5
percent to $1.3471, near its highest level of the year. Ten-year
Treasury yields increased one basis point to 1.93 percent. Oil
sank 1.9 percent to $106.55 a barrel after yesterday halting a
seven-day gain, its longest since January 2010. Apple Inc.
rallied after U.S. exchanges closed, rising to a price that
would give it a $500 billion market value.  Equities reversed an early drop triggered by a bigger-than-
forecast decrease in durable goods orders. The Conference
Board’s consumer-confidence index increased more than forecast
to 70.8. European banks will probably tap the ECB for 470
billion euros ($632 billion) in three-year funds in its long-
term refinancing operation, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of analysts.  “The market climbs a wall of worry,” Richard Weeks, the
Vienna, Virginia-based managing director and partner at
HighTower’s VWG Wealth Management. His firm oversees more than
$20 billion. “I don’t have rose-colored glasses on, but I think
the path of least resistance is up. Short-term, all signs say
that risks have been reduced.”  Market Leaders  Technology and consumer-discretionary companies led gains
among seven of the 10  main industry groups  in the S&P 500 today,
rising at least 0.7 percent. Microsoft Corp.,  Intel Corp . and
Johnson & Johnson led gains in the Dow, rising more than 1
percent each. The 30-stock Dow had also climbed above 13,000
during three sessions in the past week, only to end the sessions
below the milestone.  Apple Inc. added 1.8 percent and its market capitalization
approached $500 billion as people familiar with the matter said
it will introduce a new iPad next month. Micron Technology Inc.
rose 3.7 percent after buying Intel Corp.’s stake in two wafer
factories as the companies expand their venture. Priceline.com
Inc. surged 7 percent to the highest since 1999 as profit beat
estimates.  U.S. stock-index futures erased gains before the open of
exchanges in  New York  after the durable goods report. Bookings
for goods meant to last at least three years slumped 4 percent,
according to data from the Commerce Department. Economists
projected a 1 percent decline, according to the median forecast.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities decreased 1.2 percent as
natural gas and gasoline retreated 2.7 percent, overshadowing a
4.1 percent rally in silver, zinc, corn, cotton and wheat.  ‘Decent Run’  Thirty-year Treasury bonds erased early gains, sending
yields up two basis points to 3.07 percent. Two-year yields were
little changed at 0.29 percent. Ten-year yields earlier slid as
low as 1.89 percent, the first dip below 1.9 percent since Feb.
7.  “We’ve had a decent run in Treasuries since last week, and
the market is taking its breath around 1.9 percent as it is an
important technical level that is hard to breach with no new
news, and risk markets performing the way they have,”  Anthony Cronin , a Treasury trader at Societe General in New York, one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve, said
in a telephone interview.  The Fed bought $4.95 billion in debt due from May 2020 to
February 2022 today as part of its plan to boost the economy.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is forecast to retain a cautious
outlook on the economy when he gives his semi-annual monetary
policy report to House lawmakers tomorrow and the following day
to senators.  Gross on Defense  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said
investors should embrace a defensive strategy because of the
limits of zero-bound  interest rates  and systemic debt risk in
global financial markets.  Gross told investors to emphasize income, de-emphasize
derivative structures that are fully valued and be willing to
accept returns lower than historical averages. The period of
muted growth in developed economies, high unemployment and
orderly deleveraging Pimco dubbed the “new normal” in the
aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis is morphing into a world
of credit and zero-bound interest-rate risk, Gross said last
month.  ‘Instant Replay’  “An instant replay of these past few decades would have
shown that accelerating asset prices weren’t due to any
particular wisdom on the part of academia or the investment
community but an offensively minded  Federal Reserve  and their
global counterparts who were printing money, lowering yields and
bringing forward a false sense of monetary wealth that was
dependent on perpetual motion,” Gross wrote in a commentary
posted on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website today.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  increased 0.2 percent as
commodity producers and technology companies led gains among 19
groups.  KBC Groep NV rallied 4.7 percent after Banco Santander SA
agreed to buy the Belgian lender’s Polish unit, Kredyt Bank SA.
National Bank of Greece SA dropped 6.7 percent as the shares of
lenders retreated.  TomTom NV (TOM2)  plummeted 15 percent after
forecasting lower revenue.  Economic confidence in the euro area improved more than
forecast in February, adding to signs the economy is stabilizing
after a fourth-quarter contraction. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area rose for a second
month, increasing to 94.4 from 93.4 in January, the European
Commission in Brussels said today. Economists had forecast a
gain to 94, the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 1.3 percent. The BSE
India Sensitive Index climbed 1.6 percent on lower oil.  South
Korea ’s Kospi rose 0.6 percent. Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the
world’s No. 2 maker of computer-memory chips, jumped 6.8 percent
to a nine-month high and Samsung Electronics Co. added 1.2
percent after their Japanese competitor Elpida Memory Inc. filed
for bankruptcy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  