-- Mylan to Pay $57 Million to Settle Drug Overpricing Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-28T22:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/mylan-to-pay-57-million-to-settle-drug-overpricing-claims-1-.html
Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the generic-drug
company, agreed to pay $57 million to settle claims it caused
the U.S. and  California  to overpay for drugs.  The settlement, filed yesterday in federal court in Boston,
came in cases filed by Ven-A-Care of the Florida Keys Inc., a
specialty pharmacy. California will get $26.3 million, the U.S.
will get $22.2 million, and Ven-A-Care and its attorneys will
get $8.5 million, court records show.  Ven-A-Care sued under the U.S. False Claims Act and a
similar statute in California, which lets whistle-blowers sue on
behalf of the government and share in any recovery. While the
California attorney general joined the lawsuit, the U.S.  Justice
Department  didn’t.  The U.S. will still share in the recovery in the lawsuit,
which is part of the so-called average wholesale price
litigation consolidated before U.S. District Judge Patti Saris
in  Boston . She must approve the settlement.  Michael Laffin, a spokesman for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-
based Mylan, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Ven-A-Care has settled more than two dozen lawsuits since
2000 that allowed state and federal governments to collect more
than about $3 billion. Ven-A-Care collected more than $400
million in whistle-blower fees during that period.  “This settlement would conclude Ven-A-Care’s cases in the
AWP multidistrict litigation in Boston,” said its attorney,
 James Breen .  Ven-A-Care claimed that Mylan defrauded the U.S. and
California by falsely reporting inflated prices of drugs. Mylan
knew that the governments would use those false reports to set
higher reimbursement rates for Medicaid, Ven-A-Care claimed.
Mylan denied wrongdoing in the litigation and the settlement.  The case is In re Pharmaceutical Average Wholesale Price
Litigation, MDL No. 1456, U.S. District Court, District of
 Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 