-- YPF Falls on Government Pressure: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-28T21:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ypf-falls-on-government-pressure-buenos-aires-mover-correct-.html
(Corrects YPF 12-month percentage decline in second
paragraph.)  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil
producer, fell to the lowest in more than 19 months after the
government stepped up pressure on the company to boost output.  YPF dropped 7.5 percent to 147 pesos at the close in Buenos
Aires, its lowest since June 2010. The stock plunged 24 percent
in the 12 months through the Feb. 24 close. Markets were shut
for a holiday in Argentina yesterday.  The local unit of  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , based in Buenos Aires, is
under mounting pressure from Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to boost production after she blamed  oil
companies  for the doubling of fuel imports in 2011. The company
on Feb. 23 barred three politicians from entering its board
meeting, while the country’s top oil-producing provinces a day
later demanded companies increase output by 15 percent in the
next two years or face losing their licenses.  “Relations are pretty tense,” Carlos Aszpis, an equity
strategist at Buenos Aires-based brokerage firm Schweber & Cia,
said in an interview today. “They’re going to have to invest
more and they won’t be allowed to pay as many dividends.”  The government’s representative on YPF’s board, Roberto Baratta, voted against two YPF dividends last year as Fernandez
sought to contain capital flight. Baratta on Feb. 23 tried to
enter the company’s board meeting with Deputy Energy Secretary
Daniel Cameron and two other officials, and walked out after
being told only he could attend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  