-- Lyxor Offers ETFs in Singapore; Delists in Hong Kong
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   G a r v e y
-- 2012-02-28T08:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/lyxor-offers-etfs-in-singapore-delists-in-hong-kong-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of  Hong Kong  in headline.)  Lyxor International Asset
Management, a unit of Paris-based Societe Generale SA, listed
two more synthetic exchange-traded funds in  Singapore , two
months after announcing it would delist such products in Hong
Kong following a tightening of regulation.  The funds, tied to Thai and Indonesian stock indexes and
cross-listed in  Europe , began trading on the Singapore
exchange last week, Herman Chen, Lyxor’s Hong Kong-based head
of ETF distribution in Asia, said by phone today.  Singapore may overtake Hong Kong as Asia’s hub for
synthetic exchange-traded funds because of regulatory change
in the Chinese special administrative region, Boston-based
financial research firm Celent said in a January report.
Singapore is the only Asian country where Lyxor plans to list
more ETFs this year, Chen said.  “In Hong Kong our top priority is to smoothly delist
everything,” Chen said.  In August, Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission
introduced  new requirements  for synthetic ETFs incorporated in
the city. The products must now be supported by collateral of
at least 100 percent of the value of funds, or 120 percent if
backed by equities.  Reduce Expenses  Chen denied Lyxor decided to delist its 12 Hong Kong
funds because of the new regulations. The decision was made to
reduce expenses, and the company decided to focus on
institutional, rather than individual, investors in  Asia , he
said.  “Keeping two platforms running at the same time is very
costly,” Chen said. “A lot of people think we were
responding to the SFC regulations, but we weren’t.”  Singapore has also made it harder for individuals to
invest in complex financial products like synthetic funds. The
island-state introduced a rule on Jan. 1 requiring investors
to pass a financial-knowledge test before they can buy ETFs or
other “specified investment products,” if they don’t possess
certain educational qualifications or have relevant work or
trading experience.  Lyxor, which manages $35.3 billion of index tracker and
exchange-traded funds, said the last trading day of its Hong
Kong-listed funds would be March 7.  It now has 28 synthetic ETFs listed in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Garvey in Hong Kong at 
 bgarvey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 