-- Dutch Cable Operator Ziggo Files for Initial Public Offering in Amsterdam
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-02-29T10:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/ziggo-owners-said-to-plan-filing-this-week-for-1-3-billion-ipo.html
Ziggo BV, the Dutch cable-television
company owned by Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., began an
initial public offering process today, seeking a listing on the
Amsterdam exchange.  The IPO will consist of a partial sale of the two buyout
firms’ stakes, Utrecht-based Ziggo said in a statement today,
without giving further details. The sale could raise more than 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion), people with knowledge of the
process have said.  “The company is fully prepared for a stand-alone future
with full access to both the debt and equity capital markets,”
Andrew Sukawaty, chairman of Ziggo said in the statement. “The
IPO has always been a strategic priority and will be an
important milestone for Ziggo.”  As part of the IPO, Ziggo plans to convert about 2.28
billion euros in shareholder loans into equity, the company
said. Ziggo’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization jumped 7.7 percent to 834.6 million euros last
year. Sales climbed 7.4 percent to 1.48 billion euros.  European cable companies are benefiting from increasing
appetite for high-definition content and broadband Internet.
Demand for such services is allowing the companies with fast
triple-play services -- television, Internet and phone -- to
boost growth and profit.  Ziggo, which competes with  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  in the Netherlands,
could not give any details about the timing of the listing,
spokesman Martijn Jonker said by phone.  European IPOs  If Ziggo succeeds in raising 1 billion euros or more, its
IPO will be the biggest in western  Europe  in at least seven
months. The Spanish lender Bankia SA raised $4.4 billion in an
IPO in July. Ziggo’s listing would also be the first in the
Netherlands in more than two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Buyout firms are reviving IPO plans following an equity
rally this year, after the European sovereign debt crisis forced
them to delay sales last year. Warburg and Cinven, both raising
new funds, are also seeking to return cash to investors.  JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are managing the IPO as global
coordinators, with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  acting as joint
bookrunners.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , ABN Amro
Group NV and Rabobank Group are joint lead managers and  Societe
Generale  is co-lead manager.  In the Netherlands, companies seeking to go public need
their prospectuses to be approved by the country’s financial
markets regulator, the AFM. Ziggo may list as early as March,
the people said.  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , which agreed to acquire
German cable operator Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH last year,
previously expressed interest in Ziggo.  “It’s one that you should expect us to look at if a
transaction like that were to become available,” Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said on Feb. 23 during a conference
call with investors. “But it’s my understanding that they are
moving very aggressively and rapidly towards a public market
listing.”  Liberty Global spokesman Bert Holtkamp declined to comment
on the plans Ziggo announced today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  