-- Zinc Deficit ‘Visible’ as Mines Set to Close, Teck Says
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-28T21:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-28/zinc-deficit-is-visible-as-mines-set-to-close-teck-ceo-says.html
Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the world’s
fourth-largest zinc miner, sees demand exceeding supply because
of mine closures and rising demand for the metal in China and
 India , Chief Executive Officer Don Lindsay said.  “We now think that the deficit is visible, that it’s
coming,” Lindsay said yesterday in an interview. “We see the
potential for the zinc market to look very exciting indeed.”  Teck, based in  Vancouver , derived 24 percent of its C$11.5
billion ($11.56 billion) of 2011 revenue from its zinc
operations, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Mines that
represent more than 1 million tons of combined annual zinc
production will be closed in the next four years, Lindsay said.  He declined to be more specific on when the deficit may
occur. There is “no question” that inventories of the metal
remain high and that the market is currently still in a supply
surplus, Lindsay said in an interview in Hollywood,  Florida ,
where he was attending BMO Capital Markets’ Global Metals &
Mining Conference.  Supply will outpace demand this year by 539,000 metric
tons, the most since 1993, according to Standard Bank Plc.
Stockpiles of the metal used in brass and steel will reach 2.2
million tons,  Barclays Capital  estimates. Zinc prices, which
fell in four of the past five years in  London , have gained 15
percent this year on signs economic growth is accelerating.  SilverBirch Purchase  Teck, Canada’s largest diversified miner, also produces
steelmaking coal and copper. The company agreed last month to
buy Calgary-based oil-sands explorer  SilverBirch Energy Corp. (SBE) 
for about C$435 million to acquire the part of the Frontier oil-
sands project that it didn’t own.  Teck has taken a long-term view on the price of oil,
Lindsay said.  “We can build quite a substantial business here,” he
said, referring to the company’s oil-sands assets. “This will
take 10 years plus, but once built will be worth more than all
of Teck is today.”  Lindsay said his company is “working cooperatively” with
 NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG) , which said this month it’s started a
process to sell a stake in the Galore Creek copper and gold
project in British Columbia. Teck and NovaGold each own 50
percent of the asset. Lindsay declined to comment on whether
Teck intends to exercise a right of first refusal on NovaGold’s
stake.  ‘Good Position’  “We’re in a good position, we can sit and see who shows
up,” Lindsay said. “If we like the partner we will say let’s
work together. If we don’t like the partner we could pre-empt or
we could just do nothing.”  Lindsay said an expansion at its Quebrada Blanca copper
mine and development of its Relincho copper project, both in
Chile, are “ahead in the queue” of priorities before Galore
Creek.  A production decision on Galore Creek is “some time
away,” Lindsay said.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  and Volcan Cia. Minera
SAA were the world’s largest zinc miners by 2010 production,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  