-- Labor’s Support Slips From 18-Month High in Australia Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-10-09T01:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/labor-s-support-slips-from-18-month-high-in-australia-poll-1-.html
Support for Australia’s governing
 Labor Party  fell from an 18-month high, as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  struggles to gain traction with voters before elections
due next year.  Labor’s primary vote dropped 3 percentage points to 33
percent, while  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition climbed
4 points to 45 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper today. Taking preference votes into
account, Labor trailed the coalition by 8 points after pulling
level in the previous survey.  Australia’s first female prime minister is battling to
maintain support more than two years after backtracking on a
pledge not to introduce a carbon tax. Abbott may be benefiting
from his bid to counter claims that he is prejudiced against
women, after his wife Margie last week began a media blitz
defending his credibility.  “Gillard’s recent surge may have been a dead-cat bounce
and the tactic to attack Abbott hasn’t worked,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “The only good news
for Labor is it still has a year to regain momentum before the
next election.”  Gillard’s lead over Abbott as preferred prime minister
shrank to 10 points from 14 points in the previous poll. The
telephone survey of 1,168 people, conducted Oct. 5-7, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Rhodes Scholar  Senior Labor lawmakers including Attorney-General  Nicola Roxon  and Health Minister Tanya Plibersek have claimed Abbott
has a problem dealing with powerful women. The Rhodes Scholar
and former amateur boxer last month denied allegations that he
physically intimidated a female political opponent during Sydney
University elections in 1977.  The latest analysis of  Newspoll surveys , published in The
Australian on Oct. 5, showed 29 percent of female voters are
satisfied with Abbott, compared with 34 percent of men.  “I won’t stand by and let others claim that the man I
love, and the father my children adore, has some agenda against
women,” Margie Abbott said in a News Ltd. interview published
Oct. 5.  Abbott last week declined to rule out appearing on the
radio show of Sydney-based Alan Jones, a critic of Gillard,
after the disc jockey claimed at a Liberal Party fundraiser that
the prime minister’s father, who passed away last month, had
“died of shame.”  ‘Negative Commentary’  “Being the first female prime minister also attracts some
commentary of the negative kind, and you know what I’m talking
about when I refer to that,” Gillard, 51, said in a speech in
Canberra today. “That negative commentary has never detracted
from the real delight of having the opportunity not only to
change perceptions, but to change the nation.”  After the closest election in seven decades, Gillard formed
a minority government in September 2010 with support from
independents and Greens Party lawmakers. She backtracked on a
promise not to tax  carbon emissions , implementing the levy on
July 1 along with new taxes on  iron ore  and coal mining profits.
Abbott, 54, has vowed to repeal the laws should he win power.  Parliament resumes in Canberra today, with the lower house
having three more sitting weeks this year before the two-month
summer break. Gillard and Treasurer  Wayne Swan  have promised to
bring the budget back to surplus before elections that must be
held by November 2013.  That task isn’t getting easier with concern mounting that
the nation’s mining boom may end prematurely as growth slows in
 China , Australia’s biggest trading partner, fueling a plunge in
commodity prices and lower government revenues.  Australia’s central bank resumed cutting its benchmark
 interest rate  last week to revive demand outside of the resource
boom that it said is likely to crest next year at a lower level
than previously expected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  