-- Abu Hamza Pleads Not Guilty to Aiding Bin Laden, Taliban
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-09T20:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/abu-hamza-pleads-not-guilty-to-aiding-bin-laden-taliban.html
Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Islamic
cleric accused of aiding Osama  bin Laden ’s al-Qaeda network,
pleaded not guilty to terrorism charges in a U.S. courtroom
after eight years of fighting extradition from the U.K.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in New York set an
Aug. 26, 2013, trial date for Abu Hamza, 54. He is charged in an
11-count indictment with supporting the Taliban with money and
troops and aiding in a 1998 kidnapping in  Yemen  that left four
hostages dead.  He and two al-Qaeda suspects facing charges stemming from
tied the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in  Africa  were
extradited on Oct. 6 to New York from the U.K. All three face
life in prison if convicted.  In a separate hearing earlier today, U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  set an Oct. 7, 2013, trial for Khalid al-Fawwaz,
50, a Saudi national, and Adel Abdel Bary, 52, of  Egypt . Both
men are charged with participating with bin Laden in a global
plot to kill U.S. nationals and attack American facilities.  Abu Hamza, who once preached at the Finsbury Park Mosque in
North  London , is also accused of attempting in 1999 to start a
terrorist training camp for al-Qaeda in Bly,  Oregon .  Prosecutors in  Manhattan  also charged him with providing
material support for violent jihad activities and training in
 Afghanistan .  Defense Lawyer  Forrest today appointed New York-based lawyer Jeremy
Schneider to represent Abu Hamza.  Before scheduling the trial for August, the judge proposed
earlier dates as early as next April.  “I’d like to get this thing tried as quickly as we can,”
she said. “I want to be sure this defendant will be able to get
to his next move, whatever that’s going to be,” she said later.  Schneider said he needs time to prepare and hasn’t received
the security clearance he needs to view some evidence.  The lawyer also said he has federal trials in January and
June that will last several weeks each. He said he may have to
travel to the U.K. and Oregon to prepare the case.  “The government has had years,” Schneider said. “He was
indicted in 2004. I think they know about the case. I was hoping
we could try this case in September. That would make the most
sense.”  He said prosecutors often say evidence in terrorism cases
will be turned to defense lawyers faster than they typically do.  “In our experience, it doesn’t happen as quickly and as
efficiently as they would like,” Schneider said. “An April
trial date will only give me a couple of weeks to prepare.”  Earlier Cases  Schneider’s experience includes defending Khalfan Khamis
Mohamed at the 2001 federal trial in  New York  of four al-Qaeda
associates charged in the bombings of U.S. embassies. He was
convicted and sentenced to life in prison. The attorney also
represented Nidal Ayyad, a New Jersey engineer convicted in the
1993 plot to bomb the World Trade Center in New York.  Assistant U.S. Attorney John Cronan, who is prosecuting the
case with Edward Kim, said the government will immediately give
the defense about 8,500 pages of documents. Prosecutors later
will provide more evidence including four hard drives and
24 CDs, he said.  Forrest told Schneider to speak to his client to determine
whether he would prefer an earlier trial.  The U.S. has sought to prosecute Abu Hamza, whom it calls
Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, since May 27, 2004, when he was arrested
in London at the request of federal prosecutors in New York.  Different Names  Abu Hamza, born in Egypt as Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, was
granted British citizenship in 1986. The U.S. says he has other
aliases including Abu Hamza and Abu Hamza al-Masri. He told the
judge that he prefers “Mustafa.”  He was convicted in the U.K. in 2006 of inciting followers
to murder Jews and other non-Muslims in sermons from 1997 to
2000. He was sentenced to seven years in prison.  Others who worshipped at the London mosque include Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker, who pleaded guilty to
being part of the Sept. 11, 2001, plot to fly planes into
buildings, and  Richard Reid , convicted of a foiled plot to
detonate a shoe bomb aboard a  passenger jet  in 2001.  Abu Hamza, blind in one eye and missing both of his hands,
made his second court appearance in the U.S. without use of a
prosthetic metal hook he uses.  Schneider said after the court appearance that his client
is given limited daytime access to the prosthetic by the  Federal
Bureau  of Prisons. Abu Hamza is being held at the Metropolitan
Correctional Center, the federal jail in lower Manhattan.  ‘A Gentleman’  “He is a gentleman,” Schneider said. “As you can
imagine, he’s not happy that he’s in a situation like this
without use of his prosthetics he needs. I assume BOP will do
whatever they can, to do what’s appropriate.”  At a hearing today for al-Fawwaz and Bary, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Sean Buckley told Kaplan the government will turn over
evidence to defense lawyers that includes 170,000 images and
transcripts of two trials of the five men prosecuted for the
1998 embassy bombings.  The men made their first appearance today before Kaplan in
New York. They pleaded not guilty Oct. 6 before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan.  The almost-simultaneous bombings of the U.S. embassies in
 Dar es Salaam , Tanzania and Nairobi,  Kenya  on Aug. 7, 1998,
killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens. More than 4,500
were injured.  Battling Extradition  Both were arrested in the U.K. and have fought extradition
to the U.S. for more than a dozen years. Al-Fawwaz was arrested
in September 1998 and Bary in July 1999, both in London.  “After years of protracted legal battles, the extradition
of these three alleged terrorists to the U.S. is a watershed
moment in our nation’s efforts to eradicate terrorism,” U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said Oct. 6.  Prosecutors allege that al-Fawwaz was bin Laden’s London-
based contact and helped establish a media office to publicize
the group. He obtained a satellite phone for bin Laden which he
and other al-Qaeda leadership used before the 1998 attacks,
according to the government.  Al-Fawwaz is charged with four conspiracies, including the
plot to kill U.S. nationals. All carry life prison terms.  The U.S. alleges that Bary obtained fake travel documents
for co-conspirators and headed the London cell of Egyptian
 Islamic Jihad , a group tied to bin Laden that provided
logistical assistance.  Bary’s Fingerprints  Authorities searched a London office Bary rented and found
his fingerprints on a statement faxed to news organizations
taking responsibility for the embassy attacks and for a
declaration of war issued by bin Laden in February 1998.  Bary is charged with 284 counts, including conspiracy to
kill U.S. citizens and the murders of the 224 people killed in
both bombings. The most serious charges of conspiracy and murder
carry life prison terms.  Five others have been convicted in federal court in New
York on charges tied to the 1998 embassy attacks. In 2010,
Kaplan presided over the trial of Ahmed Ghailani, convicted of
conspiracy. He is serving a life prison term.  Two other men, Babar Ahmad, 38, and Syed Ahsan, 33, who
were ordered extradited to the U.S. to face terrorism charges,
made initial court appearances on Oct. 6 in federal court in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut . They pleaded not guilty to conspiracy and
providing material support to terrorists.  The cases are U.S. v. Mustafa, 04-cr-00356, and U.S. v. al-
Fawwaz, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  