-- Abu Hamza Faces Arraignment on Charges on Bin Laden Help
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/abu-hamza-faces-arraignment-on-charges-on-bin-laden-help.html
Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Islamic
cleric accused of aiding Osama bin Laden’s al-Qaeda network,
faces arraignment today on terrorism charges in a U.S. courtroom
after eight years of fighting extradition from the U.K.  Abu Hamza, 54, who was born in  Egypt  and was granted
British citizenship in 1986, is charged in an 11-count
indictment filed by federal prosecutors in Manhattan. He is
accused of supporting the Taliban with money and troops and
aiding a 1998 kidnapping in Yemen that left four hostages dead.  He and two al-Qaeda suspects facing terrorism charges in a
separate case tied to the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in
 Africa  arrived in New York from the U.K. on Oct. 6 at about 2:45
a.m., prosecutors said. All three face life in prison if
convicted of the charges.  “After years of protracted legal battles, the extradition
of these three alleged terrorists to the U.S. is a watershed
moment in our nation’s efforts to eradicate terrorism,” U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan  said in an Oct. 6 statement.  The U.S. has sought to prosecute Abu Hamza, who it
identifies as Mustafa Kamel Mustafa, since May 27, 2004, when he
was arrested in London by the Metropolitan Police at the request
of federal prosecutors in New York.  The U.S. alleges that Abu Hamza also attempted in 1999 to
start a terrorist training camp for al-Qaeda, located in Bly,
 Oregon , and dispatched two other men to travel there from London
to assist.  Tanzania, Kenya  Khalid al-Fawwaz, 50, a Saudi national, and Adel Abdel
Bary, 52, of Egypt, are charged with participating with bin
Laden in a global plot to kill U.S. nationals. Bary is also
charged with murder and conspiracy to use weapons of mass
destruction tied to the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and Nairobi,  Kenya . They entered not
guilty pleas through their lawyers at their arraignment on Oct.
6 before U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in Manhattan. They are
scheduled to appear today before U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in the same court.  Abu Hamza once preached at the Finsbury Park Mosque in
North London that had been attended by Zacarias Moussaoui, 
the so-called 20th hijacker, who pleaded guilty to being part 
of the Sept. 11, 2001, plot to fly planes into New York's World 
Trade Center and the Pentagon. Richard Reid, who was convicted 
of a foiled plot to detonate a shoe bomb aboard a passenger jet 
in 2001, also worshipped at the mosque.  Abu Hamza was convicted in 2006 in the U.K. for inciting
followers to murder Jews and non-Muslims in sermons he gave from
1997 to 2000. He was sentenced in 2006 to seven years in prison.  Missing Hands  On Oct. 6, Maas ordered Abu Hamza held without bail after
Assistant U.S. Attorney John Cronan said the government would
seek his detention.  Abu Hamza is blind in one eye and missing both of his
hands. During the hearing, Sabrina Shroff, a federal defender
appointed to represent him for the day, asked that he receive
medical attention.  Shroff said her client’s two prosthetics had been removed
from him when he was taken into U.S. custody.  “To the extent that Mr. Mustafa does not receive his
prosthetics immediately, he will need someone to take care of
his daily needs, otherwise he will not be able to function in a
civilized manner,” Shroff said.  Shroff also asked that he receive some kind of recording
device because he is unable to write and special shoes with non-
skid soles to help him keep his balance.  Medical Attention  Maas directed that Abu Hamza receive medical attention and
said defense lawyers would have to raise the issues with U.S.
District Judge Katherine Forrest, who is presiding over his
case.  During the Oct. 6 proceeding, Andrew Patel, a lawyer for
Bary, and Jerrod Thompson-Hicks, a lawyer for al-Fawwaz, asked
Maas to direct that both men receive medical attention. Bary has
asthma while al-Fawwaz has high blood pressure and a stomach
issue, their lawyers said.  The Aug. 7, 1998, embassy bombings killed 224 people,
including 12 U.S. citizens, and injured more than 4,500.  Al-Fawwaz, who was arrested in September 1998 in  London ,
and Bary, who was arrested in July 1999 in London, have fought
extradition to the U.S. to face charges tied to the embassy
attacks, which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens,
and injured more than 4,500.  Bin Laden’s Phone  Federal prosecutors in New York allege that al-Fawwaz, who
was based in London, was bin Laden’s British contact and worked
with him to establish a media information office to publicize
the group. He obtained a satellite phone for bin Laden, which he
and other al-Qaeda leadership used before the 1998 attacks, U.S.
prosecutors have said.  He is charged with four separate conspiracies, including
the plot to kill U.S. nationals. All four charges carry life
prison terms.  The U.S. alleges that Bary obtained fake travel documents
for co-conspirators and headed the London cell of Egyptian
Islamic Jihad, a group that was tied to bin Laden and provided
logistical assistance to it. After a search, authorities found
Bary’s fingerprints on a statement faxed to news organizations
taking responsibility for the embassy attacks and for a
declaration of war issued by bin Laden in February 1998. The
papers were found during a police search in an office in London
that Bary rented, the U.S. has said.  Bary is charged with 284 counts, including conspiracy to
kill U.S. citizens and the murders of the 224 people killed in
both bombings. The most serious charges of conspiracy and murder
carry life prison terms.  Two other men, Babar Ahmad, 38, and Syed Ahsan, 33, who
were also denied their bids in the U.K. on Oct. 5 to block
extradition to the U.S., made initial court appearances in
federal court in New Haven,  Connecticut , on Oct. 6 and pleaded
not guilty to charges of conspiracy and providing material
support to terrorists.  The cases are U.S. v. Mustafa, 04-cr-00356, and U.S. v. al-
Fawwaz, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  