-- ACWA Power to Add Solar Assets in Bid to Triple Output Capacity
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i   a n d   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-10-09T10:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/acwa-power-to-add-solar-assets-in-bid-to-triple-output-capacity.html
ACWA Power International, a Saudi
energy developer, plans to add solar assets at home and
electricity plants abroad to triple production capacity.  ACWA is targeting 38,000 megawatts by 2017, equal to almost
half  Saudi Arabia ’s planned total capacity that year. The
Riyadh-based company, with current capacity of 13,000 megawatts,
is seeking to get 10 percent of its output from clean-energy
sources in the  Middle East  and  Africa , Chief Executive Officer
Paddy Padmanathan said in an interview.  “We will build capacity in all fuels, including renewable
power, in all our target markets,” the CEO said. ACWA is
focusing on countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council, as well
as Jordan, Egypt, Turkey and southern Africa, he said, adding
that its “significant” renewables market will be Saudi Arabia.  The kingdom is expanding efforts to diversify its sources
of energy as economic and population growth threaten to erode
its status as the world’s biggest oil exporter. By investing in
renewables, the country can cut domestic use of fossil fuels and
free up volumes for export. Jordan, to the north, lacks such oil
wealth and needs alternative options, while  Egypt  is grappling
with burgeoning power consumption as its population swells.  In the Saudi holy city of Mecca, ACWA is among 20 groups
bidding to build and operate plants that will produce 385
gigawatt-hours of power a year, including 100 megawatts of solar
capacity. The tender is one of several that have attracted the
company this year as it expands its  renewable-energy  ambitions.  Large Scale  “A target of 10 percent renewable indicates a requirement
for multiple large-scale projects,” said Phil Dominy, assistant
director of energy and environmental finance at Ernst & Young
LLP. “The scale of the challenge can be compared to the current
program by the South African government.”  South Africa  plans to add 3,725 megawatts in renewable-
energy capacity by the end of 2016 through a program of bidding
rounds, reducing its dependence on coal-fired power.  Saudi Arabia is seeking $109 billion of investment to build
a solar industry, which may produce a third of its power by
2032, compared with almost none now. About $136 billion was
invested worldwide in solar energy last year, according to
London-based researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  While the country’s target is “achievable” it’s a
“challenging” task, E&Y’s Dominy said by e-mail.  Solar Target  Saudi Arabia’s 3 megawatts of solar capacity put it behind
Egypt,  Morocco ,  Tunisia ,  Algeria  and the United Arab Emirates,
according to BNEF. The government is targeting 41,000 megawatts
of solar capacity within two decades, saving as much as 523,000
barrels of oil a day, according to  King Abdullah City for Atomic
and Renewable Energy , the agency developing the plans.  ACWA’s renewables strategy will “almost certainly” focus
on solar photovoltaics and concentrated solar  power plants ,
according to Dominy. PV panels convert sunlight into
electricity, and concentrated solar power uses mirrors to focus
the sun’s rays on a small area.  To reach its 38,000-megawatt target, Padmanathan said ACWA
is open to building plants as well as making acquisitions, with
its renewables expansion focusing mainly on new sites. The
company’s projects are funded by a mix of equity capital and
project-finance loans, with equity accounting for as much as 30
percent of the total, Padmanathan said.  ACWA already owns and operates a 60-megawatt PV plant in
 Bulgaria  and is developing two concentrated solar power plants
in Morocco and South Africa. The company has two 1.5-megawatt
wind farms in  Jordan , where it also operates a 1-megawatt
biomass plant.  Jordan plans to install 300 to 600 megawatts of solar
capacity and 1,000 megawatts of wind by 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net 
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  