-- Affirmative Action Is Over. Long Live Affirmative Action.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-09T22:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/affirmative-action-is-over-long-live-affirmative-action-.html
“The way to stop discrimination on
the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of
race,” wrote Chief Justice  John Roberts  in a 2007 U.S. Supreme
Court ruling on school desegregation.  It sounds simple enough. The only question is, when should
we stop discriminating? In kindergarten? When high school
seniors are applying to college? Later, when they are looking
for jobs?  Fisher v. University of Texas , the affirmative action case
now before the court, seems unlikely to resolve such questions.
The revolution in race relations of the late 20th century,
including race-based affirmative action, has eased into a less
fraught, but no less muddy, evolution. Americans have
conflicting impulses on justice and equality. Yet a new way
forward is taking shape, and the Texas case could expedite the
journey.  The case arose when a white woman, Abigail Fisher, sued the
university after having been denied acceptance, claiming that
less qualified minorities had won admission. Most racial
minorities are admitted to the school not under affirmative
action but as a consequence of the state’s top 10 percent rule,
which guarantees admission to public universities for high
school students who graduate in the top 10 percent of their
class. Because  Texas  schools, like those in most states, have a
high degree of racial segregation, the top 10 percent at many
schools inevitably consists largely of Hispanic or black
students.  Tweaked Formula  The formula has been tweaked so that the actual percentage
of graduates admitted is closer to 8 percent or 9 percent,
depending on the year. After those graduates are admitted, the
university fills additional slots using criteria including race,
a practice it justifies in order to create a diverse environment
-- not only across the campus but also in individual fields of
study and classrooms. This is the provision that prompted
Fisher’s suit.  It is also the remedy embraced by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in  Grutter v. Bollinger , the  Supreme Court ’s 2003
ruling that affirmed diversity as a valid goal in higher
education. O’Connor said she expected the need for diversity
programs to fade in a quarter-century or so. In agreeing to hear
Fisher’s case nine years later, the Roberts court appears eager
to speed up the timetable.  Diversity itself is on an accelerated track. Births to
racial and ethnic minorities now  outnumber births  to whites; the
nation’s transition to a future in which no single race
constitutes a majority is almost complete. In a multicultural,
multiracial society, institutions such as universities must be
largely representative of the citizenship. As an  amicus brief 
filed with the court by Fortune 100 companies says, racial and
ethnic diversity in higher education is also in the interest of
American businesses seeking to employ a diverse workforce.  The question is how to achieve such goals. More than one-
quarter of the nation’s high school students live in seven
states that have already banned race-based affirmative action.
Voters in  California , the largest and most diverse state,
elected to end racial preferences in admissions to its public
universities in 1996. The percentage of Hispanics and blacks in
these schools initially declined, but it has since climbed to
about 24 percent, slightly more than half their proportion of
the state’s population.  At the state’s most elite schools, the demographics are
more skewed. The proportion of Asian students enrolled at the
 University of California  at Berkeley is more than three times
higher than their share of state population (and about nine
times their share of  U.S. population ). Meanwhile, the
university’s black enrollment is 3 percent, only half that of
California’s black population.  Social Mobility  With blacks and Hispanics underrepresented in higher
education and with race-based policies on the way out, we need
new approaches. A report from the Century Foundation suggests
that shifting from race-based affirmative action to class-based
affirmative action might be a crucial part of the answer,
proving roughly as effective in promoting college racial
diversity while doing even more to encourage social mobility.  According to a  study  by  Stanford University ’s Sean Reardon,
class is a larger obstacle to educational achievement than race.
Students from educated, affluent families are seven times more
likely to receive a bachelor’s degree than those from low-income
families. The racial gap isn’t nearly as large. Similarly, a
 study  by scholars Derek Bok and William Bowen found that the
vast majority of black students at selective colleges are either
middle- or upper-class.  Affirmative action policies based on economic
considerations have the potential to focus society’s efforts on
the truly disadvantaged. This path won’t be easy, especially
given rising inequality and declining social mobility. And it
may take new levels of community engagement, such as a Rutgers
University program that works with nearby middle schools and
high schools. But by employing affirmative action that takes
into account parental income and education levels, family wealth
and even single-parent status, universities can potentially
achieve greater diversity -- of race and class -- than purely
race-based models. One additional benefit might be a boost to
poor whites, who find few champions among elite institutions.
And by using economic rather than racial preferences, schools
will be able to stay on the right side of a Supreme Court that
appears determined, sooner than later, to end affirmative action
as we know it.  That isn’t a bad thing -- so long as the ideal of
colorblindness doesn’t obscure the disadvantages of poverty. In
Regents of the  University of California v. Bakke , the 1978 case
that is a distant antecedent of the Fisher complaint, Justice
Harry Blackmun wrote: “In order to get beyond racism, we must
first take account of race. There is no other way.”  The road from Blackmun’s view to Justice Roberts’s has been
pitted with conflict and compromise. Americans have already
traveled a fair part of it together. If the Supreme Court sweeps
away race-based affirmative action in higher education, it won’t
spell the doom of diversity. American institutions are committed
to that end. Economic affirmative action will supply new means
to achieve it.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  combating North African
extremism ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Maine’s crazy Senate race ; Clive
Crook on  Hugo Chavez’s uncomfortable victory in Venezuela ;
Jonathan Orszag and  Peter Orszag  on  how Jack Welch could help
improve jobs data ; Camille Paglia on  Picasso’s pre-cubist
brothel painting .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 