-- Agrium Says Investors ‘Strongly Support’ Existing Structure
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-09T20:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/agrium-says-investors-strongly-support-its-existing-structure.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the agricultural
retailer and fertilizer producer, said some of its largest
shareholders are in favor of retaining the company’s existing
corporate structure.  Agrium, based in Calgary, began talking in May with
activist shareholder  Jana Partners LLC  about spinning off its
network of farming supply stores and to make other changes that
may add $50 of value a share.  “Agrium has recently met with approximately 80 percent of
its top 50 active shareholders,” Richard Downey, a spokesman
for Agrium, said today in an e-mail. “Over 90 percent have
indicated strong support for Agrium’s integrated strategy, with
virtually no support for the proposed spin out of retail.”  Jana, Agrium’s largest shareholder, is proposing a tax-free
separation of retail operations from its wholesale fertilizer
arm. It’s also asking the Canadian company’s management to boost
capital returns, improve disclosure and reduce costs and working
capital, Jana co-founder  Barry Rosenstein  said Oct. 1 in an
investor  presentation .  Downey’s comments may suggest New York-based Jana doesn’t
have sufficient support from Agrium’s institutional shareholders
for a spinoff, John Hughes, a Toronto-based analyst at
Desjardins Securities Inc., said today by telephone.  “If the institutional asset base is in favor of keeping
Agrium’s existing structure, it is much less likely that Jana
can round up enough retail investors to get the spinoff done,”
Hughes said.  Jana questioned Downey’s figures. “Rather than putting out
puffed up, unverifiable claims about shareholder support, Agrium
should be making a case on the merits and explain why it
consistently underperformed its peer-weighted average until we
began publicly engaging with them and what it intends to do
about it,” Rosenstein said in an e-mailed statement today.  Agrium rose 1.1 percent to C$103.33 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have gained 51 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  