-- Ahmadinejad Critics Let Fly as Iran Seeks Scapegoat for Economy
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-10-09T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ahmadinejad-critics-let-fly-as-iran-seeks-scapegoat-for-economy.html
Iran ’s currency crisis has
emboldened critics of  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  who are lining up to
pillory the president and lay down markers for next year when
his successor will be elected.  The rial has slumped as much as 40 percent against the
dollar since August, leading to spiraling inflation, as U.S. and
European sanctions curb Iran’s  oil output  and cut off the flow
of hard currency. Protests against the rising cost of living
broke out in Tehran’s markets last week and police used tear gas
to disperse them.  The prospect of wider unrest adds to the pressure on Iran’s
clerical rulers, who used force to suppress protests after
Ahmadinejad was re-elected in 2009. The president has been under
fire in the past for rhetoric that stoked tensions with the
West. Now he’s being scapegoated for his management of the
economy.  There “would be a long queue for the opportunity to push
Ahmadinejad under the bus,” said Anoush Ehteshami, professor of
international relations at Durham University in the U.K. “Iran
is now facing its greatest crisis in two generations, and in
those situations incompetence cannot hide under a rock.”  Israel has threatened military attacks on Iran to prevent
it gaining atomic weapons. The U.S. also hasn’t ruled out using
force to that end, raising concern that a conflict in the
 Persian Gulf , home of the world’s biggest oil reserves, could
disrupt supplies. Iran says its nuclear program is peaceful and
its economy is being unfairly targeted.  Robin Hood  Potential candidates in next June’s vote such as Parliament
Speaker  Ali Larijani  are piling blame for the economic collapse
on Ahmadinejad.  Larijani, a former nuclear negotiator who quit after a
dispute with the president,  said  that bad management is
responsible for 80 percent of Iran’s economic problems, and
“Robin Hood methods” haven’t helped the country.  He was referring to efforts under Ahmadinejad, who pledged
to spread oil wealth more equally, to shift universal food and
energy subsidies toward cash handouts for poorer Iranians. While
the program was  praised  by the  International Monetary Fund ,
critics say it stoked inflation, which Larijani says was higher
than the official rate of 23.5 percent in August.  Lawmaker Elias Naderan slammed Ahmadinejad for inaction in
the face of the currency’s slide. “I really don’t know what Mr.
Ahmadinejad is thinking,” Naderan  said . “What plan does he
have?” Mousa Reza Servati, the head of Parliament’s budget
committee, accused Ahmadinejad of not admitting to a single
mistake during his seven-year presidency.  ‘Without Accountability’  Lawmakers are calling for Ahmadinejad to be summoned to
answer questions about the currency turmoil. In March he became
the first president in the Islamic republic’s history to be
hauled before the assembly and forced to defend his record. His
allies lost ground in parliamentary elections.  Ahmadinejad’s role in drawing all the criticism may be
convenient for Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and the
clerics, said analysts including Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran
expert at the Washington-based Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.  Khamenei is the ultimate decision-maker on nuclear and
foreign policy. The president’s sway in those areas is limited,
meaning Ahmadinejad’s departure won’t necessarily lead to policy
changes.  “Khamenei’s modus operandi is to wield power without
accountability,” Sadjadpour said. “To do that, he needs a
president who has accountability without power.”  Potential Successors  A former Khamenei protege, Ahmadinejad has clashed with the
supreme leader during his second term, and there are signs he is
out of favor. On the day Ahmadinejad addressed the  United
Nations General Assembly  last month, his press adviser was
arrested back home.  Khamenei’s foreign policy adviser Ali Akbar Velayati is
seen as a possible candidate to succeed Ahmadinejad. So is
Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, the mayor of Tehran. Predicting who will
get the job is difficult, as candidates must be approved by the
Guardian Council -- a group of clerics and jurists -- based on
criteria including their Islamic faith and adherence to the
theocracy’s principles. The final list of approved candidates
usually isn’t released until a few weeks before the election.  At a Tehran press conference on Oct. 2, Ahmadinejad
signaled he won’t bow out quietly.  “Doesn’t anyone else in this country have shortcomings,
only the government?” he asked his critics, blaming the
economy’s difficulties on a “psychological war” carried out by
Iran’s enemies.  ‘Living Hell’  The president’s ability to influence policy between now and
the elections, groom an ally for the race or maintain a power
base of his own are being undercut by the flood of criticism,
said Gala Riani, head analyst for the  Middle East  at London-
based Control Risks.  Ahmadinejad’s life may turn into “a living hell between
now and the elections,” though it’s unlikely his term will be
curtailed by impeachment, Riani said.  Nor is it likely that a change of president will bring the
improvements that Ahmadinejad’s critics are calling for, said
Ali Ansari, director of the Institute of Iranian Studies at St.
Andrew’s University in  Scotland .  “I don’t think anyone believes that Ahmadinejad on his own
is to blame, or that a change of president will make much
difference,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  