-- Alcoa Agrees to Settle Aluminium Bahrain Racketeering Suit
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-10-09T17:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/alcoa-agrees-to-settle-aluminium-bahrain-racketeering-suit-2-.html
Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, agreed to settle a racketeering lawsuit brought by
 Aluminium Bahrain BSC (ALBH) , which claimed it overcharged for
materials after bribing senior company officials and the
government in Bahrain.  The settlement has a total value to Aluminium Bahrain, also
known as Alba, of $447 million and will consist of cash and a
long-term alumina sales agreement, the company said in a
statement today. The settlement, which included no admission of
liability, resulted in the release of all claims against Alcoa
and related defendants, Alba said. Alcoa said in a separate
statement that it agreed to pay Alba $85 million in cash in two
installments.  “The new leadership of Alcoa is to be commended for this
fair and transparent settlement, which marks a turning point for
Alba in its legal efforts to recover losses suffered over a long
period of time,” Mahmood al-Kooheji, Alba’s chairman, said in
the statement.  Alba filed a civil suit in February 2008 against  New York- 
based Alcoa over claims that Bahrain’s state-owned aluminum
producer paid almost $500 million more than it should have for
alumina following the alleged bribes. Alcoa had asked a judge to
dismiss the case, filed in Pittsburgh, arguing that the alleged
conduct took place outside the U.S. Alumina is the principal
material in aluminum.  Dahdaleh Charges  Canadian businessman Victor Dahdaleh didn’t participate in
today’s settlement and remains a defendant, according to the
Alba statement. He faces criminal bribery charges in the U.K.
and his trial is scheduled to begin in  London  in April, the
statement shows. Alba’s civil case against Dahdaleh in the U.S.
is also being litigated in Pittsburgh, the statement shows.  Alcoa said in its statement the settlement with Alba
represents the best possible outcome and avoids the time and
expense of complex litigation.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and Securities and Exchange
Commission have been investigating the allegations since 2008 to
determine whether Alcoa or anyone else violated the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Bahrain Mumtalakat Holding Co. BSC, the investment arm of
Bahrain’s government, owns 69.4 percent of Alba, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  