-- Half of Wall Street Employees Expect Bigger Bonuses
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/half-of-wall-street-employees-expect-bigger-bonuses.html
Almost half of Wall Street employees
expect their year-end bonuses to be higher this year than they
were a year ago, according to an  eFinancialCareers.com  survey.  Of the 911 U.S. financial professionals who responded to
the e-mailed survey, 48 percent anticipate a higher payout, up
from 41 percent in a similar survey last year, the job-search
website said today in a statement. Employees of hedge funds and
other asset managers were more optimistic than those at banks
and broker-dealers, according the statement. Of the respondents,
82 percent work for U.S.-based companies.  “The mood is better, some people will be happier, but we
still have another quarter to go,” Constance Melrose,
eFinancialCareers.com’s managing director in the Americas, said
in a telephone interview. “People are less pessimistic than
they were a year ago.”  Wall Street’s five biggest banks, which set aside money
throughout the year to pay annual bonuses, reported their worst
first-half revenue since 2008. That’s reduced the estimate for
bonuses from earlier in the year, compensation consultant
Johnson Associates Inc. said in August.  Just 27 percent of the people surveyed said they expect
bonuses across the industry to rise in the next three years,
while 31 percent see no change and 42 percent anticipate
declines, according to the statement.  “It is possible for individuals to say, ‘I think I’m going
to do well this year, but overall I think in general the
industry is not going to experience the same lift over time,’”
Melrose said.  2011 Bonuses  Wall Street employees took home an average cash bonus of
$121,150 in 2011, according to calculations released earlier
this year by New York state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli. The
financial industry lost 4,300 jobs between April and December
2011, the report showed.  Of those who expect a bonus increase this year, 41 percent
said the primary reason was their personal achievements, 12
percent attributed it to their department’s performance and 26
percent to their firm’s success, the survey found. The rest said
they had a different job, their pay structure had changed or
market conditions were better.  The survey found that, of those who expect pay increases
for the industry over the next three years, 53 percent
anticipate a return to bonus levels set in 2006 and 2007, record
years for Wall Street.  The central worry for Wall Street workers is the U.S.
economy, with 59 percent saying that it has the biggest
potential negative influence on financial-services compensation,
according to the survey. Ten percent said  Europe ’s debt crisis
is the biggest concern and 12 percent chose the Dodd-Frank Act
that revamped financial regulation, according to the survey.  Important Reasons  Compensation was the most important reason to work in
financial services for 44 percent of the people surveyed, up
from 39 percent last year, according to the statement. Fifty-
four percent said it was “important, but not the most important
reason,” down from 59 percent, and 2 percent said it wasn’t
important, the same as last year, the survey found.  The survey of employed financial professionals registered
on eFinancialCareers.com took place between Sept. 25 and Oct. 3.
EFinancialCareers.com is a division of New York-based  Dice
Holdings Inc. (DHX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 