-- American Eagle CEO Sees Spinoff After AMR Bankruptcy Completed
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-09T19:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/american-eagle-ceo-sees-spinoff-after-amr-bankruptcy-completed.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  may revive plans to spin
off its American Eagle regional airline after emerging from
bankruptcy, according to the unit’s chief executive officer.  “That would certainly be my hope and my anticipation,”
American Eagle CEO Dan Garton said today in a telephone
interview. “When we again evaluate this, I believe we’ll again
determine that it’s the right thing to do.”  AMR shelved its effort to separate Eagle after filing for
 bankruptcy protection  in November. No decision on the carrier’s
future will be made until after the conclusion of Chapter 11
proceedings involving Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR, Garton said.  Eagle’s fate hinges on how AMR’s American Airlines exits
bankruptcy. While American CEO  Tom Horton  seeks to ensure that
the third-largest U.S. carrier stays independent, Tempe,
Arizona-based  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has been positioning itself
for a takeover.  Garton declined to comment on US Airways, citing a
nondisclosure agreement signed as part of American’s accord with
creditors to review merger options as part of its strategy for
leaving court protection.  The regional unit supplies most of American’s passenger
feed to hub airports from smaller cities. Spinning off Eagle
would allow American to try to find cheaper options for those
flights while allowing the commuter airline to grow through
agreements to fly under contract for other carriers.  Labor Agreements  Eagle pilots voted yesterday to approve a new labor
contract, according to their union. Flight attendants and
baggage handlers have also accepted new contracts, and a
tentative agreement with mechanics was reached on Oct. 4.  The new labor accords will give Eagle a cost structure that
is competitive with other regional airlines, Garton said. The
 bankruptcy court  will hold a hearing on Oct. 23 on a motion
filed by AMR to abrogate any contracts that haven’t been
renegotiated.  “We have tentative agreements that now have to be put out
for a vote and we are hopeful the members will vote to approve
those,” Garton said. “We owe it to everyone in the company
that if we can’t come to an agreement consensually, we have to
plow on” with the request to void existing contracts, he said.  AMR ended a review of Eagle’s future in 2008 by deciding to
keep the regional carrier. In July 2011, AMR’s board decided
after more than a year of study to separate the unit.  Eagle flies a mix of regional jets from  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and
 Embraer SA (ERJ) , along with turboprops from ATR, the joint venture
between  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD) , according to American’s website. The carrier had 262
planes in operation as of June 30, an AMR filing shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  