-- Amis’s Lottery Lout Gets Rich, Woos Underwear Model
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/amis-s-lottery-lout-gets-rich-woos-underwear-model.html
In the latest darkly comic novel by
Martin Amis, career criminal Lionel Asbo wins a fortune in the
lottery.  As he acquires the wardrobe, mansion and girlfriend -- a
poetry-writing underwear model -- befitting his new station, the
lottery lout’s exploits make him a tabloid favorite.  Amis followed his famous father, Kingsley, into the family
business -- “Lionel Asbo: State of  England ” is his 13th novel,
and he’s also published six collections of non-fiction and the
memoir “Experience.”  Last year, he moved to Cobble Hill,  Brooklyn .  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: When Lionel Asbo wins the lottery you say he
gains a future -- is that what money gives you?  Amis: When Lionel gets all his money, he feels anchored to
the world in a way he never has. Before, he felt like a leaf in
the wind.  Lundborg: He buys a mansion to move from “the floating
world to the heavy.” Is this characteristic of the nouveau
riche in general?  Amis: I once said to my father, “Are we nouveau riche?”
and he said, “Well, very new, and not at all riche.”  Lundborg: Does having a famous dad who’s actually laboring
in your own profession ultimately help or hurt?  Amis: Ultimately, it’s hard to say. It helped at first,
just talking about career and that sort of thing.  But what seems to have happened in England is that for
years I felt I had overstayed my welcome. It’s as if your
father’s identity bleeds into yours -- we’re like one person
who’s been around for nearly a century.  Brooklyn, USA  Lundborg: So, a new start in Brooklyn?  Amis: Not really. Too late for that. My wife’s a  New Yorker 
and she’s got a lot of family here. I lived here as a child for
a year when my father was at Princeton.  Lundborg: How did he like it?  Amis: He loved it! As he said to Philip Larkin, “I’ve
never done so much drinking or screwing in all my life.”  Princeton  was very different then from what it is now -- it
was very louche. I remember the parties at our house. We used to
be waiters for $3 each. The hedonism was something!  1963  Lundborg: As Philip Larkin pointed out “Sexual intercourse
began/ In nineteen sixty-three.”  Amis: I’d say sexual intercourse began in 1966 -- it was
just right for me.  My father’s “Lucky Jim” is an incredibly funny novel but
it’s full of rage as well. When I was teaching the book I
realized he’s furious because everyone’s a virgin in that novel
except the married people and Bertrand who’s a scoundrel.  The second stanza of Larkin’s poem speaks of what went
before -- “a wrangle for the ring,/ A shame that started at
sixteen/ And spread to everything.”  Lundborg: You display great affection for Lionel -- what do
you love about him?  Amis: In fiction, I love that sort of transgressive nature
and no shame, no self-consciousness about any of that. I love
the way he talks; I love the way he thinks.  Lundborg: As a criminal, why did he pretend to be stupid?  Amis: Lionel calls it the moron theory: people are more
frightened of you if they think you’re stupid.  Lundborg: What are the best targets now for satire?  Amis: I still don’t know what satire means; I don’t think
anyone does. Once defined as militant irony, it has the idea
that you produce it to bring about change.  Irony Button  Lundborg: To ridicule something that needs to be deflated?  Amis: Irony does that. I like to think that some writers
have the irony button on 1 and mine is more like 9.  Lundborg: It also gives the reader pleasure by taking
something absurd down a peg or two.  Amis: That’s the only kind of change you’re ever going to
effect -- change within the reader and not a mass change. I’m in
the education business, too, and I write because I’m trying to
enrich the lives of my readers, the imaginative life, the
perceptual life.  Lundborg: In your next book, you’re revisiting the
Holocaust. What draws you to the subject?  Amis: You don’t know why you do these things -- the novel
came to me.  Holocaust Novel  I respect people who say you shouldn’t write fiction about
this but I don’t agree with them.  So I’m going to use all the
tools I have as a novelist to say what I feel about this and I
will not deny myself bitter mockery of the hateful stupidity of
the whole Nazi idea.  Lundborg: In one his novels, Sebald asks simply, “How
could they do it?”  Amis: That’s an unanswered question and when people asked
him, “Do you understand that level of racial hatred?” Primo
Levi said, “It’s your duty not to understand it.”  To understand something is to assimilate it, to comprehend
it within you and he says you shouldn’t; it’s your sacred duty
not to understand.  Lundborg: You also wrote about Stalin’s horrors. Are
communism and fascism on the same scale?  Amis: No. Nazism is by itself. When you read about Stalin,
even the worst things, you don’t scratch yourself as if you’re
infested with insects.  But when you read about the Holocaust, you feel
contaminated by it.  Lundborg: At one point, Lionel’s nephew Des feels equal
parts panic and rapture, which you say is “a perfectly logical
response to being alive.”  Is that how you feel?  Amis: Yes. I think a very important part of being a writer
is you take nothing for granted in the deepest sense -- it’s
close to madness really; everything strikes you as being sort of
shocking.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and Richard
Vines on  dining .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 