-- Arcapita Wins More Time From Judge to Control Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-09T21:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/arcapita-wins-more-time-from-judge-to-control-bankruptcy.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, an Islamic-
compliant fund manager, can extend control of its bankruptcy, a
judge said, overruling objections from lenders.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane approved the extension
today in  Manhattan . The company has until Dec. 14 to file a plan
and until Feb. 12 to win creditors’ support.  A group of lenders owning $1.1 billion of Arcapita’s
unsecured debt had objected to the extension in court papers,
saying the company already has a plan that may lead to sales of
investments with a liquidation value of $1.4 billion. Creditors
had also objected, saying Arcapita is “languishing” in
bankruptcy. They agreed not to oppose the request under a
settlement.  The Manama, Bahrain-based company has a “toggle” plan
under which it will either reorganize or “conduct an orderly
monetization” of assets, depending on whether Arcapita raises
more money by the time it seeks to confirm a plan in 2013, the
lenders said in court papers.  Valuation reports by  KPMG  indicate that assets under
management have a liquidation value of $1.4 billion, the lenders
said. Arcapita investments include Irish power utility Viridian
Group Ltd. and U.S.-based Falcon Gas Storage Co.  ‘Orderly Wind-Down’  A committee of unsecured creditors said it wouldn’t oppose
the extension of control as part of a settlement that requires
Arcapita to have at least $250 million in new equity commitments
by Nov. 1. If it doesn’t, the company must begin negotiating
with creditors on a plan “contemplating an orderly wind-down,”
the committee said.  “Our efforts with respect to new money continue,”  Michael
Rosenthal , a lawyer for Arcapita, told Lane in court today.  Arcapita separately adjourned its request to borrow
$150 million from Silver Point Finance LLC and pay related fees
and expenses.  “I have some grave concerns about what the estate is
really getting,” Lane said. The language of the contract might
allow Silver Point to back out of the agreement, he said.  Arcapita filed for Chapter 11 protection March 19 listing
assets of $3.06 billion and liabilities of $2.55 billion.
Arcapita Investment Holdings Ltd., already in U.S. bankruptcy,
also has filed for bankruptcy in the  Cayman Islands .  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  