-- Asia Banks and Developers Market Dollar Notes as Spreads Tighten
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-10-09T05:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/asia-banks-and-developers-market-dollar-notes-as-spreads-tighten.html
Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) ,  United
Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and  Syndicate Bank (SNDB)  are marketing benchmark
dollar-denominated bonds as yield premiums in Asia tumble to a
16-month low. Debt risk in the region was little changed.  Sunac, a real-estate developer part-owned by Bain Capital
LLC, is offering five-year notes at a yield of about 12.75
percent, people familiar with the matter said, the second
speculative-grade sale in as many days. UOB is marketing Lower
Tier 2 securities at a spread of about 245 basis points, and
Syndicate Bank a 5 1/2-year note at a premium of about 380 basis
points, separate people said today.  Spreads on Asian dollar debt narrowed to 271 basis points,
or 2.71 percentage point, more than Treasuries yesterday, the
least since May 2011, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show. Yield
premiums have tightened 8 basis points since Sept. 28 after the
U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank  last month
decided to buy securities and support the economy, triggering a
surge in issuance. The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its
global growth forecasts today.  “Asia ex-Japan credit has a large pipeline on the back of
the Fed and ECB largesse despite the IMF downgrades,” said Owen
Gallimore, the head of Asia credit strategy at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “Fund inflows and the
relatively light year-to-date issuance in high-yield means there
is demand for primary paper.”  Debt Purchases  The Fed said it would buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a
month to help reduce unemployment and lower costs for homeowners
while the ECB unveiled a bond-purchase program to support
indebted nations. Dollar issuance in Asia surged to a record
$16.8 billion in September.  The IMF lowered its forecasts for the world economy to 3.3
percent this year, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession,
and warned of even slower expansion unless officials in the U.S.
and Europe address threats to their economies.  Credit-default swap indexes in the region excluding Japan
were little changed. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan held at 129.5 as of
8:36 a.m. in  Hong Kong , and the Markit iTraxx Australia index
was at 154 basis points as of 11:36 a.m. in Sydney, according to
prices from Credit Agricole SA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose 1.5 to 224 as of 9.32
a.m. in Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  High-Yield Bonds  Borrowers are returning to the debt capital markets after
public holidays yesterday in the U.S. and Japan, two of the
world’s three biggest economies, and in China last week.  China South City Holdings Ltd. (1668) , rated B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, started marketing high-yield notes yesterday,
ending a two-week lull in issuance of junk debt, which is rated
Ba1 or lower by Moody’s or BB+ or lower by  Standard & Poor’s .  Department store operator  Lifestyle International Holdings
Ltd. (1212)  is also offering $300 million of 10-year securities,
another person said today, asking not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set.  PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara, Indonesia’s state-owned
electric utility, and hotel operator  Regal Hotels International
Holdings Ltd. (78)  are both considering bond sales after investor
meetings, according to other people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  