-- AT&T, IBM Share Network to Lure More Customers to Cloud
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-10-09T21:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/at-t-shares-network-with-ibm-to-lure-more-customers-to-the-cloud.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  are combining their resources in a joint offering
to seek a bigger slice of the $14 billion market for cloud
services.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer services provider, will
provide the data-storage facilities and services, and AT&T, the
largest U.S. phone carrier, will offer the global network that
clients will use to retrieve the data, the companies said today
in a statement. They’ll split revenue from the deal. “Cloud
services” refer to storing information and software in off-site
data centers.  To improve its cloud offering, IBM is forging the closest
relationship it’s ever had with a phone carrier. The Armonk, New
York-based company will be the first to get direct access to the
technology that controls AT&T’s network for business customers,
and the two companies’ sales forces will coordinate on work with
clients.  Giving AT&T’s customers the option of adding cloud services
from IBM on a network they already use will be “huge,” said
Andy Geisse, head of the phone company’s unit for business
clients. “With our customers, we see cloud computing as a key
part of their network infrastructure and of their compute
environment going forward,” he said in a phone interview.  Working Together  As competitors from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  to  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  expand their cloud offerings, AT&T and IBM
concluded that working together would help them seize a greater
portion of the market. The computer industry will reap $14
billion this year from cloud services, up 24 percent from 2011,
according to research firm IDC in Framingham,  Massachusetts .  IBM is pursuing a target of $7 billion in cloud revenue by
2015 after such sales more than tripled last year. It hasn’t
disclosed how much it currently makes from cloud computing.  “This is a major component of how we get to that $7
billion,” said Erich Clementi, senior vice president of IBM’s
global technology services division.  With its access to the controls of Dallas-based AT&T’s
network, IBM will be able to shift capacity on the network so it
can push the flow of data to where it’s most needed, like to a
client’s supply-chain management systems during a holiday
season, Clementi said.  More Control  Customers will be able to decide how to store information
in IBM’s data centers and access it through AT&T’s network. AT&T
has been increasing the control it gives businesses through
products that let employers block certain applications or
websites from employees and run anti-virus software. IBM markets
its cloud products to larger businesses that need tailored
services, like ways to run a supply chain or manage health data.  IBM  fell  less than 1 percent to $207.99 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 13 percent this year. AT&T, up 23
percent this year, dropped 1.4 percent to $37.14 today.  Separately, IBM expanded its PureSystems lineup of
computing, storage and networking technology to include three
new products -- one for rapid transactions and two for analyzing
data to help companies make faster decisions.  The products, which can be used within hours of setup, will
help contribute toward the $16 billion the company expects to
make from analytics by 2015, said Arvind Krishna, general
manager of IBM’s information management software unit. IBM
hasn’t disclosed how much revenue it now gets from analytics.  “We’re going after Oracle in a large way with these
systems,” Krishna said in an interview, referring to the
world’s largest supplier of  database software . “We are seeing a
tremendous amount of increase in the data needs from our
customers.”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, didn’t return a
call for comment before normal business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  