-- Atletico Resists Falcao’s Premier League Suitors: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-09T06:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/atletico-resists-falcao-s-premier-league-suitors-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Falcao Stays  Atletico Madrid will block attempts to lure Radamel Falcao
to the Premier League in January after  Roberto Mancini  signaled
Manchester City’s interest in the striker with a personal
scouting mission, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Chelsea is said to be the favorite to win the race to sign
the 26-year-old Falcao, who scored his eighth goal in six La
Liga matches this season two days ago in front of City manager
Mancini, the newspaper added.  “We know that Mancini has come to watch, but we are calm
on the subject of Falcao,” the Telegraph cited Atletico
President Enrique Cerezo as saying.  Lampard Offer  Frank Lampard  will be offered 250,000 pounds ($401,000) a
week to join former Chelsea teammate Didier Drogba in the
Chinese Super League,  the Sun reported .  The England midfielder is wanted by Drogba’s club, Shanghai
Shenhua, and its Super League rival Beijing Guoan, the newspaper
said. Lampard, 34, will be a free agent when his Blues contract
finishes at the end of the season, the Sun added.  Palace Teenager  Arsenal is a “serious contender” to sign Crystal Palace’s
19-year-old Wilfried Zaha, who could eventually replace  Theo Walcott , the  Daily Mail reported .  Former assistant manager Pat Rice, who still works for the
Gunners, watched the 12 million pound-rated forward score twice
in Palace’s 4-3 win against Burnley on Oct. 6, the Mail added.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool is the favorite to sign Torino defender Angelo Ogbonna and had scouts watch the 24-year-old play against
Cagliari two days ago, the  Sun reported .  Ogbonna, who may cost 16 million pounds to sign, has also
been watched by Manchester United and Everton, the Sun added.  Hodgson’s Choice  England manager  Roy Hodgson  can decide whether  Ashley Cole 
plays in this week’s  World Cup  qualifier against San Marino
after the Football Association ruled out banning the left-back
for criticizing the governing body on Twitter, the  Guardian
reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  