-- Australia’s Gillard Accuses Abbott of Sexism as Slipper Resigns
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-10-09T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/australia-s-gillard-accuses-rival-abbott-of-misogyny-sexism-1-.html
Julia Gillard,  Australia ’s first
female prime minister, accused opposition leader Tony Abbott of
sexism and hypocrisy after he forced a vote to remove House
Speaker Peter Slipper, who later resigned.  Gillard’s Labor government, which appointed Slipper last
year to shore up its numbers in parliament, won a vote to block
Abbott’s motion hours before the speaker quit, saying he didn’t
want to damage the House’s reputation. Abbott said Slipper was
unfit for the role after allegedly sending text messages that
contained crude comments about women.  “I will not be lectured about sexism and misogyny by this
man,” Gillard told parliament, pointing at Abbott. “The leader
of the opposition says that people who hold sexist views and who
are misogynist are not appropriate for high office. Well I hope
the leader of the opposition has got a piece of paper and he is
writing out his resignation.”  Abbott, whose Liberal-National coalition is leading in
polls before elections due next year, has faced claims from
Labor ministers that he has a problem dealing with powerful
women. He began a media blitz defending his credibility last
week with the help of his wife Margie.  Gillard has been confronted by protesters bearing placards
reading “Ditch the Witch” since becoming prime minister in
June 2010, and has previously attacked sexism in Australian
politics. Yesterday, she accused Abbott of “repulsive double
standards when it comes to misogyny” and said she’d been
offended by “cat-calling” to her in the House of
Representatives.  Opposition Stance  Opposition lawmakers including Nationals leader Warren Truss said the government is trying to undermine Abbott to
deflect attention from a slowing economy and the introduction of
new taxes.  Gillard is the first Australian prime minister who isn’t
married. She has no children and lives in the capital Canberra
with her partner, hairdresser Tim Mathieson. In August, she said
there were sexist overtones to allegations she was guilty of
misconduct at a law firm she worked at in the 1990s.  Australia has a “blokey” culture, and Gillard plans to
boost female representation across government boards, she said
in an interview in September 2011.  While retaining the title of speaker, Slipper hadn’t served
in the role since April, when he stepped aside after a former
employee issued a civil claim accusing him of making unwanted
sexual advances. He is fighting the civil action.  Slipper, 62, held the seat of Fisher in Queensland, which
he won in 1993, for the Liberal Party until November, when he
resigned from the party to become an independent and was named
speaker.  ‘More Important’  “The importance and the role of the House of
Representatives in Australia is far more important than my own
future or my own continuation as speaker,” Slipper said in an
address to parliament yesterday. He said he will remain an
independent lawmaker and was confident he would be vindicated.  Anna Burke, a Labor lawmaker, was elected by the House to
replace Slipper as speaker. The resignation isn’t expected to
negate the minority government’s ability to push legislation
through parliament, Leader of the House Anthony Albanese, told
Australian Broadcasting Corp. in an interview.  Abbott yesterday claimed Labor should have “died of
shame” for its performance in governing. His words echoed those
of Alan Jones, a critic of Gillard, after the Sydney-based disc
jockey claimed at a Liberal Party fundraiser that the prime
minister’s father, who passed away last month, had “died of
shame.”  Abbott has declined to rule out appearing on Jones’s radio
show, which has suspended all advertising after companies
withdrew their support.  ‘Dying of Shame’  “The government is not dying of shame,” Gillard said
yesterday. “My father did not die of shame. What the leader of
the opposition should be ashamed of is his performance in this
parliament and the sexism he brings with it.”  Gillard yesterday joined senior Labor lawmakers including
Attorney-General Nicola Roxon and Health Minister Tanya Plibersek in claiming Abbott has a problem dealing with powerful
women. The opposition leader last month denied allegations that
he physically intimidated a female political opponent during
Sydney University elections in 1977.  The latest analysis of  Newspoll surveys , published in The
Australian on Oct. 5, showed 29 percent of female voters are
satisfied with Abbott, compared with 34 percent of men.  Labor Support  “I won’t stand by and let others claim that the man I
love, and the father my children adore, has some agenda against
women,” Margie Abbott said in a News Ltd. interview published
Oct. 5.  Support for Gillard’s governing Labor Party has fallen from
an 18-month high, as the prime minister struggles to gain
traction with voters before elections due next year.  Labor’s primary vote dropped 3 percentage points to 33
percent, while Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition climbed
4 points to 45 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper yesterday. Taking preference votes
into account, Labor trailed the coalition by 8 points after
pulling level in the previous survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  