-- Australian Stocks, Japan Futures Fall on China Slowdown
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-09T23:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/australian-stocks-japan-futures-fall-on-china-slowdown.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian equities fell on concern China’s economic slowdown
and its territorial dispute with Japan are weighing on corporate
earnings.  American depositary receipts of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s
third-largest carmaker by market value, slid 1.6 percent from
the closing share price in Tokyo after reporting its biggest
drop in China sales since at least 2008. Alumina Ltd. dropped
2.3 percent in Sydney after Alcoa Inc. cut its forecast for
global consumption of aluminum as the Chinese economy slows.  Rio
Tinto Group (RIO)  added 0.3 percent as Australia’s second-biggest
mining company by market value plans to cut jobs and delay
decisions on building projects on a slower growth in China.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
December closed at 8,675 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,770
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,680 in
Osaka,at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
declined 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.6
percent in Wellington.  “We are clearly seeing the impact of a Chinese slowdown
globally and it’s indicated in Alcoa’s numbers,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP
Capital Investors Ltd., which manages almost $100 billion.
“Equity markets have had a very strong run. So, it won’t be
surprising if they go through some correction. In a sense,
actually a correction will be healthy.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 6.9 percent this year
through yesterday as a series of stimulus measure from  Europe  to
the U.S. and Japan countered a global economic slowdown. The
Asian benchmark trades at 12.8 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 12 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index (SPXL1)  added less than 0.1 percent
today. The index fell 1 percent in New York yesterday as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut estimates for global growth and
investors awaited quarterly results from Alcoa.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, cut its forecast
for global consumption of the metal by 1 percentage point as
Chinese economic growth slows. Demand will increase by 6 percent
this year, the New York-based company said yesterday in its
third-quarter earnings statement.  Japanese carmakers may extend yesterday’s losses after
Nissan, Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. reported drops in
China sales as rioters torched dealerships and smashed cars in
protests sparked by a China-Japan territorial dispute over a
group of islands.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.3 percent to 91.82
yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 