-- Tax Overhaul Shouldn’t Cut Top Earner Rates, Schumer Says
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-10-09T17:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/tax-overhaul-shouldn-t-cut-top-earner-rates-schumer-says.html
Any congressional effort to overhaul
the U.S. tax code should make deficit reduction a priority
instead of cutting high-income Americans’ tax rates, Democratic
Senator Chuck Schumer said.  “It would be a huge mistake to take the dollars we gain
from closing loopholes and put them into reducing rates for the
highest-income brackets, rather than into reducing the
deficit,” Schumer, the third-ranking Senate Democrat, said
today in a speech at the  National Press Club  in Washington.
“The old style of  tax reform  is obsolete in a 2012 world.”  Schumer’s stance puts him at odds with bipartisan proposals
from President Barack Obama’s Simpson-Bowles deficit-cutting
commission and a group of Republican and Democratic senators
known as the Gang of Six, which has expanded to eight members.
Schumer, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, isn’t part of
either group.  “Reagan-style reform worked over 25 years ago,” Schumer
said. “As a result, it has a great deal of appeal to some of
the most serious fiscal thinkers in Washington.”  Schumer put the group of eight senators in that camp.
Included in the group are  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, the Senate’s
second-ranking Democrat, and  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota , a
Democratic member of the Finance Committee.  Bush Tax Cuts  The tax issue, particularly whether to extend the George W. Bush-era tax cuts for married couples earning more than $250,000
a year and individuals earning more than $200,000 a year, is
contributing to gridlock between congressional Democrats and
Republicans as the so-called fiscal cliff approaches. In
January, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts will begin and
the Bush-era tax cuts will expire unless Congress can agree on a
plan to avert the changes.  Obama and Democrats propose letting the tax cuts expire for
top earners. Republicans have called for curtailing tax breaks
and lowering marginal tax rates. The House-passed budget calls
for dropping the top rate to 25 percent, while Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  wants a 28 percent top rate.  “The top rate for the highest earners should probably
return to Clinton-era levels, and stay somewhere around there,”
Schumer said. Still, he said, “I do think it is too much to
treat  capital gains  the same way as ordinary income. We don’t
need a 39.6 percent rate on capital gains.”  ‘My Way Forward’  Schumer said he has spoken about his plan with White House
officials and with Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, and Senator  Max Baucus  of Montana, chairman of the
Finance Committee.  “This is my way forward, not theirs,” the senator said.  In a June speech, Baucus said the “only way forward” for
the U.S. to reduce the long-term  budget deficit  is through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. He didn’t
specify details such as a top rate, a revenue level or how to
address tax breaks.  Reid’s office didn’t immediately reply to a request for
comment.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, criticized Schumer’s proposal.  “The default position of the president’s party is our
economy, debt and entitlement programs are just fine, and the
only solution is to raise taxes on one of the most productive
segments of our economy,” Hatch said in an e-mailed statement.  Also today, former Michigan Governor  John Engler , now
president of the  Business Roundtable , said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television that he sees “no chance” that Congress
will resolve the spending issues by the end of this year. The
Business Roundtable is a Washington-based organization of
corporate chief executive officers.  Engler said he would prefer that lawmakers agree to extend
current tax and spending policies for six months or a year to
provide time to work on a “larger strategy, then, on total
fiscal reform for the United States where we get our entitlement
spending and tax reforms in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  