-- Ayala Land Seeks Acquisitions to Expand Portfolio, Boost Profit
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-10-09T01:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ayala-land-seeks-acquisitions-to-expand-portfolio-boost-profit.html
Ayala Land Inc. (ALI) , the  Philippines ’
largest builder, plans to buy properties in the capital and
nearby provinces to expand its land portfolio and meet its goal
of increasing profit to 10 billion pesos ($241 million) by 2014.  The company that created  Manila ’s main business district in
Makati City will develop similar precincts on 74 hectares of
prime land it bought from the government last month for 24.3
billion pesos and on a 29-hectare property, both in the capital,
President Antonino Aquino said.  Capital spending  this year may
increase from an already-upgraded plan of 47 billion pesos, a
record, if any land purchase is sealed, he said.  “The trajectory of the country is moving up.  Ayala Land 
should then move ahead of the pack in securing the land bank in
anticipation of further growth,” Aquino said in an interview at
his office in Makati City. “Obviously, land banking is an
exercise you have to do early enough.”  The Philippine economy grew 5.9 percent in the second
quarter, more than economists estimated, as higher public
spending and consumption spurred the strongest six-month
performance since the 2010 rebound from the global crisis. The
 Asian Development Bank  has raised its forecast for Philippine
economic growth this year to 5.5 percent from 4.8 percent.  Ayala Land shares climbed 0.9 percent to 23.60 pesos at
9:45 a.m. in Manila. The have gained 56 percent this year,
outpacing the Philippine benchmark stock index’s 24 percent
advance.  “Growing Economy”  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco on Oct. 5 said
inflation in the Southeast Asian nation will remain within its
target this year and next, giving monetary authorities space to
keep  interest rates  low. It held the overnight borrowing rate at
a record-low 3.75 percent last month and will hold its next
policy meeting on Oct. 25.  Profit in the first half rose 28 percent from a year
earlier to 4.33 billion pesos, the company said Aug. 3. Net
income this year may rise to 8.61 billion pesos from 7.14
billion pesos, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of 12 analysts.  Ayala Land is “definitely well on track” with its 10
billion-peso profit target by 2014 and earnings in the third
quarter followed the same “positive results” as in the first
half, Aquino said. Benign inflation and low interest rates are
supporting home purchases, keeping Ayala Land in step with its
plan of building 25,000 housing units this year, he said.  Seeking Partners  The developer and tycoon  Henry Sy ’s SM Group are competing
for an alliance with the Ortigas family’s OCLP Holdings Inc. to
develop the family’s property holdings in one of Manila’s
business districts.  Metropolitan Manila is composed of 16 cities. The largest
city in the metro area is Quezon City. Makati is its main
business district.  On June 29, Ayala Land said it’s in talks with a group led
by Ignacio Ortigas for an alliance and has set aside an initial
budget of 15 billion pesos for that venture. The company has
“allotted a budget on the basis of the developmental plans that
we’re prepared to put up,” Aquino said yesterday, declining to
elaborate.  Philippine Estates Corp. (PHES) , the builder owned by businessman
William Gatchalian, on Sept. 25 said it is in the final stages
of negotiations with an Ayala Land unit for a joint venture on
an industrial park in Valenzuela City. Aquino declined to
comment during the interview.  “We have the branding of building successful business
districts, and that is something that is unique to us,” Aquino
said. “What we’re eyeing are large, contiguous areas.”  Buying land to boost its holdings will probably take up a
third of its spending in the next three years, Aquino said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in  Hong Kong  at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge in Singapore at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  