-- Bahk Eschews Stimulus as South Korea’s Slowdown Abates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r ,   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-10-10T01:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/bahk-eschews-excess-stimulus-as-south-korea-s-slowdown-abates.html
South  Korea ’s finance minister said
his nation’s economic growth will improve this quarter and
policy makers should limit the scale of stimulus measures.  “Mobilizing all available fiscal, monetary and financial
policy means in a bold move with a large size may have harmful
effects” including a wider budget deficit, Bahk Jae Wan said in
an interview at the Bloomberg News office in Seoul yesterday.  Bahk, 57, instead advocated “less costly and more salient
policies,” such as cutting business regulation -- a stance that
contrasts with calls from presidential candidates for tighter
oversight of chaebols, the conglomerates that drive  exports . The
finance chief said “bold or harsh” moves against chaebols are
unlikely to be enacted and “no more than a ploy to woo
voters.”  Reluctance to endorse “all-out measures” to stoke  growth 
reflects Bahk’s concern that “this will be a long economic
crisis.” Speaking before he flies to  Tokyo  for this week’s
International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meetings, he
urged European nations to set a timetable for implementing steps
to resolve their debt woes. The Group of 20 should also maintain
its “standstill” on protectionist trade measures, he said.  The central bank of Asia’s fourth-largest economy meets
tomorrow to consider a second interest-rate cut for the year,
with 13 of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News predicting a
quarter-point move. While Bahk said that growth “could be
weak” in the final three months of the year, “the third
quarter will be a bottom.”  Fiscal Target  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration has refrained from
compiling a supplementary budget to counter a weakening
expansion, and targets a fiscal deficit of 0.3 percent of gross
domestic product for next year, a six-year low. South Korea’s
 exports , which make up about half of GDP, fell for the third
month in September.  The jobless rate was at 3.1 percent in September, unchanged
from August, Statistics Korea said today. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was for a rate of 3.2
percent.  The government is scheduled in December to review its
forecasts for GDP to rise 3.3 percent this year and 4 percent in
2013. Bahk said that officials may revise the 2012 estimate to
“a more realistic level,” and that “next year should be
better than this year.” The IMF yesterday projected growth of
2.7 percent for 2012 and 3.6 percent for 2013.  Export Diversification  “The continued slowdown in trade flows is clearly negative
for the near-term growth outlook” for South Korea, Standard
Chartered Bank Plc analysts Eunhye Yoon and Suktae Oh wrote in
an Oct. 5 report. “We maintain our base-case scenario that
 China ’s recovery will drive a recovery in Korea’s exports and
industrial production, though the timing of the recovery is
likely to be delayed to the first quarter of 2013.”  South Korea’s success in diversifying both the types of
exports it makes and the destinations for its goods has helped
prevent a deeper slump, according to Bahk, a former labor
minister and civil servant who previously served as a senior
aide to President Lee. Mobile telephone sales have complemented
traditional goods such as steel, petrochemicals and ships, he
said.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s top maker of mobile
phones and televisions, reported a record profit last week.  South Korean’s benchmark Kospi index of shares has advanced
2.6 percent in the past month, and the nation’s currency has
risen 1.8 percent against the dollar, second only to  India ’s
rupee in Asia. The won touched an 11-month high of 1,109.57 on
Oct. 8.  Won Gains  Asked about the won’s appreciation, Bahk said the
government “shouldn’t intervene” in exchange rates, while
reiterating the administration’s policy of implementing
“smoothing” operations in cases of volatile fluctuation.  The won held its advance against the dollar yesterday even
after South Korea and Japan agreed to let expire a $57 billion
expansion of a currency-swap agreement. Tensions between the two
nations escalated this year over ownership claims for a group of
islands known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan.  Bahk said deeper economic ties can help ease such political
conflicts. South Korea,  Japan  and China remain committed to
pursuing a three-way free-trade agreement, and an announcement
on beginning talks is likely next month, he said.  One of South Korea’s biggest concerns is a surge in
protectionism, the finance minister said.  “The G-20 should call for some action” against
protectionism, he said. Finance chiefs from the Group of 20
emerging and developed markets are scheduled to gather next
month in  Mexico .  Europe Frustration  Bahk urged stronger steps by European policy makers to
address the euro-region’s continuing crisis. Finance ministers
from the 17 euro nations this week declared the 500-billion euro
($648 billion) European Stability Mechanism operational.  Bahk said that to preserve a so-called announcement effect,
Europeans should set a timetable for resolving outstanding
issues and stick to it. The euro ministers this week said Spain
isn’t on the verge of tapping the ESM, and put off decisions on
 Greece ’s next aid payment and on an assistance program for
Cyprus.  “The talks over the European fiscal crisis are really a
tedious and time-consuming procedure,” Bahk said. “The euro-
zone should take more decisive and speedy action.”  The finance minister said  Europe ’s challenges are deeper
than those in the U.S., and expressed “irresponsible optimism”
that American lawmakers will reach agreement avoiding a so-
called fiscal cliff of budget cuts and tax increases at year-end.  Chaebol Policy  Turning to efforts in South Korea to reduce the sway of
conglomerates, Bahk said that “whoever rules the country next
year, it will be difficult to impose excessive regulations that
may go beyond the global standards” applied to large
multinational corporations.  Presidential candidate Moon Jae In, who’s vying with
ruling-party nominee Park Geun Hye and independent candidate Ahn Cheol Soo in the Dec. 19 election, yesterday pledged to enact a
law banning chaebols from some industries to aid smaller
companies. Ahn, founder of South Korea’s biggest antivirus
software maker, advocates banning cross-shareholdings of the
family-run companies and limiting their investments in
subsidiaries.  “Reforming chaebols is one of the most important aspects
of democratizing the economy,” Moon said in an interview at his
campaign headquarters in  Seoul  yesterday.  North Korea  Bahk said his ministry will release in two or three weeks
its findings from a study on the economic aspects of the Korean
peninsula’s potential unification. One conclusion from the
effort has been that the long-run positive impact has been
understated. While costly in the short run, economic integration
would help counter the impact of South Korea’s aging labor force,
and expand access to natural resources.  Officials are considering whether to release a range of
cost estimates for unification, or different calculations based
on specific scenarios, Bahk said. Joining with North Korea would
cut the South’s total economic output by as much as 6.6 percent
every year for a decade, the Korea Institute of Public Finance
said in a report last month.  North Korea’s nominal GDP totaled 32 trillion won in 2011,
compared with South Korea’s 1,237 trillion won, the Bank of
Korea said in a July report. North Korea’s per capita income was
1.33 million won while South Korea’s was 25 million won,
according to its estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  