-- Baidu Leads Internet Drop as IMF Cuts Economic Outlook
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-10-09T20:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/baidu-leads-adr-drop-as-imf-cuts-global-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in  New York  fell for
a second day, led by Internet companies, as the  International
Monetary Fund  reducing its global growth estimates clouded the
outlook for the world’s largest exporter.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 0.3 percent to 91.82
yesterday, after dropping the most in two weeks on Oct. 8.  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most-popular search engine, sank to a
three-month low after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  became the third
bank to cut its rating this month.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) 
fell for the first time in six days to trade at the biggest
discount to its Hong Kong stock in two weeks.  The IMF reduced its forecast for world economic growth to
3.3 percent for this year, the slowest pace since 2009 and down
from a July prediction of 3.5 percent. There are “alarmingly
high” risks of a steeper slowdown, according to the Washington-
based lender. Chinese policy makers have been lowering  interest
rates  and injecting cash into the financial system to reignite
an economy that is  slowing  as global demand for exports waned.  “The IMF forecast cut, a lagging indicator, had some
negative psychological impact and caused market volatility,”
Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund
at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees $2.2 billion of
emerging-market assets, said by phone from San Antonio
yesterday. “The IMF forecasts are not a surprise, but may have
provided an excuse for selloffs.”  China ETF  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.1 percent to $35.02
yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 1 percent to
1,441.48, the biggest drop since Sept. 25.  The IMF report yesterday called for U.S. policy makers to
find an alternative to planned automatic tax increases and
spending cuts that would trigger a recession. Europeans must
follow on their commitments for a more integrated monetary
union, and many  emerging markets  can afford to cut interest
rates or stop increasing them to protect their economies, the
IMF said.  The lender’s 188 member countries convene in Tokyo this
week as slowing growth in the richest economies hurts developing
markets from China to Brazil. China’s economic expansion slowed
in the second quarter to 7.6 percent, as trade and manufacturing
decelerated.  ‘Some Signs of Demand’  “You can’t have the larger BRIC markets rallying
meaningfully unless you have a sentiment improvement in terms of
the outlook for Chinese growth,” Gabriel Wallach, chief
investment officer at BNP Paribas Investment Partners in Boston,
said in a phone interview, referring to the biggest emerging
markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China. “That’s really been
the drag on emerging markets, even as we’re seeing some signs of
demand recovering in China.”  Iron-ore prices for  immediate delivery  to the Chinese port
of Tianjin, a benchmark for Asia, rose 6.2 percent to $117.2 per
ton, the highest level since Aug. 1, according to a price  index (SHCOMP) 
compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. The price recovery is a sign of
higher demand from Chinese steelmakers, said Laurence Balter,
who oversees $100 million for Fox Island, Washington-based
Oracle Investment Research.  Beijing-based Baidu tumbled 6.8 percent to $106.49, the
lowest level since July 17, after Credit Suisse, following on
from earlier  ratings  changes this month from  Jefferies Group
Inc. (JEF)  and  Raymond James Financial Inc. (RJF) , said  Qihoo 360 Technology
Co.’s (QIHU)  entrance into China’s Internet search market will reduce
Baidu’s sales and profit.  Ad Market  Wallace Cheung, an analyst at Credit Suisse in Hong Kong,
said Baidu’s domination of the search market is “waning.”
Baidu’s earnings will also be pressured by a slowdown in the
Chinese advertising market and the company’s struggle to profit
from increased traffic from mobile searches, Cheung said.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , China’s biggest mobile-phone security
company, fell the most in two months, plunging 4.7 percent to
$7.34 on trading volume that doubled the stock’s three-month
daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. NQ
Mobile competes against Lookout Inc.,  AVG Technologies NV (AVG) ,
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  and McAfee Inc.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , China’s fifth-most visited website, and
 Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , the country’s biggest online video company,
also sank. Sohu retreated 2.8 percent to $39.58, a one-month
low, and Youku slid 1.8 percent to $19.16.  Renren Inc. (RENN) , the
Chinese social networking website, lost 1 percent to $3.80, the
weakest level since Sept. 11.  China Eastern , the nation’s second-largest carrier,
retreated 2 percent to $15.95, from a seven-week high reached
the previous day. Its American depositary receipts, each
representing 50 underlying shares in the company, traded 2.3
percent below its  Hong Kong  stock, the widest discount since
Sept. 25.  The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 2 percent to 2,115.23
yesterday, the highest since Sept. 14. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies advanced 1.3 percent to
9,967.04, the strongest level since May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  