-- Bank Mine Lending Seen by Credit Suisse Using Iron-Ore Swaps
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-10-09T17:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/banks-seen-by-credit-suisse-using-iron-ore-swaps-in-mining-loans.html
Iron-ore  swaps are being used by more
banks in loans to companies developing mines of the steel-making
raw material, with about half of the projects funded in the past
18 months involving hedging,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said.  About five projects financing so-called junior miners used
the swaps, which bet or hedge on the future price of iron ore,
Phillip Killicoat, London-based vice president of commodities at
the bank, said in an interview today. Miners’ access to loans is
improving as swaps allow banks including Credit Suisse to lock
in future  prices  received when production starts, he said.  “Swaps make banks more willing to lend if the  cash flow  is
more secure as the equity markets aren’t providing the levels of
capital at prices that work for junior miners at the moment,”
Killicoat said in Vienna on the sidelines of the 7th EU Iron Ore
Conference.  Trading  volumes in iron-ore swaps rose to a record last
month as prices for iron ore landed in  China  rebounded from
$86.70 a dry metric ton on Sept. 5, the lowest since October
2009. September volumes traded totaled 17.7 million tons,
according to Singapore-based clearing house SGX AsiaClear, the
biggest clearer of over-the-counter swaps. Volumes for the first
nine months of 2012 at 75.5 million tons were 193 percent higher
than the same period last year, data show.  Prices for ore landed in China with 62 percent iron content
are 35 percent higher since Sept. 5, the Steel Index figures
show.  Physical Volumes  Trading in swaps, which has been doubling each year since
2008, should equal physical volumes of more than 1 billion tons
a year by as early as 2015, Killicoat estimated. About 70
percent of seaborne iron ore is bought or sold under monthly or
quarterly contracts based on the daily price, and a further 25
percent on the  spot market , he estimated at the conference
yesterday.  Growth in the use of iron-ore swaps is centered on end-
users of steel, such as refrigerator manufacturers and car-
makers who can’t raise prices to pass on higher iron-ore costs,
Killicoat said.  Steel mills  were less likely to use swaps and
pass on higher raw material costs to manufacturers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  