-- Barclays Buys ING’s U.K. Online Bank, Adding 1.5M Clients
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-10-09T10:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/barclays-buys-ing-s-u-k-online-bank-adding-1-5-million-clients.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to buy  ING Groep
NV (INGA) ’s money-losing British online bank, adding 1.5 million
clients and improving funding for its consumer operations before
the onset of tighter U.K. regulation.  Barclays, the second-largest U.K. bank by assets, will take
over 10.9 billion pounds ($17.4 billion) in deposits and 5.6
billion pounds of  mortgage loans  from ING. The deal will
immediately boost return on equity, the London-based lender said
today. No purchase price was disclosed, though Amsterdam-based
ING said the sale will lead to a transaction loss of about 320
million euros ($415.5 million) after tax.  The deal will bolster Barclays’ funding before the so-
called Vickers rules that aim to erect fire-breaks around
British banks’ consumer lending by 2019. The loan-to-deposit
ratio at the bank’s U.K. consumer arm will fall to 103 percent
from 108 percent as a result of the deal, according to Andrew Lim, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.  “The deal is more about the acquisition of a deposit base
which reinforces the funding of the U.K. retail operations,
which will subsequently be ring-fenced,” Lim, who recommends
buying the shares, wrote in a note to clients. Otherwise, the
deal is “an attractive bolt-on acquisition,” he said.  The acquisition is the first since  Antony Jenkins , the
former head of Barclays’s consumer bank, took over as chief
executive officer in August from  Robert Diamond , who built its
investment bank. Diamond resigned in July after regulators fined
Barclays 290 million pounds for manipulating interest rates.  ING was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG on the sale.  Share Performance  Barclays shares  were little changed at 224.45 pence at 11
a.m. in  London . The stock is up about 19 percent this year,
outpacing the 13 percent gain by the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index , and has climbed 21 percent since
Jenkins took over.  Barclays has built its consumer bank by buying discounted
assets from rivals since the onset of the financial crisis. It
acquired the banking arm of Edinburgh-based insurer Standard
Life Plc for 226 million pounds in 2009. In March 2011, it
acquired the credit-card assets of online lender Egg from
Citigroup Inc.  “Barclays has established a strong track record for
acquiring bolt-on businesses on the cheap and successfully
integrating them,”  Ian Gordon , a London-based analyst at
Investec Plc who recommends buying the shares, wrote in a note
to clients. “Barclays’s disciplined but committed approach to
opportunities in the retail space is acting as a particularly
useful source of sustainable value accretion.”  ING Aid  Some 750 employees will transfer from the Dutch bank and
insurer as part of the deal. The business, which lost 89 million
pounds before tax in 2011, will be folded into Barclays’s retail
and business banking division.  ING Direct UK “is a good fit with Barclays’ existing U.K.
retail banking business,” Ashok Vaswani, CEO of Barclays’s
British retail unit, said in the statement.  ING said the transaction frees up 330 million euros in
capital.  The lender  has been selling assets as it seeks to repay
Dutch state aid received during the financial crisis. It said it
was reviewing options for its U.K. online bank in August.  The Dutch company said the sale won’t affect its core Tier
1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength. Barclays said
the impact on its core Tier 1 ratio isn’t material.  ‘Earnings Drag’  ING “managed to exit a negative earnings drag for free, as
the unit has reported over 200 million euros in losses on
aggregate since 2003,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-
based analyst at ABN Amro Group NV who recommends buying the
shares. “Still, some investors probably expected that the
transaction would have a more positive impact on capital.”  The Dutch company started its U.K. online bank in 2003. In
October 2008, days before its own bailout, it agreed to buy more
than 3 billion pounds of retail deposits held by customers of
the U.K. units of two failed Icelandic banks, Kaupthing Bank hf
and Landsbanki Islands hf.  The company has struggled to make the unit profitable amid
strong competition and savers willing to change banks in search
for better  interest rates . In the third quarter of 2007, the
firm reported 5.1 billion euros in outflows after it didn’t
follow  Bank of England  rate increases. Since then, the division
has tried to attract less rate-sensitive customers.  “ING Direct UK operated in a very competitive market over
the past years,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen said in
today’s statement.  ING Priorities  ING shares rose 0.2 percent to 6.48 euros in Amsterdam,
extending its gain so far this year to 17 percent.  “We believe that in order to make ING Direct UK
profitable, ING would have had to make substantial investments
to transform it into an internet bank with a full product
range,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Michael Huttner and Ashik Musaddi said in a note today. That may clash with the firm’s
current priorities of strengthening its capital buffers ahead of
stricter regulatory demands and repaying state aid, they said.  In February, the biggest Dutch financial-services company
sold its U.S. online bank to Capital One Financial Corp. for
about $9 billion to meet European Union conditions for accepting
state aid. ING received a 10 billion-euro bailout in 2008, and
has repaid 7 billion euros, with 2 billion euros in interest and
premiums. Hommen has said he plans to return another tranche
before the end of this year.  Last month, ING sold its Canadian online bank to Bank of
 Nova Scotia . The lender’s online banking operations in
 Australia ,  Austria ,  France ,  Germany ,  Italy  and  Spain  aren’t
affected by today’s announcement, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 