-- Barnier Says Bank Capital, Bonus Rule Deal May Be This Month
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-09T13:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/barnier-says-deal-on-bank-capital-bonus-rules-may-be-this-month.html
The European Union may reach a deal
this month on a draft law to bolster capital rules for lenders
and to curb banker bonuses, according to the EU’s financial
services commissioner.  “We’re on the home straight now,”  Michel Barnier  told
finance ministers at a meeting today in Luxembourg.  Barnier said he hoped a deal could be reached during the
bloc’s next two negotiation meetings on the law, both of which
take place in October. Bonus curbs are one of the remaining
issues to be settled in the talks, he said.  The EU has struggled to agree on how to apply an
international rulebook for banks, known as Basel III, that was
drawn up by global regulators in the wake of the financial
crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The measures would more than triple the core reserves that
lenders have to hold against insolvency, while also requiring
banks to stockpile easy-to-sell assets to help them survive
funding droughts.  The European Parliament is demanding a roster of changes to
a draft EU implementing law for the Basel rules that was agreed
on by the bloc’s finance ministers in May.  Alterations called for by legislators include expanding the
rulebook to include a ban on bonuses that exceed bankers’ fixed
pay, and adding more up-front detail to the liquidity rules.  ‘Extremely Delicate’  “The negotiations are extremely delicate,” Vassos Shiarly, finance minister of Cyprus, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, said during the discussion. “However
further flexibility from all of us is needed and will be
needed.”  Parliament lawmakers said this week that the assembly has
scheduled a vote on the draft law in November, with a target for
a deal to be reached by then.  Officials from Cyprus and parliament legislators will
continue negotiations at meetings on Oct. 11 and Oct. 21.  Danish Finance Minister  Margrethe Vestager  warned at
today’s meeting against any compromise with the parliament that
would imperil the country’s mortgage market.  Danish lenders have campaigned against liquidity rules in
the Basel accords that they say may threaten the country’s
market for bank bonds linked to mortgage debt. The parliament
has called for the EU to make a firm commitment to implement the
standards, pending the results of an ongoing international
review.  ‘Irreversible effects’  The EU wants to avoid “irreversible effects” from the
liquidity rules, Barnier said. The EU text should set out “very
clear and rigorous principles while leaving open room for
further work on detail,” he said.  Sweden ’s finance minister  Anders Borg  said that a final
deal must leave nations that have large banking systems with the
freedom to impose even tougher rules on their lenders.  Sweden already has an agreement with other governments that
it can impose higher  capital requirements  on its banks, Borg
said. “We will not back down on that issue,” he said.  Shiarly said that a deal on the draft law was a
prerequisite for proceeding with related plans for the euro area
to hand supervisory powers to the  European Central Bank .  “It’s important to have it adopted before the single
supervisory mechanism enters into force,” Shiarly said after
today’s meeting.  Cyprus is targeting a deal on the bank capital law by the
end of this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  