-- Berlusconi Says He Won’t Run, Open to Endorsing Monti
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-10-09T08:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/berlusconi-says-he-won-t-run-open-to-endorsing-monti.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he doesn’t plan to run for the premiership in
elections due by May and would consider endorsing an alliance of
moderates to back a new government led by  Mario Monti .  “I am making an appeal directed at all moderates who
represent the majority of Italians and don’t consider themselves
leftists,” Berlusconi said in an interview today on Canale 5
television, controlled by his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  broadcast company.
“I don’t exclude Mario Monti as leader of an alliance of
moderates.”  Berlusconi would step aside if it would help forge an
alliance of parties that could defeat the  Democratic Party ,
which leads in opinion polls, he said in another interview that
appeared today in Libero newspaper.  Monti, appointed premier when Berlusconi’s government
unraveled in November, has said he would consider serving
another term if asked, though he won’t run in the election. Some
of the parties to which Berlusconi is reaching out openly
support the idea of another Monti government.  Union of Centrists leader  Pier Ferdinando Casini  has said
that as long as Berlusconi was a candidate for premier, there
could be no alliance between the centrists and Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party. Casini supports asking Monti to stay on
as prime minister after the election.  Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo has also
talked about forming a political party to present a pro-Monti
list of candidates.  “If Casini and Montezemolo, to give life to a new alliance
with the People of Liberty, don’t want Berlusconi, then
Berlusconi will remove himself,” the former premier told the
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  