-- Best Bond Firms Split on Year-End Storm: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-10-09T15:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/best-bond-firms-split-on-year-end-storm-credit-markets.html
Debt strategists at top-ranked Wall
Street firms can’t agree on what investors should do as yields
on everything from government to corporate and asset-backed
bonds plunge to record lows.  While  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  forecasts a “year-end storm in
the market for U.S. Treasuries,”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  advises buying
 government bonds  and cutting  investment-grade  company debt.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  recommends high-grade bonds over both  junk-
rated  and U.S. government notes. The three firms are rated the
best at fixed-income research by Institutional Investor
magazine.  The stakes are mounting, with the four-year-old rally in
U.S. corporates leaving little room for further gains, as the
 Federal Reserve  suppresses benchmark borrowing costs to ignite
an economy still recovering from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. Investors who shifted toward riskier
assets in response to the central-bank stimulus are reassessing
their holdings as  credit quality  shows signs of deteriorating.  “Right now we have a delicate situation,” Hans Mikkelsen,
a credit strategist at Bank of America in  New York , said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 4. Longer term, “Treasuries are the
riskiest fixed-income asset class,” he said.  Record Flows  Investors have funneled $61.3 billion into bond funds
globally through the third quarter, on pace to surpass the
record in 2010, according to data compiled by EPFR Global of
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Yields on investment-grade bonds in the U.S. fell to an
unprecedented 2.83 percent on Oct. 3 from the 2012 high of 3.93
percent on Jan. 4 and a record 9.3 percent reached four years
ago during the financial crisis, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch  index  data.  Gains in the safest parts of the corporate  bond market 
“appear to have largely played out,” the Barclays strategists
wrote in the Sept. 25 global outlook. For investors looking for
ways to mitigate risk, “safe-haven assets and  U.S. Treasuries ,
in particular, serve that purpose much more effectively than
high-grade corporate credit,” they said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Nestle SA increased the size
of its first sale of dollar bonds in four months as European
companies tap U.S. debt markets at the fastest pace in a year-
and-a-half. Deere & Co.’s finance arm plans to sell bonds in a
two-part benchmark offering that includes its third sale of
floating-rate notes this year.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell the most in more than three weeks,
declining 1.75 basis points to 12.5 basis points. The gauge,
which is approaching the more than two-year low of 12.31 reached
on Sept. 14, narrows when investors favor assets such as company
debentures and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 1.5 basis points to 96.6 basis points as
of 11:11 a.m. in New York, the highest since Oct. 2, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Swaps  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 1.7 to 130.9.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million.  Bonds of state  oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA, known
as PDVSA, are the most actively traded dollar-denominated
corporate securities by dealers today, with 104 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:12 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  PDVSA’s $6.15 billion of 8.5 percent notes due November
2017 were little changed at 88.2 cents on the dollar after
falling 2.3 cents yesterday following President  Hugo Chavez ’s
re-election by 9 percentage points on Oct. 7 in a vote that
polls had shown was too close to call.  Nestle Bonds  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, joins borrowers
from Barclays Plc to French oil company Total SA that raised a
total $49 billion from dollar bonds in September, the biggest
monthly sales tally since March 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. European issuers have sold $15 billion of so-
called Yankee bonds this month.  Nestle’s senior unsecured bonds due January 2018, which
were increased to $500 million from an initial plan of $300
million, will yield 43 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, down from about 50 basis points offered in initial
marketing, according to people with knowledge of the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company’s deal who asked not to be named
before the sale is completed.  John Deere Capital Corp. (DE)  intends to issue two-year debt
with floating coupons as well as fixed-rate bonds maturing in
2020, according to a person familiar with that offering who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set. The sale
will be of benchmark size, typically at least $500 million.  The tractor-maker’s finance unit sold equal $500 million
portions of senior unsecured floating notes yielding 15 basis
points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate
in June and 17 basis points more in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Fund Flows  Investors deposited $1.2 billion into U.S. investment-grade
bond funds last week, building on the previous week’s $2.3
billion, according to JPMorgan research. They yanked $892
million from speculative-grade bond funds after pouring record
volumes into the debt earlier in the year on signals that
slowdowns in business investment and exports were restraining
economic expansion.  Speculative-grade, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  Yields on investment-grade bonds have fallen to about half
the average of 5.1 percent from the past decade, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Speculative-grade bonds in the
U.S. have returned 12.5 percent this year, with yields dropping
to an unprecedented 6.948 on Sept. 19.  Elbowing Investors  The “stretched valuations” are justified given central
banks’ policies, Barclays analysts led by Larry Kantor in New
York wrote in their global outlook, titled “Don’t fight the
Fed.”  The central bank “continues to elbow investors out of safe
assets and into riskier asset classes,” the analysts said.
Investors should consider the “intense desire” of policy
makers in the U.S. and Europe to “protect and strengthen their
respective economies.”  U.S. government bonds gained 0.4 percent in the three weeks
after Sept. 13, when the Fed said it would conduct open-ended
purchases of mortgage debt as it continues a program to reinvest
in the market. Yields on U.S. Treasuries are at about 1.7
percent, below the 2 percent inflation rate predicted by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  European Central Bank  is joining the Fed in suppressing
borrowing costs through debt purchases, with ECB President  Mario
Draghi  announcing an agreement on Sept. 6 for an unlimited bond-
buying program to tamp down  interest rates  and fight speculation
of a currency breakup.  Treasury Storm  While there will likely be strong demand for fixed-income
assets in the near term, JPMorgan expects yields on 10-year
Treasuries to rise to 2 percent at the end of 2012, according to
strategists led by Terry Belton in a report Sept. 28, when they
were yielding about 1.63 percent.  An investor buying $10 million in face value of Treasuries
at the current yield of 1.74 percent would lose $182,000 if the
yield should rise to 2 percent at year end, Bloomberg data show.  “We’re really viewing this as the calm before a year-end
storm in the Treasury market,” Belton, JPMorgan’s global head
of fixed-income and foreign exchange research, said in a video
message e-mailed to clients on Oct. 1. Belton’s team was top-
ranked for fixed-income strategy in Institutional Investor’s
poll this year, beating strategists from Barclays and Bank of
America.  Barclays recommends investors buy government bonds,
including U.S. Treasuries, as a haven while also purchasing the
riskiest tiers of both investment-grade and high-yield debt to
increase returns, according to the report.  Goldman’s Preference  Barclays’s view on  high-grade credit  contrasts with that of
Bank of America,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which like the notes for debt buyers. Goldman Sachs strategists
said that the $6.5 trillion market for investment-grade company
bonds is the most attractive for risk-averse fixed-income
investors in a Sept. 28 report.  The best way for debt investors to insulate themselves
against rising interest rates is with credit spread,  Charles Himmelberg , managing director and Goldman Sachs’s global head of
credit strategy, said in a telephone interview.  “If I can go anywhere, I like  high yield ,” he said.
“We’ve liked high-quality high yield for the past year.”  Debt strategists at Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
prefer investment-grade bonds to junk notes in the U.S.  BofA Tepid  Goldman Sachs doesn’t recommend buying the lowest rung of
high-yield bonds while Barclays strategists advise investors to
purchase them selectively.  Investors have been buying riskier and riskier corporate
bonds as government-debt yields drop, causing the lowest tier of
speculative-grade notes to gain 2.7 percent since the end of
August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. U.S.
government bonds have declined 0.5 percent this month while junk
notes gained 0.5 percent after an Oct. 5 report showing the U.S.
 unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to 7.8 percent last month,
the lowest since President  Barack Obama  took office in January
2009.  While high-yield bonds still offer investors 5.55
percentage points more than government debt, firms including
Morgan Stanley and Bank of America have become tepid on the
securities as the credit quality of speculative-grade borrowers
deteriorates.  The ratio of upgrades to downgrades by S&P for speculative-
grade companies has plummeted to 0.31 in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the least in more than three years, from a peak of
2.22 in the three months ended in June 2010.  Leverage is increasing by the most since 2009 as issuers
capitalize on record-low borrowing costs. Speculative-grade
companies had debt in the second quarter that on average was
3.26 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, “creeping higher” from 3.12 times in the same
period of 2011, Morgan Stanley strategists Adam Richmond and
Jason Ng wrote in a Sept. 14 report.  “I think returns in high yield will exceed returns in high
grade going forward, but not enough to make up for the higher
risk in the high-yield asset class,” said Bank of America’s
Mikkelsen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  