-- Black Magic in Picasso’s Parlor of Prostitutes
-- B y   C a m i l l e   P a g l i a
-- 2012-10-09T22:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/black-magic-in-picasso-s-parlor-of-prostitutes.html
“The most important painting of the
twentieth century.” This was said of Pablo Picasso’s “ Les
Demoiselles d’Avignon ” before the century was even half over. It
remains one of the most original and disturbing works in the
history of art.  At eight feet high, “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” is an
intimidating presence. Reproductions in books shrink its power.  The painting was executed over three months in 1907 in
Picasso’s jammed, squalid one-room studio apartment in bohemian
Montmartre in Paris. Its fleshy pinks are a survival from the
artist’s Rose Period but with a stunning change of tone. There
is no longer any humor or pleasure. On the contrary, we seem to
have wandered into a torture den. It’s the reception room of a
brothel, where bored women lounge with their hair down as they
wait for customers -- a scene frequently drawn by Degas and
Toulouse-Lautrec. Picasso had painted prostitutes in Paris
cafés, where they were dancing or flirting with one another. In
Les Demoiselles, however, each of the women seems locked in her
own severe, remote consciousness. They are like Fates, frigid
masters of man’s destiny.  When this painting finally became known to the world after
its acquisition by New York’s Museum of Modern Art in 1939,
commentary focused on its formal properties as a prefiguration
of cubism, co-created by Picasso and Georges Braque before World
War I. Because so many of Picasso’s preparatory sketches were
preserved, studies of the painting’s genesis are extensive, but
little or no attention has been paid to a variety of later
details. Its demurely ambiguous title, “The Maidens of Avignon,”
has proved an irritant: Picasso did not coin it, and he disliked
it. He simply called the painting “mon bordel” (my brothel).  Living Picture  It is staged like a tableau vivant. The woman standing at
left lifts a heavy curtain, while her opposite bursts like a
wind into the tent-like space. On a stool at lower right, a nude
sits with legs brazenly spread. The two apparently upright
central figures are actually reclining with arms behind their
heads, a white sheet draping their legs.  Picasso’s startling conflation of two points of view was
revolutionary. Ever since the Renaissance, perspective had been
based on the spectator’s fixed position, reproducing where the
painter had set his easel. Here, however, we stand on the
brothel floor and also hover near the ceiling -- a duality not
seen since Byzantine art.  Multiple perspective, soon to be a hallmark of cubism, also
applies to the spiderlike sitter: We view her legs and bare
buttocks from behind, but her torso demonically twists to make
her head and arms face forward. She rests her menacingly
boomeranglike chin on her fist. The reclining ladies are also
hybrid: Their eyes and faces are frontal, while their noses are
profiled. Picasso’s disjunctive method is partly derived from
Cézanne, whose sloping country tabletops are imitated here in
the giddily angled coffee table.  But Picasso had also studied Egyptian art, with its
anatomical contortions. His left-hand lady, hand clenched at her
side and one foot forward, is based on pharaoh sculptures and
the Greek athlete statues (kouroi) that they inspired.
Furthermore, as the sole clothed (or semi-clothed) demoiselle,
she evokes the Winged Victory of Samothrace, plastered with wet
drapery as she lands on a ship’s prow, a monumental ancient
sculpture that Picasso saw dominating the magnificent Daru
Staircase at the Louvre.  Meanwhile, the reclining demoiselles allude to the Venetian
tradition of lazy, opulent nudes, who reappeared as hookah-
smoking Turkish or Algerian odalisques in nineteenth-century
French paintings. Picasso based the two women’s domed heads and
large ears on pre-Roman Iberian sculptures found near his
hometown of Malaga in Andalusia. Their raised elbows come from a
homoerotic statue that always fascinated him -- Michelangelo’s
neoplatonic Dying Slave, a life-sized plaster copy of which can
be seen in photographs of Picasso’s studio after his death.  Time Line  Thus “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” densely embodies a
procession of styles in Western art, read from left to right:
antiquity through the Renaissance to modernity, which Picasso
shows transformed by the abrupt arrival of non-Western cultures,
represented by scarified tribal masks from Africa and Oceania.  Although he later tried to minimize it, Picasso also had an
intense spiritual experience at the Trocadero ethnographic
museum just as he was formulating “Les Demoiselles.” Sixteen
years earlier, Gauguin had abandoned Paris for Tahiti. Picasso
saw Gauguin’s South Seas paintings at two posthumous
retrospectives; their influence can be detected in the dusky
complexion of the left-hand demoiselle, who resembles Oceanic
ancestor spirits like the stone sentinels of Easter Island.  But how tranquil Gauguin’s Tahitian pictures seem compared
with Picasso’s visceral adaptation of what was then called
“primitivism.” Picasso zeroes in on the violence of ancient
nature cults, with their rituals of blood sacrifice. Sex as
portrayed in “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” is a gateway to an
impersonal world of pure biologic force where man is nothing and
where woman, a mother goddess splitting into her weird sisters,
is everything.  The little table has been seen as a phallically thrusting
prow (in early sketches, a sailor sat at stage center). But it
can also be viewed as a ruined altar laden with ashy forbidden
fruits -- a melon slice resembling a scythe-like crescent moon,
a mottled pear and apple looking like hacked meat.  Has castration already occurred? The meat motif is blatant
in the left-hand figure, whose floor-length pink peignoir gives
her a third leg, like a slab of well-marbled beef. French argot
for a working-class brothel was “slaughterhouse” (maison
d’abattage; compare “abattoir”). Yes, whores are meat on the
rack. But the bladelike leg resting on the floor suggests it is
the lady’s clients who have been butchered, their blood washing
down onto her sturdy, mannish foot.  Sleepless Eyes  There are no welcoming smiles in this cabal of urban
nymphs. Their snakelike lidless eyes are fixed and blank or at
mismatched angles or missing altogether. They are sleepless
watchmen of the heaven-hell of sex, where the price of momentary
ecstasy may be disease or obliteration of identity. The
jewellike, geometric facets of cubism are anticipated in
Picasso’s transformation of round breasts into aggressive
squares with razor points (combined with unsettlingly reversed
underarm hair).  The colors of “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” paint an
elemental drama from earth brown to sky blue. These fierce women
enact what the Bible credits to Jehovah -- the division of land
from ocean and the creation of the firmament with sun and moon.
The cosmic birth process is literalized in a splash of blood
ringing the splayed demoiselle. Her squat stool is a bordello
bidet but also a low birthing chair, basic to old rural
societies all over the world. In Picasso’s first sketches, a
male medical student or city health inspector holding a book
locks eyes with the crouching demoiselle: The gruesome mystery
of procreation can be observed but not explained by science.  Picasso called this work “my first exorcism painting.” It
was an experiment in black magic. With its graceful, chalky
outlines yet jagged fractures and distortions, it weds beauty to
ugliness.  These statuesque demoiselles, crowding the flat picture
plane, are Picasso’s carnal Muses, patrons of his genius and
titanic productivity. (He left 50,000 works in a vast range of
genres and materials.) In this, his greatest painting until his
political protest mural, Guernica, 30 years later, he confronts
the mothers of his creative vision. Mutating through many faces,
they are the models for the restlessly mercurial styles of his
long career. He cannot conquer them, but their intense gaze
conveys that they are choosing him, and only him.  (Camille Paglia, university professor of humanities and
media studies at the University of the Arts in Philadelphia, is
the author of “Sexual Personae,” “Sex, Art and American Culture”
and “Vamps & Tramps,” among other books. This is the third in a
series of four excerpts from her new book, “ Glittering Images: A
Journey Through Art from Egypt to Star Wars ,” which will be
published by Pantheon Books on Oct. 16. The opinions expressed
are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2  and  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the future of affirmative
action  and on  combating North African extremism ; Margaret
Carlson on  Maine ’s crazy Senate race; Clive Crook on  Hugo
Chavez’s uncomfortable victory in  Venezuela ; Jonathan Orszag and
Peter Orszag on  how Jack Welch could help improve jobs data .  To contact the writer of this article:
Camille Paglia at  ask_camille@salon.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 