-- BorgWarner CEO Says Fourth Quarter May Be ‘Difficult’
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-09T20:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/borgwarner-ceo-says-fourth-quarter-may-be-difficult-.html
BorgWarner Inc. (BWA) , which makes
turbochargers, is concerned the fourth quarter may be “more
difficult” for companies as a slowdown in Europe widens, Tim Manganello, chief executive officer, said in an interview.  “The fourth quarter could be a little bit more
difficult,” Manganello told  Tom Keene  today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.” “The economic mood of not just
the country but globally has gotten a little bit more
conservative and a little bit more nervous.”  Auto sales in the region are slumping to a 17-year low.
BorgWarner is seeing the region’s slowdown expanding, the
company’s chief said. German automakers were the last ones to
make production cuts, following moves by French and Italian
carmakers, he said.  Fiat SpA (F)  will cut its outlook for the market
when the company updates its five-year plan that runs through
2014, CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday in Columbus, Ohio.  “It’s now gone across the full landscape in Europe,”
Manganello said.  BorgWarner in July said profit this year would be $5.05 to
$5.25 a share, excluding some items, compared with a January
forecast of as much as $5.65, because of “weakening global
economic conditions.” The average estimate of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is for a profit of $5.11.  The company projected that sales will rise 4 percent to 6
percent, compared with an earlier forecast of as much as 12
percent, according to a statement. BorgWarner reports third-
quarter results Oct. 31.  Fiscal Cliff  Uncertainty globally and the so-called fiscal cliff in the
U.S. is causing the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based auto supplier
to curtail investment, Manganello said. More than $600 billion
in automatic tax increases and spending cuts are set to take
effect in January. That is one of the “main sources of risk”
facing the  U.S. economy ,  Ben S. Bernanke , the chairman of the
 Federal Reserve , has said.  “People are sitting on cash,” Manganello said. “When
larger companies like ours are sitting on cash that trickles
down to the small guys. They’re not going to invest if we’re not
going to invest.”  If needed, Manganello said the company can adjust its
temporary workforce in Europe to match demand. About 20 percent
to 25 percent of its workers in the region are temporary, he
said. In the U.S., BorgWarner can cut jobs “if we have to.”  BorgWarner fell 4.3 percent to $69.45 at the close in  New
York , the biggest drop since June 1. The shares have risen 9
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  