-- Bramer Bank of Mauritius Looks to Africa for Revenue Boost
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-10-10T10:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/bramer-bank-of-mauritius-seeks-african-business-to-boost-revenue.html
Bramer Banking Corp. (BBCL) , Mauritius’s
third-biggest lender by market value, expects its African
business to more than double and account for a quarter of
revenue as it focuses on operations in Africa.  “Although it will be a tough year, we expect regional
activities to rise to 25 percent of revenue from about 10
percent through trade financing, corporate banking and
syndicated loans,” Acting Chief Executive Officer Ashraf Esmael
said in an interview on Oct. 5, in  Port Louis , the capital.  Mauritius, an Indian Island Ocean nation of 1.3 million
people, has 20 licensed lenders, according to Bank of Mauritius
data. Mauritius has seen reduced demand from  Europe , which
accounts for 60 percent of the nation’s exports, because of the
region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Bramer’s two biggest competitors are  Mauritius Commercial
Bank (MCB)  and  State Bank of Mauritius Ltd. (SBM) , which have a combined 39
percent weighting in the 39-member  SEMDEX (SEMDEX)  gauge. Its loan book
was 6.4 billion rupees ($210 million) by the end of June,
according to a  statement  on the Stock Exchange of Mauritius
website, while deposits were 8.5 billion rupees. After-tax
income for the two months through June was 2 million rupees.  “When you are a small bank, it is easier to grow faster
through offering products different from the mainstream,”
Esmael said. “In the wake of the crisis, we aim at being
flexible with corporate clients. It’s a long-term plan,” he
said, referring to the euro-area crisis  Sun Resorts Ltd., the country’s second-biggest leisure
company by market value, secured a 4.5 million-euro loan from
Bramer last month, and the bank is positioning itself to loan to
small small companies through a network of about 170 outlets,
Esmael said.  Since its shares started trading on May 9, Bramer has
fallen 15 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a 1.8 percent loss by the largest lender,
Mauritius Commercial Bank, and a 3.1 percent gain by  State Bank 
of Mauritius, the second-largest lender. All the lenders’ shares
were unchanged today in Port Louis trading. The SEMDEX index is
down 5.6 percent over the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  