-- Brazil Ministry Calls for Return of Ethanol Fuel Blend to 25%
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-10-09T17:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/brazil-ministry-calls-for-return-of-ethanol-fuel-blend-to-25-.html
Brazil ’s Ministry of Mines and Energy
wants the percentage of ethanol in vehicle fuel sold in the
country to be increased to 25 percent from 20 percent as sugar-
cane production rises.  The government must approve the new mix, which may take
effect at the start of the next sugar-cane harvest, Ricardo de
Gusmao Dornelles, director of the renewable fuels department at
the ministry, said today at a conference in Rio de Janeiro.  Energy Minister Edison Lobao said Aug. 17 that the country
was considering raising the amount of ethanol in fuel. Brazil
cut the ethanol blend to 20 percent from 25 percent last  October 
after prices of the renewable fuel rose following a poor cane
harvest.  State-controlled oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  made up
for the shortfall by importing more gasoline, Salim Morsy, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s  Sao Paulo  office, said
today in a telephone interview.  “Next year, there should be ample feedstock, so we won’t
see the same price volatility we saw in 2011,” Morsy said.
Petrobras, as the company is known, “has been clamoring for a
rise in the blend.”  Companies replanted about 15 percent of their cane in the
2011-12 crop year, which starts in April in the Center South
region, compared with half that the previous season.  “Assuming the weather is good, next season’s crop will be
substantially better than this year’s,” Morsy said.  The measure may push the price of anhydrous ethanol, which
is blended with gasoline in Brazil, up by 7 cents a liter, Morsy
said. Anhydrous ethanol sold at an average 1.14 reais (56 cents)
a liter for the week ended Oct. 5.  The renewable fuel rose to a record high of 2.47 reais
($1.21) for the week ended April 15, 2011, from 1.24 reais from
the week ended Jan. 7, according to information compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  