-- Brisa Investors Weigh Keeping Shares After Delisting Request
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-10-09T14:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/brisa-investors-weigh-keeping-shares-after-delisting-request.html
A group of minority investors in
 Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal  SA is holding onto its stock
even after the biggest shareholder requested a delisting, as
they bet on continued dividends and a higher share price if
Portugal’s biggest toll-road operator returns to the market.  The investors “may be happy to remain as shareholders, get
paid dividends and wait for the company to return to the stock
market at a later date,” Francisco Goarmon, a trader at
Probolsa in Lisbon, said by phone today.  Tagus Holdings Sarl, controlled by one of Portugal’s
richest families, and Aeif Apollo Sarl secured an 85 percent
stake in Brisa and 92 percent of voting rights in August after
completing a 2.76 euro-a-share offer. The Tagus bid valued Brisa
at 1.66 billion euros ($2.2 billion).  Brisa is likely to pay dividends to help Tagus repay part
of the debt from its bid, Goarmon said.  Tagus asked securities regulator CMVM on Sept. 4 to remove
Brisa’s public company status. Under Portuguese rules, a
shareholder with more than 90 percent of voting rights after a
takeover can make such a request.  Investors who have built or held onto stakes in Brisa may
also “be hoping the securities regulator will ask Tagus to
voluntarily buy the remaining stake in Brisa before removing it
from trading,” Goarmon said.  Espirito Santo  Portugal  Accoes, one of Portugal’s seven
equity funds invested exclusively in domestic stocks, raised its
stake in Brisa in September, according to data on the  website  of
Portugal’s securities regulator CMVM.  Domestic Funds  Alves Ribeiro-Medias Empresas Portugal, another domestic
fund, held onto its 20,000 Brisa shares in September while the
remaining five funds that invest only in Portuguese stocks no
longer held stakes in the toll-road operator, data from CMVM
showed. The seven domestic funds have a combined 144 million
euros under management.  “Some investors may have bought Brisa shares after they
declined when the Tagus bid was completed and could be waiting
to receive a better price in the future,” Pedro Oliveira, a
trader at Go Bulling in Lisbon, said today.  Brisa has declined almost 30 percent since Aug. 9, when the
Lisbon-based company announced the results of the offer. The
stock traded at 1.92 euros, down 3 percent, at 2:12 p.m. in
Lisbon, near the company’s base in the suburb of Sao Domingos de
Rana.  Jose Valente, fund manager for  Espirito Santo Portugal
Accoes (ESPTACC) , and Paulo Monteiro, who manages the Alves Ribeiro-Medias
Empresas Portugal fund, were not immediately available for
comment.  CMVM Chairman Carlos Tavares said Sept. 27 the law was not
clear about shareholder rights in the case of a delisting. An
official at CMVM said today that the Tagus request is under
review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  