-- British Airways Delivers Qatar Coup After Charm Offensive
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-10-09T14:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/british-airways-delivers-qatar-coup-after-charm-offensive.html
Qatar Airways Ltd.’s move to become
the first Gulf member of a global airline alliance represents a
coup for  British Airways (IAG)  chief Willie Walsh, who had pursued the
accord, and may lead to deeper ties between the companies.  The deal secures the second-biggest unattached carrier for
Oneworld and gives British Airways and allies including American
Airlines access to destinations in high-growth markets in Asia,
Africa and the  Middle East , where the U.K. operator has lagged
behind rivals  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Qatar Air will become a Oneworld member within 18 months,
with British Airways as its mentor, the companies said yesterday
in New York. The accord was secured after Walsh, chief executive
officer of BA parent IAG, courted counterpart Akbar  Al Baker  and
comes after  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  ended a 17-year tie-up in favor
of a deal with Emirates, the top Gulf carrier, and Air France
agreed to start code-sharing with regional No. 3  Etihad Airways .  “I would think  Willie Walsh  was instrumental in the
deal,” said James Hollins, an analyst at Investec in London
with a “buy” rating on IAG, as International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA is known. “He has been seeking further
inroads into the Middle and  Far East , having pulled off the
tight alliance with American Airlines to the west. Great work.”  Bankia Stake  Walsh said in April that a Gulf carrier would probably join
an alliance in 2012 and that Oneworld members were “debating”
the issue, with Doha-based Qatar the top candidate. “I admire
what Qatar has achieved,” he said then, adding: “The combination
of what Al Baker has done with the airline and what Qatar has
done with the new airport at Doha makes it very interesting.”  John Strickland , director of JLS Consulting in London, said
Al Baker had spoken “very positively” about the Irishman in the
past, citing his success in tackling issues such as new BA pay
grades for cabin crew, which he pushed through despite a strike.  “You can talk about return on equity and profitability and
any number of measures, but at the end of the day the question
of how people get on is of fundamental importance,” he said.  Collaboration might not stop with Oneworld, according to
Credit Suisse AG analyst Neil Glynn, who said Qatar may be a
candidate to take over a 12 percent stake in IAG currently held
by Bankia group. The nationalized Spanish lender no longer has
strategic value as a shareholder, Walsh, 50, said on Aug. 3.  “We expect Oneworld entry to prompt further investor
questions as to whether a Qatar investment in IAG is likely,”
Gynn said today in a note to clients.  Hub Squeeze  IAG rose as much as 1.2 percent to 165.50 pence before
trading little changed as of 3:03 p.m. in London.  American
Airlines  parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , with which BA dominates trans-
Atlantic routes from  London Heathrow  after winning approval for
a revenue-sharing deal in 2010, was priced 2 percent lower.  Qatar Air is joining Oneworld after a decade in which
inter-continental transfer hubs built up by the three big Gulf
operators have stripped lucrative long-haul traffic away from
older network carriers, pressuring earnings at companies already
struggling with lackluster growth and high labor costs.  Only two years ago Walsh was among European executives who
met in London to discuss ways of slowing the encroachment,
including the extension of export credit guarantees to carriers
from Britain, France, Germany, Spain and the U.S., which as the
home nations of planemakers Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  had been
denied the aid. Middle Eastern carriers have been the biggest
buyers of jets in recent years, with Qatar Air having 111 planes
in the fleet and 250 on order worth $50 billion at list prices.  Etihad Accord  Relations have thawed as Gulf operators move away from a
strategy of isolationism and breakneck growth to focus on
filling seats. The switch isn’t altruistic, according to Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin, who said
Oneworld membership will allow Qatar to focus on adding routes
to emerging economies while sustaining feed from mature markets.  Etihad’s Air France deal, announced hours before the Qatar
Air decision, should lead to a “larger strategic partnership”
with Europe’s biggest carrier, the Abu Dhabi-based company said.
It didn’t say if the plan is to eventually join the Paris-based
carrier’s SkyTeam group, which includes  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Etihad had already been most active in engaging with other
operators, taking stakes in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Aer Lingus Group
Plc, Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. and Air Seychelles Ltd. and
signing 40 code-share deals, including that with Air France-KLM.  Emirates Approach  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
traffic, remains comparatively aloof even after the tie-up with
Australia’s Qantas a month ago, code-sharing with 10 other
carriers, according to its website. President  Tim Clark  has said
the Dubai-based company has no need of conventional global
alliances, contending that they add little value.  Of the 120 destinations served by Qatar Air, 15 will be new
to Oneworld, which will also gain access to three new countries
-- Iran, Rwanda and the Seychelles -- extending the alliance’s
coverage to 856 cities in 159 nations.  “Qatar is the best overall fit for Oneworld and can
deliver the biggest benefits to the alliance, our airlines and
our customers,” Oneworld CEO Bruce Ashby said in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  