-- Bustles, Polka Dots Offer Treat for Paris Fashionistas
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-10-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/bustles-polka-dots-offer-treat-for-paris-fashionistas.html
How do you produce a sure-fire
blockbuster exhibition?  Here’s the recipe: You gang up with other museums, bring
together 60 masterpieces by popular painters, add an equal
number of beautiful dresses and have the whole thing staged by a
seasoned set designer.  That’s exactly what the  Musee d’Orsay  has done.  “Impressionism and Fashion” has been organized jointly
with  New York ’s  Metropolitan Museum  and the  Art Institute of
Chicago , where the show will travel next year. Most of the
costumes come from the  Musee Galliera  and the Musee des Arts
Decoratifs,  France ’s leading fashion collections.  The title isn’t quite correct. For sure, the exhibition is
dominated by the pillars of Impressionism -- Manet, Monet, Degas
and Renoir.  Yet there are also plenty of others who have little or
nothing to do with that school -- slick society painters such as
Charles Carolus-Duran, James Tissot and Alfred Stevens and even
some “pompiers” (firemen) as the French like to call 19th-
century academic artists.  Matching Dresses  The organizers haven’t tried to track down costumes that
directly correspond to those on the canvases. They contented
themselves with dresses from the same period (1860-85).  The only exception is the polka-dot gown Madame Albert
Bartholome is wearing in a portrait painted by her husband. You
can admire original and copy side by side.  Robert Carsen, the set designer who staged the show, has
created a playful maze of corridors and rooms of various sizes.  In one room, you find rows of gilded chairs, each with the
name of a famous contemporary -- including the “grandes
horizontales” Cora Pearl and Marie Duplessis, the model of “La
Dame aux Camelias.” (In fact, Marie belonged to an earlier
period: She died of consumption in 1847.)  The paintings are grouped thematically, according to the
surroundings in which the women appear -- in their living rooms,
bedrooms, in public or in the country.  Discarded Lingerie  The most amusing picture is Henri Gervex’s  “Rolla,” a
splendid nude resting on her bed after a stormy night while her
lover, already fully dressed, is watching her.  Although Gervex was a “pompier” with impeccable
credentials, the Salon rejected the painting. The jurors didn’t
mind the naked woman; what shocked them was her discarded
underwear carelessly strewn across the floor.  Both the paintings and the costumes demonstrate that the
crinoline favored by Empress Eugenie gradually disappeared and
was replaced by the “cul de Paris,” or bustle.  The gentleman of the time loved his lady dressed in layers
of silk and velvet with a wasp waist and a protruding bust and
bottom.  Fans, hats, gloves and other accessories complement the
costumes.  Men’s fashion, much less varied and mostly somber, plays
second fiddle in the exhibition. Manet, Renoir and their fellow
artists on Henri Fantin-Latour’s celebrated canvas “A Studio in
Les Batignolles” look as if they were coming from a funeral.  “L’Impressionisme et la Mode” is not a show that will
broaden your horizon. It’s easy on the eye and easy on the mind.
And that’s exactly why it will be a tremendous hit.  The exhibition, which is supported by LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton and Christian Dior SA, runs through Jan. 20, 2013.
It will be at the  Metropolitan Museum  from Feb. 19 to May 27,
and at the Art Institute of  Chicago  from June 29 to Sept. 22,
2013.  For more information, go to  http://www.musee-orsay.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on art and  James 
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 