-- California Gasoline Hits Record After Winter-Grade Shift
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-10-09T19:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/california-gasoline-rises-to-record-after-winter-grade-shift.html
Gasoline prices at the pump in
California rose to a record overnight even as Governor  Jerry Brown  directed state regulators to allow refineries to produce
more supply by shifting to winter-grade fuel.  Regular gasoline at the pump  climbed to an all-time peak of
$4.671 a gallon, according to data published today by AAA, the
nation’s largest motoring organization. That’s up from the
previous record of $4.668 reported at the same time yesterday.
Prices jumped 50 cents last week as refineries reduced output
and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  shut a pipeline because of contamination.  The  California Air Resources Board  granted refineries
permission on Oct. 7 to make an early shift to the winter blend,
typically not sold until after Oct. 31. The switch, which allows
refiners to produce more gasoline by adding butane to the mix,
will take about a week to ease gas prices, said Avery Ash, an
AAA spokesman based in Washington.  “It’s great for alleviating pressure that’s been building
up, but the relief isn’t going to be felt overnight,” Ash said
by phone today. “You’ve got stations that have sold up at
higher prices because they purchased more expensive products
last week. That gasoline has to work its way through the system
before the cheaper stuff gets to consumers.”  Gasoline station owners in the Los Angeles area including
 Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  began to shut pumps last week as oil
refineries started rationing supplies.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  were among companies to allocate fuel to
customers.  ‘Another Week’  Wholesale prices for California-blend gasoline, or Carbob,
on the  spot market , rose 29.84 cents to $3.5415 a gallon in Los
Angeles, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The same 85.5-octane
blend gained 29.84 cents to $3.4615 in  San Francisco .  “We’re probably close to reaching a peak,” Tom Robinson,
president of Robinson Oil Corp., said by phone from Santa Clara,
California today. “The question is when and how fast will
prices come down, especially with the supply constraint.”  Prices began to skyrocket after Exxon Mobil’s 150,000-
barrel-a-day refinery in Torrance, near  Los Angeles , reduced
production Oct. 1 after a  power failure . That followed a fire
that knocked out a crude-processing unit at Chevron’s plant in
Richmond, near San Francisco, in August and the shutdown of a
Chevron pipeline that delivers crude to Northern California
because of contamination.  “California has been paying a bunch more because they
haven’t had the major refineries like Richmond and Torrance,”
Bob van der Valk, an independent petroleum industry analyst in
Terry, Montana, said by phone today. “The bottom line is that
prices aren’t going to come down in just a day or even a few
days. We won’t see the agony ease for another week.”  Valero Refineries  The state’s gasoline markets are particularly susceptible
when refineries have outages because California is mostly cut
off from the oil-product pipelines spanning the rest of the
country, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Gasoline in California also has its own blending
requirements to reduce smog and it’s difficult to import from
other states.  Governor Brown’s winter-grade decision allow refiners to
produce as much as 10 percent more gasoline, according to  David Hackett , the president of independent fuel consultant Stillwater
Associates in Irvine, California.  “It’s like creating another refinery overnight,” Hackett
said by phone yesterday. “When it comes to price, people will
see a difference tomorrow.”  Valero’s Benicia and Wilmington refineries have begun
producing winter-grade gasoline,  Bill Day , a San Antonio-based
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail today.  Gasoline stockpiles in California dropped 122,000 barrels,
or 2.1 percent, to 5.77 million in the week ended Sept. 28,
according to the most recent data compiled by the state Energy
Commission. That’s down 10 percent from a year ago and the
lowest inventory level for that period since 1999.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  