-- ‘Rock Star’ Johnson Urges Halt to Talk of Challenge to Cameron
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-09T13:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/cameron-calls-johnson-rock-star-as-tory-rivalry-turns-personal.html
London Mayor Boris Johnson urged a
halt to speculation about his Tory party leadership ambitions as
rivalry between him and Prime Minister David Cameron got
personal, with the premier dubbing him a “rock star”.  “I would welcome the spotlight moving away from what I
think is an increasingly tired, hackneyed, desiccated, super-
masticated issue,” Johnson told the BBC’s “World at One”
radio program in Birmingham, central England, today after
addressing the  Conservatives’ annual conference . He was
referring to constant questioning about his ambitions.  Johnson and Cameron spent this morning making quips at each
other’s expense, with the prime minister saying his position
forced him to make unpopular decisions as Johnson, who’s been
followed by crowds of activists at the Tory conference, basked
in “rock star status.” The mayor has failed to damp
suggestions he might challenge for the leadership if the premier
fails to secure a Conservative majority in the next general
election, due in 2015.  “It’s great we’ve got someone with rock star status in the
party,” Cameron told ITV’s “Daybreak” program when questioned
about the mayor’s popularity. Johnson’s speech to the conference
today drew a standing ovation, as did his appearance at a rally
last night. There were chants of “Boris” as the mayor arrived
at Birmingham’s New Street station yesterday by train from
 London .  “There are lots of people that are more popular than me in
this world, because I have to be the one who takes the difficult
decisions on behalf of the country to recover us from the
dreadful situation we have found ourselves in,” Cameron said
this morning.  Italian Restaurant  Johnson dined last night at an Italian restaurant in
Birmingham. As he walked through the eatery, diners paused to
stare at him and several later sought his autograph.  Midway through his meal, Johnson took the metal stand that
had been holding a plate of antipasti and put it on his head and
looked around the restaurant to see what reaction he was
getting.  In his address to the conference today, Johnson made fun of
Cameron, who was sitting in the audience. He recalled an
interview the prime minister gave Oct. 7 in which he described
Johnson as a “blond-haired mop” in a reference to his unruly
hairstyle.  “Well, if I am a mop then you are a broom,” Johnson said.
“A broom that is cleaning up the mess left by the Labour
government and a fantastic job you are doing. I thank you and
congratulate you and your colleagues,” including Chancellor of
the Exchequer “George Osborne, the dustpan.”  Magna Carta  Johnson, a classics scholar, also taunted Cameron about his
appearance on CBS’s “Late Show with David Letterman” in New
York last month in which the prime minister failed to correctly
translate Magna Carta (Great Charter), the name of the document
that’s the foundation of British democracy, from the original
Latin.  Buoyed by re-election in May and the success of the London
Olympics in August, Johnson has increasingly been touted by Tory
activists as a possible successor to Cameron, whose poll ratings
have fallen.  The mayor has been critical of some Cameron policies in
areas such as welfare. In a bid to quell doubts over his
loyalty, Johnson paid tribute to the premier at last night’s
rally.  “No one should have any cause to doubt my admiration for
David Cameron,” Johnson said. “In tough circumstances, he and
George Osborne and the rest of the government are doing exactly
what’s needed for this country to clear up the mess that Labour
left” when it was ousted from power in 2010, leaving a record
budget deficit.  ‘Downton Abbey’  When asked on the  BBC ’s “Today” radio program whether
Cameron could send Johnson abroad as some kind of ambassador for
Britain once his term of mayor is over, Cameron replied “I’m
not sure which country deserves him the most.”  In an LBC radio interview yesterday, Johnson compared talk
of a leadership challenge to a storyline in the television
costume drama “Downton Abbey,” saying that “in Tory party
politics, there has always got to be some kind of plot.”  A  survey of Tory members  for the ConservativeHome website
found that Johnson had a net satisfaction rating of plus 91,
higher than any Cabinet minister. Cameron’s was at plus 1. The
website questioned 1,872 people on Oct. 4 and 5.  The premier’s  net approval rating  in regular YouGov Plc
polls has slumped to minus 24 in the most recent survey, carried
out Oct. 4-5, from plus 36 after he took office in May 2010.  Johnson used his speech today to promote the British
capital, citing products that are manufactured there, such as
cake exported to Paris and mosquito repellent to  Brazil .  ‘Bendy-Bus Fetishists’  “We have the right time zone, the right language and we
have the right government in Westminster, and I will fight to
keep it there,” Johnson said. Referring to his re-election in
May, he said, “We fought to keep London from lurching back into
the grip of a Marxist cabal of taxpayer-funded Chateauneuf du
Pape-swilling tax-minimizers and bendy-bus fetishists.”  Johnson has eliminated the articulated buses introduced by
his Labour predecessor, Ken Livingstone, on the grounds that
they block traffic.  Johnson “is clearly trying to establish himself as the man
the Tories have to turn to when the present leadership is seen
to have failed,” his biographer, Andrew Gimson, said in a
telephone interview.  Cameron hailed the Olympics, which Johnson helped to
oversee, as the most successful in a century this morning. With
the venues virtually sold out, there were no security lapses
during the games and few disruptions to transport. British
athletes outperformed official expectations, finishing third in
the gold-medal table.  “We need to go forward now from the age of excess under
Labour,” Johnson said. “Through the age of austerity to a new
age of enterprise in which we do what we did in the Olympics and
build a world-beating platform for Britain for British people
and businesses to compete and win, and we need to do it now
under the Conservatives, and we will and it begins here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham,  England , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  