-- Cameron Says U.K. Recovery Is Taking Longer, on Track
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-10T23:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/cameron-says-britain-is-faced-by-choice-between-do-or-decline-.html
(Corrects 16th paragraph to show that  New York ’s mayor is a
political independent.)  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
Britain’s economic recovery is taking longer than anticipated,
seeking to reassure voters that austerity measures are working,
as his opponents called for an easing of government cuts.  In the keynote speech closing his  Conservative Party ’s
annual conference today, Cameron cited his “duty” to see
Britain out of recession and made what he called a “serious
argument” for pursuing his deficit-reduction strategy as polls
show wavering support for the premier.  “Now I know you are asking whether the plan is working,”
Cameron told delegates in Birmingham, central England. “And
here’s the truth: the damage was worse than we thought, and it’s
taking longer than we hoped. Yes, it’s worse than we thought,
yes, it’s taking longer, but we are making progress.”  Cameron is seeking to focus the nation’s attention on his
attempts to rebalance the economy away from a reliance on
financial services and the public sector, pushing private-sector
growth to emerge from a double-dip recession. He praised
“doers” -- young, aspirational workers who want their own
house or car.  “For us Conservatives, this is not just an economic
mission -- it’s also a moral one,” Cameron said. “It’s not
just about growth and GDP, it’s what’s always made our hearts
beat faster -- aspiration; people rising from the bottom to the
top.”  IMF Warning  Cameron spoke the day after the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its U.K. economic outlook, predicting the economy will
shrink 0.4 percent this year, and warning the  Bank of England 
may need to expand its  stimulus . Opposition Labour Party leader
 Ed Miliband  last week blamed the recession on Cameron’s policies,
saying his austerity program had stifled growth.  “Of course I can’t tell you that all is well, but I can
say this: Britain is on the right track,” Cameron said.  The prime minister rejected calls from Labour to alter
course and adopt a “Plan B,” with slower spending cuts and
deficit-funded stimulus.  “If we did what Labour want, and watered down our plans,
the risk is that the people we borrow money from would start to
question our ability and resolve to pay off our debts,” the
prime minister said. “Some may actually refuse to lend us that
money. Others would only lend it to us at higher  interest rates .
That would hurt the economy and hit people hard.”  ‘Endless’ Talk  Cameron said the U.K. faces a choice between increasing its
productivity or falling behind other countries, warning voters
it’s time to “sink or swim, do or decline.” He criticized the
European Union for its “endless” discussion about bailing out
the  Greek economy , when fast-growing developing economies such
as  China  are “creating a new economy the size of  Greece  every
three months.”  “What do the countries on the rise have in common?”
Cameron said. “They are lean, fit, obsessed with enterprise,
spending money on the future -- on education, incredible
infrastructure and technology. And what do the countries on the
slide have in common? They’re fat, sclerotic, over-regulated,
spending money on unaffordable welfare systems, huge pension
bills, unreformed public services. I am not going to stand here
as prime minister and allow this country to join the slide.”  Cameron’s address was partly a response to Miliband’s own
party-conference speech in Manchester a week ago, when he argued
he was a “one nation” politician who spoke for the whole
country. Cameron used the same phrase, first coined by 19th-
century Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, without
directly mentioning him.  ‘Class War’  “We don’t preach about one nation but practice class
war,” Cameron said, in an attack on Miliband, whom he dubbed an
“intellectual,” a word sometimes used derogatorily in the U.K.  “We just get behind people who want to get on in life; the
doers, the risk-takers. They call us the party of the better-off.
No, we are the party of the want-to-be-better-off, those who
strive to make a better life for themselves and their families -
- and we should never, ever be ashamed of saying so.”  Criticizing Labour’s economic strategy, the premier said,
“whatever the day, whatever the question, whatever the weather
it’s: borrow more money,” Cameron said. “Borrow, borrow,
borrow. Labour: the party of one notion: more borrowing.”  Churchill Comparison  The prime minister’s appearance was preceded by an address
by the mayor of New York,  Michael R. Bloomberg , the political
independent and founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, who likened Cameron’s approach to
government to that of Britain’s World War II leader,  Winston Churchill .  Like Miliband, who frequently refers to his father’s
experience as a Jewish refugee fleeing the Nazis, Cameron talked
about his dad, Ian, who died in 2010, months after the prime
minister took office.  Ian Cameron was born with stunted legs, which he later lost.
“But Dad was the eternal optimist,” Cameron said, explaining
that he’d taken pride in “working hard from the moment he left
school and providing a good start in life for his family. Work
hard. Family comes first. But put back into the community too.”  Cameron also referred to his severely disabled son, Ivan,
who died in 2009, during a passage about this summer’s  London 
Paralympic Games. “I always thought that some people saw the
wheelchair, not the boy,” the prime minister said. “Today more
people would see the boy and not the wheelchair.”  ‘Spread’ Privilege  Cameron echoed Miliband in saying his party is there to
represent the whole country. “The  Conservative Party  is for
everyone: north or south, black or white, straight or gay,” he
said. ‘I’m not here to defend privilege, I’m here to spread
it.”  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
offered Cameron some good news yesterday, saying the U.K.
economy grew at its fastest pace in five years in the third
quarter after a rebound from one-time disruptions in the
previous three months.  Gross domestic product rose 0.8 percent, compared with 0.1
percent in the quarter through August, Niesr, whose clients
include the Bank of England, said in London. That’s the fastest
expansion for a calendar quarter since the third quarter of 2007.
Official data showed the economy shrank 0.4 percent in the three
months through June.  Cameron said a strong private sector, welfare cuts and
schools would form the “battle-lines for the next election”
due in 2015.  “Let’s build an aspiration nation,” he said. “Let’s get
Britain on the rise. Deficit, paid down. Tough decisions, taken.
Growth, fired up. Aspiration, backed all the way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham,  England  at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Birmingham, England at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  