-- Cameron Signals He’ll Offer a U.K. Referendum on EU Ties
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-09T08:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/cameron-signals-he-ll-offer-a-u-k-referendum-on-eu-ties-1-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  came the
closest yet to offering voters a referendum on Britain’s
relationship with the European Union as he sought to appease
euro-skeptic members of his ruling  Conservative Party .  The euro crisis has opened up an opportunity for Britain to
seek a “fresh settlement” with the bloc, Cameron told the
 BBC ’s “Today” radio program. His government would then need to
“seek fresh consent for that settlement” and a referendum
would be “the cleanest, neatest, simplest and most sensible way
of doing things,” he said.  Cameron has hardened his stance on Europe after previously
suggesting that consent could be secured at a general election.
He stopped short of promising what many euro-skeptics want -- a
referendum offering a straight choice between staying in the EU
and leaving it. The premier will tomorrow deliver his keynote
speech to the Conservatives’  annual conference  in Birmingham,
central England.  “Why I have always opposed the straight ’in-out’ question
is that I am neither in favor of out -- leaving altogether --nor
am I satisfied with the status quo,” he said.  Cameron also said that any popular vote would not come
soon. “Right now the priority for  Europe  is to deal with the
euro-zone crisis, so we have to show some tactical, strategic
patience while we help our partners and neighbors sort out their
currency,” he said.  Opt-Outs  Britain is examining areas of policy opt-outs from the EU.
On Oct. 6, when asked about the possibility of abandoning the
free movement of labor in Europe, Cameron said, “heavens above,
we have got so many unemployed people in our country,” refusing
to say whether it is an area he is looking at.  Home Secretary Theresa May was cited by the Sunday Times
newspaper Oct. 6 as calling for a review of workers’ ability to
switch countries, one of the EU’s central tenets, as the
government seeks to control immigration.  “We are looking at this whole area of the abuse of the
freedom of movement,” the newspaper quoted May as saying. “But
we will go further on this, and the issue of free movement will
be part of the review” the government is carrying out into
Britain’s relationship with the EU.  Cameron today repeated his suggestion that the EU should
have a two-tier budget structure, with countries in the euro
region paying more toward governance of the 27-nation bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Birmingham,  England , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  