-- Canadian Dollar Fluctuates as Commodities Rise, Stocks Decline
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-09T14:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/canadian-dollar-gains-as-commodities-oil-prices-boost-sentiment.html
The Canadian dollar fluctuated versus
its U.S. counterpart as commodity prices advanced while stocks
declined amid shifting risk sentiment.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained earlier as the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials advanced and oil snapped
two days of losses. The currency rose last week as September
jobs gains that were five times higher than forecast added to
speculation the  Bank of Canada  may be moving closer to boosting
 interest rates .  “The Canadian dollar continues to be from a relative value
position a buy,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, said in a phone
interview. “The fundamental argument is still looking to be
positive for the Canadian dollar based on the decent payrolls
and the ongoing dialog coming from the Bank of Canada officials
that they need to normalize policy as soon as possible.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 97.72 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:41 a.m. in Toronto, after gaining as much as
0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0232.  Oil, Commodities  Oil advanced 1.4 percent to $90.62 a barrel in  New York ,
paring two days of losses and trading above $90 dollars a barrel
for the first time in two days. The S&P GSCI commodities gauge
advanced 1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.4
percent.  The Canadian dollar is consolidating gains following the
Oct. 5 employment report,  George Davis , chief technical analyst
for fixed income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank
of Canada, said in a note to clients. The loonie is forecast to
trade in a range of 97.40 to 97.80 today, Davis said in the
note.  Canadian bonds declined, with the yield on the benchmark
10-year note adding one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 1.81 percent. The 2.75 security due June 2022, slipped 5
cents to C$108.27.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$2.7 billion ($2.8
billion) in three-year notes tomorrow. The last sale of this
note maturity on Aug. 29 was C$2.9 billion and yielded 1.278
percent with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.73, measuring the level
of bids versus the amount of debt for sale.  The loonie remained higher as German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  issued a statement following a discussion with Greek
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras.  Merkel Views  Merkel visited  Greece  today for the first time since the
debt crisis began in 2009 after the region’s ministers yesterday
hailed the country’s determination to cut its budget and reshape
its economy, raising the chances that aid will keep flowing to
Greece. “I repeat what I said in Berlin. I want Greece to stay
in the euro,” Merkel said during a joint press conference with
Samaras.  “We’ve seen some movement to and fro, with the last uptick
in the Canadian dollar coinciding with the pullback in the
euro,” Matthew Perrier, Toronto-based director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal, said in a phone interview. “The
market seems less than enthusiastic about Merkel’s speech in
Greece not offering a whole lot new there and paying more lip
service to the crisis.”  Finance ministers from all the 27 countries in the European
Union convened in Luxembourg today in the lead up to a summit of
the region’s leaders in Brussels on Oct. 18-19.  Canadian housing starts were 220,215 at a seasonally
adjusted annual pace in September, Ottawa-based  Canada  Mortgage
& Housing Corp. said on its website today. Economists forecast a
reading of 205,000, according to the median of 22 responses to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Canada’s dollar has gained 2.7 percent this year against
nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  