-- Capital One Target as Cyber Attacks Resume on U.S. Banks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-10-09T23:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/capital-one-target-as-cyber-attacks-resume-on-u-s-banks.html
Capital One (COF)  Financial Corp. said it
was the latest target in a new round of coordinated cyber
attacks aimed at disrupting the websites of major U.S. banks,
and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Regions Financial (RF)  Corp. said they
expect to be next.  Pam Girardo, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, confirmed in an e-mail statement today that the
bank’s online systems were disrupted and later that most online
services had been restored.  “At this point, we have no reason to believe that customer
and account information is at risk,” she said in the earlier
statement.  The computer assaults are a continuation of a campaign that
began last month using commercial servers to overload bank
websites with  Internet traffic , temporarily disrupting and
slowing online services for customers.  A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Quassam Cyber Fighters
has claimed responsibility for the attacks in statements posted
to the website pastebin.com, saying they are in response to a
video uploaded to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube ridiculing the  Prophet
Muhammad  and offending some Muslims.  The group gave notice that distributed denial-of-service,
or DDoS, attacks would continue today against Capital One,
followed by SunTrust tomorrow and Regions Financial on Oct. 11.  The attacks reveal that some of the nation’s most advanced
computer defenses are vulnerable to cyber attacks even if the
targets know they’re coming.  Online Service  Evelyn Mitchell , a spokeswoman for Birmingham, Alabama-
based Regions Financial, said in an e-mailed statement today
that the bank knows about the warning.  “We are aware that the group claiming responsibility for
these attacks has identified Regions as one of its targets,”
she said. “We take online security seriously and are taking
every measure to protect the company and our customers.”  Michael McCoy , spokesman for Atlanta-based SunTrust, said
it’s reacting to the threat.  “We are aware of the threat and are working to mitigate
any disruption to our clients should an attack occur, but we
will decline to offer specifics,” McCoy said.  DDoS attacks, which are relatively common, harness networks
of infected computers to bombard websites with traffic in an
effort to slow or crash them. In the case of the banks, the
attackers commandeered commercial servers, which were able to
pump a larger volume of traffic at the sites, according to
cybersecurity researchers.  Encrypted Data  Another unique aspect of the attacks is that they are using
encrypted data to bypass the bank’s firewalls and other security
devices, Carl Herberger, a vice president for the network
security firm Radware Inc., said in a telephone interview.  “We haven’t seen this before, and now we see them every
day during the past couple of weeks,” Herberger said, adding
that his company is working with the banks to investigate the
attacks. “It’s an advanced attack, and frankly a lot of the
banks are just getting their heads around the architecture to
mitigate these attacks.”  There’s no evidence the attacks have resulted in thefts of
data or money, Herberger said from his company’s North American
headquarters in  New Jersey . He said he couldn’t rule out the
possibility the attacks are inserting malware into bank networks
to steal data or money later.  Complex Attacks  “The attacks are sophisticated,”  William Nelson ,
president of the Financial Services Information Sharing and
Analysis Center, said at a roundtable discussion in Washington
today. “It is a challenge.”  “If you put up one defense, they have a workaround” and
have the ability to change how they’re attacking, Nelson said.
The attacks are “defendable,” he said, while declining to
provide details of the attacks or discuss who may be
responsible.  “It’s more complex,” Nelson said of the attacks. “It’s
something we haven’t really seen before.”  Asked about the Internet posting about new banks targeted
this week, Nelson said the banks “knew about it immediately so
they can take action immediately.”  “They’re in contact, I can assure you, with the right
people within government and other members,” he said.  The FS-ISAC was established in 1999 to disseminate cyber
threat information to the financial-services industry. It works
with the U.S. Treasury and Homeland Security departments, and
its 4,200 members include large banks and credit-card companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  