-- Orioles Beat Yankees to Tie MLB Playoff Series as Cardinals Roll
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-09T04:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/cardinals-defeat-nationals-12-4-to-tie-mlb-playoff-series-at-1-1.html
Wei-Yin Chen outpitched Andy Pettitte
as the Baltimore Orioles beat the New York Yankees 3-2 to tie
their Major League Baseball playoff series at one game apiece.  Chen, a 27-year-old rookie left-hander from  Taiwan , allowed
two runs -- one earned -- over 6 1/3 innings in his postseason
debut to prevent the Orioles from losing the first two games of
the best-of-five American League Division Series.  Chris Davis had a two-run single as the Orioles scored
three runs off Pettitte, who was making his major league-record
43rd playoff start and entered the game with 16 career wins at
Baltimore’s Camden Yards, the most of any opposing pitcher.  “You definitely don’t want to go into New York in a five-
game series down two games,” Davis said. “This is big.
Hopefully we built some momentum that we can take to New York.”  The ALDS now shifts to Yankee Stadium for the rest of the
series, including Game 3 tomorrow. Game 4 is scheduled for the
following day, with a fifth game, if necessary, on Oct. 12.  The St. Louis Cardinals tied their National League Division
Series at one game apiece by beating the  Washington  Nationals
12-4 yesterday behind two home runs by Carlos Beltran.  Allen Craig and Daniel Descalso also hit homers as the
Cardinals opened a 7-1 lead after four innings at Busch Stadium
in St. Louis, improving to 9-1 all-time in Game 2 of a NLDS.  The series moves to Washington for Game 3 tomorrow, the
first MLB postseason game held in the nation’s capital since
1933, when the Washington Senators lost to the New York Giants
in the World Series.  The other two division series resume today, with the
Detroit Tigers and Cincinnati Reds seeking victories that would
put them in the league championship series.  2-0 Leads  The Tigers hold a 2-0 lead as they visit the Oakland
Athletics in their AL series and the Reds are home to the San
Francisco Giants after winning the first two games of their NL
series on the road.  The Yankees scored a first-inning run in Baltimore for the
second straight game as Ichiro Suzuki twice avoided a tag at
home plate. New York then was held in check by Chen for the next
five innings.  After Pettitte retired the first eight Orioles in order,
Baltimore struck for two runs with two outs in the third inning.  The Orioles loaded the bases with two singles and a walk
before Davis delivered a two-run single to right field.  “I just left him a ball in the middle of the zone to hit
and that was a serious mistake by me,” Pettitte, who allowed
seven hits in seven innings, told reporters. “That pretty much
cost us the game.”  Another Run  Baltimore extended its lead to 3-1 in the bottom of the
sixth inning as Matt Wieters led off with a double off Pettitte
and scored on a single by Mark Reynolds.  The Yankees answered in the top of the seventh as  Eduardo Nunez  doubled and scored on a single by Derek Jeter. It was the
lone earned run allowed by Chen, who had gone 0-4 in his
previous seven starts since his last win on Aug. 19.  “He made some pitches when he had to,” Yankees manager
Joe Girardi said of Chen at a news conference.  The Orioles allowed only one hit over the final two innings
to improve to 30-9 this season in one-run games, the best record
in the major leagues. Jim Johnson, who allowed five ninth-inning
runs in the Orioles’ 7-2 loss in Game 1, got the final three
outs in the ninth inning last night, including a strikeout of
Alex Rodriguez to end the game. Baltimore is 76-0 this season
when leading after seven innings.  The Yankees now return to New York, where they were a MLB-
best 51-30 this season. The Orioles, however, went 6-3 at Yankee
Stadium this season, winning all three road series.  “We’ve played very well at home and we’re going to have to
continue to do that to move on,” Girardi said.  Cardinals Win  The Cardinals rebounded from a 3-2 home loss in Game 1 of
their series by scoring five runs in the first three innings
against Nationals starting pitcher Jordan Zimmermann.  “It was a must-win game,” Beltran said in a televised
interview. “We wanted to leave this city with an even series.
We know they’re playing good in their ballpark.”  Craig hit a solo homer off Zimmermann in the bottom of the
third inning and Descalso led off the fourth with a home run off
Nationals reliever Craig Stammen.  After the Nationals got back-to-back home runs by Ryan Zimmerman and Adam LaRoche in the fifth inning to pull within
7-3, Beltran hit a 441-foot homer off the facing of the third
deck in the bottom of the sixth inning.  The Cardinals scored four more runs in the eighth,
including two on Beltran’s second homer of the game.  St. Louis is now 24-11 in NLDS games, having won seven of
its previous nine division series.  “We know this offense has the potential to do this,”
Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said at a news conference. “It
was nice to see this, and hopefully it becomes contagious and
the guys just keep going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  