-- Caterpillar’s Worker Hunt Means Welders Top Banking Pay
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/caterpillar-s-worker-hunt-means-welders-top-banking-pay.html
Spence Brennan makes $55,000 as an
assistant manager of a Chinese restaurant chain. He is betting
he can do better as a welder.  On an October morning at Mountain View College in  Dallas ,
the 22-year-old sent sparks flying in a workshop as he practiced
his electric-arc technique. The two-year school is a regular
stop for manufacturers recruiting for skilled technical
openings.  “Job demand is a lot higher in welding than anything
else,” said Brennan, who left a four-year university after two
semesters and expects his training to allow him to almost double
his pay at Pei Wei Asian Diner, a unit of P.F. Chang’s China
Bistro Inc. “I could do at least $100,000 a year.”  Companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  are looking for workers
like Brennan. Even with trades offering competitive pay, skilled
factory vacancies may soar fivefold to 3 million by 2015 amid a
U.S. industry rebound and baby boomer retirements, according to
the Society of Manufacturing Engineers. That shortfall threatens
to jeopardize both the U.S. recovery and corporate growth plans.  The manufacturing mismatch is part of a broader skills gap
in an economy that has more than 3 million  jobs open , even with
an  unemployment rate  that ran at 8 percent or more for 43
straight months until the decline in September to 7.8 percent.  Economics and history are combining to drive the skilled-
worker shortage. High-school graduates are opting in increasing
numbers for four-year schools that can lead to jobs with higher
pay and more prestige, and shying away from manufacturing after
it shed jobs for more than a decade.  Manufacturing Drag  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, finds it difficult to locate prospective
employees with the right skills, Chief Human Resources Officer
 Kimberly Hauer  said.  “Any opening we have slows down our ability to manufacture
at the pace we’d like to,” Hauer said. She said filling a
vacancy for a welder or machinist can take 12 weeks at the
Peoria, Illinois-based company.  Schools that provide training for trades and fields such as
nursing aren’t producing students in great-enough numbers.
Enrollment in two-year colleges that award degrees totaled 7.68
million in 2010, 18 percent more than in 2005. In the same
period, four-year university enrollment climbed 21 percent to
13.3 million, according to the U.S. Education Department.  In  California , community college enrollment has been
shrinking after budget cuts chopped course offerings by almost
25 percent, the system’s  board of governors  said last month in
urging support for a state ballot proposition to increase
higher-education aid. Community-college funding has been reduced
12 percent since 2008-09, the board said.  Welding Shift  Brennan, the student in Dallas, decided to seek an
associate degree in welding technology at Mountain View College
after his year at Stephen F. Austin University in Nacogdoches,
 Texas , convinced him that he wanted something different.  “I was always pushed toward a four-year school,” he said
in an interview after doffing his welding helmet and protective
gloves. “It wasn’t the right path for me. I like working with
my hands.”  At the end of the school year, as many as 20 companies
visit Mountain View College in search of welders, according to
 Dewayne Roy , chief of the school’s welding program. He said all
his graduates find jobs.  Welding is required across industries as varied as highway
construction, school-desk production and the building of
petrochemical plants spurred by rising U.S. natural gas output.  Pay Potential  The average annual salary in the field is $47,900, more
than a bank teller supervisor, according to jobs website
 CareerBuilder . Welders with their own equipment can make $70 an
hour, Roy said. Billing 40 weekly hours at that rate and working
50 weeks a year would produce gross pay of $140,000.  Job skills are taking a central role in the presidential
campaign. Incumbent  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney  are seeking votes in battleground states including  Ohio 
and  Pennsylvania , and former President  Bill Clinton  highlighted
the number of openings during his Sept. 5 speech to the
Democratic National Convention.  The  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  has reported more than
3 million  unfilled private-sector jobs  monthly since November.
Those openings included 694,000 in education and health services
and 660,000 in professional and business services as of July,
the latest data available. Factory-job vacancies totaled
271,000.  More Openings?  Government figures understate the factory shortage,
according to a September 2011  report  by Deloitte LLP for the
National Association of Manufacturers trade group. The report,
based on a survey of 1,123 executives, estimated that there were
600,000 unfilled U.S. jobs in manufacturing.  The  Society of Manufacturing Engineers  used that data as
the basis for its projection of 3 million manufacturing
vacancies in three years.  “It’s the single biggest issue that we have to solve if
the U.S. is going to be a thriving economic force going
forward,” said Mark Tomlinson, chief executive officer of the
Dearborn, Michigan-based group.  The shortage of skilled manufacturing employees will only
deepen once U.S. economic growth returns to a normal pace, said
Craig Giffi, a Deloitte vice chairman and one of the report’s
authors. U.S. gross domestic product grew 1.8 percent in 2011,
compared with Federal Reserve Bank policy makers’ long-term
forecast of 2.2 percent to 3 percent.  “We’re at the edge of a significant problem turning into a
critical problem,” Giffi said. “The only reason it’s staying
out of critical is because growth is stalled.”  Parental Influence  Industrial companies in search of skilled workers cite a
common refrain: reluctance by parents and teachers to steer
young people to factory jobs.  In a 2011 Deloitte survey, only 33 percent of respondents
said they would recommend manufacturing as a career for their
children, and 19 percent agreed with the premise that “our
school system encourages students to pursue careers in
manufacturing.”  The higher pay tied to more education is one draw for four-
year schools. The median annual salary for workers with
associate degrees, a group that includes nurses and diesel
mechanics, is now $36,390. That trails the $47,970 for holders
of bachelor’s degrees, according to the  Education Department .  While about 35 percent of graduates in both categories earn
$40,000 to $75,000 a year, the balance shifts in favor of
bachelor’s degree holders at higher pay ranges. One in four of
those graduates is paid $75,000 or more, compared with about one
in 10 for those with associate degrees.  Manufacturing Slump  Recent history also creates more of a struggle for
manufacturers than other industries to attract skilled workers,
said Gary Green, president of  Forsyth Technical Community
College  in  North Carolina .  Health-care employment grew unabated amid the deepest U.S.
slump in six decades, and students see computers and  information
technology  as industries of the future, Green said. Meanwhile,
Labor Department data show that even with a gain of 484,000 jobs
since January 2010,  manufacturing employment  stood at about 11.9
million in September, down from 17.2 million in 2000.  “The harder sell is in manufacturing,” Green said. “For
a period of time there’s been this sense that American
manufacturing has disappeared.”  Companies are looking to fill the skills gap. Caterpillar,
for example, has created in-house courses in partnership with
community colleges to help solve the shortage.  Caterpillar Training  Roberto Alvarez, 38, is training to run computerized
manufacturing equipment after nine years as an assembly worker
at the factory in Aurora,  Illinois , where Caterpillar makes
vehicles that include excavators and wheel loaders.  “Many companies, they need skilled qualified machinists,”
Alvarez said. “That’s one of the things Cat needs.”  With a full-time job and a family to support, taking
classes outside the company wasn’t a viable option, said
Alvarez, who will gain college credits during the 30-week
course. He is in line for a raise, which he declined to discuss.  Computer numeric-control operators make an average of
$34,035 in the U.S., compared with $31,320 for the average
assembly worker, according to CareerBuilder.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , the largest publicly traded U.S. construction
and engineering company, plans to train more than 2,000 welders,
electricians and pipefitters over the next couple of years, Vice
President Frank Erichson said. They will help build
petrochemical plants in the southeastern U.S. that have been
spurred by a natural gas boom, he said.  Recruiting Visits  The Irving, Texas-based company is visiting high schools
and recruiting military veterans to hire about 8,000 skilled
workers, he said.  “We’re really counting on bringing in people who are in
high school and don’t have an affinity for college,” Erichson
said. “There are a lot of people out there with good mechanical
aptitudes, and we want to tap into that.”  Kennametal Inc. (KMT) , a maker of tooling systems, has set up
apprenticeships in a high school in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, where
the company is based, and another in Solon, Ohio. Students
change their minds about manufacturing when they tour a
Kennametal factory, CEO Carlos Cardoso said.  “Their perception of manufacturing was completely off,”
Cardoso said. “Old, dark, rusty, dangerous -- it’s the
perception of 30 years ago.”  Mom’s Advice  Shawn Hayden decided to train as a welder, even though his
mother advised him to pursue a bachelor’s degree. Now he’s
getting unsolicited job offers even after being promoted to
supervisor at United Alloy Inc., a closely held fuel-tank maker
in Janesville,  Wisconsin .  “We wanted a university -- we just figured there would be
more avenues for him,” said Kathy Hayden, Shawn’s mother, who
has an education degree from the  University of Wisconsin Stevens
Point  and a master of business administration from Cardinal
Stritch University in  Milwaukee . “It was kind of his mom being
the bully saying, ‘four-year, four-year.’”  After the Haydens toured  Arizona Western College  in Yuma,
 Arizona , Kathy Hayden accepted his career choice.  “We knew he would be successful wherever he went,” she
said.  Hayden, who got associate degrees in welding and industrial
technology, found a job after graduating in 2009, when most
companies were cutting workforces. With in-demand skills, Hayden
said he’s confident his future is secure.  “I’m 24 years old and have a great job and own my own
house,” he said. “I’m living the American dream as far as I’m
concerned.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  