-- Chavez’s Win Proves ‘Elected Autocrat’ Isn’t an Oxymoron
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/chavez-s-win-proves-elected-autocrat-isn-t-an-oxymoron.html
Hugo Chavez is something of a
challenge to the worldview of many rich-country observers. His
election victory this week has given him, health permitting, a
new six-year term as  Venezuela ’s president. He’s the leading
elected autocrat in Latin America and maybe the world.  “Elected autocrat” is a confusing category. According to
the model that prevailed for decades after 1945, there are
really just two kinds of state: free and unfree. Democracy,
good. Autocracy, bad. Chavez represents a third way, one that
might be catching on. (Think of the former Soviet Union and the
Arab Spring.) He teaches us an important lesson: Democracy isn’t
enough.  The reaction to his latest election victory is revealing.
Some, a small minority to be sure, celebrate it as democracy at
work. Chavez won, in this view, because his policies are popular
and rightly so: See how he has driven down poverty, using the
country’s oil wealth to give the poor jobs, health care and
houses. It’s democratic socialism in action.  Most others see it differently. They’ve noticed the
expansion of state control, the systematic  erosion  of the
private sphere, the erasure of checks and balances, the cult of
personality, the clientelism, corruption, collapsing
productivity and stupendous waste. They see an epic failure.
What’s telling, though, is their reluctance to admit this could
have happened in a “real” democracy.  Free Vote  The vote was free but not fair -- that’s the cliche. It’s
an evasion. Venezuela’s election wasn’t rigged. Nobody disputes
that the country wanted Chavez. Nobody questions his winning by
55 percent to 44 percent. Venezuela is indeed democracy at work
-- at work, yet gone tragically wrong.  Of course, Chavez used the power of the state to buy votes
and put the opposition at a disadvantage. Yes, he exploited
those advantages to an unusual degree, and could do it because
he’d already ground down many of the country’s constitutional
protections. But this line of argument is awkwardly far-
reaching. If governments in “real democracies” don’t buy votes
with public money or exploit the other electoral advantages of
incumbency, then the number of such states shrinks to the point
of meaninglessness.  Look at the money spent on the U.S. presidential campaigns,
for instance. A month from now, ask the losing side whether that
vote was “fair” as well as free.  It’s better to admit that Venezuela is a democracy -- that
Chavez stands re-elected by the will of the people -- but that
democracy is not enough. This isn’t just semantics. Chavez makes
it easier to see how democracies can be corrupted, how important
it is to arrest that decay early on, and that illiberal
democracies like Venezuela are not necessarily anomalies or
exceptions.  Chavez has exploited two advantages -- his own political
genius and the windfall of Venezuelan oil. He came to power in
1998, before oil prices surged, and at the beginning was a
constitutional reformer rather than an economic radical. He
pressed for a referendum to create a Constituent Assembly
charged with drafting a new constitution. The new rules shifted
powers from Congress to the presidency, establishing the
template of chavismo.  Sometimes he overreached. There were setbacks, but the
 basic pattern  was established: Polarize opinion, marginalize the
opposition, weaken his own accountability (except to the
electorate as a whole) and gather the levers of power in the
presidency.  Piggybank Democracy  When the oil money began to flow, Chavez expanded social
spending massively, and succeeded in reducing poverty. He also
spent the money shrewdly to maximize political advantage.
Increasingly, the government disbursed funds at his own
discretion, through numerous visible and invisible channels,
without oversight by any competing center of power.  Chavez has made social spending a gift of the president.
Lack of oversight also made it easier to co-opt leaders of the
country’s diminishing private sector -- competitive bidding is
not a hallmark of Venezuela’s public procurement -- further
increasing the presidency’s grip on the country’s resources, and
further undermining the political opposition.  Despite all that, that opposition managed something of a
revival in this week’s election. More unified than usual, and
under the competent leadership of Henrique Capriles Radonski,
the anti-Chavez coalition mounted a serious challenge. It’s a
tribute to the damage that Chavez has inflicted on the country.  Oil notwithstanding, the  costs  of Chavez’s policies aren’t
subtle. The country’s infrastructure, starved of funds and
mismanaged by the president’s cronies, is falling apart. Revenue
from oil, a sector run as a presidential fiefdom, is far less
than it should be thanks to egregious inefficiency. Power
failures plague a country rich in energy. The rule of law is
failing and crime is rampant. Foreign investors steer clear, and
talented Venezuelans choose between a future on Chavez’s terms
or emigration.  Yet Venezuela is a democracy and Chavez is still popular.
Indeed, democracy has worked better for him than outright
autocracy, which would have aligned domestic and foreign
opposition more effectively. Illiberal democracies, under the
right circumstances, can be stronger than outright tyrannies.
They lend themselves better to divide and rule.  The lessons of Chavez are worth pondering everywhere.
Democracy isn’t enough. Illiberal democracy is no oxymoron.
Political competition, dispersal of power and commitment to
limited government are as important to a country’s political and
economic well-being as the vote.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the future of affirmative
action  and on  combating North African extremism ; Margaret
Carlson on  Maine ’s crazy Senate race; Jonathan Orszag and Peter
Orszag on  how Jack Welch could help improve jobs data ; Camille
Paglia on  Picasso’s pre-cubist brothel painting .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 