-- Venezuelan Debt Tumbles Most Since 2008 After Chavez Re-Elected
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-10-09T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/chavez-re-election-sinks-venezuelan-dollar-bonds-most-since-may.html
Venezuela ’s benchmark bonds plunged
the most in four years as President  Hugo Chavez ’s re-election
fueled concern he will extend government controls that have
deterred investment and led to the region’s highest inflation.  The government’s bonds due in 2027 fell 4.61 cents, the
most since October 2008, to 86.63 cents on the dollar at 4:10
p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Yields on the dollar-denominated bonds rose 69 basis points, or
0.69 percentage point, to 11.10 percent  Chavez took 55 percent of the votes in the Oct. 7 election,
beating opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski by a
margin of more than 10 points after some polls showed the former
paratrooper’s 14-year tenure coming to an end. Chavez will
probably deepen policies, such as currency controls and
nationalizations, that have driven investors from South
America’s biggest oil-producing nation, according to analysts at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp.  The re-election may “give Chavez a strong mandate to
extend the socialist revolution given the big-margin victory,”
 Stuart Culverhouse , the chief economist at Exotix Ltd., said in
an interview from  London . “The market was disappointed by the
election result. The pre-election euphoria has disappeared.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan debt
over Treasuries widened 52 basis points to 987 basis points,
according to JPMorgan chase & Co.’s EMBi indices. The gap
touched a five-month low of 934 points last week.  Cancer Battle  Venezuelan dollar debt had been  Latin America ’s best
performer this year, returning 32 percent on speculation Chavez,
58, would lose the vote or succumb to a two-year cancer battle,
handing power to a government that would roll back his economic
policies.  Chavez has seized more than 1,000 companies, imposed price
caps, controls on foreign-exchange trading and used rising oil
revenue to fund popular social programs. The policies led to
shortages of everything from electricity to sugar and beef and
fueled higher inflation than any country tracked by Bloomberg
after Belarus and  Iran .  ‘‘The outcome is negative from the standpoint of
creditworthiness,”  Francisco Rodriguez , a senior Andean
economist at Bank of America who correctly predicted the
election result, said by e-mail. “A Capriles administration
would have entailed the adoption of policies leading to higher
economic growth.”  Capriles, the former governor of Miranda state, had vowed
to unwind the controls, which he said breed corruption, while
promising to create more private sector jobs and increase oil
production.  ‘Where Else?’  The selloff in Venezuelan bonds will be short-lived as
investors look for high-yielding assets, according to  Russell Dallen , the head bond trader at Caracas Capital Markets.  “As yields get tighter all around the globe, where else
are you going to go?” he said in a phone interview in Miami.
“Right now they have the willingness and the ability to pay.”  U.S. Treasury benchmark 10-year note yields have tumbled 16
basis points this year to 1.71 percent. They touched a record
low 1.379 percent on July 25.  Notes due 2017 issued by Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the
state-run  oil company  known as PDVSA, fell to 87.15 cents on the
dollar from 89.74 cents last week, sending yields up 76 basis
points to 11.96 percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Venezuela rose 68 basis
points to 845 basis points, the highest level since Aug. 21. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash, and falling prices signal
improving investor perceptions of a borrower’s creditworthiness.  Vote Speculation  Speculation that Chavez would lose the vote fueled a rally
in Venezuelan assets in the weeks before the election, according
to Dallen. Barclays Plc called Capriles the probable winner in
an Oct. 5 report and reiterated its recommendation to buy
Venezuelan debt.  Venezuela’s annual inflation slowed for a 10th consecutive
month in September to 18 percent as the government kept price
controls and boosted cheap imports before the elections. Prices
rose 1.6 percent from a month earlier, when they gained 1.1
percent, the central bank reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  