-- Chavez Win Leaves Venezuelan Opposition Reeling Before Vote
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-10T01:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/chavez-win-leaves-venezuelan-opposition-reeling-before-next-vote.html
Venezuela’s opposition has just two
months to regroup for its next electoral battle after losing its
best chance in 14 years to convince voters they can do more to
cut poverty and fight crime than President  Hugo Chavez .  Chavez, recovering from three cancer-related surgeries and
struggling to control the world’s fourth-fastest inflation rate,
won 55 percent of the vote in the Oct. 7 election versus 44
percent for former Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski.
Capriles, 40, won only two of the country’s 24 states after
vowing to fight corruption and boost economic growth.  The historically fractured opposition, which slowed
Chavez’s efforts to change the constitution in 2007, may
struggle to stay united ahead of a Dec. 16 vote to pick state
governors and regional legislators, said  David Smilde , a
sociologist at the  University of Georgia  who wrote a book about
Chavez’s rule. Municipal elections follow in April.  “They’re still kind of reeling from their electoral loss,
so the next couple of days are going to be pretty crucial to see
if they fall into internal bickering or come up with a unified
front,” said Smilde, who lived in  Venezuela  for 10 years and
spoke by phone from Caracas yesterday.  This week’s defeat is particularly bitter for the
opposition because it had high expectations coming into the vote
after some opinion polls showed a tight race, said Carlos
Romero, a political analyst at the Central University of
Venezuela.  Diverging Polls  A Sept. 27 to Oct. 2 survey of 1,546 people by Caracas-
based Consultores 21 gave Capriles a lead of 51.8 percent to
47.2 percent. The poll had a margin of error of 2.5 percentage
points. Other surveys showed Chavez, 58, with an advantage of
about ten percentage points.  Capriles said today that he hasn’t made a decision whether
to run for governor of Miranda again and said that regardless he
will continue to lead the opposition in its attempts at
expanding the number of governors in the South American country.  “Am I disappointed? Of course I am, I truly believed we
had a good chance of winning,” Capriles said at a press
conference in Caracas. “This  united front  that got the most
votes in recent years will stay together and the road we blazed
will bear its fruits.”  Incumbent Advantage  Capriles said that he has retaken his duties as Miranda
state after stepping down to run for president. Capriles said
that while there wasn’t fraud in the election he competed
against the state’s financing and media campaigns of “lies and
insults.”  Investors increased demand for Venezuelan debt earlier this
year as Chavez struggled with his cancer treatment, said Alfredo Viegas, managing director for  emerging markets  at  Knight Capital 
in Greenwich,  Connecticut . The country’s dollar bonds, which had
returned 30 percent this year through September, fell today on
the first day of fixed-income trading in the U.S. following a
holiday.  Yet the 11 percentage point victory by Chavez marked
progress for the opposition, which for the first time rallied
around a single candidate after holding primaries in February.
In 2006, Chavez beat his nearest competitor by 26 percentage
points, or more than 3 million votes. Capriles lost by about 1.6
million votes.  Polarized Country  “If you draw one conclusion from this presidential
election, it’s that the opposition has been seeing sustained
growth,” Romero said. “The opposition now thinks Chavez must
recognize that half the country isn’t with him anymore.”  The self-declared socialist this year toned down the
triumphalism of his past campaigns as Capriles attracted tens of
thousands of followers to his rallies, going so far in an Oct. 4
speech to apologize for his mistakes and vow to become a better
president.  Capriles, who spoke by phone with Chavez after conceding
defeat in what the president called on his Twitter account a
“friendly” conversation, will remain in politics and will
fight for issues raised in his campaign like inflation and
crime, his campaign manager Armando Briquet told reporters
yesterday.  At 18 percent, Venezuela has the world’s highest  inflation
rate  of any country tracked by Bloomberg after Belarus,  Iran  and
 Argentina , where economists say prices are rising at more than
double the government’s estimate of 10 percent. Venezuela also
has the highest  murder rate  in  South America , according to the
 United Nations .  ‘Bet on Unity’  “We are going to continue with our fight, which keeps us
united,” Briquet said in images transmitted live on television
channel Globovision. “We always bet on our unity and remaining
together to seek solutions for all Venezuelans. We’re on our way
to the next election on Dec. 16.”  Chavez told reporters in Caracas today that Vice President
Elias Jaua will run for governor of Miranda state in December,
beating out Capriles. Chavez’s former rival hasn’t yet said if
he will run for governor of the state after stepping down from
that role earlier this year for his presidential campaign.  Running for governor would make it difficult for Capriles
to become the nationwide leader of the opposition, limiting his
chances if Chavez leaves office before his term ends,  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc.,
wrote in a report e-mailed to investors today.  Political Flux  While Chavez’s victory gives him another six years in
office, he may have to step down and allow for elections to take
place if he becomes too ill to serve during the first four years
of his new term, according to Venezuelan law.  Considering that Chavez’s cancer returned after initial
rounds of treatment, the risk of another re-occurrence is “much
higher” than before,  Michael Pishvaian , an oncologist at the
Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said by phone. Pishvaian hasn’t treated Chavez.  Still, it’s unclear whether the opposition will rally
around Capriles in another election after some think he lost a
rare chance to defeat an incumbent politically damaged by a
crime wave and physically weakened by cancer, Smilde said.  ‘Old Guard’  The “old guard” of the opposition probably will criticize
Capriles for taking what they see as a conciliatory approach
toward Chavez, Smilde said, while others may even doubt whether
the president can be defeated democratically, Romero said.  “It’s natural that, when expectations aren’t met, you have
internal tensions,” Margarita Lopez-Maya, a researcher at
Central University in Caracas, said by phone. “Capriles has
shown he’s a leader who can generate a lot of enthusiasm, and
his challenge is to sustain that leadership and maintain
unity.”  Investors will be watching to see whether the opposition
splinters and gives Chavez free reign to carry out his so-called
21st century Bolivarian revolution, said Kathryn Rooney Vera, a
macroeconomic strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets.  Venezuela’s benchmark 2027 bonds lost 4.61 cents on the
 U.S. dollar , the most in four years, to 86.63 cents at 4:10 p.m.
 New York  time, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield on the securities rose 69 basis points, or 0.69 percentage
point, to 11.10 percent.  “You’ve got to have a strong opposition to be able to have
some type of push-back,” Rooney Vera said by phone from Miami
today. “The real concern is a de-facto, one-party system in
Venezuela that makes the rules and changes the rules. And the
market looks upon that very unfavorably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  