-- Chile Peso Drops After IMF Growth Report Overshadows China Boost
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-09T18:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/chilean-peso-strengthens-as-copper-rises-on-china-growth-outlook.html
Chile ’s peso fell for a third day and
swap rates dropped after the International Monetary Fund lowered
its forecast for global growth, offsetting speculation  China 
will boost its finance industry.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 474.95 per dollar at the
close in Santiago. It earlier appreciated 0.3 percent. The two-
year interest-rate swap rate decreased five basis points to 4.90
percent.  The IMF lowered its forecast for global growth this year
and next and warned of an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper
slowdown. Copper, Chile’s biggest export, pared its gain. The
price of the metal is a key driver of foreign currency flows
into the Andean country as the peso often rises or falls in line
with expectations for the global economy.  “It was mainly the IMF that cut its global growth forecast
for more developed countries and in some emerging market
countries it reduced its inflation forecast,” said Mauricio Olivares, a trader at Scotiabank in Santiago. “That was
compensated for in the morning by the Chinese liquidity
injection, but then the dollar started to absorb the mood of the
stock markets.”  Chile’s economy will grow 5 percent this year and consumer
prices will rise 3.1 percent, the slowest in the region, the IMF
said. It had previously forecast 4.3 percent growth and
inflation of 3.8 percent. Two-year Chilean break-even inflation
fell two basis points to 2.96 percent.  One-year, three-year, four-year and five-year swap rates
decreased five basis points.  Oil Gain  Prices for oil, Chile’s biggest import, rose on increasing
tension in the Middle East after  Turkey  sent tanks to the Syrian
border yesterday.  Copper for December delivery was little changed. It earlier
climbed as much as 0.9 percent after China’s state-run Central
Huijin Investment Ltd. took a stake in  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. China is the biggest buyer of Chile’s copper,
which accounted for half its exports last month.  Chilean banks and brokers had the biggest short-dollar
position in the spot market and the biggest long-dollar position
in the forwards market since August on Oct. 5, according to data
published today by the central bank. A short is a bet an asset
may lose value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  