-- China Iron Ore Demand to Fall on More Scrap Use, Dealer Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-10-09T10:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/china-steelmakers-to-use-more-scrap-over-iron-ore-dealer-says.html
China will increase scrap use in
steel production in the next three years, displacing some demand
for  iron ore , as more recycled material becomes available,
according to the nation’s largest scrap dealer.  Scrap may account for more than 20 percent of steel
production in China by 2015, from 14 percent now, which will put
some pressure on iron ore prices, Chun Chi Wai, chairman of
 China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773) , said yesterday by phone
from Shanghai. The company controls about 6 percent of the
fragmented scrap market, he said.  “China’s steel production growth is set to slow from
double digit gains in the past,” Chun said. “Meanwhile, there
will be more and more recycled steel, which will definitely
reduce the use of iron ore.”  China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, cut  production  in
August to the lowest level in six months due to slowing economic
growth. Steel prices last month fell to their lowest level since
the 2008 financial crisis. While iron ore producers that supply
China such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Vale SA (VALE3)  have shelved new
projects or plan to cut output, China Metal Recycling is looking
to expand as steelmakers demand more scrap, Chun said.  Using scrap rather than iron ore is more energy and cost
effective for the steelmakers, Chun said. Building a steel mill
using iron ore would be at least two-thirds more expensive than
one using scrap, he said.  Scrap Consumption  China’s scrap consumption is low compared with 60 percent
in the U.S., according to a HSBC Holdings Plc report in July.  China Metal’s stock has fallen 11 percent this year,
compared with the 14 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng 
index. The shares rose 0.4 percent to HK$7.50 today.  The company plans to set up operations close to Zhanjiang
in Guangdong province, where its customer Baosteel Group Corp.
is building a 69.68 billion  yuan  ($11 billion) plant to produce
high-grade sheets used in automobiles and appliances.  It is also planning to introduce an electronic scrap-
trading platform by the end of the year for its network of about
10,000 buyers and sellers, Chun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  