-- Climate Change Threatens Central American Corn Crop, Study Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/climate-change-threatens-central-american-corn-crop-study-says.html
Climate change will cut the value of
corn and bean production in Central America by about 30 percent,
or $125 million a year, by 2029 as farmers may no longer be able
to grow food in some areas, according to a study funded by the
 Howard G. Buffett Foundation .  Average temperatures in  Nicaragua , El Salvador,  Honduras 
and  Guatemala  will increase by 1 degree Celsius (1.8 degrees
Fahrenheit) by the end of the 2020s, according to the study
released today by the Buffett Foundation,  Catholic Relief
Services  and two food-research institutes established by the
United Nations. Warmer temperatures will be accompanied by less
rain and faster evaporation, the report said.  “Climate change could transform the agricultural landscape
across Central America,” Anton Eitzinger, a climate scientist
at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture and a lead
author of the report, said in an accompanying statement. “It’s
one of the poorest and most vulnerable parts of Latin America.”  August was the 330th consecutive month in which
temperatures worldwide topped the 20th-century average, the  U.S.
National Climatic Data Center  said last month. Corn, the most-
valuable U.S. crop, rose 68 percent to a record $8.49 a bushel
between June 15 and Aug. 10 on prospects that the country’s
worst drought since the 1950s would tighten global supplies.  In the study, researchers used global and regional climate
models to forecast impacts on a local scale, mapping how
different areas would be affected. Corn, Central America’s
staple crop, may suffer from a longer dry season that would
affect September planting, with more-severe downpours during the
rainier months of October and November potentially damaging
crops.  Some areas, such as the west-central highlands of
Guatemala, may benefit from weather that makes corn and bean
production more suitable. Overall, 1 million farmers and their
families may be affected, the study said. Better irrigation and
training in soil and water management will be necessary to
reduce harmful effects, the groups said.  “There is no quick fix,” said Paul Hicks, a regional
coordinate for Catholic Relief Services, based in Baltimore.  Howard Buffett is the son of  Warren Buffett , the chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  