-- College Trustees Need to Control Athletics, Commission Says
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-10-09T20:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/college-trustees-need-to-take-control-of-sports-commission-says.html
University trustees should review
coaches’ contracts and learn the business of college sports to
get a better grip on their athletic departments, according to a
 Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics  report.  The boards that govern universities must set policy for
sports programs in everything from academics to compliance with
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  rules and make sure
they are enforced, the report said.  “If boards do not act to ensure an appropriate balance
between athletics and academics in our higher education
institutions, policy makers or others will do it for us,”
according to the commission, composed of 19 university and
university system presidents, trustees, former athletes and
journalists dedicated to reforming college sports.  The study was released during a Knight Commission meeting
at a Washington, D.C., hotel on the same day that former
Pennsylvania State University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky was sentenced to 30-60 years in prison for abusing 10
boys over a 15-year period.  The project on board responsibilities was conducted during
an eight-week period in the spring of 2012, just before a report
by former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Director  Louis Freeh 
condemned Penn State administrators for not taking action
quickly enough to stop Sandusky.  Awaiting Trial  Gary Schultz , a former Penn State vice president of
finance, and Timothy Curley, the school’s former athletic
director, are scheduled to be tried in January on charges they
lied to a grand jury about a 2001 sex-abuse allegation against
Sandusky and failed to report it.  The Freeh report said former Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and other university leaders “failed to report timely
and sufficiently the incidents of child abuse against Sandusky
to the Board of Trustees in 1998, 2001 and 2011.  ‘‘It was, instead, a painful reminder that all boards need
to be well informed and must clearly establish the appropriate
role of athletics in relation to the core values and academic
mission of their institutions,’’ the Knight Commission said
today. ‘‘When the board fails to provide effective oversight or
ask the questions that hold the president of the institution
accountable, the consequences can be enormous.’’  Knight Authors  The authors of the Knight Commission study, John T. Casteen III, president emeritus at the  University of Virginia , and
Richard D. Legon, president of the Association of Governing
Boards of Universities and Colleges, interviewed 143 presidents,
15 university system heads, nine system board chairs and 25
board chairmen.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association responded to
the report by commending the association for its effort to
further integrate intercollegiate athletics within the overall
academic enterprise.  The NCAA said noted that many of the association’s
‘‘recommendations regarding the NCAA are already under
consideration by NCAA members and leaders. These include current
efforts to strengthen enforcement and simplify rules by focusing
on the shared values undergirding intercollegiate athletics.’’  President’s Control  Casteen said although most boards understand their
responsibilities and do a good job, some have given the
president too much control.  ‘‘Some of the same institutional control principles seem to
apply to the corporate world,’’ Casteen said. ‘‘Board cultures
are one of the targets of Sarbanes-Oxley and also the FASB
( Financial Accounting Standards Board ) reforms. It’s a
consistent analogy.’’  According to the survey, 27 percent of university
presidents don’t consult their boards on major policy issues
coming before the athletic conference’s governing body; 14
percent said the president doesn’t approve the salaries of
athletic director and coaches; and 26 percent said the board
doesn’t have sufficient financial information on income and
expenses for each revenue-generating sport.  Off-Focus  ‘‘Powerful interests that benefit financially from big-time
sports, as well as fans and booster clubs with emotional
investments, can distort the clarity of mind required for
effective governance,” the commission said in the report.
“While we urge boards to delegate the administration of their
sports programs to their chief executive, boards must still
become aware of the issues and engage actively and appropriately
in policy considerations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  