-- Confidence Among Small U.S. Businesses Cooled in September
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-09T11:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/confidence-among-small-businesses-in-u-s-cooled-in-september.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses cooled in September as fewer companies said they
planned to hire or invest in new equipment, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  fell to 92.8 from an August reading of 92.9. Four of the
10 components that make up the gauge decreased, the Washington-
based group said.  The fourth decline in the past five months for the measure
showed business leaders may be putting off some of their  hiring 
and investment decisions because of a lack of clarity on tax and
regulatory policy. At the same time, more companies expected
better economic conditions in six months, signaling a pickup in
sales and employment may take time to develop.  Small-business “owners are in maintenance mode; spending
only where necessary and not hiring,”  William Dunkelberg , the
group’s chief economist, said in a statement. “Owners are
unwilling to put their own capital on the line until the future
path of the economy and economic policy becomes clear.”  A measure of whether business owners plan to add more
workers fell by six percentage points to a net 4 percent. The
number of respondents who said they planned to invest in
equipment dropped three points to a net 21 percent in September.  The world’s largest economy added 114,000 workers last
month, the fewest since June, according to a Labor Department
report on Oct. 5. The jobless rate dropped to 7.8 percent after
exceeding 8 percent for 43 straight months.  Job Openings  The proportion of respondents who said it was hard to fill
a job opening dropped to 17 percent in September from 18 percent
a month earlier. The number of respondents who expected higher
sales held at 1 percent.  A net negative 1 percent planned to increase inventories,
also unchanged from August. A net negative 1 percent of small
business owners said their inventories were too low, down one
point from the previous month.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  Companies surveyed said the most important problem facing
them in 2012 is the rising cost of health care insurance,
followed by little foresight into economic conditions, energy
costs and government policy.  “I think they’d like some resolution about the path of the
economy,” Dunkelberg said in a Bloomberg Radio interview with
 Tom Keene . “The fiscal cliff is sort of one big issue.” On
taxes, “one side is promising they’ll be higher, one side is
promising they’ll be lower.”  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 691 small-business
owners through Sept. 29. Small companies represent more than 99
percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S. Small
Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise with no more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  