-- Corpbanca to Acquire Colombia’s Helm Bank for $1.28 Billion
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-10-09T16:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/corpbanca-to-acquire-colombia-s-helm-bank-for-1-28-billion.html
Corpbanca (CORPBANC) , the lender controlled by
Chilean billionaire Alvaro Saieh, agreed to buy  Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB)  for
$1.28 billion to become the sixth-biggest bank in Colombia.  Corpbanca signed an agreement with the owners of 91 percent
of Helm’s ordinary shares and will make an offer to minority
holders in Colombia for the rest of the shares, according to a
statement sent to  Chile ’s securities regulator. Corpbanca,
Chile’s fifth-largest lender, also agreed to pay $17 million for
80 percent of Helm’s insurance unit.  The Chilean bank has led acquisitions in Colombia worth
$2.53 billion since agreeing to buy Banco Santander SA’s local
unit in December as it seeks to tap growth. Lending in  Colombia 
rose 17 percent in July from a year earlier as the International
Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 4.3 percent this year.  “After the takeover, Corpbanca will be well-positioned,”
said Valeria Marconi, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Correval SA. Corpbanca is paying “a fair price, below the
price-to-book they paid for Santander.”  Corpbanca will pay about $0.28 per Helm share, according to
a separate filing today in Colombia, or 503 pesos at today’s
exchange rate. This converts to 1.9 times book value, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corpbanca paid about 2.4 times
book value for Santander Colombia, according to a statement sent
in June when it completed the purchase.  “The lower price-to-book is due to Helm’s financial
performance,” Marconi said. Helm’s return on equity is 10.3
percent, compared with an average 16.7 percent for Colombian
banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Andes Banking  Helm Bank shares rose 0.2 percent to 489 pesos at 11:21
a.m. in Bogota, increasing this year’s rally to 58 percent. Helm
has been the best performer on the benchmark IGBC Index this
year amid speculation it would be bought. Corpbanca rose 0.5
percent in Santiago to 5.80 pesos.  The number of cross-border mergers and acquisitions among
financial companies in the Andes region rose to 18 in the past
12 months worth $6.2 billion, up from 11 in the previous year
and 10 the year before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corpbanca’s takeover of Helm, Colombia’s eighth-biggest
lender, will allow it to jump to sixth from 10th in terms of
lending in the country, according to the latest government data,
which is from July.  The bid tops the purchase announced last year of Banco
Santander’s Colombian unit, which a group led by Corpbanca
bought for $1.23 billion, and Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s takeover of
Banco Colpatria in October 2011 for about $1 billion.  The planned purchase of a 5 percent stake in Corpbanca by
the World Bank’s International Finance Corporation, announced
Oct. 4, will be undertaken as part of the sale of as much as
$600 million in new shares in Chile, Corpbanca said today.  Corpbanca’s Colombian unit plans a capital increase of as
much as $1 billion, of which Helm’s owners will contribute $440
million and Corpbanca will pay $285 million, the filing said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  