-- Court Won’t Revive Wiretap Suits Against AT&T, Verizon
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-10-09T14:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/court-won-t-revive-wiretap-suits-against-at-t-verizon.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to
open telecommunications companies to lawsuits accusing them of
violating the privacy of millions of Americans by cooperating
with government wiretaps after the Sept. 11 attacks.  The justices, making no comment, today left intact a
federal appeals court decision that said  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  were immune from
suit under a 2008 law and a decision made that year by then-
President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  Privacy advocates sought billions of dollars in damages for
what they described in their Supreme Court appeal as “a
massive, unlawful program of electronic surveillance,
intercepting and disclosing to the government both the
communications and the communications records of millions of
their customers.”  The high court rebuff doesn’t affect separate claims being
pressed by some of the same plaintiffs against the government.  The companies and the Obama administration urged the
Supreme Court not to take up the case. The companies told the
high court that Congress “determined that it was not in the
national interest for these or similar cases to proceed.”  Dozens of lawsuits were filed in 2006, after Bush
acknowledged the existence of a program designed to intercept
terrorist communications.  Companies Immunized  The 2008 law immunized telecommunications companies if the
attorney general certified that they were assisting a government
investigation. Bush’s attorney general, Michael Mukasey, then
made the certification, and the Justice Department asked to have
the claims against the companies dismissed.  At the Supreme Court, the privacy advocates argued that the
law violated constitutional separation-of-powers principles by
giving the attorney general the authority to decide whether the
measure applies.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court rejected those
arguments when it threw out the claims against the
telecommunications companies in December.  Justice  Samuel Alito  didn’t take part in the court’s
consideration of the appeal. He didn’t give any reason.  The case is Hepting v. AT&T, 11-1200.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  