-- Cummins Slides on Job Cuts Plan, Pared Forecasts
-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-10T20:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/cummins-to-cut-as-many-as-1-500-jobs-lowers-forecasts.html
Cummins Inc. (CMI) , a maker of heavy-truck
engines, and  Accuride Corp. (ACW) , a truck-parts manufacturer, fell as
the companies backed off 2012 financial forecasts amid slowing
demand for the vehicles.  Shares of Cummins slid 3.4 percent to $87.79 at the close
in  New York , for the biggest daily decline since July 11.
Accuride dropped 30 percent to $3.17, the most since March 2010
when trading began after the company exited bankruptcy.  Orders for Class 8 trucks, the largest models, fell 35
percent in North America last month to 15,205, according to FTR
Associates. Cummins yesterday trimmed its profit and sales
outlooks and said it expects to eliminate as many as 1,500 jobs
by year-end. Accuride said today it will miss its annual
projections and has cut its salaried workforce by 14 percent.  Cummins’s revised forecasts were “worse than feared,”
said Kristine Kubacki, a St. Louis-based analyst at Avondale
Partners LLC with a market perform rating on the shares. “My
sense is the Street thought there would be a guide down, but
this is sizable.”  Cummins said it now expects full-year revenue of about $17
billion, down from its earlier outlook of $18 billion, and
earnings before interest and taxes of about 13.5 percent,
reduced from a range of 14.25 percent to 14.75 percent. The
profit forecast doesn’t include the cost or benefits of the job
cuts.  Cummins, based in Columbus,  Indiana , also produces power-
generation equipment.  ‘Heightened Uncertainty’  “We continued to see weak economic data in a number of
regions during the third quarter, increasing the level of
uncertainty regarding the direction of the global economy,”
Chief Executive Officer Tom Linebarger said in a statement. “As
a result of the heightened uncertainty, end customers are
delaying  capital expenditures  in a number of markets, lowering
demand for our products.”  Cummins cited the “ North America  heavy-duty truck and
international power-generation markets” in trimming its sales
projection.  Accuride, based in Evansville, Indiana, didn’t give
specific figures in saying it wouldn’t meet its 2012 forecast.
The company had projected an annual loss of 5 cents to 12 cents
a share, according to slides in a July 27 regulatory filing.  “Softening industry conditions and key customer
developments are creating a challenging near-term environment,”
the company said in a statement today. “Class 8 truck orders
continue to be weak and have led to rapidly declining build
schedules” at major customers.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  and  Paccar Inc. (PCAR)  also told
Accuride they are no longer offering its Gunite hub and drum
assemblies as standard equipment, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Koenig  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  