-- Czech Inflation May Point to More Policy Easing After Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-10-09T12:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/czech-inflation-may-point-to-more-policy-easing-after-cut.html
Czech September inflation was below
the central bank’s forecast for a sixth month as household
consumption weakened, suggesting more monetary policy easing
after an interest  rate  cut to a record low.  Consumer prices  grew  3.4 percent from a year earlier, the
Statistics Office in  Prague  said today in a statement, matching
the median forecast of 14 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The
central bank’s estimate was 3.5 percent. Inflation was 3.3
percent the previous month because of factors outside the
influence of monetary policy, including a sales-tax increase and
global commodity costs.  The Czech  economy  is suffering from weak domestic demand
after the government cut investments and raised sales taxes to
trim the  budget deficit . The central bank cut the benchmark
interest rate to a record-low 0.25 percent on Sept. 27 and said
it may weaken the koruna if it needs to ease monetary policy
further.  “The domestic economic environment still remains
disinflationary: retail sales are soft, real wages declining,
consumer sentiment heading south-east,” Vojtech Benda, an
economist at ING Bank in Prague, said in an e-mailed note. “It
seems likely the Czech National Bank board will continue with
further policy loosening and another cut on  interest rates ,
close to zero, until the end of the year seems likely.”  Easing Trend  The Czech koruna was unchanged at 24.93 per euro as of 1:56
p.m. in Prague. The currency has lost 2.5 percent since reaching
a 2012 high of 24.326 against the euro four weeks ago.  Monetary authorities in eastern  European Union members  are
following central banks in the U.S. and U.K. in policy easing to
address an economic slowdown as  Europe  fights a sovereign-debt
crisis.  Hungarian central bankers lowered the two-week  deposit rate 
to 6.5 percent from 6.75 percent in September, the second
reduction in two months.  Poland ’s central bank signaled it may
cut borrowing costs next month if the economy slows further
after unexpectedly leaving the main rate at 4.75 percent on Oct.
3.  While the  trade balance  remains in surplus, the debt crisis
has curbed purchases of electronics and cars. The 27-nation EU
buys 80 percent of Czech exports, including from companies such
as carmaker Skoda Auto AS.  Economic Contraction  Czech  gross domestic product  declined 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, the third
consecutive contraction, as consumers responded to the worsening
economic outlook by spending less.  On the month, consumer prices fell 0.1 percent, the third
such decline in a row, the statistics office said. The drop,
which matched the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 12
analysts, was driven mainly by falling prices of leisure
services, the office said.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 2.1 percent
in September, the central bank said in a statement on its
 website  today. The bank targets the monetary-policy inflation
rate at 2 percent and sees it at 1.5 percent in the third
quarter of next year, according to its latest forecast.  “The data confirm the view expressed in the central bank’s
forecast of a disinflationary impact of the domestic economy,”
the bank said in the statement. Even as the nominal rate is set
to remain “slightly” above 3 percent, the pick up in inflation
has been driven mainly by one-off factors such as higher value-
added tax, fuel and food fuel prices, as well as a recent
weakening of the koruna, it added.  The central bank may choose a weakening the koruna rather
than another interest-rate cut to stimulate the economy,
economists including Vaclav  France  at Raiffeisenbank AS in
Prague said.  The September data “should support will of some policy
makers to further relax monetary policy, mainly through the
foreign-exchange channel,” he said in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  