-- Depositors Fleeing Euro Get Negative Rates at State Street
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-10-09T20:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/depositors-fleeing-euro-get-negative-rates-at-state-street-bny.html
State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. , two of the world’s biggest custody banks,
will charge depositors to hold Danish kroner and Swiss francs as
customers seek refuge from the crisis-stricken euro.  State Street will apply a negative interest rate of 0.75
percent annually to krone deposits starting Nov. 1, with a
separate charge for francs, according to a note to clients last
week. That means  money managers, insurance companies and pension
funds  must pay the bank to hold their cash. BNY Mellon started
charging for krone deposits last month, a person with knowledge
of the matter said. The lender isn’t charging for francs.  Denmark  and  Switzerland  have cut  interest rates  close to or
below zero to keep the krone and franc from rising as investors
flee the euro for safer havens, reflecting concern that the
currency may break up. While negative rates may drive off some
customers, global lenders want to restore the profit margin
between what they pay for deposits and what they earn on
investments.  “It does look customer-unfriendly, but since State
Street’s mainly dealing with institutions I would think that
people would be more understanding,” said Richard Herring, a
 professor of international banking  at the  University of
Pennsylvania . “The overall problem is the distortions that are
caused by the monetary policies that are being pursued in the
major countries.”  Debt Crisis  Royal Bank of Canada, the largest lender in that nation,
also is imposing negative rates on some customers who hold
kroner and francs, according to a statement from Katherine Gay,
a spokeswoman for the Toronto-based company. She didn’t disclose
the interest charge.  Negative rates are a symptom of  Europe ’s debt crisis, which
has disrupted savings and lending patterns across the globe as
depositors and bankers sought safety in case one or more nations
stopped using the euro as their currency. Last year, banks with
holdings in  Greece  had to take writedowns on investments in that
nation as default loomed, U.S. money markets pared loans to
French lenders and deposits flooded into dollar accounts at the
biggest U.S. banks.  Depositors have turned to Denmark and Switzerland as they
hunt for currencies with less risk than the euro, whose fate
depends in part on whether cash-strapped nations such as Greece
can pay their debts.  Haven Status  Denmark’s appeal as a haven comes from its triple-A rating,
a current account surplus and a government debt load that’s less
than half the euro zone’s average. Switzerland, too, is triple-
A. While a strong currency enables nations to borrow at low
cost, it can hurt an economy by making goods and services more
expensive for foreign customers, depressing exports and tourism.  State Street plans to charge 0.25 percent for accounts in
Swiss francs, the Boston-based company said in last week’s note
to customers, which was obtained by  Bloomberg News . The contents
were confirmed by a bank spokeswoman, Carolyn Cichon.  The charges will apply only to a “small percentage” of
customers whose accounts in the two currencies exceed a set
minimum, according to Cichon. At current exchange rates, the
threshold would be about 225,000 kroner ($39,000) or 100,000
francs ($107,000), according to a person with direct knowledge
of the company’s plan.  The Swiss franc weakened after the report, according to
 Gareth Berry , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in
 Singapore , then recovered later in the day.  Deposit Rush  “We doubt the news will have a lasting weakening effect on
the Swiss franc, however, given that interest rates have been
negative in the  interbank market  for months, and those who wish
to hold Swiss franc deposits for safe haven reasons are unlikely
to be deterred by a 25 basis-point penalty,” he wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  BNY Mellon is charging “an extremely small number of
clients that hold Danish kroner in their accounts,” according
to Kevin Heine, a bank spokesman. Heine cited negative short-
term market interest rates for the Danish krone. “This is being
done to cover costs associated with maintaining these deposits,
which include charges being imposed by sub-custodians and
market-driven investment rates,” he said.  Heine said his company isn’t charging customers for holding
Swiss francs. BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank,
imposed a 0.13 percent charge last year on depositors with
unusually high dollar balances to help stem the influx at the
New York-based firm.  Low Rates  The Danish central bank cut its deposit rate to negative
0.2 percent in July, and Switzerland cut its benchmark rate to
near zero in September 2011. Jean-Pierre Danthine, a vice
president with the Swiss central bank, said in June that it
might impose negative interest rates “if the circumstances
warrant it.”  Domestic lenders in Denmark have been weakened by the cut
in the central bank’s deposit rate to below zero, because
competition has forced most of them to keep paying customers a
positive rate,  Fitch Ratings  said in September.  State Street executives overcame their reluctance to charge
depositors after central bankers in the countries signaled that
benchmark rates may stay low for an extended period, and as some
competitors began to impose the charges, said two people with
knowledge of the plan. The people familiar with the two U.S.
custody banks requested anonymity because the decisions haven’t
been discussed publicly.  While depositing customers’ money at the Danish central
bank is one option, the market rate for lending money for a one-
week period to other Danish banks also has turned negative,
currently about minus 0.03 percent.  Unintended Consequences  “The industry is experiencing unprecedented market pricing
behavior in these two countries, and State Street needs to
ensure we continue to provide our clients with the most
efficient pricing in all of the markets where they operate,”
Cichon said in an e-mailed statement.  State Street is “just reflecting where the market is,”
said Herring of the University of Pennsylvania.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, in August 2011 considered
levying a temporary fee on Swiss franc balances to stem flows
into the customers’ cash clearing accounts. The pressure abated
the next month when the  Swiss National Bank  cut the benchmark
rate.  Spokeswomen for Zurich-based UBS and New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank , declined to comment
on whether they plan any negative rates.  Interest rates have fallen below zero before. U.S. Treasury
securities traded at  negative yields  during parts of the 1930s
and 1940s, and Switzerland imposed  negative interest rates  in
the 1970s as part of  capital controls .  Still, negative rates can produce unintended consequences.
That could include customers keeping large amounts of cash in
vaults, taxpayers making excess prepayments in anticipation of a
full refund and savers keeping cashier’s checks made out to
themselves in a drawer, according to an Aug. 29  blog post  by
researchers at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 