-- Disney Seeks Lime Wire Copyright Infringement Ruling
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-10-09T19:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/disney-fox-seek-ruling-lime-wire-infringed-movies-shows.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and other movie and
TV studios asked a federal judge to rule that the file-sharing
website Lime Wire LLC and its founder, Mark Gorton, induced
people to illegally download shows and films without payment.  The companies, which also include  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox Film and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
Entertainment, are seeking the same judgment a federal court
granted to the  music industry  against Lime Wire in 2010,
according to a court filing in Manhattan yesterday.  “Users by the tens of millions were attracted to LimeWire
to access -- for free -- infringing copies of virtually any type
of copyrighted content,” the entertainment companies, which
sued in February, said in yesterday’s motion for summary
judgment.  The plaintiffs said U.S. District Judge Harold Baer should
find Lime Wire and Gorton liable for inducement of copyright
infringement without a trial. TV shows such as “ South Park ”
and “Desperate Housewives” and movies including “Avatar” and
the “Harry Potter” films were among the material allegedly
infringed, according to the filing.  Lime Wire developed peer-to-peer software that allowed
users to share digital entertainment files on their computers
with other people over the Internet.  ‘Gorton Directed’  “Gorton directed and benefited from Lime Wire’s inducement
of infringement,” the entertainment companies said in the
filing.  Gorton operates  Tower Capital Research LLC,  a New York-
based hedge fund that trades securities based on mathematical
algorithms it developed. Gorton said today in a phone interview
that he hadn’t seen the motion for summary judgment and couldn’t
comment on it.  U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in May 2010 found Lime Wire
and Gorton liable for inducing infringement of copyrights for
recorded music. The site was shut down by an October 2010 court
order. Lime Wire settled with the recording industry for
$105 million in May 2011 during a trial in  Manhattan  to
determine damages.  In the new case, the parties were unable to reach a
settlement, according to a docket entry in September.  The case is Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v. Lime Wire
LLC, 12-0818, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  