-- Dollar to Gain on Stronger U.S. Growth, FX Concepts’ Taylor Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-09T15:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/dollar-to-gain-on-stronger-u-s-growth-fx-concepts-taylor-says.html
Investors should remain bullish on
the dollar because issues within the  U.S. economy  pale in
comparison with those in Europe and Australia, according to  John Taylor  of FX Concepts LLC.  The dollar is in a “box” between the important technical
level of $1.29 per euro and downtrend levels of $1.3050 to
$1.31, said Taylor, the founder and chief executive officer of
currency-hedge fund FX Concepts LLC, which manages
$3 billion. A closing price below $1.29 would be a “very bad”
technical signal, Taylor said. The greenback will see a
“significant” move after it breaks out of this range, he said.  The dollar gained 0.6 percent to $1.2885 per euro at 11:27
a.m. New York time after reaching $1.2877. The greenback fell
0.1 percent to 78.23 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  has fallen the last two months and is on
pace to decline in October. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
traveled to Athens today to promote austerity and encourage
Greece to stay in the euro.  “It’s a good short-term and long-term play,” Taylor said
of the dollar in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with  Deirdre Bolton . “The U.S. economy is looking much
better than the other economies of the world. Europe has a
possibility of a bad nick with the Greek situation.”  Countries such as Australia, which rely on China for export
demand, may struggle as the dollar appreciates, Taylor said.
Slowing Chinese growth is more likely to be driven by internal
demand going forward, making the country less reliant on
imports, he said. China is  Australia ’s biggest trade partner.  “The price of its commodities and exports are going
down,” Taylor said. “The housing market is overpriced. There
are all kinds of problems in Australia.”  The Australian dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.0178 in
New York. It was little changed against the yen at 79.62.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  