-- Draghi Sees No ECB Gender Discrimination as Parliament Protests
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-10-09T11:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/draghi-sees-no-ecb-gender-discrimination-as-parliament-protests.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said there’s no discrimination at the central bank after
lawmakers postponed consideration of a nominee to the Executive
Board to protest the absence of female candidates.  “All of us need improvement and one is the one that is
close to your heart,” Draghi said in response to a question at
a European Parliament hearing in Brussels today. Still, “there
isn’t any gender discrimination in the ECB.”  The parliament on Sept. 7 put off a planned  committee
hearing  and confirmation vote on  Luxembourg ’s Yves Mersch to
fill a vacancy on the ECB board to protest the absence of women
on the six-member panel. Sharon Bowles, head of the parliament’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, said in a statement on
that day that “the symbolic and practical effects of this
absence are not without note.”  The ECB seat has been empty since Jose Manuel Gonzalez- Paramo of Spain came to the end of his eight-year term on May
31. A battle between Spain and Luxembourg over the seat dragged
on until July when Mersch, 63, prevailed in a vote by euro
finance ministers. The parliament’s next opportunity to vote on
Mersch’s appointment will be in the week of Oct. 22.  There are also no women on the ECB Governing Council. Two
women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen-Lindfors of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , have served on the ECB’s board.
Appointments to the board and council are made by euro-area
governments.  Draghi said in this “time of crisis, the Executive Board
should be completed and this nomination should go through.”  Still, he said. “If you look at the last ten years, all
the financial crises have been handled and managed by men. So
it’s high time to change. We need to look seriously and act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  