-- Draghi Says No Alternative to Austerity as Economies Shrink
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-09T11:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/draghi-says-no-alternative-to-austerity-as-economies-shrink-1-.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said there is no alternative to austerity as Italian and
Spanish officials balk at asking for bailouts that may impose
more budget cuts.  “It’s without doubt that the process of fiscal
consolidation has depressed output in parts of the euro area,”
Draghi told lawmakers in testimony to the European Parliament in
Brussels today. “But what’s the alternative? We need to do
that, we need to do that in the best possible way, as effective
and as short as possible, complying with basic grounds of social
justice.”  European officials are pushing debt-strapped nations across
southern  Europe  for more cuts despite the risk that they will
worsen recessions gripping the region. Draghi last month said
that the ECB is prepared to take the unprecedented step of
buying unlimited quantities of Spanish and Italian bonds if they
sign up to certain conditions.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in an interview on
Sept. 27 that uncertainty about what those terms will look like
is making him and his Spanish counterpart reluctant to apply for
help.  International Monetary Fund Chief Economist Olivier Blanchard today suggested bond yields in Spain and  Italy  may
resume rising if the countries don’t meet investor expectations
and seek aid.  Greek Progress  With German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  visiting  Athens  today,
Draghi said the progress made by the Greek government on
implementing sufficient reforms to qualify for further European
aid had been “perceptible.”  A mission led by the so-called troika, consisting of the
ECB, the European Commission and the IMF, has been negotiating
with the Greek government for more than two months over the
implementation of austerity measures.  “It is also clear more has to be done,” Draghi said. “We
have to wait for the troika report in order to see how the
situation stands.”  Draghi praised on economic adjustment in  Portugal , saying
the pace of reforms is “faster than expected.” Portugal “is
well poised to regain  market access  within the horizon
forecasted,” he said.  Bond Purchases  The ECB’s bond-buying program, known as Outright Monetary
Transactions, is theoretically “unlimited, but not
unconditional,” Draghi added, reminding governments that the
central bank could end purchases if the agreed conditions are
not kept to.  “The ECB will conduct OMTs if and as long as countries
comply with a strict economic adjustment program,” he said.
“OMTs will not compensate for a lack of fiscal action.”  Draghi also responded to a question over whether the ECB
would allow Ireland to restructure part of its legacy banking-
sector debt by saying the institution couldn’t engage in the
monetary financing of states.  “It’s too easy to think that the ECB can replace
governments’ action, or lack of it, by printing money,” Draghi
said. “That’s not going to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  