-- Dublin Hotels That Fetched Record Price During Boom to Be Leased
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-10-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/dublin-hotels-that-fetched-record-price-during-boom-to-be-leased.html
Two Dublin hotels, which fetched 379
million euros ($488 million) in 2005 as part of a record
property deal, were offered for lease by the banks that now
control the buildings.  The Ballsbridge Hotel and the Clyde Court Hotel, bought by
developer Sean Dunne during Ireland’s property boom, had an
average occupancy rate of 90 percent last month, according to
Savills Plc, the broker that’s marketing the properties. The
hotels have a combined 577 rooms that cost an average of about
70 euros a night,  Tom Barrett , head of Savills’ hotel and
leisure unit in Ireland, said in an e-mail.  Dunne bought the Jurys Hotel and the Berkeley Court, as the
Ballsbridge and the Clyde Court were known in 2005, from Jurys
Doyle Hotel Group Plc. At the time, it was the most paid per
acre for sites in Ireland. Dunne planned to build apartments, a
shopping mall and a new hotel on the 6.8-acre (2.8-hectare) plot
of land before the Irish real estate market’s collapse.  “Prospective operators would expect to generate profits of
about 5 million euros a year from these hotels and will offer to
pay a large majority of that in rent,” Barrett said.  The hotels, which are less than 500 meters (547 yards) from
the stadium where Ireland’s rugby and soccer teams play, are
being offered on a five-year lease starting in January, he said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s Ulster Bank unit backed
Dunne’s purchase of the sites in Dublin’s embassy district of
Ballsbridge. The properties are about 2 kilometers (1.3 miles)
from the Irish Parliament. The companies that own the hotels are
now controlled by a group of banks, according to Barrett.  Dunne’s Irish mobile number didn’t connect yesterday and a
U.S. number wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 