-- EADS-BAE Merger Talks Come Down to Wire on German Hurdle
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l ,   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-10-10T07:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/eads-bae-said-to-delay-merger-deadline-decision-until-tomorrow.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  are fighting up until a regulatory
deadline to produce a merger document as  Germany  remains the
primary obstacle, said two people familiar with the talks.  The companies will determine the fate of their planned
combination by 5 p.m. in London, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. EADS Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Enders  and BAE CEO Ian King jointly
reviewed progress and briefed their boards yesterday. EADS and
BAE may seek an extension of the U.K. regulatory deadline.  Enders, who spearheaded the plan after taking over as CEO
in June, increased the pressure on governments to get behind the
deal. Germany has maintained its reservations about the merger,
separating Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s governments from  France 
and the U.K., which are in favor of the combination that would
create the world’s largest aerospace company by sales.  “If we fail, it will not be because the two companies
couldn’t agree,” Enders said in an employee newsletter
published yesterday. “It will be because others couldn’t get
their act together and provide the necessary prerequisites for
the combination.”  EADS shares were little changed at 26.09 cents as of 9:14
a.m. in Paris. The shares have lost 12 percent of their value
since announcing the proposed combination on Sept. 12. BAE
traded 0.6 percent lower at 323.5 pence in London, bringing
their increase since Sept. 11 to 14 percent.  German Recalcitrance  As Merkel flew to  Greece  yesterday on an Airbus SAS A320
built by EADS, the government was threatening to shatter a more
than decade-old European aspiration to create an aerospace and
defense industrial company to rival U.S. firms such as  Boeing
Co. Germany (BCO)  is concerned about being marginalized in a combined
entity run out of France, with defense headquarters in London.  The German government is seeking a token center of command
and job guarantees to give it equal status with the other
states, people close to the talks have said. Germany’s position
reflects a distrust of French industrial policy and the view the
neighbor will seek to shift German jobs across the border, the
people have said.  Concessions  The British and French governments have agreed to allow
Germany to hold 9 percent of the combined company, on a par with
France. The U.K. would rely on a special share to veto decisions
it views harmful to its national security.  The U.K. has expressed concern that France and Germany may
raise their  stakes  beyond 10 percent, which the government has
signaled is a red line. France is reluctant to give written
guarantees the U.K. is seeking on the shareholding level. Talks
between the two had made “significant progress” EADS said in a
statement yesterday.  France owns about 22.2 percent in EADS, with the government
holding 15 percent and French publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB) 
controlling a further 7.5 percent. Germany’s 22.5 percent stake
is held by Daimler AG. Both companies have said they want to
sell their stakes eventually.  Skeptical Investors                      EADS and BAE must get governments to agree before they can
present a more detailed merger plan needed to convince skeptical
investors. BAE’s largest shareholder,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , has
questioned the rational for the deal. The fund controls 13.33
percent of BAE shares.  German politicians have expressed dissatisfaction with the
merger ratio, which would see BAE receive 40 percent of the
combined company, even though  EADS sales  are higher than the 60
percent stake would suggest. Enders has dismissed calls for a
different distribution, saying the value split adequately
reflects the strengths of both companies.  “We are now clearly in the make-or-break phase,” Enders
told employees in his letter. “One way or another, our industry
will not look the same after the project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  