-- Edwards Lifesciences Falls as Sales Miss Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-09T20:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/edwards-lifesciences-falls-as-sales-miss-forecast.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) , the maker
of artificial  heart valves , slid the most in 12 years after
third-quarter sales were lower than the company’s forecast.  Edwards dropped 21 percent to $84.60 at 4:01 p.m. New York
time, the biggest decline since October 2000. In a statement
yesterday, the  Irvine , California-based maker of medical devices
said preliminary  sales  for the quarter were $448 million, below
the company’s July expectation of $465 million to $485 million.  The forecast miss was due to lower-than-expected sales of
transcatheter heart valves, a replacement for faulty aortic
valves that can be implanted through small incisions to avoid
open-heart surgery, Edwards said in the statement. Chief
Executive Officer Michael Mussallem said demand was hurt by
government cutbacks in Europe and limited insurance
reimbursements in the U.S.  “At this point, it’s hard to see what turns this trend
around,”  Michael Weinstein , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst in
New York, said in note to clients today. “The competitive
landscape will only get tougher over the next six to 12 months”
with St. Jude Medical Inc. and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  due to
release minimally invasive valves.  The sales, while an increase of 9 percent from a year
earlier, were still “disappointing,” Weinstein said. Analysts
had anticipated $476.5 million for quarterly sales, according to
the average of 19  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  More Patients  The company is expected to get broader approval from the
 Food and Drug Administration  for the valve known as Sapien “any
day,” which will double the potential U.S. market, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst with Wells Fargo Securities in New York.
Approval of a new method to implant the devices without going
through the femoral artery in coming weeks should help with
insurance reimbursement, he said today in a note to investors.  The slowdown in European sales, particularly in Germany
where the devices were widely embraced, may be longer lasting,
he said. Japan is expected to clear the valve in late 2013,
which will bolster international sales, while the company’s next
generation device is expected to help Edwards maintain the lead
in the market as competitors emerge, Biegelsen said.  The company said it will release full quarterly  earnings  on
Oct. 19. Edwards’s shares had risen 49 percent in the last 12
months through yesterday.  St. Jude is based in  St. Paul , Minnesota, and Boston
Scientific in Natick, Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  