-- Megaupload Loses Bid to Dismiss Criminal Copyright Charges
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-09T16:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/megaupload-loses-bid-to-dismiss-criminal-copyright-charges-1-.html
Megaupload Ltd. failed to win
dismissal from a criminal case accusing the  internet company  and
its founder, Kim Dotcom, of running a massive illegal file-
sharing service.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria, Virginia,
said in a ruling made public today that the U.S. has authority
to bring copyright infringement charges against Megaupload even
though it has no offices in the country.  “It is doubtful that Congress would stamp with approval a
procedural rule permitting a foreign corporate defendant to
intentionally violate the laws of this country, yet evade the
jurisdiction of the  United States ’ courts by purposefully
failing to establish an address here,” O’Grady said in his 5-
page order.  The ruling was a victory for U.S. prosecutors who have
faced legal challenges since shutting down the company’s file-
sharing website and charging Dotcom and six other individuals in
January. A judge in  New Zealand  in June threw out warrants used
to seize the Internet entrepreneur’s property, delaying Dotcom’s
possible extradition by at least seven months.  O’Grady said the company could seek dismissal again
depending on how the case unfolds. He also said his ruling
“leaves open” argument that the indictment should be dismissed
until the government is able to hand Megaupload its charging
documents in accordance with federal court rules.  ‘Alter Ego’  “In this case, the government may be able to prove that at
least one of the individually named defendants is an alter ego
of the corporate parent,” O’Grady said. “If so, the
corporation’s last known address within this district will be
the address of the individual defendant, once extradited.”  William Burck, a lawyer for the company, said Megaupload is
still considering its options.  “Although the judge deferred a final decision on whether
the case should be dismissed permanently until after the
extradition process in New Zealand is completed, he made it
clear that he will consider dismissing the case now on a
temporary basis,” Burck, a partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart &
Sullivan LLP in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride ,
said, “We’ll let the ruling speak for itself.”  ‘Mega Conspiracy’  Megaupload and Dotcom, 38, were indicted in what U.S.
prosecutors dubbed a “Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-
sharing website of generating more than $175 million in criminal
proceeds from the exchange of pirated film, music, book and
software files. If convicted, Dotcom faces as long as 20 years
in prison for each of the racketeering and money-laundering
charges in the indictment, with the U.S. seeking his extradition
for a trial in Virginia.  Investigators executed more than 20 search warrants in the
U.S. and eight other countries and seized about $50 million in
assets in connection with what they said was among the largest
criminal copyright cases ever brought by the U.S.  More than 500 servers leased by Megaupload were located in
 Virginia , giving the U.S. jurisdiction to prosecute the company,
the government argued in court papers.  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  