-- Egypt Determined to Lift Investor Confidence, Qandil Say
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-10-09T10:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/egypt-determined-to-lift-investor-confidence-qandil-say.html
Egyptian officials, trying to allay
investor concerns, pledged to honor agreements and said the
economy is picking up as they voiced hopes of soon concluding a
$4.8 billion loan accord with the  International Monetary Fund .  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said  Egypt  wants to become a
mecca for investments and officials are determined to boost
confidence to revive an economy battered by last year’s unrest
that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak . The uprising ravaged
Egypt’s economy as near-daily strikes undercut productivity and
investors withdrew funds, leaving the government with sluggish
growth and a forced reliance on local debt markets.  Qandil also sought to allay domestic concerns about the IMF
loan, saying at a Cairo conference today there are “no
conditionalities, no devaluations of the pound” attached to the
plan and that talks are focused on reaching a deal that has
broad popular backing. Egyptian officials will attend a joint
IMF-World Bank meeting in  Tokyo  this week and an IMF delegation
has been invited to visit Cairo by the end of October.  If “these discussions are concluded by then, an internal
process inside the IMF has to take its course for another month
or two,” Qandil said. “Then a deal will be concluded.”  Egypt needs foreign investors because it can’t cover its
135 billion-pound ($22 billion)  budget deficit  solely by relying
on the local market, Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said at
the conference. International reserves have plunged to $15
billion, less than half their levels before the uprising.  Creating Jobs  Egypt has an “aggressive” plan to attract investment from
the private sector and create jobs, Investment Minister Osama Saleh said. These include three “mega-national” projects
including one involving mainly small and medium-sized
enterprises and the East Port Said integrated development
project, he said.  Resolving investor disputes and amending the labor law are
also priorities, Saleh said, adding that “the biggest challenge
to foreign investment is the labor issue.”  He also said Egypt would be unable to cut unemployment from
current levels of more than 12 percent until economic growth
reached 7.5 percent, which the government is targeting in the
coming years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  