-- Emerging Stocks Fall to Lowest in Two Weeks on IMF, Spain
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-10-09T21:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/emerging-stocks-rise-on-greece-energy-stocks-gain.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated to
the lowest level in two weeks on concern Spain’s failure to
respond to a bailout package will worsen Europe’s credit crisis,
crimping demand for developing-nation exports.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.1 percent to 996.59,
the lowest level since Sept. 26. Brazil’s Bovespa  index (MXBR0FN)  declined
for the first time in three days as  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,
Latin America’s biggest bank by market value, dropped to the
lowest since July. Equity gauges in South Korea, Hungary and
 South Africa  fell.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. 
rallied after state-run Central Huijin Investment Ltd. raised
its ownership in the lender.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecast this year to 3.3 percent, the slowest since 2009. Spain
has yet to respond to the  European Central Bank ’s offer to buy
its debt to lower unsustainable borrowing costs. The decision to
apply for ECB intervention is “important and sensitive,”
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters in Luxembourg
today. The European Union accounts for a third of the exports
from companies on the developing nations’ gauge.  “The big medium-term question is global growth,” Phillipe
Langham, who helps oversee about $1.4 billion at RBC Global
Asset Management, said by telephone from  London . “I don’t think
that anyone believes that the issues facing Europe are over.”  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets   Index (VXEEM)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, slid 0.7
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 6.5 percent.  Brazil, India  The Bovespa index lost 0.6 percent as Itau slid 2.5 percent
to the lowest since July 23. The MSCI Brazil Financials Index
retreated 2.3 percent to the lowest in two months.  India’s Sensex advanced 0.5 percent to 18,793.36, paring
yesterday’s losses. The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100
Index added 0.9 percent, the fourth day of gains. Poland’s WIG20
Index fell for a second day, losing 1 percent.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s biggest non-state oil company, climbed
for a third day, adding 0.6 percent. Iraq approved the company’s
plans for exploration, development and production. Crude
increased 3.2 percent after dropping in the past two days.  IMF Outlook  The IMF cut its growth outlook from a 3.5 percent
prediction in July. The Washington-based lender now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  The Spanish economy will shrink 1.3 percent next year, more
than the prediction it made in July, the IMF said.  “There’s more and more concern about the Spanish bailout
as they haven’t asked for one yet,”  Dave Lutz , head of
exchange-traded fund trading at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
yesterday by phone from Baltimore. “Emerging market assets are
going to react to developments in Spain.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said that Greece must continue
with policy reforms after making “perceptible” progress so
far. He also said the central bank’s prospective Outright
Monetary Transactions are unlimited without being unconditional.
Draghi was speaking at the European Parliament in Brussels
today.  China Gains  The developing nations’ gauge has climbed 8.8 percent this
year, trailing an 11 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of
developed countries. The emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.3
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 13.2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
traded in  Hong Kong  rose 1.3 percent to the highest  level  since
May 15.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China , the world’s largest
lender by value, advanced 1.5 percent in Hong Kong, the most in
two weeks. Central Huijin raised its ownership in the lender to
35.43 percent as of Sept. 30, the Beijing-based lender said.  “Huijin’s stake in ICBC shows that the government fund
thinks prices of bank stocks are reasonable,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai .
“This boosts sentiment in the market.”  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, slid 7
percent, the most since July 5. The Taiwanese company’s third-
quarter profit sank by a record 79 percent to NT$3.9 billion
($133 million) as competition drove down sales.  China Molybdenum Co. (603993) , the nation’s second-largest producer
of the metal by market value, surged more than threefold on its
first day of trading in Shanghai, prompting the stock exchange
to suspend the shares.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose 6 basis points to 294
basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  