-- Emerging-Market Growth Slows on Weaker Trade Demand, HSBC Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/emerging-market-growth-slows-on-weaker-trade-demand-hsbc-says.html
Emerging-market economies probably
grew more slowly in the third quarter as global demand weakened
amid a slump in the euro region and the U.S.,  HSBC Plc (HSBA)  said,
citing a survey of purchasing managers.  The HSBC  Emerging Markets  Index, which is compiled by
London-based Markit Economics and tracks conditions at more than
5,000 companies, fell to 52.1 from 53.2 in the previous three
months, HSBC said in a report today. Expansion was weakest in a
year and the second-slowest since the second quarter of 2009
when the global recovery began from the crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., HSBC said.  The International Monetary Fund cut its global growth
forecasts yesterday and said that expansion may slow even more
unless officials in the U.S. and  Europe  address threats to their
economies. Among the largest emerging markets, Brazil and China
underperformed India and  Russia , HSBC said.  “The recovery in the developing world may take longer than
expected, because the structural problems of the developed world
are just weighing on,” Murat Ulgen, HSBC’s London-based chief
economist for central and eastern Europe and sub-Saharan  Africa ,
said by phone. “We are looking at a slight improvement in 2013.
Gradually, things are expected to improve.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which has advanced 8.77
percent this year, compared with a 14.9 percent gain for the S&P
500, fell 0.1 percent to 996.69 as of 1:30 p.m. in New York
yesterday.  ‘Good Springboard’  While monetary stimulus measures by major central banks
will boost growth as “a good springboard,” they will take
longer to have an effect than usual given “structural
problems” in the developed world that weigh on trade and
undermine consumer and business confidence, HSBC said.  Rate cuts that emerging-market central banks have
undertaken will also fuel growth, said Ulgen.  “The main driver is monetary policy loosening both in the
developing and the developed world -- but a lot of countries,
like  China  are also doing targeted measures, too,” Ulgen said.
“The global trade cycle is also expected to improve a bit going
into 2013. But that is the biggest unknown because it has turned
out to be much weaker than expected and we don’t see a major
turnaround as yet.”  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said yesterday, adding that it now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  