-- Employment Index in U.S. Declines for Third Month in Four
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/employment-index-in-u-s-declines-for-third-month-in-four.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. declined in September for the third time in the last four
months, indicating the labor market will struggle to improve
through early next year.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.3 percent to 107.86 from the prior month’s revised reading of
108.23, the New York-based private research group said today.
The measure climbed 5.4 percent from September 2011.  “The  U.S. economy  entered a soft patch in the spring and
the result has been lackluster job growth, which is likely to
continue through the first half of 2013,”  Gad Levanon , director
of macroeconomic research at the Conference Board, said in a
statement.  The report follows Labor Department data last week that
showed the  unemployment rate  last month dropped to 7.8 percent,
the lowest level since January 2009. Payrolls rose by 114,000
workers in September after a revised 142,000 increase in August,
the Labor Department said on Oct. 5.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Five of the index’s eight components contributed to the
decrease in the overall gauge, today’s report showed. These
included a jump in the number of people working part-time for
economic reasons as a share of all part-time workers.  An increase in first-time claims for jobless benefits, a
drop in the number of temporary workers and a decrease in job
openings also weighed on the employment measure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  