-- Energy Week Ahead: Solar Industry Split as Tariffs Loom on China
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/energy-week-ahead-solar-industry-split-as-tariffs-loom-on-china.html
The U.S. Commerce Department tomorrow
is set to announce its final punitive duties on imports of
Chinese solar-energy products, a move that probably will draw
the ire of many American companies in the industry.  The tariffs will increase input costs and lead to higher
unemployment, according to U.S. solar developers, installers and
some manufacturers including SunEdison LLC of Belmont,
 California .  “The harm will fall on many U.S. small businesses,” Kevin Lapidus, the company’s senior vice president for legal and
government affairs, said at a briefing last week in Washington.  The issue pits two of President  Barack Obama ’s policy goals
-- trade enforcement and support for clean energy -- against
each other. The department’s announcement follows an
investigation requested by a group of U.S. solar-energy
manufacturers and may heighten trade-related tensions between
the world’s two biggest economies ahead of the U.S. elections.  The Commerce Department in May announced preliminary duties
of 31 percent to 250 percent on certain Chinese-made solar
imports, in response to a complaint by manufacturers led by the
American unit of Bonn-based  SolarWorld AG. (SWV)  In March, the agency
set separate tariffs as high as 4.73 percent on the goods, to
offset Chinese-government subsidies. U.S. imports of Chinese-
produced solar products were valued at $3.1 billion in 2011,
more than double (107 percent) the previous year,  according to 
the agency.  In June, a Commerce review suggested the tariffs to be
announced this week may be higher than those announced earlier.
Still, the decision may not be final. In order for the duties to
stand, the U.S. International Trade Commission must determine
that manufacturers including SolarWorld have been harmed. That
ruling is scheduled for early next month.  SolarWorld made its case last week at an ITC hearing in
 Washington . Gordon Brinser, president of the company’s U.S.
business, said  China ’s support for domestic manufacturers caused
a worldwide price collapse for photovoltaic cells and modules.  The company can’t compete “with the Chinese government or
with the Chinese producers that fail to play by the rules,” he
told the commission.  Companies including SunEdison and the U.S. units of Suntech
and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , part of the  Coalition for Affordable Solar
Energy , disagree. They say SolarWorld failed to innovate in a
rapidly changing market.  Whatever happens with the solar-energy dispute, trade
relations between the U.S. and China probably will remain tense.
Commerce is considering similar duties on wind-energy imports
from China, in response to a complaint from U.S. companies
including  Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  of Naperville,  Illinois .  The World Trade Organization on Sept. 28 agreed to
investigate U.S. anti-subsidy duties on Chinese goods including
wind and solar products. China in May alleged in that renewable
energy policies in at least five U.S. states violate
international trade rules.  “SolarWorld’s actions have triggered a global trade war,”
said SunEdison’s Lapidus.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  YERGIN’S OUTLOOK: Daniel Yergin, the author of the Pulitzer
Prize-winning history of oil, “The Prize,” and last year’s
sequel, “The Quest,” discusses the energy outlook today at the
Atlantic Council in Washington. Yergin, a shale gas proponent,
was a member of a panel advising the Energy Department on the
safety of its development. The 5 p.m. event will be streamed
live from the council’s  website .  WINTER FORECAST: The Energy Department hosts its annual winter
outlook conference tomorrow, taking a look at the expected
weather pattern and supply and demand projections for heating
fuels and other energy sources. The day-long event takes place
at the National Press Club in Washington starting at 7:30 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  