-- Lenovo Bets Convertible Tablet Can Win Share From Apple
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-10T08:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/lenovo-bets-convertible-tablet-can-win-share-from-apple.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  is betting on four
Windows-based notebook-tablet convertible devices to win market
share from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co., even as sales
in the product segment decline.  The IdeaPad Yoga is a multimode notebook available in two
versions with 11.6- or 13.3-inch touch screens that let users
flip and fold the keyboard to convert the device to a tablet,
said Peter Hortensius, president of Lenovo’s product group. The
larger device goes on sale in the U.S. on Oct. 26, followed by
the smaller one in December, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  has set his sights on
dominating in mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets
that are eating into personal-computer sales, he said in August.
Lenovo is close to overtaking leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in
global PC shipments, with its second-quarter market share rising
to 14.7 percent, almost matching the U.S. company’s 14.9
percent, according to Gartner Inc.  “We view these products as a key part of gaining share,”
Hortensius said of the convertible tablets in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The real key to growth is providing
useful products for customers, and we think these fit that
category very well.”  Sales of all convertible tablets based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows fell to 150,000 in the second quarter from 170,000 three
months earlier, and more than 200,000 in every quarter of 2011,
said  Jay Chou , a senior research analyst at IDC. That’s less
than 1 percent of total PC shipments, he said.  Apple shipped about 17 million tablets in the second
quarter, Chou said.  ‘Underpowered Laptop’  Dennis Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at DBS Vickers, said
he’s not convinced convertible tablets will make sense for most
users.  “At the end, you end up with an underpowered laptop, and a
not-so-portable tablet hybrid,” Lam said in an e-mail
yesterday. “If I wanted the convenience, I would stick with a
tablet. If I wanted to do work with spreadsheet, I would stick
with an ultrabook. The added option of tablet plus keyboard
completely defeats the purpose of a tablet in the first place.”  Lenovo fell 0.8 percent to close at HK$6.17 in  Hong Kong 
trading，the lowest level since Sept. 12. The  shares  have gained
19 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent advance for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  New Windows  IDC’s Chou said the new version of Windows for touch
computers will be a catalyst, and Lenovo has found part of the
market that it can address.  Both versions of Yoga and two other convertibles, the
IdeaTab Lynx and the ThinkPad Twist, run Microsoft’s new Windows
8/RT operating system for mobile devices, Lenovo’s Hortensius
said.  Yoga’s convertibility derives from a 360-degree, dual-hinge
flip design, Lenovo said when announcing the device in January.
The 13.3-inch version is powered by an Intel Corp. Core
processor and carries a suggested retail price of $1,099,
Hortensius said.  Lenovo still trails Apple and Samsung by a wide margin in
the race for tablet users. In the second quarter, Lenovo was
sixth in global tablet market share, with 1.4 percent, behind
market leaders Apple, with 65 percent, and  Samsung (005930) , with 9
percent, according to researcher IDC.  “Tablets are a must-do and the U.S. market is an important
market” for the devices, Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta
Securities Co. in Taipei, said in an e-mail yesterday. “I’m
just not sure if Lenovo can see quick success.”  Hortensius said Lenovo expects to sell “quite a few” of
the devices over the next year. He declined to provide a unit
 sales  forecast.  “We’re pretty bullish on the outlook for convertibles,”
Hortensius said. “In the marketplace you see a lot of users of
tablets, and a lot of users of clamshell notebooks. People still
buy a lot of both kinds of products. We see a lot of room for
products that allow you to do both.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  