-- Mercedes Loses Ground to BMW, Audi in Luxury Sales Race
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/mercedes-loses-ground-to-bmw-audi-in-luxury-sales-race.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz is
falling further behind in the luxury car contest.  Burdened by a disjointed strategy in  China , sluggish
expansion of entry-level models and an aging S-Class sedan, the
once-dominant upscale nameplate has slipped deeper into third
place. The Mercedes sales gap to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi has more
than doubled within a year, hampering Chief Executive Dieter Zetsche’s pledge to retake the lead.  “Mercedes’s problems are home-made problems,” said
Christian Ludwig, an analyst with Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf.
“It’s going to be extremely difficult for Mercedes to reach the
No. 1 spot. The others are not sleeping.”  Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes delivered 964,900 cars
and sport-utility vehicles worldwide through the first nine
months of 2012. The 5 percent gain failed to keep pace with
rivals, meaning it lagged Audi by 132,600 vehicles, up from
53,900 a year ago. The gap to BMW widened 41 percent to 145,000
vehicles, according to data from the carmakers.  In September 2011, Zetsche sought to cap the celebrations
for the automaker’s 125th anniversary by setting the goal for
Mercedes to become the best-selling and most profitable luxury-
car brand by 2020. At the time, he said it was “impossible”
for the brand to accept being third.  Profit Drop  One year on, Zetsche’s tone was less jubilant. He said
Sept. 20 earnings before interest and taxes at the Mercedes car
division would fall and not match last year’s figure. In
response, the manufacturer is planning a savings drive dubbed
“Fit for Leadership.” At the Paris car show last month,
Zetsche didn’t reaffirm a Mercedes’s target for 2013 operating
profit of 10 percent of sales.  Mercedes has been trailing since losing the top spot in
the luxury-car segment to BMW in 2005. The Daimler unit’s sales
will have advanced 19 percent through this year, compared with a
31 percent jump by BMW and a 70 percent surge by Audi over the
past seven years, according to IHS Automotive estimates.  The failure to keep pace is reflected in the stock.
Daimler’s 12 percent increase over the past 12 months trails
BMW’s 18 percent gain and Volkswagen’s 44 percent surge. Daimler
trades at 7.5 times estimated earnings versus 8 times for BMW.  Zetsche is seeking to reverse the trend by adding less-
expensive compact models, including a four-door coupe and a
sport-utility vehicle, to attract younger buyers and by
expanding the range of variants of the S-Class flagship, which
is in the last year of the current generation.  Dealer Traffic  The new A-Class hatchback lured 700,000 people to showrooms
when it went on sale last month. The company has about 70,000
orders so far for the car, which starts at almost 24,000 euros
($31,000) compared with about 17,000 euros for the segment-
leading VW Golf.  “Daimler is saying that the demand for its new A-Class is
great, but these are mostly orders from dealers,” said Hans- Peter Wodniok, analyst at Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany .
“The price of the compact is quite high, and it remains to be
seen if the market accepts it.”  Even with the premium price, Daimler is preparing for high
demand, signing up  Finland ’s Valmet Automotive Inc. to produce
more than 100,000 A-Class cars. The external production is on
top of 1.4 billion euros spent to upgrade a small-car factory in
Germany and build a new one in  Hungary .  Daimler plans at least five compact models in the coming
years including the newly introduced A- and B-Class cars to take
on models like the BMW 1-Series coupe and the Audi Q3 SUV.  Filling Gaps  “We have holes in our portfolio that we are closing
successively,” Joachim Schmidt, Mercedes’s sales chief, said in
an e-mail response to questions. “When I look into the future,
I see that we have excellent prerequisites to be the leading
premium manufacturer by the end of the decade.”  To reach that goal, Mercedes will need to boost growth in
China, where deliveries edged up 6.7 percent this year, compared
with gains of more than 30 percent for BMW and Audi.  “China is definitively a problem area,” said  Marc-Rene Tonn , a Hamburg-based analyst with Warburg Research. “They have
to take action.”  For a start, Zetsche is combining two separate sales units
-- one for imported vehicles and other for locally made cars --
into a single entity. Sales chief Schmidt said the goal of the
restructuring is to grow “significantly” in China again.  Mercedes’s efforts to expand its appeal with new models and
re-spark growth in China are expected to bear fruit and offset
plans by BMW to add a factory in  Brazil  and by Audi to expand in
 Mexico . IHS forecasts Mercedes increasing sales 34 percent
between 2012 and 2015, compared with Audi’s 12 percent gain and
BMW’s 26 percent rise.  “Globally, the relatively old product range weighs on
sales,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst at Norddeutsche
Landesbank in Hanover. “The current revamp of the A-Class and
soon of the S-Class will have a positive effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  