-- MetLife Enters Third-Party Asset Management in Fee Push
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-09T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/metlife-enters-third-party-asset-management-in-fee-push.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said it will add asset management for institutional
investors as part of Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian ’s
push to expand fee income.  The insurer, with more than $500 billion in its investment
portfolio backing policyholder obligations and generating
shareholder returns, will focus the initiative on real estate
and private-placement debt, areas in which the company already
invests. Clients will include other insurers, pension plans and
sovereign-wealth funds, the company said in a statement today.  Kandarian, who was promoted last year from chief investment
officer, is scaling back from capital-intensive products such as
variable annuities as he targets return on equity of at least 12
percent by 2016. The new effort will be overseen by Chief
Investment Officer Steven Goulart, a former Bear Stearns banker
who joined MetLife in 2006.  “It certainly fits well strategically with the direction
of MetLife,” Goulart, 54, said in an interview today. “It’s
not a capital-intensive business, it’s a high return business.”  MetLife will add about  20 people  over the next year,
including staff in fundraising and marketing, to assist money
managers already working for the insurer, he said. Goulart said
the company is in “active conversations” with potential
investors, without naming them.  Potential clients may welcome a new firm gathering assets
because some of the best money managers have limits on new
investments, he said.  Goulart’s Goals  “Our goal is to be one of the top five institutional real
estate investment managers,” he said. “We think we can
certainly be one of the top managers in the private debt
space as well.”  Wall Street firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are vying to manage money for institutional
investors seeking returns after the Federal Reserve pledged to
keep borrowing costs low to stimulate the economy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and President  Gary Cohn  wrote in the bank’s 2011
annual report that outsourcing of asset management by insurers
has accelerated because of “new capital regimes, greater demand
as a result of the financial crisis and a sustained low-interest
rate environment.”  MetLife’s expansion may increase competition with life
insurers including No. 2  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and Principal
Financial Group Inc. Prudential Investment Management has about
$650 billion under management, with funds in commercial real
estate, stocks and bonds, according to its website.  Merck, Wilsmann  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , once the world’s largest
insurer, sold its third-party asset manager, PineBridge
Investments, in 2010 as part of a plan to repay a U.S.
government bailout.  MetLife slipped 11 cents to $35.12 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The company has gained 13 percent this year, matching the
advance of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential.  Robert Merck, the company’s head of real estate
investments, will lead the new operation called MetLife Real
Estate Investors managing funds for both institutional clients
and the insurer. Mark Wilsmann, who has led MetLife’s commercial
mortgage operation since 2003, will head a new group focused on
real estate equity investments.  Brian Casey, from the insurer’s Washington office, will
lead a separate real estate debt strategies organization.  Scott Inglis, MetLife’s global head of private securities,
will head the insurer’s private-placement debt group. The
operation will manage assets including private corporate debt,
equity in renewable energy, and project finance and
infrastructure debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  