-- EU Legislators Back Jail Terms for Libor Riggers in Markets Law
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-09T15:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/eu-legislators-back-jail-terms-for-libor-riggers-in-markets-law.html
European Union lawmakers backed
punishments for market abusers, including jail time, in a bid to
prevent any repeat of the scandal engulfing Libor and other
interbank lending rates.  Members of the European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee called for courts to be able to impose prison
terms on people found guilty of egregious cases of insider
dealing and market manipulation. The lawmakers also backed the
use of fines and other administrative sanctions against traders
who unsuccessfully try to rig the market.  “The Libor scandal has demonstrated that the culture in
the financial sector has not changed and that they cannot be
trusted to self-regulate,” said  Arlene McCarthy , the lawmaker
handling parliament’s adoption of the rules. “Our vote today
has extended the law so that all benchmarks and indices fall
under market abuse rules to cover all possible and future
manipulation.”  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for more
than $360 trillion of securities, was shaken following  Barclays
Plc’s (BARC)  admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
Libor and other interbank lending rates, such as Euribor, to the
top of the political agenda.  Barnier last year proposed the upgrade to the bloc’s
sanctions against market abuse. He said the law was needed to
iron out marked differences between nations in the penalties
handed down for financial crimes. He updated the plans in July
to ensure that they would cover abuse of Libor and other
benchmarks.  Barnier has called for the law to be approved this year to
boost confidence following the Libor revelations.  The measures must be agreed on by the  parliament  and by a
weighted majority of the region’s national governments before
they can take effect. Today’s vote sets out the assembly’s
negotiation position on the draft law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  