-- EU’s Rehn Says Markets Calmer, Portugal to Sell Debt in 2013
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-09T11:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/eu-s-rehn-says-markets-calmer-portugal-to-sell-debt-in-2013.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn comments on the economy in
 Europe ,  Portugal ’s budget-austerity effort and Greece’s push to
qualify for further aid disbursements from the euro area and
 International Monetary Fund .  Rehn spoke to reporters today in Luxembourg. His reference
to the “troika” in the remarks on Greece means the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the IMF, which
together monitor Greek budget-cutting plans.  On the European economy:  “We know that we are currently in a mild recession in
Europe following the turmoil in the financial markets in the
middle of this year.  “On the other hand, we are now seeing certain signs of
market stabilization and on the condition that the euro zone --
both individual  member states  and the  euro zone  collectively --
will be able to take the necessary decisions in the coming
period then we will be able to return more rapidly, more quickly
to sustainable growth and better employment.”  On Portugal:  “The realistic objective is that Portugal will return to
the markets in 2013.”  “It has been necessary to restore the sustainability of
public finances in Portugal because the economic imbalances got
accumulated and got rather bad.”  “I am fully aware of the difficulties and the painful
adjustment in Portugal concerning how the Portuguese people face
this. At the same time, it’s very important that these are done
respecting social fairness and restoring competitiveness of the
country because that’s, in the end of the day, essential for the
sustainable recovery of Portugal.”  On the timing of the next possible aid payout to  Greece :  At the “latest in November, once Greece has completed the
prior actions concerning fiscal consolidation and structural
reform and once the Eurogroup and the IMF have endorsed this
disbursement.”  “I expect that this will happen in the coming weeks. We
are rather close now to conclude the negotiations and achieve a
staff-level agreement. Once that is done, then the troika will
have to finalize the compliance report, including the assessment
of financing needs and debt sustainability.”  A possible two-year extension of Greece’s budget-cutting
targets to 2016 “is one issue that the Eurogroup will have to
consider in the decision-making at the next round.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  