-- Europe, U.S. Stocks Cheap, Will Rally Further: Barclays
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-09T14:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/europe-u-s-stocks-cheap-will-rally-further-barclays.html
European and U.S. equities will rally
further in the next 12 months as valuations are attractive even
after the recent gains, Barclays Plc said.  “The markets are pricing in too much bad news,”  Kevin Gardiner , head of investment strategy for Europe,  Middle East 
and Africa at Barclays Wealth & Investment Management, said at a
press briefing in  London  today. “It’s not too late to move into
developed-market stocks. The rally is not likely to be reversed
any time soon.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has surged 16 percent from a
yearly low as the  European Central Bank  agreed on an unlimited
bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third
round of quantitative easing. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has jumped 14 percent from the most-recent low on June 1,
reaching its highest level since 2007 on Sept. 14.  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 12.1 times the estimated
earnings of its companies,  near the highest valuation  in 2 1/2
years, as investors are buying shares even as analysts lower
their estimates on earnings growth, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Still, equities in the developed world are the “most
inexpensive” among the nine global asset classes Barclays
invests in, Gardiner said. These include government bonds in
developed markets, emerging market equities, commodities and
real estate. Barclays has an overweight rating on equities in
 Europe  and the U.S., meaning it holds more than are represented
in global benchmarks.  European Earnings  The net income of companies in the Stoxx 600 will grow 17
percent in 2013, down from 27 percent forecast in January,
according to the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The downgrades are likely to continue in the next three
months, as growth will probably shrink “slightly further” in
the second half of the year, Gardiner said.  “Markets were expecting much lower earnings than
analysts,” said Gardiner. “Even if earnings expectations year-
on-year are negative, that won’t stop the markets from
rallying.”  Also, there may be “positive surprises” in U.S. and
European company earnings over the next two to three years,
Gardiner said. U.S. banks and European companies in the
technology and consumer discretionary sectors such as retail and
cars will surpass the broader market, he said.  Barclays’ least preferred asset class is  government bonds 
in the developed world, as they are “very expensive,”
according to Gardiner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  