-- Euro Falls Versus Major Peers Amid Greece Concern; Rand Climbs
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-09T21:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/euro-weakens-against-dollar-yen-amid-draghi-imf-warnings.html
The euro fell versus 13 of its 16
most-traded peers as a meeting between German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras failed to
reassure investors an accord is imminent on  Greece ’s next aid
installment.  The yen rose against the 17-nation currency for a second
day after the International Monetary Fund said the euro region’s
economy will shrink more than forecast this year. European
finance ministers met to discuss the bloc’s debt crisis. South
Africa’s rand climbed from a 3 1/2 year low as a labor agreement
was reached. Global stocks declined.  “There still doesn’t seem to be a consensus agreement on
whether they want to extend the deadline for the Greek economic
and fiscal reforms,” George Davis, chief technical analyst for
fixed income and currency strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of
Canada, said in a telephone interview. “The equity markets
aren’t doing very well, certainly a risk-off tone. That’s just
compounding things.”  The euro dropped 0.7 percent to 100.83 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York. It closed yesterday below its 200-day moving average,
101.77 yen, for the first time in three days. The shared
currency weakened 0.6 percent to $1.2885. The yen appreciated
0.1 percent to 78.26 per dollar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1 percent, and
the MSCI World Index also fell 1 percent.  Investors should remain bullish on the dollar because
issues within the U.S. economy pale in comparison with those in
Europe and  Australia , John Taylor of FX Concepts LLC said.  ‘Much Better’  “It’s a good short-term and long-term play,” New York-
based Taylor, founder of the currency hedge fund, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Deirdre Bolton . “The U.S. economy is looking much better than the other
economies of the world. Europe has a possibility of a bad nick
with the Greek situation.”  The dollar is in a “box” between the important technical
level of $1.29 per euro and downtrend levels of $1.3050 to
$1.31, Taylor said. The greenback will see a “significant”
move after it breaks out of the range, he said. A closing price
below $1.29 would be a “very bad” technical signal, he said.  Implied  volatility  among major currencies, which signals
the expected pace of price swings, was 7.7 percent, almost the
least since 2007. Lower volatility makes investments in
currencies with higher key lending rates more attractive because
the risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profit.
The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  Maintained Pressure  The euro extended losses after Merkel and Samaras met in
 Athens . She maintained pressure on Greece to meet austerity
pledges, while proclaiming her desire to keep the country in the
euro. Merkel told reporters at a news conference that while “a
lot has been done, much remains to be done.”  Samaras wants a two-year extension until 2016 for the 13.5
billion euros ($17.4 billion) of austerity measures now under
discussion, saying a country facing a sixth year of recession in
2013 can’t bear faster austerity. The debt crisis began in
Greece three years ago.  The Greek government has been in talks with the so-called
troika of the European Commission, European Central Bank and
International Monetary Fund for more than two months over the
package, which is key to unlocking the next 31 billion euros
from two rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros. The talks
were set to resume this week.  “Merkel’s visit is perhaps rekindling the notion that
Greece still has further to go on the austerity front,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities, said in a phone interview. “There seems to be some
sort of a general consensus among the European leaders that
there may be more bailout measures coming for Greece.”  Rand Gains  South Africa’s rand rallied against all of its 16 most-
traded peers after the nation’s Road Freight Employers
Association said three unions with 15,000 workers agreed to end
their strike. The currency had tumbled yesterday versus all of
its major counterparts amid stoppages in the country’s mining
and transportation industries.  The rand climbed 1.6 percent to 8.7549 per dollar, snapping
a four-day drop. It fell to 8.9942 yesterday, the weakest level
since April 27, 2009.  The euro region’s  economy  will contract 0.4 percent this
year, 0.1 percentage point less than forecast in July, and grow
0.2 percent in 2013, versus 0.7 percent predicted three months
ago, the Washington-based IMF said in a report.  “There’s getting to be more concern about growth in
 Europe ,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, compared with the July
forecast of 3.5 percent, the IMF said. The risk of a steeper
global slowdown is “alarmingly high,” the fund said.  Czech Koruna  The Czech koruna sank against most of its 31 major peers as
an inflation report raised chances the central bank will seek to
stimulate the economy further. The koruna depreciated 0.8
percent to 19.3857 to the dollar and touched 19.4582, the
weakest level since Oct. 2.  The nation’s economy fell into recession for a third
quarter, prompting Czech policy makers last month to cut the
benchmark two-week rate to a record low of 0.25 percent. The
central bank added that measures to weaken the currency may be
used to loosen monetary conditions further. The report today
showed inflation remained below the bank’s target.  The Swiss currency weakened against most major peers after
 State Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  said they
will charge depositors to hold Danish krone and francs as
customers seek refuge from the crisis-stricken euro.  Negative Rate  State Street will apply a negative interest rate of 0.75
percent annually to krone deposits starting Nov. 1, with a
separate charge for francs, according to a note to clients last
week. That means money managers, insurance companies and pension
funds must pay the bank to hold their cash.  The franc slid to a three-week low of 1.2143 per euro
before trading at 1.2115. It dropped 0.7 percent to 94.02
centimes per dollar.  The Swiss currency lost 3.1 percent in the past six months,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell
2.2 percent, while the yen gained 3 percent and the dollar fell
0.5 percent.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, rose 0.6 percent to 79.982.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  