-- Ex-N.Y. Pension Officer Sentenced to Conditional Discharge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-09T21:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ex-n-y-pension-officer-sentenced-to-conditional-discharge-1-.html
David Loglisci, a former chief
investment officer of New York’s pension fund, was sentenced to
a conditional discharge for his role in a kickback scheme that
sent former state Comptroller  Alan Hevesi  to prison.  State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Bart Stone imposed the
sentence today in  Manhattan , a clerk for the judge said.
Loglisci, 42, pleaded guilty in March 2010 to violating the
state’s general business law, a felony, and faced as long as
four years in prison.  A conditional discharge is a sentence that allows a
defendant to be released from jail without Department of
Probation supervision and requires compliance with conditions
set by the court, according to the website of the New York State
Unified Court System.  At his guilty plea, Loglisci said he sometimes ceded his
authority to Henry “Hank” Morris, Hevesi’s former top
political adviser.  Morris pleaded guilty in November 2010 and was sentenced to
prison for as long as four years in February 2011 after
admitting that the investment process at the state pension fund
was manipulated to benefit him, his associates and contributors
to Hevesi’s campaign.  James Freedland, a spokesman for  New York  Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman’s office, declined to comment on the case in
an e-mail.  No Restitution  Loglisci didn’t have to pay restitution under an agreement
with the attorney general’s office, his attorney, Kevin Keating,
said in a telephone interview.  “Distinct from every other defendant in this case, David
neither requested nor received a single penny outside of his
salary,” Keating said.  Morris corrupted the investment process to favor those who
made contributions to Hevesi’s campaign, which he managed, and
those who agreed to pay sham placement fees to him or his
associates, Loglisci told the court. Morris punished those who
refused, Loglisci said.  Hevesi, 72, a Democrat who as comptroller was the sole
trustee of the state’s pension fund, pleaded guilty in October
2010 to approving a $250 million pension investment in exchange
for a $1 million kickback. He was sentenced to as many as four
years in prison in April 2011.  Hevesi resigned in 2006 as part of a separate plea deal
struck after he assigned a state employee to be the chauffeur
for his ailing wife.  Public Fund  Former Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , now the state’s
governor, started to investigate New York’s Common Retirement
Fund in 2007. It’s the nation’s third-largest public pension
fund, valued at $150.3 billion as of March 31, according to the
state comptroller’s office.  Eight people pleaded guilty in connection with the pension
probe. In addition to the criminal cases, at least six people
and 21 firms settled with Cuomo, paying more than $170 million.  Loglisci and Morris were charged in a 123-count criminal
complaint in March 2009 at the same time they were sued by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which accused Loglisci
of arranging for the pension fund to invest $5 billion with
private-equity firms and hedge-fund managers that paid finders’
fees to Morris and others.  The former official owed his job as chief investment
officer of the retirement fund to his cooperation but otherwise
didn’t benefit monetarily, Cuomo said at the time of his plea.  Ceded Authority  Loglisci allegedly benefited through investments in a 2004
low-budget movie called “Chooch” that was produced by his
brother, Steven.  He said on the day of his plea that he was instructed by a
“senior” official to get approval from Morris before
recommending or declining investment suggestions. Loglisci said
he ceded authority over a portfolio of investments including
 hedge funds , private-equity investments and venture-capital
firms, at the direction of senior officials.  Loglisci’s financial career is over “all for a brief
chapter in his life when at the direction of supervisors he had
to get the approval of Hank Morris on a select number of
hundreds of investment decisions,” his lawyer Keating said.  Loglisci pleaded guilty to a single count of the criminal
indictment involving the Carlyle/Riverstone Global Energy and
Power Fund II. The pension fund made a $150 million commitment
to the fund in November 2003, Cuomo said in a statement in June
when Riverstone Holdings LLC settled his investigation.  Shell Company  New York-based Riverstone agreed to pay $30 million to end
Cuomo’s probe, following the  Carlyle Group , which settled for
$20 million in May.  Carlyle paid $3 million in fees to Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Searle & Co., the broker-dealer Morris was associated
with, Cuomo said.  Searle paid $1.4 million to PB Placement LLC, a shell
company tied to Morris, and $1.5 million to Barrett Wissman, a
Dallas hedge-fund manager Morris split fees with, Cuomo said.  Soon after the $150 million investment, David Leuschen,
founder of Riverstone Holdings, put $100,000 into “Chooch,”
Cuomo said in a statement when Leuschen agreed to pay $20
million to resolve his role in the investigation.  Loglisci said in court during his plea hearing that he knew
Morris split sham placement fees with certain agents and had
other financial interests he concealed from the fund. In some
instances, Loglisci said, Morris concealed the information from
him as well.  Son of Carpenter  Loglisci, the youngest of four sons of a carpenter, was
born and raised in  Connecticut  and attended  Georgetown
University  in  Washington , Keating said.  He received a master’s in business administration from the
University of  Notre Dame  in  South Bend ,  Indiana , and previously
worked as an investment banker for Citigroup Inc.’s  Salomon
Smith Barney , Keating said.  Loglisci left New York three years ago “just to get a
fresh start” and is managing a car wash business in  Oklahoma ,
Keating said.  The case is People v. Loglisci, 00025-2009 New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 