-- FDA Seeks Reconsideration of U.S. Cigarette Label Ruling
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-09T22:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/fda-seeks-reconsideration-of-u-s-cigarette-label-ruling.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
asked for a full-court review of a decision by a three-judge
appeals panel that threw out rules forcing cigarette packaging
and advertising to display images such as diseased lungs.  The agency in a filing today in the U.S Court of Appeals in
Washington said the court’s 2-1 ruling finding the regulations
violated the free speech rights of tobacco companies under the
First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution was wrong and conflicts
with a ruling by a federal appeals court in Cincinnati.  The majority on the three-judge panel said in August that
the government failed to present any data showing the warnings
would cut smoking rates.  “The First Amendment does not require statistical proof of
the extent to which the decline in smoking rates resulted
‘directly’ from the new health warnings,” the FDA said in
today’s filing.  The eight active judges on the Washington-based appeals
court heard only one so-called en banc case last term, according
to the court’s docket.  R.J. Reynolds , a unit of  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , Lorillard
Tobacco Co., Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett Group LLC and
Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA last year, claiming
the mandates for cigarette packages, cartons and ads, passed as
part of the Family Smoking Prevention and Control Act, violated
the First Amendment because the government was using “threats
and fear” to motivate people to stop using a lawful product.  ‘Browbeat Consumers’  The Washington court on Aug. 24 ruled that FDA regulations
mandating visual-image warnings of smoking’s health risks, along
with the phone number 1-800-QUIT-NOW, are “unabashed attempts
to evoke emotion” and “browbeat consumers” to stop buying the
companies’ products.  David Howard , a spokesman for Winston Salem, North
Carolina-based Reynolds American, declined to comment on the
filing.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-5332,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District
of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  