-- Fed Search for Policy Thresholds Hindered by Volatility
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-10-09T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/fed-search-for-policy-thresholds-hindered-by-volatility.html
An unexpected drop in the jobless
rate last month illustrates the hurdles faced by Federal Reserve
officials seeking to link monetary policy to specific economic
indicators.  Unemployment fell to 7.8 percent in September, the lowest
since January 2009, from 8.1 percent in August, according to a
Labor Department report released last week in Washington. The
rate was lower than the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. At the same time, monthly payrolls
growth slowed to 114,000 from 142,000.  That report “gives you an indication of how potentially
dangerous it could be” to tie policy to an indicator such as
the jobless rate, said  Michael Hanson , senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York  who formerly worked for the
Fed board. “You had a big fall in the unemployment rate, but
you had pretty modest growth in payrolls. This is a very
volatile series.”  Since August 2011, the  Federal Open Market Committee  has
said it was likely to keep interest rates low for a specified
period of time, currently mid-2015. At last month’s meeting,
“many participants” said it would be better to replace the
date with language describing the “economic factors” that
would prompt them to raise rates, according to minutes of the
gathering released last week. The minutes didn’t specify how
many policy makers supported that approach.  Officials said such an approach would provide “greater
clarity” about their intentions, and would allow market
expectations to “adjust automatically” as fresh data on the
economy becomes available.  ‘Very Explicit’  “You want policy to be conditional in a very explicit way
that signals to the markets what you’re looking to achieve, as
opposed to the calendar date that says how long we’re going to
hang around and wait,” Hanson said.  Some policy makers also said extending the time period for
low rates might be misinterpreted as a downgrade of their
economic outlook, according to the minutes. Still, Fed officials
also said it would be “challenging” to agree on specific
thresholds, given a diversity of views.  Charles Evans , the president of the Chicago Fed, has said
the central bank should promise to keep rates low until the
unemployment rate falls to 7 percent, so long as inflation does
not breach 3 percent. Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  has said interest rates should stay low until
unemployment falls below 5.5 percent, so long as the outlook for
inflation does not breach 2.25 percent.  Unemployment Forecast  “If they’re able to agree on a 7 percent threshold, by the
time they’re able to agree, we may be there anyway,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays Plc in New York and
formerly an economist at the Fed board. Maki says the
 unemployment rate  could fall more quickly than central bank
predicts.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest  rate  near zero
since December 2008 and has relied on three rounds of large-
scale asset purchases to push down borrowing costs and spur
growth and employment. Until September, the jobless rate had
been stuck above 8 percent for 43 straight months, the longest
such stretch in monthly records dating to 1948.  The Fed’s record easing has pushed stocks higher. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has more than doubled since reaching
a 12-year low on March 9, 2009. Strategists at Bank of America
Corp. project it will climb to 1,600 by the end of 2013,
surpassing its record high of 1,565.15 reached in October 2007.  Treasury Yields  The  gap  between two-and five-year Treasury yields, which
shrinks when traders expect the benchmark rate to remain low, is
now about one-third of what it was three years ago.  Stocks fell after the  International Monetary Fund  cut
global growth forecasts. The  S&P 500  declined 1 percent to
1,441.48 as of the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York.  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, the
IMF said today, compared with July predictions of 3.5 percent in
2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based lender now
sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  Among other economic data today, confidence among U.S.
small businesses cooled in September as fewer companies said
they planned to hire or invest in new equipment, a survey found.  In  Australia , business confidence recovered in September as
the prospect of  interest-rate  reductions overshadowed weaker
sentiment among miners and manufacturers, a private survey
showed. Japan reported a larger-than-estimated 454.7 billion yen
($5.8 billion) current-account surplus.  U.K. Manufacturing  Reports in the U.K. showed manufacturing fell more than
economists forecast in August and the  trade gap  widened,
indicating the economy may struggle to regain strength.  In September, before the U.S. jobs figures were announced,
the FOMC extended its time horizon for low rates at least
through the middle of 2015 from late 2014. It also announced its
third round of so-called quantitative easing, with monthly
purchases of $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities.  Most officials said that numerical thresholds “could be
useful to provide more clarity” even as they “thought that
further work would be needed to address the related
communications challenges,” minutes of the meeting showed.  Among the challenges: choosing among various measures of
labor-market health.  A broader gauge of unemployment was unchanged last month at
14.7 percent. That figure includes those who have given up
looking for a job and those who work part-time because they
can’t find full-time work.  Participation Rate  And the percentage of the population that is in the  labor
force , known as the participation rate, remains near a 30-year
low of 63.6 percent. The ratio was at a post-recession low of
63.5 percent in August.  “Any sort of a threshold that is simple enough to be
understood by the public is probably too simple to be good
policy,” Bank of America’s Hanson said.  In its Sept. 13 statement, the FOMC said it would maintain
accommodative policy for “a considerable time after the
economic recovery strengthens” yet included no specific
thresholds.  “We want to see the unemployment rate come down, but
that’s not the only indicator, obviously, of labor market
conditions,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press
conference following the statement’s release. “So we, at least
to this point, have decided to define it qualitatively.”  Some Fed officials have raised concerns that policy
thresholds would limit the Fed’s flexibility.  In a Box  “This threshold thing is going to put the committee in
more of a box,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  told
reporters after a speech in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , on Oct. 4.  Since pushing rates almost to zero, the Fed has
increasingly relied on shaping public expectations for interest
rates as one of its monetary-policy tools.  In March 2009, the central bank began saying it would keep
rates low “for an extended period.” Seeking to lower longer-
term borrowing costs further, policy makers tied their
commitment to a date -- mid-2013 -- for the first time in August
2011. They extended that time frame to late 2014 in January and
to mid-2015 last month.  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary economist at Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors, says the Fed is “asking for
trouble” by relying so heavily on its communications strategy.  “If you put together the substantial evidence that the Fed
can’t control the real rate of unemployment or real growth in
the economy, then pinning your policy on something you can’t
control or influence doesn’t make a lot of sense,” said
Eisenbeis, a former research director at the Atlanta Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  