-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Were ‘Cautious’ on Economic Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-09T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/fed-regional-bank-directors-were-cautious-on-economic-outlook.html
Directors at the Federal Reserve’s
regional banks said at their August and September meetings they
remained cautious about the short-term outlook for the economy
while expressing confidence in its longer term performance.  “Directors remained cautious about the near-term prospects
for economic growth, although most directors still expected
economic conditions to improve over the longer term,” according
to minutes released today in  Washington  summarizing the
discussions. Some saw “moderate growth in consumer spending, as
well as strong performance in energy-related sectors.”  The directors continued to note gains in home sales and
prices, while some directors “expressed concern about ongoing
weakness in the manufacturing sector” and the damage to
agriculture from drought in some regions, board members of the
12 banks said, according to the minutes.  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet Oct.
23-24 after expanding record stimulus last month with an
announcement of new bond buying. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and
his colleagues have two meetings remaining this year to decide
whether to extend Operation Twist, a program to extend the
maturity of securities in the Fed’s portfolio. Operation Twist
expires in December.  Fed regional bank directors said strains in global markets
and uncertainty about the U.S. budget and regulations pose
downside risks to the economy because of “their dampening
effect on firms’ hiring and investment decisions,” according to
the minutes. “Longer-term inflation expectations had inched up
recently but remained stable overall.”  No End Date  The Fed said Sept. 13 it will undertake a third round of
quantitative easing with open-ended purchases of $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month. The program has no end date or fixed
total amount, unlike the first two. In the first, starting in
2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of mortgage-backed
securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt and $300 billion
of Treasuries. In the second round, announced in November 2010,
the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  Policy makers in June extended Operation Twist, a program
to swap $667 billion of short-term debt with longer-term
securities to lengthen the average maturity of its holdings. The
central bank will also continue reinvesting its portfolio of
maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities.  The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace in the second
quarter, slower than a prior estimate of 1.7 percent and the 2
percent rate in the first quarter. The unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to  7.8 percent  in September as employers took
on more part-time workers.  Prior Meetings  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were similar to those
at earlier meetings. Members of the Boston Fed’s board of
directors urged a quarter-percentage point reduction, to 0.5
percent, while the Kansas City Fed repeated its request for a
quarter-point rise to 1 percent. The other 10 banks did not
request a change.  The Fed’s 12 regional banks each have nine-member boards of
directors that request discount-rate changes. The requests are
subject to final review and determination by the Fed Board,
which consists of the central bank’s seven Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  