-- Fibria Plans Brazil Wood-to-Fuel Plant to Diversify Sales
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-10-09T19:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/fibria-plans-brazil-wood-to-fuel-plant-to-diversify-sales.html
Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s
largest pulp producer, is expanding into biofuels as an expected
global oversupply of the main raw material in paper threatens to
depress prices, Chief Executive Officer Marcelo Castelli said.  Its first plant will be able to produce about 22 million
gallons (83 million liters) of fuel a year from wood and will
open in 2015 after about two years of construction, Castelli
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Fibria, based in Sao Paulo, expects to get as much as a
quarter of its revenue by 2025 from biofuels and other products
made from its forestry assets. That will reduce its reliance on
pulp, which accounted for about 94 percent of its 5.9 billion
reais ($2.9 billion) in sales last year, he said. The company
may build as many as ten more biofuel plants through 2020.  “A lot of players are building capacity and we are going
to have an oversupply” of pulp in the next few years, he said.
The planned biofuel plant is “an amazing project that will give
us very high competitiveness.”  The fuel plant is the result of a joint venture Fibria
announced Oct. 3 with Wilmington, Delaware-based  Ensyn Corp. ,
which has developed technology to convert wood into
transportation fuel. Fibria also agreed to pay $20 million for 6
percent of closely held Ensyn and has the option of boosting its
stake to 9 percent.  The facility will cost as much as $100 million and will be
built next to one of Fibria’s three pulp mills. The company
expects to sell the output to U.S. distributors, which pay a
premium for renewable fuels, Castelli said.  “We want to add an extra portfolio that will be less
capital intensive,” he said. “That will maximize the value of
forestry and also will be an anti-cyclical business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  