-- Financial Job Losses Across Western Europe Surpass 30,000
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-10-09T13:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/financial-job-losses-across-western-europe-surpass-30-000-1-.html
Financial job losses in western
 Europe  surpassed 30,000 this year as firms including  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  cut positions amid the
sovereign debt crisis.  While the 33,437 reductions are less than half of the
76,654 made in region during the same period a year ago,
analysts expect the cuts to increase. Financial firms have
announced more than 60,000 cuts globally so far this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.  “Last year’s cuts were designed to deal with the new
market paradigm,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based
analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “This year’s cuts show how much
deeper the banks have had to go. Job losses will continue
through year-end as banks focus on costs rather than revenues,
given the current environment.”  Firms in the City and  Canary Wharf , London’s financial
districts, and lenders across Europe are eliminating more
employees as the sovereign debt crisis triggers a slump in
trading, stock and bond offerings. The 17-country euro area
economy will contract 0.4 percent this year, and grow 0.2
percent in 2013, less than the 0.7 percent predicted three
months ago, the  International Monetary Fund  said today.  Pain Ahead  “Some banks might expect, and others hope, that the world
economy will pick up again next year,” said Tom Kirchmaier, a
fellow in the financial-markets group at the  London School of
Economics . “In reality, much will depend on how the markets
will be fairing in the coming years to determine whether the
pain is behind, or in fact still ahead of us.”  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, said on
Sept. 24 it will cut 300 more jobs at its investment banking
unit in addition to 3,500 announced in January. UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, plans to cut about 80 to 90
positions in its European investment-banking division as part of
a global revamp, two people with knowledge of the matter said
last month.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s biggest brokerage, is
eliminating about 100 investment banking jobs in Europe as it
unwinds a four-year-old international expansion, three people
with knowledge of the plans said in September.  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss private bank established in 1890, may cut more
than 1,000 jobs as it combines Bank of America Corp.’s non-U.S.
Merrill Lynch wealth units.  Financial firms “still require massive cuts,” said  Jason Kennedy , chief executive officer of Kennedy Group, a recruiting
firm.  European banks making the biggest cuts this year include
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , which is eliminating 4,600
jobs as part of a reorganization. Deutsche Bank AG said in July
it will also cut about 1,900 jobs “predominantly” outside of
Germany, including 1,500 positions at its investment bank and
related infrastructure areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  