-- Finra Says Firm Reviews Trades After Sudden Stock Swings
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-09T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/finra-says-firm-reviews-trades-after-sudden-stock-swings.html
Trades that caused split-second
disruptions in about 140 companies and exchange-traded funds
were canceled after a review by the firm that reported them, the
latest mishap to draw attention to U.S. market structure.  The transactions occurred starting around 10 a.m.  New York 
time on off-exchange venues and spurred momentary spasms in
stocks from  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  to  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  and  Pandora Media
Inc. (P) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Financial
Industry Regulatory Association said the unidentified firm that
reported the trades was reviewing them for possible errors.  While the episode drew comparisons to the malfunction that
cost  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  $440 million on Aug. 1, it
involved a fraction of the value. Almost all of the transactions
canceled yesterday were one or two trades of fewer than 300
shares, followed by an instant rebound to the earlier price.  “If we’re talking about the relative damage of this
problem compared to other trading issues we’ve seen, then
clearly it was isolated,”  Adam Sussman , head of research at
Tabb Group, a New York-based consulting firm, said in a phone
interview. “It’s another blemish on market structure and it’ll
give people another reason to doubt the stability of equity
markets.”  Rules governing when trades can be broken differ between
exchanges and private venues. While regulations adopted after
the May 2010 flash crash prohibit markets such as the New York
Stock Exchange from canceling transactions that fall within
preset price bands, they don’t apply when shares change hands on
dark pools or when matched privately by brokerages.  ‘Wild West’  “The TRF is kind of the Wild West because there’s no
stated policy for clearly erroneous trades reported to the
facility,” George Hessler, chief executive officer of Deep
Liquidity Inc., an Austin, Texas-based alternative trading
system operator, said in an interview. “It hasn’t been a
problem to date.”  The transactions were sent to data feeds over the
Finra/Nasdaq Trade Reporting Facility, which publishes equity
prices from off-exchange venues such as dark pools. Finra said
the firm that reported them was “reviewing the trades to
determine whether corrections or cancellations” are warranted,
according to a statement from Finra spokeswoman  Nancy Condon .
Almost all were subsequently reversed, Bloomberg data showed.  Fragmented Market  While most of the shares bought and sold in America changed
hands on three main markets until the late 1990s, trading now is
fragmented across more than 50 public and private venues as well
as among brokers who match orders through a process known as
internalization.  “These wild, computer-driven market swings just add to the
view that the market is somehow rigged,”Edward Bozaan, a
managing partner at New York-based Cleargate Capital LLC, said
in an interview. “I do not believe markets are rigged, but it’s
understandable how these mishaps can reduce confidence in the
markets. The world does not need another flash crash.”  U.S. shares of Nokia jumped as much as 18 percent and fell
more than 14 percent before the trades where canceled, while
 MEMC (WFR)  dropped as much as 20 percent. The  Financial Select Sector
SPDR Fund (XLF)  jumped as much as 2.8 percent before erasing gains and
trading lower. Other stocks making unusual moves between 10 a.m.
and 11 a.m. New York time included Pandora Media Inc.,  Hatteras
Financial Corp. (HTS)  and Las Vegas Sands Corp.  Nokia, Kraft  Nokia American depositary receipts reached $3.17 with one
trade at 10:28 a.m. in New York, and then tumbled to $2.30
within the next five minutes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Espoo, Finland-based mobile-phone maker closed
little changed at $2.68.  Last week, erroneous trades sent Kraft Foods Group Inc. up
as much as 29 percent in the first minute of trading before they
were canceled by exchanges. Regulators are studying ways to
prevent electronic mishaps after a programming error almost sent
 Knight Capital  into bankruptcy in August.  “Traders have to be extremely careful and put limits in
when trading electronically,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity
trading at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment
Management Inc., said in an e-mail. His firm oversees about $80
billion. “Otherwise you are exposing yourself to risk.”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, declined
to comment. Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., declined to comment.  MEMC, the second-largest U.S. polysilicon maker, reached
$1.98 and $1.99 a share within the six minutes after 10:52 a.m.
before rebounding to $2.40. The Financial Select Sector SPDR
Fund traded at $16.49 and $16.45 in two trades totaling about
600 shares at 10:47 a.m. and 10:53 a.m. before retreating to
$15.97.  “Since there are many stocks this time, it might be a fat
finger program,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior equity trader at Cabrera
Capital Markets LLC in  Boston , wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  