-- Florida’s West Flays Opponent as He Sees Communists in House
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-10-10T00:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/florida-s-west-flays-opponent-as-he-sees-communists-in-congress.html
U.S. Representative Allen West calls
his opponent a “spoiled brat.” That’s mild compared to what he
says about his colleagues, terming one despicable and “not a
lady” and 78 of them communists.  The 51-year-old retired Army lieutenant colonel, one of two
black Republicans in the House, has raised more money than any
candidate for the chamber except Speaker  John Boehner . West is
spending much of it on personal attacks against his opponent,
29-year-old Patrick Murphy, a first-time candidate who is
responding in kind.  The race in one of Florida’s most evenly divided districts
is a test of whether the  Tea Party ’s 2010 invective can work for
incumbents -- and whether such a race may be won with scant
direct contact with voters. West holds few public events and
hasn’t knocked on any doors, opting instead for broadsides
against Murphy.  “West doesn’t want to fight it out over cuts to Medicare
or Social Security in that district,” said Roger Stone, a
strategist who has worked for Republican presidential
candidates. “What you get instead are personal attacks.”  The race is one of only about two dozen toss-ups this year
in the 435-member House, according to Cook Political Report and
Rothenberg Political Report, Washington-based nonpartisan
newsletters that analyze elections. About 38 percent of district
voters are Republican, while Democrats account for 36 percent,
state data show.  Barack Obama  won a majority there in 2008;
Republican Governor  Rick Scott  carried it in 2010.  Gray Florida  The district, into which both West and Murphy moved this
year, encompasses part of Palm Beach County and two counties to
the north. St. Lucie County includes the home of a  New York  Mets
minor-league baseball team and a population that grew 45 percent
since 2000, one of the state’s fastest gains. Martin County has
Jupiter Island, home to golfers  Greg Norman  and  Tiger Woods , and
a population with 28 percent of residents 65 or older. Seniors
account of 18 percent of Florida’s population, the nation’s
highest.  District voters “don’t like the Tea Party,” Murphy said
during an interview in his Palm Beach Gardens campaign office.
“Put someone like  Allen West  as one of the leaders of the Tea
Party and show that’s really the epitome of the gridlock in
Congress right now, and they don’t like that.”  Air War  A month before the Nov. 6 election, West said he had yet to
knock on one door in the district, which includes only about 23
percent of people he currently represents since state lawmakers
drew new boundaries after the 2010 census.  This month, West’s only campaign events were the forum with
Murphy in Fort Pierce and an appearance with talk-show host Mark
Levin at a West Palm Beach retirement community, said Michele
Hickford, West’s campaign spokesman. West introduced Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  on Oct. 7 at a rally in  Port
St. Lucie .  “I’ve been kind of busy, you know, in Washington D.C.,”
West told reporters after the Fort Pierce event. “But I think
that now we’re in that last 200-meter sprint of a nice, hard
one-mile race, I’ll be out there.”  Tim Edson, West’s campaign manager, said later in an e-mail
that the candidate had held 10 meetings in the new district and
gone to “chambers, community organizations, charity events,
business visits, senior centers and vets groups.”  Murphy’s ads feature children repeating West’s statements,
including an e-mail he wrote to U.S. Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , a Florida Democrat, informing her that she
was vile, despicable and “not a lady.” Another Murphy ad shows
West saying liberal woman are “neutering American men.”  Fistic Arts  Yet the ad that West mentioned repeatedly last week talking
to reporters in Fort Pierce is one that features a caricature of
him wearing boxing gloves and punching two white women. A
narrator says West “socked it to seniors” by voting for
Medicare changes and “whacked women” by supporting cuts to
health-care spending. The ad opens with a twinkle on West’s
smile that West says is intended to look as though he has a gold
tooth.  West pointed to the ad when asked why he said Murphy was a
“spoiled brat.”  “I don’t need to explain anything,” West said. “Why
don’t you go ask him to explain me with a gold tooth punching
people?”  Who Knew?  Murphy says the ad was a surprise to him even though the
independent group that ran it, American Sunrise, is funded by
his father’s company, Miami-based Coastal Construction Group
Inc. of South  Florida . Patrick Murphy is vice president of
Coastal Environmental Services, a unit of the company.  “It was just one of those things,” Murphy said. “All of
the sudden, we turn on the TV and we see it.”  In response, West aired an ad last month that shows himself
in military fatigues. Then, it segues to Murphy’s mug shot from
a 2003 arrest on charges, later dropped, of disorderly
intoxication and possessing a fake driver’s license.  Murphy countered with a spot that attempts to cast doubt on
West’s military career. West retired after being reprimanded for
firing a gun near the head of a detainee in  Iraq  during an
interrogation. Military prosecutors charged West with assault.
After an administrative hearing, the military didn’t court-
martial West. Instead, he was relieved of his command and
retired with a full pension.  Said West: “I really find it interesting that a person
who’s never won a uniform wants to attack a guy that was making
the decision for the safety and security of his men in combat.”  Standing Guard  Such combat attracted a capacity crowd of more than 300 to
the St. Lucie County Commission chambers in Fort Pierce last
week, when the two met on the same stage for the first time. It
was the only one of several forums sponsored by the St. Lucie
County League of Women Voters this year at which both sides
requested law officers for security, said Cathy Townsend-King,
president of the group.  “This race is tense, very tense,” said Dawnella Weaver,
49, who runs a general-contracting company in Fort Pierce.  Weaver, a Republican, said some Democrats followed her
before the event. One audience member was escorted out by
officers after shouting an expletive at Murphy.  The campaign is just the latest volatile race for about 65
percent of voters in the area who will elect their fourth
different congressman in five two-year election cycles.  District’s Descent  Former Representative Mark Foley, a Republican, resigned in
2006 after writing explicit e-mails to underage male pages. His
replacement, Democrat Tim Mahoney, lost re-election in 2008
after ABC News reported he paid a former mistress to keep her
from suing. Representative Tom Rooney, a Republican who defeated
Mahoney, is running in a nearby district that favors
Republicans.  “We do have an interesting history in this district,”
said Kevin Wagner, an associate professor of political science
at Florida Atlantic University in  Boca Raton . “This race been
pretty nasty, and it’s hard to imagine it getting worse.”  Murphy, who raised about $2.2 million through June 30, said
he’ll spend about as much as West on television during the
campaign’s final month. The Democratic National Campaign
Committee has reserved about $250,000 in TV time during the
final month, Formas said. The House Majority PAC, a fundraising
group that supports Democrats, has reserved $1.5 million in air
time, according to its website.  Cash Quest  This year, West collected $9.9 million through June 30.
That’s second-most among House candidates. Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican  who holds the chamber’s highest rank, raised $18.2
million.  West spent $4 million on fundraising and the effort looks
to be paying off. His campaign reported collecting another $4
million from July 1 to Sept. 30.  That compares with West’s race in 2008, when he spent just
$555,000, about one-quarter what his opponent did, and lost by 9
percentage points. At the time, West focused on meeting voters,
said Sid Dinerstein, Palm Beach County Republican chairman  “Allen didn’t have enough regard for the importance of
money that first race,” Dinerstein said. “He told himself he
was never going to let that happen again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  