-- Ford Would Have Shut Without Auto Bailouts, Rattner Says
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-10-10T02:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ford-would-have-shut-without-auto-bailouts-rattner-says.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the only large U.S.
automaker that didn’t receive a U.S. government bailout,
would’ve failed along with General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC
if President  Barack Obama ’s administration hadn’t rescued the
industry, said  Steven Rattner , who headed Obama’s auto task
force.  “Ford would have closed because it wouldn’t have been able
to get parts, because the parts industry in this country was in
arguably worse shape than the assemblers,” Rattner said today
at the Center for American Progress in Washington.  Rattner, now chairman of the Willett Advisors LLC
investment firm, led the $63.4 billion bailout in 2009 of GM and
Chrysler, which he said would have fired all their workers and
ceased to exist without the bailout.  President  George W. Bush , who preceded Obama, “did the
right thing” by beginning the bailout process, giving $17.5
billion to GM and Chrysler in 2008, Rattner said.  The auto bailout has been a point of contention in the
presidential race between Obama and Republican  Mitt Romney  as
they compete for votes in swing states including Ohio, home to
U.S. automaker and parts-supplier plants. Romney opposed the
government bailout.  Ford’s View  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  last month made
similar comments, saying he doesn’t regret testifying before
Congress in support of taxpayer support for his competitors.  “We think about that a lot, should we have gone back and
testified on behalf of our competitors who were bankrupt,”
Mulally told reporters Sept. 18 in New York. “I would do the
same thing again today.”  Mulally said he agreed with the assessment of “the
economic advisers of the  Bush administration  and the Obama
administration that if GM and Chrysler had gone into free fall,
they could have taken the United States from a recession into a
depression.”  The U.S. government was the only entity that could save the
domestic automakers because no one, including banks that were
dealing with their own financial crises, was willing to put
private capital into GM and Chrysler at the beginning of 2009,
Rattner said.  “If you can’t pay your workers, if you can’t pay your
suppliers, if you can’t pay your electric bills, then you have
to liquidate,” he said. “This is what government is set up to
do.”  Ford gained 0.5 percent to $10.10 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 6.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  