-- Geithner Says Europe ‘Reforms’ Important, Welcomes India Changes
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-09T10:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/geithner-says-europe-reforms-important-welcomes-india-changes.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said “very important reforms” are under way in  Europe 
to fight the region’s debt crisis, adding a recent overhaul of
economic policy in  India  offers great potential.  “There are very important reforms under way in Spain and
 Italy , across Europe to lay for a foundation for better growth,”
Geithner said in  New Delhi  today after talks with Indian Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram. “That mix toward policies and
commitments offers a more promising path to the eventual
resolution to this crisis than we have seen to date.”  Geithner’s visit for the annual meeting of the U.S.-India
Economic and Financial Partnership follows a recent Indian
policy revamp to open up to more foreign investment and revive
 expansion.  Chidambaram said the South Asian nation has a “deep
interest” in the resolution of the woes in the euro area, whose
turmoil has affected exports and capital inflows.  Europe’s governments have set up a 500 billion-euro ($647
billion) fund to aid debt-swamped countries, while European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last month announced details
of an unlimited bond-purchase program designed to regain control
of  interest rates  in the euro area and fight speculation of a
currency breakup.  The purchases hinge on struggling countries requesting aid
from Europe’s rescue funds. Spain and Italy, which had pushed
for ECB intervention to bring down borrowing costs, are now
reluctant to ask for support because of the conditions attached.  India Changes  India’s policy changes point to a “promising path” toward
improving investment and expansion, Geithner said at today’s
briefing.  “The recent reforms advanced by Prime Minister Singh and by
the finance minister will help provide a foundation for stronger
economic growth, stronger growth in private investments, and
more widespread gains in income,” Geithner said.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government began the wave
of changes on Sept. 13 by unveiling a rise in subsidized diesel
prices to contain a fiscal deficit.  The next day, Singh opened industries including retail to
overseas businesses, giving companies such as Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc. the opportunity to own as
much as 51 percent in supermarket ventures.  Last week, the cabinet approved proposals to permit more
foreign participation in the pensions and insurance industries,
steps that need parliamentary approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  