-- Spanish Bonds Decline a Second Day on Rajoy Bailout Speculation
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-09T16:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/german-10-year-bunds-decline-before-eu-finance-ministers-meeting.html
Spain’s government bonds fell for a
second day as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s reluctance to
sanction a request for financial assistance damped demand for
the nation’s securities.  Two-year rates rose for a second day after International
Monetary Fund Chief Economist  Olivier Blanchard  suggested bond
yields in Spain and Italy may reverse recent declines if the
countries hold off from requesting bailouts. Rajoy meets French
President  Francois Hollande  in Paris tomorrow. The Spanish
premier has said he is considering a request for monetary aid,
while damping speculation that it will come soon. The
Netherlands sold five-year notes at a  record-low  auction yield.  “There is some risk off in the market,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“Investors are waiting to see whether  Spain  will ask for
support and for the details of that.”  Benchmark 10-year Spanish yields rose 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 5.82 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time.
The 5.85 percent bond maturing in January 2022 fell 0.75 or 7.50
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,288) face amount to 100.175. Two-year
yields climbed 10 basis points to 3.24 percent.  Spain’s bond maturing in January 2022 remains the nation’s
benchmark security, a spokesman for the  Economy Ministry  said
after Bloomberg data earlier showed the January 2024 security as
the 10-year benchmark.  Draghi Pledge  Spanish 10-year yields have declined about two percentage
points after reaching a euro-era record 7.75 percent on July 25,
the day before European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
pledged to do “whatever it takes” to safeguard  Europe ’s
monetary union. Italian 10-year yields have dropped more than
150 basis points from 6.71 percent on July 25.  “The issue here is why the yields on Italian and Spanish
bonds have come down,” IMF’s Blanchard said during a press
conference in  Tokyo  today, adding that it may be because
investors anticipated they would request aid from the European
rescue mechanism. “If this is the case, we cannot be sure that
the yields will remain low,” he said.  The yield on Italian 10-year securities added three basis
point to 5.11 percent. It fell to 4.92 percent on Sept. 19, the
lowest level since March 21. Ministers from the euro bloc
yesterday declared the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism operational.  ‘Sensitive’ Issue  Spain’s economy minister Luis de Guindos said the nation
will decide on the “sensitive” issue of a full bailout taking
into account the impact for the whole euro area.  “The decision to apply for a program to ask the ECB to
intervene is a very important and sensitive decision,” de
Guindos said in Luxembourg following a meeting between European
Union finance chiefs. “Given that the mere announcement of the
intervention has had a favorable impact on  capital markets , the
government will take its decision taking into account what is
best for the Spanish economy but also its surroundings.”  Rajoy last week pushed back expectations of a bailout,
telling reporters no request was imminent. His deputy, Soraya
Saenz de Santamaria, said the government needs to ensure a
request for help from the ESM would be granted before it can
call for financial assistance.  ‘Test Resolve’  For Spain, “they will have to apply for some form of bond-
buying program, the question is whether the markets test the
resolve and push bond yields higher,”  Charles Diebel , head of
market strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London said in an
interview with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg TV’s ‘The Pulse’.
“Ultimately, you do need to see lower yields. I think there’s a
good chance Spain will apply before Christmas,” Diebel said.  German bonds were little changed after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  used her first visit to  Greece  in five years to maintain
pressure on Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras to meet
austerity pledges, proclaiming her desire to keep the country in
the euro.  “I want Greece to remain in the euro,” Merkel told
reporters today in  Athens . “A lot has been done, much remains
to be done.”  Greece’s bond maturing in February 2023 rose for an eighth
day, pushing the yield down two basis points to 18.33 percent.
The rate earlier dropped to 18.10 percent, the  lowest  level
since March 22. Greece sold 1.3 billion euros of six-month bills
today at an average yield of 4.46 percent, down from 4.54
percent at a previous auction on Sept. 4.  German Sale  Germany ’s  10-year bund yield  was little changed at 1.47
percent. The nation plans to sell 4 billion euros of five-year
notes and 1.5 billion euros of inflation-linked bonds maturing
in 2023 tomorrow.  The Dutch State Treasury sold 2.3 billion euros of notes
maturing in January 2018 at an average yield of 0.861 percent,
down from 1.305 percent at the previous auction of the
securities on July 3. The rate was the  lowest  recorded at a sale
of five-year securities since Bloomberg began compiling auction
history data in 2003.  Volatility on Ireland’s government bonds was the highest in
developed markets today, followed by the U.S. and  Norway ,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  German bonds returned 3.1 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities advanced 2 percent, while Italian debt earned 16
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  