-- Gevo Gets Patent for System That Missed Goal at Minnesota Plant
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-10-09T20:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/gevo-gets-patent-for-system-that-missed-goal-at-minnesota-plant.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , a U.S. biofuel producer
backed by French  oil company   Total SA (FP)  and specialty-chemicals
maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , received a patent for mechanical systems it
struggled to implement at its Minnesota factory.  The U.S. Patent & Trademark Office recognized Gevo’s
proprietary “platform-separation unit,” which lowers the cost
of producing isobutanol, the Englewood, Colorado-based company
said today in a statement.  Gevo halted isobutanol production Sept. 24 at its Luverne,
Minnesota, plant, which wasn’t meeting goals, and shifted to
ethanol while it adjusts the separation system, according to
General Counsel Brett Lund. When the plant went into operation
in May, the company said it would be making 1 million gallons
(3.8 million liters) a month by the end of the year. It’s
completed about 100,000 gallons of isobutanol since then.  “It wasn’t working at the optimal rate and cost
structure,” Lund said in an interview yesterday. “Rather than
making the changes at a big, commercial plant level, it’s much
more efficient, both from a timing and cost perspective, to make
those changes at a smaller, lab scale.”  Halting isobutanol production illustrates the difficulties
in shifting technology from a lab setting that’s easily
controlled to a commercial facility, said  Pavel Molchanov , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  “Scaling up fermentation is always hard,” he said in an
interview. “It’s a trial and error process. It’s not linear.
It’s not straightforward.” Molchanov rates the shares the
equivalent of a buy with a 12-month price target of $5.  Concentrated Vapors  Gevo processes corn into isobutanol that may be blended
with gasoline or refined into jet fuel and specialty chemicals.  The company’s so-called GIFT system, or Gevo integrated
fermentation technology, lets it extract isobutanol in vapor
form during production, which is 16 times more concentrated than
competing systems that distill it from a liquid, Lund said.  “This is the only commercially viable way to separate
isobutanol as it’s produced,” he said. “The difference is in
the cost. When you’re trying to make a fuel or a chemical that
sells for maybe $5 a gallon, you can’t afford a costly
distillation process.” Lund expects the Luverne plant to resume
isobutanol production next year.  Gevo has lost 39 percent of its market value since the
Luverne plant shifted to ethanol. It fell 5.2 percent to $2.01
at the close today in  New York .  The reaction of the market “was really exaggerated,”
Molchanov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  