-- GM Names Top Lobbyist as Cadillac Global Brand Chief
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-10-09T21:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/gm-names-robert-ferguson-cadillac-global-brand-chief.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S.
automaker, said Robert Ferguson, vice president of global public
policy, will lead its Cadillac brand as the company tries to
align itself globally and away from regional authority.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing to make
Cadillac a stronger competitor against German luxury brands,
especially in the U.S. and  China , with new products such as the
compact ATS sedan. He’s working to reorganize the company around
global functions and brands, two people familiar with the
thinking have said.  Ferguson, 53, joined GM in 2010 after a career in the
telecommunications industry. He starts in the newly created
position of vice president of global Cadillac effective
immediately, said Ryndee Carney, a GM spokeswoman. Ferguson is
responsible for marketing, brand management and advertising of
Cadillac, she said. After Jan. 1, the brand’s sales will be
added to his duties, she said.  “I’m speechless,” said  Maryann Keller , principal of a
self-named consulting firm in Stamford,  Connecticut . “Was there
nobody inside GM who could’ve done this job, who knows something
about cars, knows something about Cadillacs, understands the
brand, knows the competition, who couldn’t have done this job --
sort of hit the ground running?”  GM’s Targets  Selim Bingol, GM’s vice president of global communications,
will add Ferguson’s duties in  Washington , GM said in a
statement.  GM wants to double the 2010 U.S. sales of Cadillac within
two years. The Detroit-based automaker sold 146,925 Cadillac
cars and sport-utility vehicles that year, according to
researcher Autodata Corp. Cadillac and  Chevrolet  are the two
brands the company wants to sell worldwide. In April, Akerson
said GM targets Cadillac sales in China to reach U.S. levels by
the middle of the decade.  GM plans to introduce 10 new or refreshed Cadillac models,
including the ATS, over three years.  Ferguson, whose father was a missionary educator, spent
time as a child living in southeast  Asia , attending high school
in  Singapore  and junior high school in  Kuala Lumpur . That adds
to his global perspective.  “The first thing we want to do is take advantage of scale
where we have it,” he said of Cadillac. “We’ve done a fine job
of working on the Cadillac brand but just having a team
dedicated every day without a divided focus on building that
brand and working with the dealer distribution network,
enhancing the customer experience and focusing all of their
energies without any other distraction has to be a positive for
Cadillac.”  The shares fell 0.8 percent to $24.37 at the close in  New
York . They have gained 20 percent this year.  Change Desire  “It does seem that there is some desire to shake things up
at GM and that’s one reason why you bring in an outsider,”
 Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of Edmunds.com, a website that
tracks auto sales, said today in a telephone interview. “It’s
this reflexive thinking that, ‘Hey we don’t need people that are
steeped in the  auto industry .’”  Ferguson joined GM from a business advisory and strategic
communications firm called Public Strategies. Prior to that, he
spent more than 10 years at  AT&T Inc. (T) , including as president of
state legislative and regulatory affairs. He also was group
president of predecessor company SBC Communications Inc.’s
enterprise business services, responsible for 10,000 employees,
GM said.  ‘My Background’  “It’s probably not the first thing you had in mind when
you woke up this morning, that the public-policy guy would
become the head of Cadillac,” Ferguson said. “My background
has a lot of marketing and sales in it.”  Don Butler , U.S. vice president for Cadillac marketing, and
Chase Hawkins, U.S. vice president for Cadillac sales and
service, will report to Ferguson, GM said.  “Bob is a proven leader with vision and a will to win at
this critical time for Cadillac,” Akerson said today in the
statement. “He brings a deep business and marketing background
that has been marked by delivering results at every stop and
under every circumstance. The Cadillac brand will hit a higher
gear under his watch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  