-- Goodell Reinstates Vilma Season Ban, Cuts Others in Bounty Case
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/goodell-keeps-vilma-season-ban-cuts-some-others-in-saints-case.html
Roger Goodell  reinstated a season
ban for New Orleans Saints linebacker Jonathan Vilma while
cutting the penalties for two other players suspended in the
 National Football League ’s probe of the team’s bounty program.  The sanctions replace ones thrown out last month by
arbitrators who said Goodell overstepped his bounds by punishing
the players for money they received outside their contracts. It
said bans could be handed out for conduct detrimental to the
league.  “The quality, specificity and scope of the evidence
supporting the findings of conduct detrimental are far greater
and more extensive than ordinarily available in such cases,”
Goodell said yesterday in a news release. “The players
confirmed many of the key facts disclosed in our investigation,
most particularly that the program offered cash rewards for
‘cart-offs,’ that players were encouraged to ‘crank up the John
Deere tractor’ and have their opponents carted off the field,
and that rewards were offered and paid for plays that resulted
in opposing players having to leave the field of play.”  The NFL said about two dozen Saints players, led by former
defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , paid each other as much as
$1,500 for targeting opponents such as Super Bowl-winning
quarterbacks  Kurt Warner  and  Brett Favre  from 2009 to 2011.  Coach  Sean Payton  was barred for a year and Williams was
suspended indefinitely. Mickey Loomis, the Saints’ general
manager, received an eight-game suspension. Those penalties were
allowed to stand.  Original Bans  Goodell originally barred Vilma for a season, defensive
ends Anthony Hargrove for eight games and  Will Smith  for four
games, and linebacker  Scott Fujita  for three games. Fujita now
gets a one-game suspension, Hargrove seven and Smith’s remains
at four games. Vilma is barred for the rest of the campaign,
though he is allowed to keep money earned since the original
punishment was thrown out.  The NFL Players Association said it will review Goodell’s
decision.  “For six months, the NFL has ignored the facts, abused the
process outlined in our collective bargaining agreement and
failed to produce evidence that the players intended to injure
anyone, ever,” the union said yesterday in a news release.  Saints interim coach  Joe Vitt  in July described the team’s
pay-for-performance actions to a U.S. District Court judge in
New Orleans as a practice in which players put up money for
various defensive plays that help the team, such as a tipped
ball resulting in an interception. If a player got a needless
penalty, he could lose money for a penalty that hurt the team,
Vitt said, calling it “fun-based performance.”  Vilma’s Testimony  Vilma testified at the time that he never offered or
received money for inflicting extra-violent hits on opponents. A
former first-round draft pick of the  New York Jets  in 2004,
Vilma sued Goodell for defamation and filed a separate action
against the league seeking to undo his ban. The NFL Players
Association also sued to overturn the punishments of Vilma,
Fujita, Hargrove and Smith.  The players in the Saints case were reinstated Sept. 7
after an arbitration panel ruled Goodell lacked the authority to
impose discipline for unauthorized compensation, or money that
might have been paid under the bounty plan. Goodell is allowed
to punish players for detrimental conduct, such as the intent to
injure opponents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 