-- Greece Welcomes Gold Miners to Rank First in Europe: Commodities
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-10-10T11:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/greece-welcomes-gold-miners-to-rank-first-in-europe-commodities.html
For three years, Steve Sharpe’s
company prodded Greek officials for permission to drill for
gold. Before approval was finally granted this year, European
Goldfields Ltd.’s battered share price attracted a takeover bid.  “No way on earth would I go back to Greece,” said the
Canadian producer’s former head of business development, who
left to head a mining company across the border in Macedonia.  Delays like Sharpe’s are less common after the economic
collapse in Greece spurred a new urgency in the government to
create jobs.  Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD)  and  Glory Resources Ltd. (GLY)  are
developing four mines that should turn Greece into  Europe ’s
biggest producer of the precious metal by 2016.  Gold mining is gathering momentum after Greece began what
it called a “fast-track” approvals program. The Canadian and
Australian companies said their projects will add about 425,000
ounces by 2016, worth $757 million at the Oct. 5 spot price, to
the 16,000 ounces the country produced in 2011.  “There’s clearly evidence that Greece has woken up to the
potential of their mining industry,” said Jeremy Wrathall,
chairman of Perth-based Glory Resources. “Politicians
increasingly realize that a pro-mining stance is appropriate due
to job creation potential.”  Greece, which is also fast-tracking state property sales,
is set to overtake  Finland  as the continent’s largest gold
producer within four years, as regulators in Athens sign off on
mines kept on hold for more than a decade by red tape and
environmental rules. Finland, which mined 220,000 ounces last
year, currently ranks 40th among the world’s gold producers.  Perama Hill  Greece was Europe’s largest bauxite producer and the
world’s biggest supplier of perlite, used in insulation and as a
soil replacement in horticulture, in 2010, according to the U.S.
Geological Survey. Gold is currently the only metal targeted for
fast-track approvals.  Eldorado Gold is leading the gold inflow. The Vancouver-
based company gained three mines last year through its $2.4
billion acquisition of European Goldfields, trumping a rival
offer from Qatar Holding LLC, the country’s sovereign wealth
fund.  Eldorado is developing European Goldfields’ Skouries and
Olympias mines and the Perama Hill project that it already
owned. The three sites will produce about 345,000 ounces by
2016, while Glory estimates its Sapes mine will have output of
about 80,000 ounces a year.  That may be just the start. “We think  Greece  has the
potential to be a major gold producer,” said Wrathall. “It is
bizarre that Greece is virtually unexplored because of the
political situation that prevailed before the crisis. Modern
exploration techniques have not been used in Greece at all.”  Workforce Doubled  Greece will account for about 21 percent of Eldorado’s 2016
gold production of about 1.7 million ounces, according to BMO
Capital Markets research. The company targets output of 660,000
ounces this year. Eldorado’s Greek 2016 operations would
generate revenue of more than $500 million a year at $1,500 an
ounce, based on average forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Eldorado has doubled its workforce in the country to 800
since the takeover and plans to increase that to 1,500 when it’s
in full production. Glory Resources says it will employ about
200 when in production. Greece reported that 3.79 million people
were employed in the second quarter with 1.17 million
unemployed.  Eldorado says it will pay a tax rate of 20 percent in
Greece, where there is presently no royalty in place. The
company said it plans to pay about 1 percent of revenue to local
communities until a royalty comes into effect.  Royalty Payments  Glory forecasts that it will pay about $80 million in taxes
and $22 million in royalties during the current estimated life
of project, based on a gold price of $1,200 an ounce. The
discovery of more reserves would extend the life of the mine and
the payment of royalties and taxes.  The Skouries and Olympias mines are in Central Macedonia, a
region of Greece with 25.1 percent unemployment at the end of
the second quarter. Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, site of the
Perama Hill and Sapes mines, had a 24 percent jobless rate. Both
are higher than the national average.  Greece, which reported 10,300 mining and quarrying jobs in
the second quarter, is in its fifth year of recession. The
economy is forecast to contract 6.9 percent this year, the same
as in 2011, according to the Athens-based Foundation for
Economic and Industrial Research. Since 2008, the number of
jobless has more than tripled to a record, reaching a level of
23.6 percent.  Angela Merkel  More than 25,000 protested in Athens yesterday as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  made her first visit to the Greek
capital in five years. Merkel kept up pressure on Prime Minister
Antonius Samaras to meet German-led austerity pledges in
exchange for a rescue worth 240 billion euros ($309 billion).  Rising unemployment has led to government support for
mining, according to Eldorado’s Eduardo Moure, the company’s
vice president and general manager for Greece, and Sharpe, now
CEO of Europa Resources Ltd.  In 2011 Greece implemented the “Fast Track” program to
spur investment in projects that are of national importance,
including gold mines. The environment ministry has speeded the
issue of permits.  Greece is seeking 50 billion euros by 2020 selling state
stakes in companies and real estate to meet the conditions of
its bailout and cut debt. Last month the Hellenic Development
Fund said a Lambda Development SA unit bid 81 million euros to
lease the International Broadcasting Center in  Athens  for 90
years in the first real estate privatization under the plan.  “We noticed an enormous change in Greece in the time we
were there driven by the financial crisis,” said Sharpe. “With
tourism falling and with the crisis they were collapsing into
with the Euro they really had no choice.”  Permits Annulled  European Goldfields battled for more than five years to win
environmental licenses to mine the Skouries and Olympias gold
projects. The company’s stock plunged or surged by more than 10
percent at times as speculation or reports of permit delays or
imminent approvals reached investors.  TVX Gold Inc. repeatedly clashed with local government
officials and courts and eventually abandoned Greece in 2003
after its permits for Olympias were declared illegal and
annulled. TVX had spent more than $250 million developing gold
projects in the country.  TVX also operated the Stratton mine which it closed after
Greek government officials ordered the company to suspend
operations because an exploration tunnel extended under a nearby
town. Residents were concerned the company would start mining
below their homes.  Environmental Opposition  Environmentalism and local opposition remains the biggest
obstacle to gold mining in Greece, according to Europa’s Sharpe.
“There is a strong groundswell of opposition to those mines
going ahead. These are not brownfield industrial sites, there is
a clear choice between tourism and mining,” said Sharpe. “They
can just point to TVX and the mess they left. It’s a very easy
case to make.”  Local villagers and mining protesters from Thessaloniki
clashed with police at the Skouries site last month, according
to local press  reports .  Eldorado’s Moure is betting more than $3 billion that
objectors to expanding gold exploration in Greece will be
swayed. The company intends to invest about $1 billion in the
next five years.  “I think people realize we are part of the solution, that
part of the economic recovery will be due to mining,” said
Moure. “I’m convinced that people who oppose our projects will
come to realize that mining can be a positive force for
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  