-- Milk-Cow Drought Culling Accelerates as Prices Jump: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-09T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/milk-cow-drought-culling-accelerates-as-prices-jump-commodities.html
U.S. milk  production  is headed for
the biggest contraction in 12 years as a drought-fueled surge in
feed costs drives more cows to slaughter.  Output will drop 0.5 percent to 198.9 billion pounds (90.2
million metric tons) in 2013 as the herd shrinks to an eight-
year low, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Milk
futures rose 45 percent since mid-April and may advance at least
an additional 19 percent to a record $25 per 100 pounds by June,
said  Shawn Hackett , the president of  Boynton Beach , Florida-
based Hackett Financial Advisers Inc. He correctly predicted the
rally in March.  Dairies in  California , the top milk-producing state, are
filing for bankruptcy, and U.S. cows are being slaughtered at
the fastest rate in more than a quarter century. Corn surged to
a record in August as the USDA forecast the smallest crop in six
years because of drought across the U.S. Global dairy prices
tracked by the  United Nations  rose 6.9 percent last month, the
most among the five food groups monitored, and that will
probably mean record costs next year, Rabobank estimates.  “Farmers can’t afford to buy as much grain and protein,
and that affects milk production,” said Bob Cropp, an economist
at the University of Wisconsin in Madison who has been following
the industry since 1966. “In California, there’ve been some
foreclosures and some sell-off of cows quite heavily. You’re
going to see that in other parts of the country.”  Mercantile Exchange  Class III milk, used to make cheese, jumped 22 percent to
$21.01 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange this year. That’s more
than 20 of the 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index, which rose 3.5 percent. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
of equities climbed 11 percent, and Treasuries returned 1.8
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The global dairy market is facing a scarcity of supply in
the next 12 months as output slows in the U.S. and  Europe  and
demand keeps expanding, Rabobank said in a Sept. 27 report.
Surplus milk available for shipment from the seven biggest
exporting regions will decline for the first time in four years,
and there is little excess inventory, the bank’s team of 11
dairy analysts estimate.  U.S. cows produced 1,776 pounds of milk each on average in
August, 0.5 percent less than a year earlier, government data
show. That’s the first decline in 13 months and the biggest
year-on-year drop since February 2004, according to  Bill Brooks ,
an economist at INTL FCStone Inc. in  Kansas City . Productivity
probably slipped because of the heat waves and changes in feed
rations, said Brooks, who grew up on a Missouri dairy farm and
has covered the industry for two decades.  Dairy Herd  Almost 2.04 million dairy cows were  slaughtered  in the
first eight months of the year, 6.7 percent more than in 2011
and the most for that period since 1986, government data show.
The U.S. dairy  herd  will shrink 1.1 percent to 9.11 million head
in 2013, the smallest since 2005, according to the USDA.  While slaughter rates are rising, farmers tend to cull
their least-efficient animals and replace them with younger,
more-productive cows, said Robert Chesler, a Chicago-based vice
president in the foods division of INTL FCStone Inc., which
handled $75 billion of physical commodities in 2011.  Production per cow will rise 0.6 percent to 21,830 pounds
next year, from an estimated 21,690 pounds this year, the USDA
forecasts. A more-productive herd may mean an increase in total
supplies rather than the decline the government is predicting,
Chesler said.  Cheddar Cheese  Higher prices may crimp demand, with cheddar traded on the
CME rallying 26 percent to $2.075 a pound in the third quarter.
The increase in wholesale prices may be passed along to
retailers, Chesler said.  “We’re hitting levels where buyers are getting
concerned,” he said. Commercial milk  consumption  next year may
slide 0.5 percent to 192.2 billion pounds, compared with a 2.1
percent increase this year, the USDA forecasts.  Food prices measured by the UN index may climb to a record
243 by June 2013, from a six-month high of 215.76 in September,
Nick Higgins, an analyst at Rabobank in  London , said in a report
Sept. 19. The UN’s gauge of 55 food items, which gained 7.7
percent since June, peaked at 237.92 in February 2011.  Chinese demand for dairy products and lower production in
the U.S. and  New Zealand  probably will keep prices rising into
next year, said Hackett.  China  is the world’s biggest buyer of
whole-milk powder and will import four times more this year than
a decade ago, USDA data show.  Record Exports  U.S. exports of cheese, whey, lactose and other dairy
products reached records last year, valued at $4.82 billion, or
30 percent more than in 2010, according to the Arlington,
Virginia-based U.S. Dairy Export Council. The total amount of
U.S. dairy products shipped will increase 2 percent to 5 percent
this year from 2011, the council forecasts.  Dairy costs will be “meaningfully higher” for  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop chain, in its fiscal year
that began Oct. 1, Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said on
a conference call with analysts July 26. Starbucks has said
dairy accounts for about 5 percent to 10 percent of its cost of
goods, while coffee makes up 15 percent to 20 percent. Arabica-
coffee futures are down 25 percent in the past year. Shares of
the Seattle-based company gained 6 percent in 2012.  Raw-milk prices probably will climb next year as the cost
of feed increases, Michael Schlotman, chief financial officer
for Cincinnati-based  Kroger Co. (KR) , the biggest U.S. grocer, said
on a conference call with analysts Sept. 7.  Loss Program  U.S. farmers lost the Milk Income Loss Contract Program,
which protects producers from high feed costs, when it expired
Sept. 30. The end of the subsidy may have a limited impact for
now because feed prices typically decline at the end of the
harvest, said Vincent Smith, an agriculture economics professor
at Montana State University in Bozeman.  Dairy farmers in California, which produced 41.46 billion
pounds of milk last year, may be suffering more than in other
states partly because they are reliant on imports of corn,
soybeans and alfalfa hay, said Michael Marsh, the Chief
Executive Officer of Western United Dairymen, a Modesto,
California-based trade association.  U.S. corn and wheat inventories before next year’s harvests
probably will be smaller than the government forecast in
September after the worst drought in 56 years hurt crops,
according to the average of as many as 30 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The USDA is scheduled to update its estimates
on Oct. 11.  California Costs  It cost California farmers about $18.22 to produce 100
pounds of milk in the second quarter, and the average price was
about $13.91, Marsh estimates. There were 1,675 dairies in
California last year, government data show, and about 100 may
close in 2012, he said.  Producers in California are not part of a federal system
that sets minimum returns for farmers, so they tend to get lower
prices than in other states, according to Ed Jesse, a professor
emeritus in the department of agriculture and applied economics
at the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison. Dairies got $16.42
per 100 pounds in August, 9.3 percent less than the national
average, USDA data show.  Riley Walter, an agricultural bankruptcy lawyer in Fresno,
California, said he’s had 58 cases of dairies in some kind of
financial difficulty over the past year and half, including
bankruptcy filings, out-of-court liquidations and moving
operations into receivership.  “Dairies go through cycles, and I’ve hit every one of them
since 1979, but nothing like this,” Walter said. “The recent
spike in feed prices due to the drought and ethanol policies
really put a nail in the coffin of a lot of people.”  More Bankruptcies  So far this year, 49 bankruptcy cases have been filed by
family farms in California, up from 43 cases filed last year in
the same period, according to federal court records. The cases
include dairy and other family-run farms that are eligible to
use Chapter 12 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  to try to reorganize
their debt.  “We’re all hemorrhaging hard financially,” said Jim
Wilson, 44, whose dairy in Riverdale, California, milks about
3,000 cows and is losing about $200,000 a month. “We’re all on
the brink of going under and just culling herds harder because
we can’t afford to feed them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  