-- IMF Says Most Advanced Nations Making Progress Reducing Deficits
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-09T01:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/imf-says-most-advanced-nations-making-progress-reducing-deficits.html
Most advanced nations are making
progress in narrowing deficits even as global growth slows,
while the U.S. and  Japan  must set out clear policies to reduce
debt at a sustained pace, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Fiscal shortfalls in advanced economies will narrow to an
average of 5.9 percent of gross domestic product this year and
4.9 percent in 2013, from 6.6 percent in 2011, the IMF predicted
in its semi-annual Fiscal Monitor report released in  Tokyo  today.
The forecasts are higher than in July, when it estimated
deficits to average 5.8 percent of GDP in 2012 and 4.7 percent
next year.  Governments from the euro area to New Zealand are cutting
spending to shrink budget deficits after boosting relief
measures to weather the global recession and the financial
crisis that began in 2007. Efforts to rein in expenditures have
been met with concerns that support may be withdrawn before
there is evidence of an accelerating, broad-based recovery.  “Most countries have made significant headway in rolling
back fiscal deficits,” with gaps expected to be at or lower
than pre-crisis levels for about half of the economies tracked
in the fiscal monitor report, the IMF said. “The improvement in
fiscal balances is most pronounced in advanced economies, where
the fiscal shock was larger, followed by emerging market
economies and to a lesser extent by low-income countries.”  Global Slowdown  In a separate report released earlier today, the IMF
lowered its forecasts for global growth this year and next. The
world economy will expand 3.3 percent in 2012, the slowest since
the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year, it predicted, and
said it sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown,
with a one-in-six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  Advanced economies cannot afford to slow efforts to reduce
debt levels even as the global recovery falters, compared with
 emerging markets  or low-income countries that can pause and
await “a more hospitable growth outlook,” the fund said.  “With relatively stronger fiscal positions, many emerging-
market economies have opted to put fiscal consolidation on hold
in the face of weakening demand and increased financial
uncertainty,” the Washington-based lender said.  Fiscal vulnerabilities remain elevated even as nations make
“substantial” progress in reducing debt, the IMF said. Still,
partly because of the liquidity provided by central banks,
markets have in most cases taken the increased levels in their
stride, with “solvency concerns remaining elevated only for a
subset of euro area countries,” the fund said.  Fiscal Consolidation  European nations that are under market pressure are
implementing “further significant fiscal consolidation,” the
IMF said. While Spain has raised indirect taxes and cut public
wages and jobless benefits, initial data for the first half of
2012 show little progress in fiscal consolidation and the risk
of missing its full-year deficit target has increased, it said.  A deeper-than-expected recession in Greece and slippages in
the implementation of fiscal measures will make it difficult to
achieve its ambitious deficit reduction targets, the fund said.  European finance ministers met in Luxembourg yesterday to
discuss Spain’s overhaul effort and closer banking cooperation.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will make her first visit today
to Greece since the turmoil began in 2009.  For the U.S. and Japan, the IMF said there remains a lack
of clear fiscal policies to tackle large public imbalances at an
“appropriately sustained pace.”  The IMF forecasts the U.S. shortfall will narrow to 8.7
percent of GDP in 2012 and 7.3 percent next year, predictions
that it said assumes a political compromise will be reached to
avoid a “fiscal cliff” of a sudden decline in deficits.  Larger Adjustment  “In the U.S., the deficit would decline by more than 4
percent of GDP if the Bush tax cuts were left to expire and
programmed automatic spending cuts were allowed to take hold,”
the IMF said. “An even larger adjustment would be needed if the
federal debt ceiling were not raised in a timely fashion.”  Japan’s borrowings will balloon to 245 percent of economic
output next year, compared with  Greece ’s projected 182 percent,
the IMF estimates. The parliament in August ratified legislation
doubling the 5 percent consumption tax in 2015 as part of Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s effort to curb the world’s heaviest
debt load, an increase that will not be sufficient to put the
record-high debt ratio on a “downward path,” the IMF said.  China  may resume “modest consolidation” of its fiscal
balance next year as growth recovers, while  India  needs more
substantial subsidy reform to achieve its plan to narrow its
deficit, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  