-- Impax, ‘Laguiole,’ Longman Nigeria: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/impax-laguiole-longman-nigeria-intellectual-property.html
Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  was sued by
 Avanir Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AVNR)  for allegedly infringing a new
patent for the drug Nuedexta, used to control abnormal emotional
outbursts.  Lawyers for Avanir contend Impax wrongly plans to market a
generic version of the drug, for which a patent was awarded in
July, before the patent expires in 2023, according to a
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware . At issue is patent 8,227,484.  “Impax’s proposed product is especially adapted for a use
that infringes the patent,” Avanir contends in court papers,
saying there is “no substantial non-infringing use” for the
product.  Avanir, based in  Aliso Viejo , California, is asking a judge
to rule that the patent is infringed, to order Hayward,
California-based Impax not to use the technology and to award
unspecified damages.  Reached by telephone, Impax spokesman Mark Donohue declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  Avanir reported about $32 million in revenue for the year
ending on June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Impax reported about $573 million in the same period.  On Sept. 12, Avanir filed four suits against other
pharmaceutical companies alleging infringement of the same
patent  The new case is Avanir v. Impax, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Cott Corp. Sued by  Seattle  Rain Over New ‘Clear Choice ICE’
       Cott Corp. (COT) , a Canadian maker of sports beverages, juices
and soft drinks was sued for trademark infringement by Talking
Rain Beverage Co. of  Washington  state.  According to the complaint filed in Seattle federal court
Oct. 5, Preston-based Talking Rain said its Sparking Ice product
is infringed by Cott’s new Clear Choice ICE beverage. It claims
the packaging “blatantly mimics” key elements of its own
distinctive product. The Cotts Clear Choice ICE is such a
deliberate imitation that the Canadian company’s product line
includes a copy of “every one of the eight flavors of Sparking
Ice,” “including the colored nature of the water, the
percentage of juice and even the calorie count,” according to
court papers.  Both products are packaged in almost identical 17-ounce
bottles, with clear labels, the word “ICE” written in white
uppercase letters, and a picture of the fruit corresponding with
the flavor, Seattle Rain says in its pleadings.  Seattle Rain introduced its product line in 1993, the
company said, and redesigned its packaging in 2009. It’s the
2009 packaging, which Talking Rain claims was unlike any other
packaging in the flavored-water category at the time, that is
allegedly infringed.  The infringement is deliberate, Seattle Rain said, as part
of a “blatant attempt to confuse customers.” The company
claims that the competing products will be sold in the same
commercial channels,  and cited what it saw was a claim made in
Cotts marketing materials in which it said it was targeting
customers of the “comparable national brand.”  Because the products are low cost -- selling for less than
$2 a bottle -- Seattle Rain says customers are unlikely to
exercise a great deal of care in making their purchases, which
makes it even more likely they will be confused as to the source
of their purchases.  Seattle Rain asked for orders barring the manufacture,
shipping, marketing and sales of the allegedly infringing
product, and for awards of all profits derived from that
infringement. Additionally, the company requested money damages,
including extra damages to punish Cotts for its actions,
together with attorney fees and litigation costs.  Mississauga, Ontario-based Cotts didn’t respond immediately
to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Talking Rain Beverage Co. v.  Cott Corp (BCB) , 2:12-
cv-01727, U.S. District Court, Western District of Washington
(Seattle).  Laguiolais Tear Down Village Sign to Protest Trademark Outcome  Residents of the French village of Laguiole have torn down
their village sign as part of a protest to their loss of a
trademark battle with a company that imports kitchen wares from
 China , the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  After a business based near Paris registered “Laguiole”
as a trademark in 1993 and licensed it for imported goods and
told the village’s knife-makers they couldn’t use the name for
their products without a license, according to the Guardian.  Villagers are now asking the government to develop rules
covering regional products akin to the Appellation Controlee
regulations covering wines, the newspaper reported.  In their battle seeking cancellation of the mark, the court
ruled in September that the  Laguiole knife  was more famous than
the village, and that the name had become generic for a
particular kind of knife not necessarily from Laguiole.  Phu Quoc Fish Sauce So Far Fails to Meet Phu Quoc Standard  Although the Vietnamese island of Phu Quoc acquired the
geographic indication “Phu Quoc fish sauce” in 2001, to date
none of the fish sauce made in the region has met the standards
required for the use of the name,  Vietnam ’s Tuoi Tre News
 reported .  One of the ways that the producers have failed is by having
the product -- which is a staple of Vietnamese cuisine --
bottled in  Ho Chi Minh City , rather than on the island as the
regulations specify, according to Tuoi Tre News.  So far, all the island-bottled sauce has exceeded standards
for the maximum level of histamine permitted per liter, the news
service reported.  Overfishing of the anchovy, which is a key ingredient in
the sauce, is also a problem, as producers have had to buy them
on the open market, where many of them have been bloated from
oversalting, the news service reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K.’s Ofcom Asked to Extend Anti-Piracy Rules to 4G Services  Content owners in the U.K. are asking Ofcom, the
independent regulator of that nation’s telecom system, to extend
its anti-piracy rules to cover mobile operators, the Telegraph
newspaper  reported .  The request was made by the Federation Against Software
Theft, which calls for extension of the rules to 4G telecom
services, according to the newspaper.  Without these rules, mobile networks will become the
vehicle for unauthorized downloading, FAST spokesman Julian
Heathcote Hobbins told the Telegraph.  An Ofcom official said that in six months the present rules
will be reviewed in light of new and emerging technologies, the
newspaper reported.  Saudi Officials Target Riyadh Sellers of Pirated Software, Films  Saudi Arabia ’s Ministry of Culture and information has
begun an enforcement campaign against the sale of pirated
software in the city of  Riyadh , the Middle East North American
Financial Network  reported .  The crackdown targeted parked cars from which the pirated
software was sold in the computer-market area of the city,
MENAFN reported.  In addition to parked or moving cars, vendors were also
selling the illegally copied software from makeshift stores set
up on sidewalks, according to MENAFN.  In addition to software, pirated movies were also sold from
the illegal markets, MENAFN reported.  Pirated Longman Books Falsely Labeled as Christian Goods Seized  The Nigerian Copyright Commission seized more than 3,000
cartons of pirated books, including Bibles and educational
materials, that country’s Channels TV  reported .  Although the goods were labeled as Christian materials,
after they were examined, they were found to be pirated versions
of educational books, according to Channels TV.  Christian Nkwocha of the copyright commission told Channels
that  Longman Nigeria Plc (LONGMAN)  was one of the publishers whose books
were pirated and included in the shipment.  Three suspects have been arrested so far, and Nkwocha said
an investigation continues, according to Channels.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Tag Oil Employee Under Investigation in Trade Secret Case  Police in New Plymouth,  New Zealand , are investigating
trade-secret misappropriation allegations against a former
employee of Vancouver-based  Tag Oil Ltd. (TAO)  after he left and
joined competing  New Zealand Energy Corp, (NZ) , the Taranaki, New
Zealand, Daily News  reported .  Ian Brown, chief operating officer for NZEC, also based in
 Vancouver , said his company hadn’t head-hunted the former Tag
employee, and was still employed by his company, according to
the newspaper.  Susan Hughex QC, counsel for the accused former Tag
employee, said that all allegations against her client are
“strenuously denied” and that he is giving the authorities
“complete cooperation,” according to the newspaper  Both companies are involved in oil and gas exploration in
Taranaki, which is on New Zealand’s  North Island , the newspaper
reported. NZEC didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 