-- Vodafone May Avoid $2 Billion India Tax After Report
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2012-10-10T07:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/india-panel-says-tax-law-hurting-vodafone-mustn-t-be-retroactive.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  may win a
reprieve in a $2.2 billion Indian tax case after a panel opposed
a retroactive clause in the nation’s laws that drove away
foreign investors and pushed the rupee to a record low.  Retrospective tax demands should only be made in “rarest
of rare cases” and changes made to the way capital gains on
cross-border deals are taxed should only apply to future
transactions, the committee said in a draft report yesterday.
Should the government accept the advice, Vodafone won’t be
liable for its 2007 purchase of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Indian
assets, Ernst & Young LLP and  KPMG  said.  The recommendations were posted on the finance ministry’s
 website  less than a month after Vodafone expressed willingness
to settle the case provided it could just pay the original tax
claim and not the penalty and interest. Chief Financial Officer
Andy Halford said in a Sept. 14 interview that he may make a
provision to cover legal risks after former finance minister
Pranab Mukherjee amended the tax law in March.  India ’s Supreme
Court had ruled in January that the operator isn’t liable and
dismissed the government’s case.  Equity, Probity  “If the report is fully implemented, then Vodafone will be
exonerated entirely,” said Mumbai-based Dinesh Kanabar,
chairman of taxes at KPMG’s local unit. “The retrospective
amendment, if deemed to be a valid law, would allow the
government to proceed against Hutch, not Vodafone. Whether they
want to do that is a separate issue.”  The panel, set up by Mukherjee’s successor Palaniappan Chidambaram, seeks to undo some of the amendments to “better
reflect principles of equity and probity” in commonly
recognized tax laws. The proposals come amid U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy Geithner’s two-day visit to India, during
which he hailed the burst of policy changes Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh announced in the past month to lure investment
from overseas.  Newbury, England-based Vodafone, the world’s second-largest
mobile-phone operator, today fell 0.2 percent to 179.05 pence as
of 8:54 a.m. in  London . Spokesman  Ben Padovan  declined to
comment on the report.  Geithner discussed the amendments in his meetings with
Mukherjee in April after American trade and lobby groups said
the move may lead to retroactive levies for a period going as
far back as 50 years and deter foreign investment. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne criticized the plan,
saying it could damage India’s investment climate.  Policy Changes  The tax panel, led by Parthasarthi Shome, a former adviser
to the finance minister, was set up by Singh in July to shore up
confidence as the economy struggled, the rupee tumbled and the
odds of a credit-rating downgrade increased.  Singh’s administration started a wave of economic policy
changes last month to restrain its fiscal deficit and permit
increased investment from abroad in industries such as retailing
and aviation, stoking a surge in the rupee and buoying stocks.  The currency has rebounded about 8 percent from a record
low it touched in June, and traded at 53 a dollar as of 11:45
a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
advanced 4.5 percent since Sept. 13, when officials announced a
diesel-price rise to pare expenditure on fuel subsidies in the
first step of the policy overhaul. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
has rallied 15 percent since the end of May.  The recent moves snapped months of inaction that had dimmed
India’s outlook. The gridlock contributed to decisions by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings to cut the outlook on the
nation’s credit rating to negative from stable earlier this
year, imperiling its investment-grade status.  Spectrum Auction  Indian economic growth may weaken to a decade-low this year
of 4.9 percent even as the government pursues a policy revamp,
estimates from the International Monetary Fund showed yesterday.  India has also said it may soon finalize the rules for a
proposed clampdown on tax avoidance as it considers delaying
implementation of a plan that also spooked foreign investors.  The norms for the so-called General Anti-Avoidance Rules,
or GAAR, should be ready by the end of the month, Finance
Minister Chidambaram said Oct. 1 after the Shome committee
submitted its final report on the measure.  Vodafone, which may be getting ready to participate in a $7
billion spectrum auction in India to expand its user base, said
in April that it will pursue international arbitration against
the Indian government if the country proceeds with plans to make
the operator liable for the tax bill.  Investment Treaty  Vodafone’s Dutch unit served a notice of dispute to the
Indian government on April 17, invoking an investment treaty
between India and the Netherlands.  The panel said the seller making the gains should be liable
if the government still opts to levy charges on past deals,
whereas Vodafone was the acquirer in the transaction at issue.  “Vodafone is not liable to tax, interest, or penalty,”
said Satya Poddar, a tax partner with Ernst & Young based in
Gurgaon near New Delhi. “That’s the recommendation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at   sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  