-- Mine Explorers See Cost Rising From 2013 Rules
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-10-09T14:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/mine-explorers-see-cost-rising-from-2013-rules.html
Changes to century-old mining rules
in Ontario signal delays and added costs for hundreds of
explorers in a $1 billion industry that provides a crucial
source of new deposits for global metal producers.  Prospectors such as  Northern Shield Resources Inc. (NRN)  and
 Mistango River Resources Inc. (MIS) , which are accustomed to drilling
their mining claims without permission in the Canadian province,
will need to submit details of almost every stage of their
exploration plans and consult with native groups under rules
published last week that become mandatory April 1.  Ontario says the changes will provide certainty for
exploration companies and will help pre-empt disputes with
native groups, known in  Canada  as First Nations. Prospectors say
the delays and expense resulting from the new rules will be an
added burden in an industry that relies on hard-to-come-by
financing from investors.  “There’s enough hurdles in mining exploration these days
with market conditions and financing, First Nations
consultations,” Ian Bliss, chief executive officer of Ottawa-
based mineral explorer Northern Shield, said by phone last week.
“Now we are just throwing in another complication which slows
the process, and there’s a cost to it.”  Ontario’s Mining Act, which dates back to the 19th century,
was largely unchanged until the province approved an amendment
in October 2009 that introduced the requirement for explorers to
consult with aboriginal groups. The new regulations detail how
the broad principles in the amended Act will work in practice.  ‘More Restrictions’  “Money is scarce right now to start with, and to put more
restrictions in front and greater timelines is going to cause
people to look to environments that are more welcoming,” Rob McEwen, the founder of  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and chairman of Toronto-
based explorer  Lexam VG Gold Inc. (LEX) , said in a phone interview
last week.  Investments in mineral exploration in Ontario reached a
record C$1 billion ($1.02 billion) last year and accounted for
26 percent of  mining industry  spending in Canada, according to
the province’s Ministry of Northern Development and Mines.
Ontario has more than 600 active mineral exploration projects,
many owned by so-called juniors that operate hand-to-mouth,
raising funds just in time to fund exploration work.  Waiting for First Nations’ response about permit
applications may slow the exploration process, said Michael Fowler, a Toronto-based analyst at Loewen Ondaatje McCutcheon
Ltd.  New Rules  “Normally what happens is you are doing your exploration
program and then you are also consulting with the First Nations
at the same time,” Fowler said. “If you have to submit
everything beforehand, of course that’s going to slow things
right down and it’s going to be a nuisance I think for the
juniors.”  Northern Shield has  declined  50 percent this year in
Toronto, while Mistango River has more than doubled. That
compares with a 9.8 percent decline in the 432-member S&P/TSX
Composite Venture index of small-cap companies.  Prospectors currently don’t need to get permission before
undertaking so-called early exploration, including drilling
programs. That has caused conflict with surface-right owners and
local First Nations, as aboriginals in Canada are known.  Solid Gold Resources Corp. (SLD)  last month won leave to appeal a
court ruling in January that prevented it from drilling its
property while the company consulted with a First Nation.  It should be the government’s duty to consult with First
Nations, not the mining industry’s, Solid Gold CEO Darryl Stretch said by phone Sept. 28.  Exploration Plan  Under the new rules, companies planning activities that
would typically be visible on the land after the work is done
will need to submit an exploration plan that will be distributed
to the relevant native communities, said Robert Merwin, the
ministry’s lead in the Mining Act Modernization Secretariat. If
there aren’t any major concerns raised within 30 days, the
company can go ahead and start its work, he said.  For work such as drilling with equipment bigger than 150
kilograms (331 pounds) or if there have been major concerns
raised by native groups, companies will need to apply for
exploration permits and the province will solicit comments on
the proposed work from the affected groups.  The ministry is targeting a 50-day turnaround on
exploration permits from the date they are distributed, though
there will be an option to “stop the clock” if extra time is
needed for consultation, said Cindy Blancher-Smith, a ministry
official in the Mines and Minerals division. Exploration plans
will be valid for two years and permits for three years,
according to information  posted  on the ministry website.  ‘Slow Things’  The new rules “will definitely slow things down,” Jessica
Bjorkman, a contract prospector in Ontario and director of the
Northwestern Ontario Prospectors Association, said in a phone
interview last week. “A lot of people don’t understand how the
industry works, but it’s very last-minute.”  One concern about the new rules is that native groups in
areas where there’s a lot of exploration activity will be
inundated with requests for consultation that they’re not
equipped for, said Madeleine Donahue, a partner at law firm
Norton Rose Canada LLP.  The government is trying to pre-empt the issue by setting
up training, and plans to provide resources like fax machines to
native groups, Blancher-Smith said.  While the new rules may add some delays for the so-called
juniors planning exploration work, the ministry hopes the
regulations will encourage prospectors to start talking to
native groups as early as possible, reducing the likelihood of
serious disputes down the road, Blancher-Smith said.  ‘Aboriginal Concern’  “We’re trying to incent early and ongoing engagement,”
she said. “We’re hopeful that at this stage of the mining
sequence, the activities are of such minimal low impact that
aboriginal concern about impacts on their rights will be
addressed.”  The changes to the Ontario mining act were “drastically
overdue,” Donahue said.  “There are certainly many mining companies including
junior miners that are doing the best that they can, going up
into these remote areas,” Donahue said. “Sometimes they’re at
a bit of a loss on what do we have to do, how do we have to do
it, what’s adequate.”  The Ontario rules haven’t been well received by the
Anishinabek Nation, which includes 39 Ontario aboriginal
communities.  Regional Chief  Many of the proposed changes will infringe on Anishinabek’s
constitutional rights, Lake Huron Regional Chief Isadore Day of
Serpent River said in an Oct. 4 statement in response to the
release of the rules.  “Anishinabek leaders recommended that First Nations be
involved in the process from the outset and that they be
provided with the opportunity for free, informed consent and the
ability to reject a development that may have an adverse impact
on their territory,” according to the statement.  And for many exploration companies, the perceived downsides
of the new rules have overshadowed the positives.  “It’s going to cost a lot more now and there are going to
be a lot more delays,” Mistango River CEO Robert Kasner said in
an  Oct. 5 phone interview. “I don’t think anybody’s very happy
about it in the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  