-- Intersil Falls on Sales Forecast Cut Amid Weak PC Demand
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-10-09T20:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/intersil-falls-on-sales-forecast-cut-amid-weak-pc-demand.html
Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , a rival of  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  in the market for analog chips, sank to a
record after its sales forecast missed estimates on weak demand
for personal computers.  The shares of Milpitas, California-based Intersil declined
4 percent to $7.02 in New York, the lowest closing price since
an initial public offering in 2000. The  stock  has lost 33
percent this year.  Intersil said that revenue from industrial and
infrastructure customers -- its biggest business segment --
slipped to 57 percent of total sales in the third quarter from
59 percent in the previous three months. PC sales decreased to
21 percent of the total, from 25 percent. The company is also
losing share to Intel Corp.’s new Ivy Bridge processor, said
Rick Schafer, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.  “This miss is unlikely to surprise most investors as PC
data continues to skew negative and Ivy Bridge share losses
mount,” Schafer wrote in a research report today.  Sales for the third quarter dropped about 19 percent to
$151 million from the same period a year earlier, Intersil said
in a statement today announcing preliminary results. That’s less
than the low end of the revenue forecast range of $156 million
to $163 million that the company provided in July. Analysts on
average had projected sales of $159.9 million, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial Focus  “The industrial and infrastructure segment is generally
high gross margin business for the company, and is one of the
areas where Intersil has refocused its business,” Chris Caso,
an analyst at Susquehanna International Group, wrote in a
research report.  “Certainly we cannot ignore the macro environment, but for
a company that has invested heavily over the past few years via
acquisition, growth has not yet materialized, at least not in a
way to offset the macro headwind,” Caso said.  Intersil has announced or completed 6 acquisitions over the
past 5 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
largest was Techwell Inc., which Intersil agreed to buy for
about $370 million in 2010 to expand its lineup of video chips.  Intersil said it will report earnings on Oct. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  