-- Invasion of the Drones Is Wrong Policy for U.S. in Libya
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-09T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/invasion-of-the-drones-is-wrong-policy-for-u-s-in-libya.html
After the  deadly attack  Sept. 11 on
the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, the  Barack Obama 
administration has been  threatening  to open a new military front
in North Africa by taking  unilateral  action against extremist
groups there.  Preparations for  such a move  have been conspicuously leaked
in the run-up to Oct. 10  congressional hearings,  in which
Republicans, in particular, plan to scrutinize security at the
mission, where the ambassador and three other Americans died.  Islamic militancy is a growing danger in North Africa. U.S.
drone attacks or commando raids, however, risk feeding that
extremism and ought to be kept in reserve. The administration
would be better off with a more sustainable policy of helping
North African governments confront extremists whose targets and
goals are more likely to be local than global.  Violent groups that share al-Qaeda’s aim of imposing
puritanical Islamic rule have benefited from breakdowns in
security brought on by the Arab Spring and a coup in Mali. Of
particular concern is  al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb , which
operates in Mali, Mauritania and Niger. AQIM swears allegiance
to what’s left of al-Qaeda, but so far it is a regional rather
than a global menace. In  Libya , Ansar al-Shariah, a coalition of
fundamentalist militia groups united by the goal of putting
Shariah in place there, was implicated in the Benghazi assault.  Neither group has risen to the level of Yemen’s  al-Qaeda in
the Arab Peninsula , which has been linked to several plots on
the U.S. homeland. That group is, appropriately, the subject of
U.S. military action.  Now the administration is talking about similar drone
strikes and commando raids as possible responses to AQIM and
Ansar al-Shariah. One reason is that U.S. forces have developed
the extraordinary ability over the past decade to pinpoint
suspects just about anywhere and capture or kill them.  As the deteriorating U.S. relationship with  Pakistan 
 testifies , however, taking unilateral military action in someone
else’s country has its price. And that is even before
considering the weighty moral and legal arguments over such
lethal strikes.  Libya is the most pro-American nation in the Arab world
today, so much so that Benghazi residents outraged by the attack
on the U.S. mission stormed and temporarily overtook Ansar al-
Shariah compounds in the city. That remarkable store of goodwill
almost surely would be lost should U.S. forces act unilaterally
in Libya, especially if civilians were killed or hurt, as they
often are in drone strikes. As for AQIM, U.S. attacks would
almost certainly ensure that the group, which hasn’t targeted
U.S. interests, would do so in the future.  The U.S. can’t remain passive when its diplomats have been
slain and militants are a growing menace. The U.S. can work with
Niger and Mauritania, which have demonstrated the political will
to contain AQIM -- although the lack of a recognized government
in  Mali  constrains cooperation there. Those countries need
support. So do Libyan authorities who are building from scratch
the infrastructure of a modern state.  Apart from sharing information with these governments about
extremists, the U.S. can help by training border guards to
secure frontiers, soldiers to conduct raids, intelligence agents
to conduct surveillance, and police officers to interrogate
suspects within the bounds of the law. The U.S. has provided
more of this assistance in recent years to allies vulnerable to
extremism. Yet within the U.S. government, this long-term
approach competes for attention and resources with the quick,
dramatic results seemingly promised by military action.  The deaths of Ambassador Chris Stevens and his colleagues
are rightly provoking a re-examination of security procedures.
In the ensuing effort to find and punish their killers, however,
the U.S. should avoid strategies that will only create new
enemies and make things worse.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the future of affirmative
action ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Maine’s crazy Senate race ; Clive
Crook on  Hugo Chavez’s uncomfortable victory in Venezuela ;
Jonathan Orszag and  Peter Orszag  on  how Jack Welch could help
improve jobs data ; Camille Paglia on  Picasso’s pre-cubist
brothel painting .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 