-- Lira Weakens as Output Drops First Time in 3 Years; Yields Fall
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-10-09T15:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/lira-weakens-as-output-drops-first-time-in-3-years-yields-fall.html
The lira fell to the weakest level in
more than a month after Turkey’s industrial production
contracted for the first time in almost three years, reigniting
bets for a cut in  interest rates .  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 1.8148 per dollar,
the lowest on a closing basis since Sept. 5, at 5:08 p.m. in
Istanbul. Bond  yields  slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 7.63 percent.  Industrial production  fell 1.5 percent from a year ago in
August, the statistics office in Ankara said on its website
today, compared with a 3.3 percent rise in July. Output was
expected to climb 2.6 percent, according to the median estimate
of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The decline is the
first since November 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “This will raise eyebrows in Ankara for sure and
expectations of a loosening in the monetary grip might
strengthen,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist at Morgan Stanley in
 London  for central and eastern Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The government expects the economy will expand 3.2 percent
this year, down from a 4 percent previous estimate and 8.5
percent growth last year, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said
at a news conference in Ankara today.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , which allow investors to
speculate on the direction of borrowing costs, rose two basis
points to 7.46 percent after falling as much as seven basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This industrial production print might lower the third-
quarter GDP outcome significantly unless a sharp reversal in
September offsets it,” said Aksoy.  Turkey ’s central bank lent 3.5 billion liras ($1.9 billion)
in its one-week repo auction at its lowest policy rate of 5.75
percent today, the same amount it provided a week ago. The bank
has cut the  average cost of funding  to 5.80 percent as of Oct. 9
by providing funding at the lowest rate since June 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  