-- Mississippi Fights Over Health Law as States Resist Key Element
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/mississippi-fights-over-health-law-as-states-resist-key-element.html
In  Mississippi , where one in five
people lack health insurance, two Republican elected officials
are fighting over the best way to resist President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  Insurance Commissioner Mike Chaney, 68, is proceeding with
a key requirement -- creating health-care exchanges to help
people without employer-provided coverage get policies -- saying
he wants the least burdensome requirements. Governor Phil Bryant, 57, asked him to stop late last month, saying the state
shouldn’t advance any part of the Obama-backed law.  In Mississippi and other states where leaders oppose the
2010 law, which the Obama administration says will expand
coverage to 32 million people, officials are debating whether to
go along with its provisions. States that resist may test the
federal government’s plans to step in and provide the insurance
marketplaces.  “It’s gotten very, very political,” said Joy Johnson Wilson, health policy director at the  National Conference of
State Legislatures . States are waiting for the Nov. 6
presidential election, which is also delaying federal rule-
making on the exchanges, she said in an interview. “On Nov. 7,
maybe things can start happening again.”  Dragging Feet  With six weeks left to submit plans to the federal
government, only 13 states, 11 led by Democratic governors,
including  California ,  Colorado  and  New York , have established
exchanges, according to a tally by the Henry J. Kaiser Family
Foundation, a  Menlo Park , California-based nonprofit research
group. Sixteen other states, 14 of them led by Republicans,
including Texas, Florida and  Louisiana , have said they won’t
create exchanges or haven’t started, according to Kaiser.  The 2010 law marked the biggest change to the U.S. health
system since Medicare, for the elderly and Medicaid, a joint
federal-state program for the poor, were established in 1965.  The new law allows states to expand Medicaid coverage for
the poor. They also must establish insurance exchanges by
January 2014, when the law mandates that everyone have coverage
or pay a penalty.  The exchanges will be online markets where individuals can
buy policies. Those earning between 133 percent and 400 percent
of the poverty level will be eligible for tax subsidies to
defray premium costs. The Obama administration says it will
operate exchanges in states that don’t submit plans by Nov. 16,
with cooperation or without.  Feeling Low  Mississippi’s health is ripe for improvement.  It leads States of Misery, a ranking based on health,
poverty and crime statistics compiled by Bloomberg.  It has the highest level of obesity -- 34.9 percent,
according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. It trailed only the  District of Columbia 
in infant mortality.  Nineteen percent of Mississippians, 545,000 people, had no
health insurance in 2010, the most recent data available,
according to the Kaiser Foundation.  In June, after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld most of
Obama’s overhaul, Bryant said in a news release that the law is
a “stunning expansion of federal power and an assault on the
liberty of American citizens.”  Mississippi is already dependent on  Washington , receiving
$1.77 from the U.S. government for every dollar it paid in
federal taxes in 2006, the latest comparison, according to the
nonpartisan Tax Policy Foundation in Washington.  In the 2012 fiscal year, the U.S. portion of Mississippi’s
Medicaid costs were set at 74 percent, according to the U.S.
Health and Human Services Department. That was the nation’s
highest.  No Bargain  Bryant has said he won’t expand Medicaid. One in three
residents would wind up in the program and the initial cost of
$68 million would increase, he said in a newspaper opinion
piece.  “Governor Bryant will resist any actions that could
further the implementation of Obamacare,” Mick Bullock, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Implementation, however, is under way, thanks to Chaney,
the insurance commissioner.  Chaney took up the job of creating a Mississippi exchange
under Bryant’s predecessor,  Haley Barbour , a Republican whose
term ended in January. Barbour tried and failed to get
authorization for an exchange from the Democrat-controlled
legislature, because of a disagreements over how it would
operate.  Another Path  With Barbour’s support, Chaney found a way around the
impasse. In October 2011, Chaney said he could create the
exchange using his own authority, then hand it to a state-
created nonprofit that provides subsidized insurance to people
who couldn’t otherwise get it.  The department convened more than 100 Mississippians to
offer advice and created a website called “One, Mississippi”
for residents to shop. A “massive” amount of work remains,
including enabling the site to evaluate income to determine
whether residents are eligible for Medicaid or subsidies, said
Aaron Sisk, a lawyer with the Mississippi Insurance Department.  After the Supreme Court ruling, members of the anti-tax  Tea
Party  packed a July meeting of the exchange advisory board and
demanded that Chaney stop working toward an exchange.  A few days later, Chaney showed up at a luncheon hosted by
the Mississippi Center for Public Policy, a free-market advocacy
group. The speaker, Michael Cannon of the free-enterprise  Cato
Institute , faulted Chaney for cooperating with the exchange
effort.  In a confrontation afterward captured on video, Cannon told
Chaney that insurance companies and software developers would be
his only beneficiaries.  Forging Ahead  Last month, Bryant asked Chaney not to file paperwork due
Oct. 1 with the federal government designating minimum coverage
levels, said Bullock, the governor’s spokesman.  Chaney filed it anyway.  Mississippi will be better off with its own exchange, and a
federal version would probably be more expensive and onerous,
requiring more coverage than the state would otherwise mandate,
Chaney said in an interview.  He said he can proceed without the governor’s support.  Erin Shields Britt, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Health and
Human Services Department, declined to comment on who has
authority to act on the state’s behalf.  Chaney said he doesn’t like the health-care law, and will
vote for Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who has
said he wants to repeal it.  But if Obama is re-elected, “I will file a blueprint for
the exchange on November 16, unless I get a court order from
some idiot out there trying to stop me,” Chaney said.  Chaney said he has no patience with those who think non-
compliance will make the law disappear.  “Southern states should know that better than anybody,”
he said, referring to the region’s defiance of civil rights laws
in the 1960s. “The law is the law whether you like it or not.
It doesn’t matter if you like it. It’s the damn law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  