-- Jack Welch Could Help Improve U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   O r s z a g   a n d   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-10-09T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/jack-welch-could-help-improve-u-s-jobs-data.html
Last week, after the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics   announced  an unexpected decline in September’s
unemployment rate, former General Electric Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Jack Welch  questioned the credibility of the data.  In an attempt to influence the presidential campaign, he
suggested, the Obama administration must have manipulated the
bureau’s report, which showed the jobless rate at 7.8 percent, a
statistically significant drop from 8.1 percent in August.
“These Chicago guys will do anything,” Welch wrote in a Twitter
message, “can’t debate so change numbers.”  Welch’s comments demonstrate a stunning degree of ignorance
and recklessness, and impugn his own credibility.  If he had been better informed, he might have said
something useful about the data. Drawing from his own
experience, he could have raised a legitimate point about how
the employment statistics might be improved.  As CEO of GE, Welch increased the use of real-time
statistics to improve GE’s products and services. Such an
approach could be used to strengthen our measures of the labor
market and other macroeconomic indicators.  To be sure, the bureau’s estimates, while unbiased, could
be substantially improved. Every month, the agency gathers data
from about 140,000 businesses and government departments as well
as 60,000 households. Yet this is an outdated approach to
compiling macroeconomic information; relying on household and
business surveys means that we are not taking advantage of the
commercial, administrative and other data being collected at an
exploding rate.  Statistical Challenges  The problems with the bureau’s current approach are well-
known. The BLS itself has trenchantly analyzed the shortcomings
of its various labor-market surveys, and regularly revises its
estimates -- for instance, as more accurate unemployment-
insurance records become available.  The agency has also published detailed statistics about the
margin of error in its conclusions. One of the employment
figures Welch focused on has a 90 percent confidence range
amounting to more than 1 million people.  How can we do better? By also using the amazing volume of
data being gathered elsewhere. Google Inc., for example, makes
information available about particular search terms that
correlate with the state of the economy. The U.S. should harness
such “big data” in its official statistics.  With increasingly powerful computing systems, the price of
data storage plummeting and tight public resources, the
government’s statistical agencies should start combining the
data collected for commercial and administrative purposes with
government surveys to measure the state of the economy faster
and better.  The Obama administration is  investing  $200 million to see
if this approach could improve the quality of government data
and lower the cost of obtaining it. As Alan Krueger, the
chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers ,  has said , “there is enormous potential to use these
Big Data sets to cut survey costs and reduce respondent burden,
to improve and expand our existing social and economic
indicators and make them more timely, to assess the reliability
of traditional survey data, to study network and GIS-related
issues, and to answer a myriad of previously unanswerable
questions.”  Soon after making his rash comment, Welch admitted that he
had no evidence for his charges that the BLS had, for political
purposes, cooked the unemployment data. By then, of course, the
damage had been done.  At this point, Welch should formally apologize to the
dedicated public servants at the bureau and devote some time and
resources to helping make government statistics more accurate by
incorporating additional data from the private sector.  (Jonathan Orszag, a senior managing director at Compass
Lexecon LLC and a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress, was an economic-policy adviser on President  Bill Clinton ’s National Economic Council.  Peter Orszag  is vice
chairman of corporate and investment banking at Citigroup Inc.
and a former director of the Office of Management and Budget in
the Obama administration. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the future of affirmative
action  and on  combating North African extremism ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  Maine’s crazy Senate race ; Clive Crook on  Hugo
Chavez’s uncomfortable victory in Venezuela ; Camille Paglia on
 Picasso’s pre-cubist brothel painting .  To contact the writers of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com 
Jonathan Orszag at  jorszag@compasslexecon.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  