-- Japan Watchdog Probes Societe Generale on Nagano Fund
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-09T05:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/japan-watchdog-probes-societe-generale-on-nagano-fund-correct-.html
(Corrects to remove companies’ association with AIJ. This
story was first published on Oct. 7.)  Japanese financial regulators plan to
punish three companies suspected of negligent management of a
Nagano prefecture pension fund, the Nikkei newspaper reported
today.  The Financial Services Agency may impose punishment on
 Societe Generale Private Banking Japan (GLE) , Stats Investment
Management Co. and United Investments Co., the Nikkei reported,
without saying where it received the information. The three
companies had managed investments for the Nagano fund, which AIJ
Investment Advisors Co. is suspected of defrauding, the Nikkei
said.  Calls by Bloomberg News to the FSA and United Investments
to confirm the report were not answered.  Tatsuya Yamashita, Stats’ chief executive officer,
confirmed by telephone that the company was being examined.
Yamashita denied any malicious practice, saying the fund’s
biggest losses were made before Stats signed a fund management
contract in December 2009.  Nathalie Pujolle, a spokeswoman for Societe Generale
Private Banking in Tokyo, wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News
that the bank is not being investigated in matters related to
the AIJ scandal, adding that the bank is unable to comment
further.  AIJ President Kazuhiko Asakawa was arrested in June on
suspicion of defrauding pension funds in  Tokyo  and Nagano
prefectures of about 7 billion yen ($89 million). The commission
found the firm lost 109.2 billion yen from derivatives trades
directed by Asakawa over nine years, in a scandal that has
raised concerns about the safety of retirement assets in the
world’s fastest-aging nation.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  