-- Japan Current-Account Surplus Rises First Time in 18 Months
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-09T02:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/japan-current-account-surplus-of-5-8-billion-exceeds-estimates.html
Japan ’s current-account surplus
widened from a year earlier for the first time in 18 months, as
lower prices of imported energy helped to offset gains in the
yen and a global slowdown that has capped exports.  The  excess  in the broadest measure of the nation’s trade
was 454.7 billion yen ($5.8 billion) in August, compared with a
436.3 billion yen surplus a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry 
said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 24 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  was for a surplus of 421.1 billion
yen. In July, the surplus was 625.4 billion yen.  The yen’s nearly 50 percent gain against the dollar in the
last five years and territorial tensions with  China  are
weakening Japan’s exports as the  International Monetary Fund 
sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper global slowdown. A
deteriorating trade position raises the risk of the nation
eventually needing overseas funding to service the world’s
largest public debt.  “Today’s figure was a temporary blip in a negative
trend,” said Takahiro Sekido, a strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and a former Bank of Japan official.
“Japan’s income surplus is still countering its negative  trade
balance . We should maintain a cautious stance on the current
account,” he said.  Energy Prices  Energy prices contributed to a fall in the import bill in
August, the government said after the data were released.  Tensions with China over disputed islands in the  East China
Sea  are threatening the $340 billion trading relationship
between Asia’s two biggest economies and may lower Japan’s
current-account surplus in September, said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. and a former central bank
official.  Japan’s exports fell 5.8 percent in August from a year
earlier, the third-consecutive monthly fall, with shipments to
China dropping 9.9 percent.  Carmakers were among those hardest hit, with  Mazda Motor
Corp. (7261) ’s deliveries in China last month falling 35 percent. The
dispute also caused cancellations of 40,000 seats on All Nippon
Airways Co. flights between the two countries, the airline said
last month.  Economic Contraction  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. said in a report released
last week that the dispute may knock 0.8 percentage point off
Japan’s gross domestic product in the October-December period
and hasten a slide in the current account. The brokerage joins
Morgan Stanley and BNP Paribas SA in predicting Japan’s economy
will shrink for two consecutive quarters through the end of
December.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average is down about 14 percent from
this year’s high in March, and was down 0.5 percent at 10:01
a.m. The yen was at 78.30 per dollar as of 9:26 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
around 4 percent from a postwar high of 75.35 in October last
year.  Income from investment abroad, which includes interest
payments and dividends on equities and debt securities, has
served as a buffer against a deficit in the current-account
balance. Japan’s net international investment position of 253
trillion yen was more than 50 percent of nominal GDP at the end
of last year, according to Ministry of Finance data.  There are signs of weakness across the Asia-Pacific region,
with China yet to reverse its slowdown. The  World Bank  said this
week that China’s deceleration may cut growth in Asia’s emerging
economies to an estimated 11-year low this year.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  refrained from more easing on Oct. 5
after adding to stimulus in September. The central bank last
week downgraded its assessment of the economy.  Japanese companies grew more pessimistic in September,
according to the Bank of Japan’s Tankan index, while industrial
production in August fell more than economists forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  