-- Jay Penske Buys Variety Magazine From Reed Elsevier
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-10-09T15:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/jay-penske-buys-variety-magazine-from-reed-elsevier.html
Internet entrepreneur Jay Penske
agreed to buy Variety magazine from  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL)  to add the
entertainment trade publication to his stable of websites such
as Deadline Hollywood and Movieline.  Reed Elsevier is selling the 107 year-old magazine to
 Penske Media Corporation  as it’s focussing on electronic data
services and research offerings, the two companies said in a
statement today, adding that they won’t disclose the deal’s
financial details. The purchase price is about $25 million, said
a person familiar with the matter, declining to be identified as
the information is not public.  Penske, son of automobile industry executive and race team
owner Roger Penske, founded his Los Angeles-based company in
2004 and has been expanding his entertainment news business to
tap demand for gossip about celebrities and the  movie industry .
In 2009, he bought Deadline Hollywood, founded by former Los
Angeles Times reporter Nikki Finke, and in 2010, he purchased
Boy Genius Report, a technology blog focused on mobile gadgets.  “We plan to rapidly build upon Variety’s foundation, while
extending this invaluable brand’s presence across Web,
broadcast, mobile, and international markets,” Jay Penske said
today.  A  Reed Elsevier  representative declined to comment on the
purchase price.  Electronic Data  Reed Elsevier, the London-based publisher of “Gray’s
Anatomy” and the LexisNexis database, has been disposing of
trade magazines as print media declines and is focusing on
online subscriptions, research products and products that
compile and analyze electronic data.  Reed Business Information, the unit publishing Variety, had
sales of 347 million pounds ($556 million) in the first half of
2012, representing 11 percent of the whole company’s revenue.
The sale of magazines and costs helped the division to reach a
record operating profit margin of 18 percent in that period.  The company, which acquired Variety in 1987, this year also
put its Australian business on the block.  The company ended efforts in 2008 to sell its trade-
magazine unit, which once published more than 400 titles, after
bids for the business declined amid economic uncertainty. Since
then, the company has sold titles piecemeal, including U.S.
publications Publishers Weekly, Broadcasting & Cable and
Multichannel News.  Chief Executive Officer Erik Engstrom said in July that the
business now has fewer than 100 titles.  Paid Content  “We’re now focusing on organic growth and selective
acquisitions in online paid content services,”  Mark Kelsey , CEO
of Reed Business Information, said today in an interview.  Reed Elsevier dropped 0.3 percent to 602 pence today in
 London  as of 4:01 p.m., valuing the local stock at 7.3 billion
pounds. Including the company’s listing in Amsterdam, where the
shares declined 0.4 percent to 10.44 euros, Reed Elsevier has a
total market value of 13.8 billion pounds.  Reed Elsevier said in July that completed and planned
disposals will be “mildly dilutive” to earnings per share in
the short term. To offset this, proceeds from asset sales will
be used to buy back shares this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in Cannes, France, via 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  