-- Julius Baer May Cut Over 1,000 Jobs After Merrill Deal
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-10-09T13:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/julius-baer-may-cut-more-than-1-000-jobs-after-merrill-purchase.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd., Switzerland’s
third-biggest publicly traded bank, may cut more than 1,000 jobs
after its purchase of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch
 wealth management  units outside the U.S.  Julius Baer is targeting a reduction of 15 percent to 18
percent in the combined workforce of about 5,700, the Zurich-
based company said today in a statement. The Merrill business
that Julius Baer agreed to buy in August posted a first-half
loss of $30.4 million, the bank said.  The bank is acquiring client assets to compete with larger
rivals UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG as a crackdown on  tax
evasion  pushes customers to repatriate funds from Swiss offshore
accounts. The firm expects the acquisition to increase  profit 
from 2015, boosting earnings per share by 15 percent that year
after stripping out integration and restructuring costs.  “Before I recommend the stock, I’d like to see evidence
that the cost-cutting will improve the bottom line,” said  Dirk Becker , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Frankfurt, who
has a hold rating on the shares. “It’s way too early to judge
this.”  Julius Baer declined as much as 0.7 percent and was little
changed at 32.35 Swiss francs at 2:37 p.m. in Zurich trading.
That brings this year’s decline to 12 percent and values the
company at 6.4 billion francs ($6.8 billion).  Transaction Costs  Julius Baer previously said it expected to pay as much as
860 million francs for between 57 billion francs and 72 billion
francs of assets managed for Merrill clients from  Europe ,  Asia ,
 Latin America  and the  Middle East . The total cost of the
transaction, including integration costs and incentives to
retain relationship managers, will be about 1.47 billion francs,
the bank said in August.  Julius Baer (BAER)  is partly financing the acquisition by raising
492 million francs through a rights offering taking place
between Oct. 10 and Oct. 17. The new shares, priced at 24.20
francs each, will start trading on Oct. 18, the firm said
yesterday.  Merrill’s wealth units employed 2,100 people in almost 30
countries outside the U.S. and  Japan  at the end of June,
according to a  presentation  published today on Julius Baer’s
website. The firm said it will complete the purchase of
Merrill’s Geneva-based private bank in the first quarter of
2013, while the acquisition of other units by the end of the
following year will add new offices in eight countries,
including India and  Spain .  Biggest Deal  The deal is Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi ’s
biggest since he was promoted to run Julius Baer in 2009.  “There is no other transaction of this size out there in
wealth management with such a high tilt toward growth markets,”
Collardi told investors in  London  today. “It’s a business with
a strong momentum, at least until a few years ago. I think the
business just needs momentum again.”  Julius Baer, which bought ING Groep NV’s Geneva-based
wealth business in 2009, acquired a 30 percent stake in
Brazilian wealth manager GPS Investimentos Financeiros e
Participacoes SA and purchased Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Asian
private-client business in 2011.  Julius Baer lost out to Safra Group last November in its
bid to buy a controlling stake in  Basel , Switzerland-based Bank
Sarasin.  The Merrill business reported a loss last year and had a
cost-to-income ratio of 114 percent, according to Julius Baer.
That measure improved to 110 percent in the first half of this
year, the bank said.  “Tough Job”  “When you’re cutting costs, you’re also cutting revenue,”
said Becker. “I think it will be a tough job. There’s a reason
why  Bank of America  didn’t want this business anymore and why it
was loss-making for them.”  Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  has unloaded foreign
businesses to focus on selling more services to existing
customers. He has sold more than $50 billion in assets and
businesses since taking over in 2010 to bolster capital before
stricter international rules take effect.  Assets under management at Julius Baer increased 8 percent
to 184 billion francs in the first eight months of the year,
after net inflows that were close to the top of the firm’s 4
percent to 6 percent target range, the company said. Client
assets have climbed 20 percent since the end of 2009.  The firm spent about 20 million francs on U.S. legal
matters in the first eight months of the year, Chief Financial
Officer Dieter Enkelmann told investors in London. The firm said
Feb. 6 it expects to pay a fine and hand over client data to
U.S. authorities as part of a probe of 11 banks that allegedly
helped Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Gross margin, a measure of profitability, was “slightly
lower” in the first eight months of this year than the 98 basis
points reported for the first half, Julius Baer said. A basis
point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  