-- Kinder Morgan Wins Dismissal of El Paso Partnership Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-09T19:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/kinder-morgan-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-el-paso-partnership.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc.’s El Paso Corp.
unit persuaded a judge to dismiss investor claims that the $21.1
billion takeover of the oil-pipeline provider harmed their
interests.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III ruled today
that investors in  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP (EPB) , a natural gas
partnership part-owned by El Paso, can’t make viable claims over
Kinder Morgan’s $29.91-a-share buyout of the parent company.  Because “the partnership agreement eliminates any
fiduciary duties El Paso might otherwise owe to the limited
partners,” investors have no grounds to proceed with their
damage claims, Glasscock concluded in a 13-page ruling.  Kinder Morgan officials said in July that second-quarter
 profit  fell as the pipeline company cut the value of some of the
assets it’s selling to obtain regulatory approval for the El
Paso acquisition. Net income dropped to $153 million from $230
million a year earlier, company officials said.  Larry Pierce , a spokesman for Houston-based Kinder Morgan,
said the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Kinder Morgan completed its acquisition of Houston-based El
Paso in May, two months after a Delaware judge refused to block
a shareholder vote on the takeover.  Pipeline Shifts  Investors in El Paso Pipeline Partners, also known as EPB,
said the entity was set up in 2007 as a publicly traded
partnership to which the parent company shifted ownership of
pipeline assets for tax purposes.  After the takeover, El Paso’s pipeline assets were no
longer exclusively available to the partnership and were slated
to be transferred to an entity owned by Kinder Morgan, the
investors said.  “The non-controlling EPB unitholders have not benefitted
from the transaction, but instead have lost substantial value,”
they said in court filings.  In his decision, Glasscock said the investment agreement
covering the partnership specifically stated that El Paso wasn’t
legally bound to transfer company assets to the entity.  “At most, there has been a withholding of transactions to
which EPB had no legal right,” the judge wrote. That meant
investors hadn’t been unfairly damaged by the buyout, he said.  Kinder Morgan officials agreed last month to pay
$110 million to settle lawsuits by other El Paso investors over
the buyout.  The pipeline case is Hite Hedge LP v. El Paso Corp, CA No.
7117, Delaware Chancery Court (Georgetown).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  