-- King Says BOE Must Keep Targeting Inflation as Tool Revamp Looms
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-09T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/king-says-boe-must-keep-targeting-inflation-as-tool-revamp-looms.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said inflation targeting has served the U.K. well over two
decades and should remain at the heart of monetary policy as
officials take on powers to ensure financial stability.  “The case for price stability is as strong today as it was
20 years ago,” King said in a speech at the  London School  of
Economics in the U.K. capital today. “The key principles
underlying flexible inflation targeting are credibility,
predictability and transparency of decision-taking, and they
will remain the cornerstone of successful monetary policy.”  King’s comments reviewed 20 years coinciding with the time
he spent helping to build the current regime, delivered just as
the central bank takes on unprecedented powers over the banking
system and regulation. King, whose tenure is now drawing to a
close, fought back against suggestions that policy makers were
clearly wrong to have kept  interest rates  as low as they did
before the financial crisis struck in 2007.  “The big challenge to monetary policy before the crisis
was a serious mispricing in long-term interest and exchange
rates,” King said. “It is arguable, though not certain, that
in the absence of a macro-prudential regime or tighter fiscal
policy, persistently higher  interest rates  might have been a
second-best strategy. It would though have been a big gamble.”  King, in a defense of the U.K.’s inflation targeting,
pointed to the improvement in the credibility of monetary policy
in the past two decades. He highlighted  inflation expectations 
as measured by the difference between yields conventional and
index-linked gilts. In 1992, it was close 6 percent, while today
it is around 2.5 percent.  Inflation Expectations  “Predictability of the price level is greater because over
a long period inflation has on average been close to the
target,” King said. “Even if inflation deviates from target --
as will often be the case -- it is expected to return to target,
and so inflation expectations are anchored. That is why since
2007 the U.K. has been able to absorb the largest depreciation
of sterling since the Second World War.”  King said that macro-prudential tools that the central bank
will gain would have helped to mitigate “excessive leverage and
risk taking in the banking and wider financial sector” though
it would be “optimistic” to rely on them alone in future.  “It would be sensible to recognize that there may be
circumstances in which it is justified to aim off the inflation
target for a while in order to moderate the risk of financial
crises,” he said. “Monetary policy cannot just ‘mop up’ after
a crisis.”  King said that it is “too soon to bury ” inflation
targeting, which played a key role in bringing  price stability 
to the U.K.  “We forget the lessons of the 1970s and 1980s at our
peril,” he said. “In the end, the essence of central banking
is to maintain confidence in, and the value of,  paper money .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  