-- N.Z. Budget Deficit Wider Than Forecast After Rail Write Down
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-10-09T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/n-z-budget-deficit-wider-than-forecast-after-rail-write-down.html
New Zealand’s budget deficit was
wider than earlier forecast in the fiscal year ended June 30
after a write down in the value of the state-owned rail company
offset a rise in tax revenue.  The shortfall was NZ$9.24 billion ($7.6 billion) in the
year through June, compared with an NZ$8.44 billion estimate in
the May budget, according to government financial statements
released today in Wellington. The deficit, measured before gains
and losses on investments held by state-owned financial
institutions, was half the NZ$18.4 billion gap a year earlier.  The figures showed New Zealand’s budget balance improved
for the first time since 2006, reflecting a drop in costs
associated with earthquakes in and around Christchurch in the
past two years. Prime Minister John Key expects to return the
budget to surplus by fiscal 2015 by reducing non-essential
spending and cutting debt, arguing that tight fiscal discipline
will protect the nation’s credit rating and take pressure off
the central bank to raise interest rates.  “We’re running a balanced program to build a competitive
economy, to reduce the unsustainable growth in government
spending of the previous decade and to get back to surplus,”
Finance Minister Bill English said in a statement. “In the
uncertain global environment, it’s important that the government
continues to focus on controlling its spending.”  Today’s statements don’t contain fiscal forecasts or
revisions to the bond sales program, which will be published in
an update in December.  KiwiRail Assets  The government announced in June that KiwiRail would be
restructured and its assets valued on a commercial basis rather
than on a public benefit basis. The decision resulted in a
NZ$1.4 billion charge in the 2011-12 government accounts.  Excluding the charge, the deficit would have narrowed from
the May forecast, the Treasury said.  The deficit included a NZ$1.9 billion cost related to the
2010-11 Christchurch quakes, including the state-owned disaster
insurance company, infrastructure repairs and purchases of
condemned homes.  Tax revenue rose by NZ$3.5 billion from the year earlier to
NZ$55.1 billion, higher than the May projections amid improved
company earnings, the Treasury Department said. Other revenue
also exceeded forecasts on stronger sales by state-owned
businesses and insurance proceeds from Christchurch earthquake
claims by government departments.  Core government expenses fell by NZ$1.37 billion to NZ$69.1
billion, less than May projections, reflecting reduced costs in
the government’s assistance to owners of weather-affected homes
and lower costs of an emissions trading plan.  Net Debt  Net debt rose to 24.8 percent of gross domestic product as
of June 30, from 20.3 percent a year earlier and less than the
25 percent projected in May, Treasury said.  Debt is likely to rise to 28.7 percent of GDP at its peak
in 2014 and decline to less than 20 percent by the early 2020s,
the government said in May.  The government plans to raise at least NZ$5 billion from
the sale of shares in four state energy companies and Air New
Zealand Ltd. Last month, the government deferred the sale of
shares in Mighty River Power Ltd. until early 2013 because of
the need to consult with Maori groups who claim rights to the
water the company uses to power its turbines.  Share offers for Meridian Energy Ltd. and Genesis Power Ltd.
are planned by early 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at   sadam2@bloomberg.net  