-- NATO Seeks Restructured Defense as EADS-BAE Tops Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-10-09T10:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/nato-seeks-restructured-defense-as-eads-bae-tops-talks.html
The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization favors restructuring  Europe ’s defense industry by
making arms suppliers more effective as austerity measures and
budget cuts threaten regional security.  The proposed merger between  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  will be the focus of discussions
among French, German, U.K. and U.S. officials, British Defense
Secretary Philip Hammond told reporters in Brussels, where
defense ministers from NATO convened a two-day meeting.  “I consider such a merger a commercial decision, and it’s
for shareholders and involved governments to figure that out,”
NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told a news
conference today. “But let me stress that in general, I’m in
favor of restructuring European defense industries with a view
to making them more competitive and effective.”  EADS and BAE are mounting a last-ditch push to gain
government backing for their merger, with less than 48 hours to
meet a regulatory deadline, according to people familiar with
the talks. Failure to meet the deadline would reveal the rift
that is separating  France  and the U.K. from  Germany , which is
concerned about being left short-changed by the merger.  The meeting of NATO’s 28 members will focus on
strengthening European defense forces as governments in the
region slash budgets and reduce debt.  “At a time when defense budgets are under pressure, we
also need to cooperate more on defense planning, training and
exercises,” Rasmussen said. “This period of economic austerity
poses a challenge to defense budgets, but it also opens an
opportunity for strengthened cooperation and new ways to provide
security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Brussels at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  