-- Netanyahu Calls for Early Israeli Elections Citing Budget
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-10-10T16:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/netanyahu-calls-for-early-israeli-elections-citing-budget.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called elections for early next year, pointing to
opposition from partners in the coalition government to his
austerity budget plan as a reason for moving up the vote.  Netanyahu, who is in his second stint as  Israel ’s premier,
announced yesterday in a prime-time broadcast from his office in
 Jerusalem  that he will “seek a renewed mandate from the people
to continue to lead Israel.”  The decision will mean a three-month election campaign, the
prime minister said. Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said he
expects balloting to be held in January or February. The
election must be approved by parliament.  Netanyahu is trying to push through spending cuts as
government revenue lags behind forecasts amid slowing global
growth. The elections would also come amid tensions with  Iran 
over its nuclear program, and the prime minister said yesterday
that re-election would enable him to press for tougher action
against the Islamic Republic.  “We must make sure that Iran doesn’t get a bomb,”
Netanyahu said.  The premier met President  Shimon Peres  today, according to
an e-mailed statement from the president’s office. The head of
state told Netanyahu that he hoped the vote would be “a
lesson in democracy and will be conducted in a civilized
atmosphere.”  Likud Lead  A poll published Sept. 28 by the Haaretz daily showed
Netanyahu’s Likud party would win 28 places in the 120-seat
Knesset, one more than it currently holds, making it the largest
faction in parliament. The survey showed 35 percent of Israelis
see Netanyahu as “most suited” to lead, almost double the 16
percent of his nearest contender for the premiership, Shelly Yacimovich of the  Labor Party .  “It makes sense for him to call the shots from a position
of strength rather than waiting to be fired upon by the opposing
parties,” said Peter Medding, a political scientist at  Hebrew
University of Jerusalem . “This is mostly about short-term
internal domestic issues -- in particular, the capability to
govern and pass a budget.”  Israel must hold elections no later than a year from now if
they aren’t moved up.  Netanyahu, 62, has faced opposition to budget cuts from
coalition members who are reluctant to reduce spending.  Spending Cuts  Israel must cut next year’s outlay by about 17 billion
shekels ($4.4 billion) to stay within fiscal limits as it faces
a possible deepening of the European financial crisis, Bank of
Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said in August. The government
deficit was 4.1 percent of  gross domestic product  in the months
through August, more than double the original target for 2012,
the  Finance Ministry  said on Sept. 4.  The government already has approved higher taxes beginning
in 2013 to help meet next year’s revised deficit target of 3
percent of GDP.  Yacimovich said she would try to topple Netanyahu over the
“cruel” nature of his budget proposals. “These elections will
be a choice between an economy of the violent jungle and a fair
economy and just society,” she said in an interview with Israel
Radio.  Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said on  Army Radio  that
he expects to have a “central role” in the next government.
“I’m sure we will be the second biggest party,” he said. The
Haaretz poll had Labor taking 20 seats, while Liberman’s party
would win 14.  Iran Nuclear  Former Prime Minister  Ehud Olmert , who headed the
opposition Kadima party, is seriously considering returning to
politics, Army Radio said. Kadima, which is the largest party in
parliament with 28 seats, fell to eight in the Haaretz poll.  Netanyahu told the  United Nations  last month that “by next
spring, at most next summer,” Iran will be in the final stage
of having enough enriched uranium to make a nuclear weapon.
Israeli leaders have said that all options are on the table to
prevent that from happening, including a military strike.  Israel and the U.S. suspect that  Iran’s nuclear program  is
aimed at building a bomb. Iran says its nuclear installations
are for civilian purposes.  “I have decided that the best interests of Israel obligate
us to go to elections now and as quickly as possible,”
Netanyahu said.  Netanyahu’s announcement was the second time this year he
called for new elections. The prime minister retracted a bid in
May to go to the polls. Having proposed then to hold elections
Sept. 4 and reshape his restive governing coalition, Netanyahu
reversed himself two days later with a surprise agreement to
bring the opposition Kadima party into his government.  That arrangement lasted two months before Kadima leader
Shaul Mofaz pulled out of the Cabinet because of disagreements
with Netanyahu over drafting ultra-Orthodox Jews into the army.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  