-- Netflix Tumbles on Downgrade Amid Streaming Concerns
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-10-09T20:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/netflix-tumbles-on-downgrade-amid-streaming-concerns.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
video-subscription service, fell the most in more than two
months after Bank of America Corp. analysts downgraded the
stock, citing concerns about the health of the domestic
streaming business and a recent run-up in the shares.  The stock  tumbled  11 percent to $65.53 at the New York
close, the biggest drop since July 25. Bank of America analysts
led by Nat Schindler downgraded the shares to underperform from
buy. The  Los Gatos , California-based company had gained 6.1
percent this year through Oct. 8.  Netflix’s “soft” target earlier this year, when it
predicted 7 million net new subscriptions in 2012, may have been
ambitious, the analysts said. Fewer than the 6 million additions
that Wall Street estimates are modeling could hurt the stock,
the analysts said. The company is also facing increased
competition both in the U.S. and internationally.  Bank of America predicts that “domestic streaming
subscriptions will plateau sooner than expected, pressuring 2013
estimates.” The analysts project Netflix to have 33 million
domestic-streaming subscribers next year, up from about 23.9
million at the end of the second quarter.  Additionally, there’s “a likelihood that content prices
will be increasing due to competition and Netflix’s exclusive
and original content emphasis,” they wrote.  Bank of America had upgraded the shares to buy from
underperform in August, citing international expansion, smarter
spending on content and rising domestic profit, combined with
the drop in the stock following the company’s second-quarter
results.  In the most recent note, the analyst said that the stock,
as of Oct. 8, had surpassed Bank of America’s $72 price target.
Since Oct. 2, Netflix had gained 30 percent through yesterday as
Citigroup Inc. cited improvements in its customer-satisfaction
rating and Morgan Stanley upgraded the shares, saying
competition from Amazon.com Inc.’s Prime Instant service is
“overblown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  