-- Nigerian President Announces Aid for Flooded Areas
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-10-09T17:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/nigerian-president-announces-aid-for-flooded-areas.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
said the government will provide aid to areas hit by flooding
that has left tens of thousands of people homeless and that the
Nigerian Red Cross said threatens to spark a cholera outbreak.  In a broadcast to the nation today, Jonathan pledged to
provide affected states and emergency agencies with 17.6 billion
naira ($112 million). The government will give 4.3 billion naira
to other agencies, such as the Ministry of Works and the
National Emergency Management Agency, he said.  The floods caused “massive destruction of property,
farmland and infrastructure across the country,” Jonathan said.
“It’s sad that this global phenomena of devastating floods has
come to Nigeria.”  Flooding caused by heavy rainfall in the West African
nation worsened after hydro-power dams on the Niger River,
 Nigeria ’s largest river, opened sluice gates to let out water to
prevent them from collapsing, Anthony Anuforo, director-general
of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, said on Sept. 26. Large
swaths of farmland were inundated, Environment Minister Hadiza Mailafa said the same day.  The flooding left at least 148 people dead and 64,000
displaced in 21 Nigerian states, Nwakpa O. Nwakpa, the spokesman
for the  Nigerian Red Cross Society , said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Waterborne Diseases  “An estimated 134,000 people have now been affected by the
floods and concern is growing about the spread of waterborne
diseases such as cholera,” the Nigerian Red Cross said in the
statement.  The agency is providing water purification tablets and oral
rehydration salts to try and prevent an outbreak of
gastroenteritis, said Bello Hamman Diram, the agency’s
secretary-general.  The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies are appealing for donations to assist 10,000 people
affected by the flooding, according to the statement.  The water is currently moving southwards through the Niger
River delta region, so bulk of the flooding should end “in most
areas” by the end of the month, Emenike Umesi, a coordinator
for the National Emergency Management Agency in the region, said
by phone today.  “As of date, the floods have not adversely affected oil
production in Nigeria,” Africa’s largest-oil producer, Fidel
Pepple, a spokesman for state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp., said in an e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  