-- Non-Euro States Under Common Supervisor Could Exit Any Time
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-09T11:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/non-euro-states-under-common-supervisor-could-exit-any-time-1-.html
Non-euro nations who join a proposed
common bank supervisor would be able to withdraw at any time
under an Oct. 8 compromise proposal on giving the European
Central Bank oversight over banks within the 17-nation  euro
zone , according to documents obtained today by  Bloomberg News .  “The member state may request the ECB to terminate the
close cooperation at any time. In this case, the ECB shall
immediately proceed to adopt a decision terminating the close
cooperation,” according to the document, prepared in advance of
technical meetings this week.  European Union leaders in June embarked on plans to build a
common supervisor as a step toward offering direct bank bailouts
from the euro-area’s firewall fund. All 27 EU nations must
approve the oversight proposal for it to move forward, and non-
euro area nations have said they need more assurance their
voices won’t be drowned out.  This week’s compromise proposal is more specific about how
the ECB will coordinate with national supervisors in
participating nations. It says the ECB must share its
information with relevant national authorities, especially in
cases that involve the prospect of putting a bank into
resolution.  Non-euro countries that take part in the banking union
would have access to meetings of euro-area finance ministers
when banking issues are discussed. They would also have
guaranteed access to the ECB’s annual banking reports and to
oral or written answers to questions from the euro-region
ministers’ group or the European Parliament, the draft says.  Power to Summon  The proposals also include provisions for any participating
nation, including non-euro countries, to summon the head of the
ECB’s supervisory board before their national parliament.  Finance ministers from Denmark and  Sweden  said that the
compromise proposals don’t go far enough to ease their concerns.
“There are severe problems still,” Swedish Finance Minister
 Anders Borg  told reporters ahead of today’s meetings.  To find further solutions to problems like  voting rights  on
the ECB bank supervisory board, ECB input will be needed, EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said today.  “Acceptable solutions are possible to all member states’
concerns on single supervisor,” Barnier said in a message
posted on the Twitter Inc. service. He said there should be a
“fair system” for non-euro countries and that designing this
“lies in part” with the ECB.  Banks might need to pay fees to cover the cost of
regulation under the proposal, and the Frankfurt-based ECB could
participate in the London-based European Banking Authority’s
board in some instances. The ECB would need to hold a public
rule-making process, according to the draft.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Luxembourg at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  