-- Occidental Dispute Marks Ecuador-Colombia Oil Divergence
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-10-09T15:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/occidental-dispute-marks-ecuador-colombia-oil-divergence-energy.html
Ecuador  has seen its oil output
stagnate since 2006. That’s when the country began increasing
state control of reserves.  Next door, Colombia has invited international drillers, and
production has boomed.  The two Latin American countries are diverging even more on
their separate paths. Yesterday Ecuador decided to fight an
order to pay $1.77 billion to  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  in
compensation for ousting the U.S. company in 2006.  Ejecting Los Angeles-based Occidental “was a bad deal
because production began to fall,” said Vicente Albornoz, dean
of the Universidad de las Americas business school in  Quito .
“Production fell all over the country because they created an
adverse climate for investment.”  Ecuador is moving further into the camp of OPEC members
that spurn foreign ownership of resources. The country with
 South America ’s third-largest oil reserves is aligning itself
closer to producers  Venezuela  and  Iran  in rejecting agreements
that give global oil companies equity stakes in fossil fuels.  The consequences in most cases is that revenue to the
government slides when state managers step in, in contrast to
nations such as Colombia that welcome international operators
and are experiencing soaring output and income.  Ecuador yesterday said it will appeal a World Bank
arbitration panel’s record award for stripping Los Angeles-based
Occidental of its concession and seizing its assets.  The case against Occidental, the largest onshore crude
producer in the continental U.S., marked the beginning of a more
than six-year push to boost state control in Ecuador that
contrasts with  Colombia , where private investment has seen
output surge.  Attracting Capital  The neighboring country, which trailed Ecuadorean output
before the expropriation six years ago, now produces about
444,000 barrels a day more than Ecuador.  As Ecuador increased the state’s participation in the oil
industry, Colombia sold shares in state producer Ecopetrol SA
and improved security and investment incentives for foreign
companies, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst Benjamin Ramsey said.  Colombia has “successfully set up a model which has
depoliticized the company and that has allowed them to make
pretty efficient investment decisions,” Ramsey, a Latin America
analyst in New York, said Oct. 4 by telephone.  Ecopetrol’s market value has surged to $122 billion, ahead
of ConocoPhillips and Occidental, since the government sold a 10
percent stake in a 2007 initial public offering to fund
expansions. The shares have gained about 28 percent this year,
trouncing the 1.2 percent gain in the 67-member Bloomberg World
Oil & Gas Index. Occidental lost 10.3 percent.  Output Slump  Since May 2006, crude production in Ecuador has fallen 6.2
percent compared with a 78 percent jump in Colombia, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap swelled to a record
461,000 barrels in November 2011.  Ecuador stripped Occidental of its concession over an
alleged contract breach, prompting the company’s complaint to
the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes,
known as ICSID.  The settlement would be more than Occidental’s net income
for any of the three previous quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Occidental has concentrated this year on
drilling in onshore U.S. fields.  While Ecuador fought Occidental’s claims,  oil prices  rose
to record highs, representing a lost opportunity for Ecuador’s
government to collect windfall profits from higher oil exports,
Universidad de las Americas’ Albornoz said.  New Contracts  WTI crude traded in New York, the benchmark for Ecuadorean
oil, jumped 26 percent to $90.73 per barrel since May 2006. It
hit a high of $144.29 per barrel in July 2008 before tumbling 77
percent to $33.87 in December of that year amid a global
economic crisis. Prices increased as much as 1.8 percent today.  Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa , who inherited the
Occidental case when he took power, continued efforts to boost
state control of natural resources, nationalizing the country’s
crude reserves and forcing producers including  Spain ’s Repsol SA
to sign new contracts under threat of expropriation.  After the Andean nation’s Congress approved new oil
regulations in 2010, the government renegotiated agreements with
private producers, switching to service contracts from the
previous production-sharing accords.  ‘Too Soon’  In November of that year, Correa’s government canceled the
contracts of four oil and natural-gas companies, including
 Brazil ’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Houston-based Noble Energy
Inc., when they refused to ink new deals. Ecuador reached
agreements with five others giving the state control of
reserves.  Ecuador’s Attorney General said yesterday that it’s too
soon to say if the country will honor the arbitration panel’s
final decision. President Correa’s administration, which
defaulted on $3.2 billion of foreign debt in 2008 and 2009 and
forced more than 4,400 mining companies to re-apply for permits
as the government rewrote rules, has said it would refuse to
comply with the court if it rules in favor of the company.  “Right now, it’s impossible to talk about compliance,”
Garcia said.  Ecuador is seeking a new panel of arbiters and an annulment
of the decision, he said. The country has 120 days as of Oct. 5
to challenge the decision and expects the appeals process to
take as long as two years, Garcia said.  Ecuador’s Non-Renewable Natural Resources Minister Wilson Pastor declined to comment, an assistant said by telephone.
Occidental’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment.  Chevron Case  Separately, Chevron Corp. lost a U.S. Supreme Court bid
today to block a $19 billion judgment by an Ecuadorean court in
an almost two-decade legal battle over pollution in the Amazon.
The court let stand an earlier federal appeals court ruling
against Chevron saying judges in  New York  couldn’t bar a group
of Ecuadoreans from seeking to collect the award anywhere in the
world. Chevron says the judgment is the product of fabricated
evidence and is the largest ever awarded by a foreign court
against a U.S. company.  Ecuador’s dispute with Occidental, the nation’s biggest
foreign investor at the time, revolves around the Andean
country’s claim the company failed to obtain government approval
to sell a stake in its so-called Block 15 concession in the
Amazon rainforest to a unit of Canada’s EnCana Corp.  EnCana Deal  The two-part agreement called for Calgary-based EnCana’s
AEC Ecuador Ltd. unit to receive a 40 percent interest and
receive title to 40 percent of the oilfield contract after a
four-year period. Ecuador canceled the company’s contract and
expropriated its assets in the country in May 2006.  The field, now operated by a unit of state-owned
PetroEcuador, produces about 149,000 barrels a day, according to
Ecuador’s central bank, compared with about 44,000 barrels
before the seizure. Total private-company output has plunged 46
percent since January 2007, the earliest year for which data is
available.  As the two parties’ lawyers prepare for the appeals
process, it’s too early to say how much the dispute will cost
because it’s not clear Ecuador will respect the panel’s final
decision, Universidad de las Americas’ Albornoz said.  “The most important thing is whether Occidental is going
to collect or not,” he said. “Everything depends on that.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ 12
members are  Algeria ,  Angola , Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,  Kuwait ,  Libya ,
 Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and
Venezuela. Ecuador rejoined in 2007 after a 15-year hiatus.  Venezuela and Brazil hold South America’s largest reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  