-- Ohio to Appeal Early-Voting Case to U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-09T21:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ohio-to-appeal-early-voting-case-to-u-s-supreme-court.html
Ohio  is seeking U.S. Supreme Court
review of an appellate ruling requiring all its voters to have
the same amount of early voting time while letting individual
boards of election decide whether that time includes the last
three days before the Nov. 6 national election.  The Oct. 5 decision by a three-judge panel in Cincinnati
upheld a lower-court order blocking a law that ended early
voting for the general population three days earlier than for
members of the military and residents living overseas.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign organization and the
state and national Democratic Parties sued Ohio Secretary of
State Jon Husted and Attorney General Mike DeWine, both
Republicans, arguing that the disparity in voting times was
unconstitutional.  “The court is saying that all voters must be treated the
same way under Ohio law, but also grants Ohio’s 88 elections
boards the authority to establish 88 different sets of rules,”
Husted said today in a statement announcing his plan to seek
high-court intervention. “That means that one county may close
down voting for the final weekend while a neighboring county may
remain open. How any court could consider this a remedy to an
equal protection problem is stunning.”  Electoral Votes  With a population of 11.5 million, Ohio controls 18 of the
270 Electoral College votes Obama or Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  need to capture the presidency.  No Republican nominee has ever won the office without also
winning in Ohio. Obama carried the state in 2008, garnering 51.5
percent of the more than 5.7 million votes cast and a winning
margin of 262,224 over opponent U.S. Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona .  Ohio wants the high court to reverse the appellate panel’s
ruling, according to its filing. Matt McClellan, a spokesman for
Husted, said the state’s goal is to resolve the issue by
Election Day.  Ohio directed its request to Justice Elena Kagan, who
handles emergency requests from the appeals court that decided
the early-voting case. Kagan, who was appointed to the bench by
Obama in 2010, set an Oct. 12 deadline for the submission of any
opposition to the state’s filing.  ‘No Justification’  “There is no justification for the state’s arbitrary
actions this year in trying to deny the vast majority of its
voters access to open polling places for the last three days
before the election,” Robert F. Bauer, general counsel for the
Obama for America campaign organization, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This has been the unanimous conclusion of the courts that
have considered this case,” Bauer said. “The Secretary of
State has now chosen to extend the litigation and to ask the
U.S. Supreme Court to intervene just four weeks before the
election. We have no reason to believe that he will meet with
any more success now than before.”  The Obama campaign argued before the lower courts that
there was no justification for treating military voters and
those living overseas differently than those in the general
population.  Bush Appointees  The appellate panel -- which included an appointee of
Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and judges named to the
federal bench by Republican presidents  George H.W. Bush  and
 George W. Bush , agreed.  “The decision below is unsustainable,” according to
Ohio’s Supreme Court filing. “This court has unequivocally held
that there is no constitutional right to absentee voting.”  The state contends it offers more than 230 hours of what it
calls “in-person absentee voting” to those citizens who are
neither in the military nor residing overseas.  “The Sixth Circuit’s ruling that lower income and lesser
educated voters would not be able to vote at all other than
through in-person absentee voting on these three particular days
finds no support in fact or law,” according to the state’s
brief.  In his press statement, Husted vowed that all the state’s
voting hours will be uniform “whatever the outcome” of its
Supreme Court bid.  “Since some boards of elections have already started to
take action on hours of operation for the three days before
Election Day, I am going to take time to consult with all 88
counties before crafting a directive to set uniform hours should
the state not be successful upon appeal,” Husted said in his
statement.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-4055,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  