-- Oil Declines From High as Crude Stocks Seen Rising
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-10T12:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/oil-declines-from-one-week-high-as-crude-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
Oil traded near its highest in a
week in New York as concern that political tension in the Middle
East may curb crude exports countered signs that supplies are
building up as the global recovery falters.  Futures were little changed, having surged 3.4 percent
yesterday after the Turkish army fired on Syrian artillery units
and tanks for a sixth day, and U.S. President  Barack Obama 
signed an executive order approving a framework for tighter
sanctions on Iran. U.S. crude inventories probably rose  1.5
million barrels  last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The American
Petroleum Institute will release separate data later today.  “Clearly we have some additional bullish influence from
Syria and events in Iran,” said Filip Petersson, a commodities
strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm , who predicts Brent crude will
average $110 a barrel this quarter. “There’s upside risk on the
geopolitical side, but then of course there are headwinds from
slowing growth.”  Crude for November delivery was at $92.34 a barrel, 5 cents
lower in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
as of 1:32 p.m. London time. The contract rallied $3.06
yesterday to $92.39, the highest close since Oct. 1. Prices are
down 6.6 percent this year.  Brent for November settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slipped 12 cents to $114.38 a barrel.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $22.04 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate. The spread was $22.49 on
Oct. 8, the widest gap based on closing prices since October
2011.  Mideast Tension  Oil is declining in New York after reaching technical
resistance along its middle Bollinger Band, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday halted their advance
near this indicator, at around $92.93 a barrel today. Sell
orders tend to be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  boosted
estimates of the amount of crude it will need to supply next
year after trimming forecasts for oil production from outside
the group.  OPEC said in a monthly report that its 12 members will need
to provide an average of 29.8 million barrels of crude a day in
2013, about 200,000 more than estimated last month. The group
reduced its forecast for non-OPEC output for next year by the
same amount, to 53.89 million barrels a day, because of lower-
than-expected growth in emerging nations. Still, world markets
will remain “characterized by high volumes of crude supply and
increasing production capacity,” the organization said.  Saudi Arabia  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, wants to
see Brent closer to $100 a barrel, Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi 
told reporters in Riyadh yesterday before a conference of oil
ministers from the Gulf Cooperation Council. The six countries
in the council accounted for 24 percent of the world’s crude
supplies last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  Oil surged yesterday after Turkish guns fired on Syrian
artillery units and tanks for a sixth day. The attacks follow
the deaths of five people struck by a Syrian shell in  Turkey  on
Oct. 3. Tension between the two countries has risen with the 19-
month rebellion against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
government, as Turkey has offered support for the rebels.  U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told Sky News that the
many countries are looking at increasing sanctions against  Iran 
over its nuclear program. Iran is facing restrictions on its
energy exports imposed by Western countries that allege it is
building atomic weapons.  Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose  375,000 barrels  last week,
according to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed ahead
of the Energy Department report. Distillate-fuel supplies, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, probably fell
 250,000 barrels . The department is releasing the data a day
later than usual because of the Columbus Day holiday on Oct. 8.  Gasoline traded on Nymex rose 2.3 percent to $2.9865 a
gallon yesterday as U.S. refinery shutdowns threatened supplies,
boosting spot values in New York Harbor and sending  California 
pump prices to record highs. Futures for November delivery were
at $2.968 a gallon today.  Immediate-delivery gasoline in New York Harbor traded at
24.5 cents above futures yesterday, the  most  for this time of
year in at least a decade. The motor fuel slid to $4.666 a
gallon at the pump in California, according to AAA, the largest
U.S. motoring organization.  In Rotterdam,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Pernis refinery is
flaring gases after a failure in the plant’s catalytic cracker
unit, an environment agency said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  