-- Oil Rises as Middle East Tension Counters IMF Growth
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-10-09T19:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/oil-rises-as-middle-east-concern-counters-imf-growth.html
Oil advanced for the first time in
three days as increasing tension in the  Middle East  countered
concern that a global economic slowdown will curb demand.  Futures rose 3.4 percent as radar-assisted Turkish guns
fired on Syrian artillery units and tanks for six consecutive
days after the deaths of five people struck by a Syrian shell in
 Turkey  on Oct. 3. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global
growth forecasts today as the euro area’s debt crisis escalates.  “There’s a struggle between the geopolitics versus the
fundamentals in the market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based energy hedge fund. “There’s
some anxiety about the Middle East that’s raising geopolitical
concerns. This is trumping today’s warning from the IMF.”  Crude oil for November delivery increased $3.06 to $92.39 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Oct. 1. Prices are down 6.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement gained $2.68, or 2.4
percent, to end the session at $114.50 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Brent touched a $23.10-a-barrel premium to West Texas
Intermediate oil traded in New York, the highest intraday level
since Oct. 21, 2011, according to Bloomberg calculations of
exchange data. It slipped to $22.11 at the settlement.  The price of Brent has risen as 14 North Sea Forties crude
cargoes for October were delayed. Forties, the cheapest of the
four grades that make up the Dated Brent benchmark, typically
sets the marker used to price more than half of the world’s oil.  Delayed Cargoes  The 14 out of 16 Forties cargoes planned for export in this
month have been delayed by three to 15 days, according to the
latest loading program obtained by Bloomberg.  “We expected North Sea loadings would be rising this
month,” Kilduff said. “They have now been pushed back, which
is inflating the price of Brent.”  Turkish artillery units responded yesterday to fire from
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s armed forces. Tensions
between the two countries have risen with the 19-month rebellion
against Assad’s government, as Turkey has offered support for
the rebels.  “The increasing tension on the Turkish-Syrian border is
providing additional geopolitical risk,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  Saudi Pledge  Saudi Arabia  will help to satisfy all demand for crude,  Ali al-Naimi , the kingdom’s oil minister, told reporters in  Riyadh 
today before a meeting with his counterparts from member states
of the Gulf Cooperation Council. The kingdom is the world’s
largest oil exporter.  “We will work towards moderating the price,” al-Naimi
said. “We will meet the market demands fully.”  The world economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said today. The figures compare with July
predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013.  The Washington-based lender now sees “alarmingly high”
risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-six chance of growth
slipping below 2 percent.  “Current prices are far too high for the global economic
recovery,”  Fatih Birol , the  International Energy Agency ’s chief
economist, said at a press conference in  London  today. The
agency, whose members hold strategic oil reserves to be used in
a supply crisis, remains ready to act if necessary, Birol and
Maria van der Hoeven, executive director of the IEA, said at the
conference.  Debt Crisis  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  used her first visit to
 Greece  in five years today to maintain pressure on Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras to meet austerity pledges, proclaiming
her desire to keep the country in the euro. At stake is Greece’s
membership in the 17-nation euro and the payment of 31 billion
euros ($40 billion) from bailout commitments first made in 2010.  Europe ’s debt crisis, which began in Greece three years
ago, has cut the continent’s economic growth and energy demand.
Spain is considering asking for help and Cyprus is in talks for
a lifeline, following Ireland, Portugal and Spanish lenders.  U.S.  crude supplies  probably rose last week after output
climbed to the highest level in more than 15 years and imports
increased. Stockpiles probably rose 1.5 million barrels in the
seven days ended Oct. 3, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before an Energy Department
report on Oct. 11.  U.S. Stockpiles  Crude production  rose 11,000 barrels a day to 6.52 million
in the week ended Sept. 28, the most since December 1996, the
department said last week. Total fuel demand fell 0.3 percent to
 18.3 million barrels  a day in the four weeks ended Sept. 28, the
lowest level since April.  “Brent is more sensitive to geopolitical risk than WTI,”
McGillian said. “We’re also seeing the impact of crude oil
production rising to a 15-year high here while fuel demand
remains anemic. These factors are depressing WTI.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 650,959
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. Volume totaled 422,895 contracts
yesterday, 18 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  