-- Oil Rises First Time in 3 Days; Brent Gap Widest in Year
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-10-09T12:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/oil-rises-first-time-in-three-days-as-discount-to-brent-widens.html
Oil rose after a two-day slide as
optimism that European finance ministers will make progress in
taming the region’s debt crisis offset signs that crude supplies
are excessive amid a global economic slowdown.  West Texas Intermediate crude gained as much as 1.5 percent
after the European ministers welcomed Greece’s determination to
cut spending and reshape its recession-wracked economy. The
commitment improves chances that regional aid will keep flowing
and stop Greece from abandoning the euro. U.S.  oil supplies 
probably rose after crude production climbed to the highest
level in more than 15 years and imports increased, a Bloomberg
survey showed before an Energy Department report on Oct. 11.  “The continuing tension between bullish and bearish
factors will keep oil trading in a range in the very short-
term,” meaning for this month, said  Christopher Bellew , a
senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts
Brent crude will slip to about $110 a barrel.  Crude for November delivery climbed as much as $1.32 to
$90.65 in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
and was at $90.50 at 1:36 p.m. London time. The contract dropped
to $89.33 yesterday, the lowest close since Oct. 3. Prices are
down 8.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for November settlement gained $1.43, or 1.3
percent, to $113.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. Prices are up 5.5 percent this year.  Al-Naimi’s Concern  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said the price for
Brent is “still high” and that his country, the world’s
biggest oil exporter, wants to see the grade fall closer to $100
a barrel.  “We will work towards moderating the price,” al-Naimi
told reporters in  Riyadh  today ahead of a meeting of oil
ministers from Gulf Arab nations. “We will meet the market
demands fully.”  Brent’s premium to WTI rose to $22.75 a barrel, according
to Bloomberg calculations of exchange data. That’s up from
$22.49 yesterday, which was the widest close since Oct. 20 last
year.  “Geopolitical risks, manifested most recently in
skirmishes between  Turkey  and  Syria , are supporting the European
benchmark to a greater extent than its U.S. counterpart,”  David
Wech , managing director at Vienna-based analysts JBC Energy
GmbH, said in a report today.  Turkey deployed additional tanks and missile defense
systems on the Syrian border yesterday as artillery units
responded to fire from Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s armed
forces. Tensions between the two countries have risen with the
19-month rebellion against Assad’s government, and Turkey
voicing support for the rebels.  IEA’s Views  Global oil markets are “sufficiently supplied,” Maria van der Hoeven, the executive director of the International Energy
Agency, told reporters today in London. At the same event, the
IEA’s chief economist said oil prices are too expensive and
detrimental to the world economy.  “Current prices are far too high for the global economic
recovery,” Fatih Birol said in an interview in London where the
agency presented a new study on  Iraq ’s energy potential.  Iraq is set to more than double oil production to 6.1
million barrels a day by 2020, providing almost half of the
increase in global supplies this decade, the IEA said in the
report. Iraq will make the biggest contribution to global oil
supply growth over the next two decades and will overtake  Russia 
by 2030 as the world’s second-largest exporter, the IEA said
today in a report.  Merkel in Greece  Creditors muffled doubts about  Greece ’s fiscal health hours
before German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the dominant figure in
Europe’s bailout politics, arrived in  Athens  for talks with
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras.  “I’m impressed by the performance of the Greek government,
by the willingness of the coalition parties in Greece to
undertake whatever will have to be undertaken in order to
respond to our wishes,” Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker told reporters late yesterday after chairing a meeting
of euro finance chiefs.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably rose 1.5 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Energy Department report.
That would be the first gain in three weeks.  Gasoline supplies and distillate inventories, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, probably each increased by
500,000 barrels, according to the survey. Gasoline retail prices
in  California  rose to a record, according to data released today
by AAA.  The American Petroleum Institute will release separate
stockpile data tomorrow. The API collects inventory information
on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk
terminals and pipelines. The government requires that reports be
filed with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  