-- Oil Link Fades as Gazprom Sinks on Output Call: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-10-10T03:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/oil-link-fades-as-gazprom-sinks-on-output-call-russia-overnight.html
Russian  equities  in New York are
breaking their correlation with oil as concern the global
economic outlook is worsening outweighs the benefits of a jump
in crude prices.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. slipped 1 percent to 98.16
yesterday, pushing its 65-day correlation coefficient with New
York crude to 60, the lowest since May 29, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. OAO Gazprom dropped after the world’s biggest
gas exporter said output will fall more than forecast this year
as European demand slows. Futures expiring in December on
Moscow’s RTS Index declined 0.6 percent to 147,840 in New York.  The Russia-US index followed the  Micex (INDEXCF)  and  RTS indexes  in
Moscow lower as the  International Monetary Fund  predicted the
slowest global economic growth since 2009 for this year and said
there are “alarmingly high” risks of a deeper contraction.
Crude producers  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY)  Neft and  OAO Surgutneftegas (SGTPY)  slumped,
even as  Turkey  sending more tanks and missile defense systems to
the Syrian border spurred oil,  Russia ’s biggest export earner,
to its first gain in three days.  “Worries about slowing growth, which may result in lower
commodity and oil prices, is the driving force in the market,”
Igor Nuzhdin, an analyst at OAO Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by
phone yesterday. “That lack of clarity outweighs current oil
price moves and drives equities lower.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, slid 1 percent
to $28.95 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index was little changed
at 28.93.  Gazprom Output  Russia’s biggest company lost 1.7 percent to $10 in  New
York , the lowest level since Sept. 6. The American depositary
receipts settled at a 0.9 percent discount versus the company’s
Moscow-listed stock, the widest gap in a week. Gazprom fell 1.1
percent to 157.25 rubles, or $5.05. One ADR is equal to two
ordinary shares.  The decline in export volumes may exceed the anticipated 2
percent, Vsevolod Cherepanov, the head of Gazprom’s production
division, said in  London  yesterday. The Moscow-based company
will review its target to pump 528 billion cubic meters and may
also revise its 2013 goal, he said.  Gross domestic product in Russia, the world’s largest
energy exporter, will grow 3.5 percent this year, below the 3.9
percent outlook in June, the IMF said in a report released in
 Washington  yesterday. The world economy will grow 3.3 percent
this year and 3.6 percent next year, the lender said.  ‘Vulnerable to Global Trends’  American depositary receipts of Surgutneftegas, Russia’s
fourth-largest oil producer fell 0.9 percent to $6.66, settling
at a 0.6 percent discount versus the company’s Moscow-trade
shares, the widest gap in four days. In Moscow, the stock
retreated 0.2 percent to 20.88 rubles, or 67 U.S. cents. One ADR
equals 10 preferred shares.  Gazprom Neft, the oil arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly,
fell 0.8 percent to $25.01, the biggest loss in a week. Shares
of Gazprom Neft slipped 0.4 percent to 154.49 rubles, or $4.96
yesterday. One ADR is equal to five ordinary shares.  “Investors treat Russian equities as something of a
derivative trade in global markets rather than a strong
independent asset class,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Sberbank-CIB, formerly known as  Troika Dialog , said by e-mail
from Moscow yesterday.  Gazprom Neft Slips  Oil advanced for the first time in three days as increasing
tension in the  Middle East  countered concern that a global
economic slowdown will curb demand. Radar-assisted Turkish guns
fired on Syrian artillery units and tanks for six consecutive
days after the deaths of five people struck by a Syrian shell in
Turkey on Oct. 3.  Crude oil for November delivery jumped 3.4 percent to
$92.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday,
the highest settlement since Oct. 1. Prices are down 6.5 percent
this year.  Brent oil for November settlement gained 2.4 percent to
$114.50 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The price has risen as 14 North Sea Forties crude
cargoes for October were delayed. Forties, the cheapest of the
four grades that make up the Dated Brent benchmark, typically
sets the marker used to price more than half of the world’s oil.  Urals Advances  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, gained 1.7
percent to $112.30 a barrel yesterday, the lowest level since
Sept. 14. Brent underpins prices for the Urals blend.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s biggest Internet company and the owner
of Russia’s most-used search engine, sank 2.4 percent to $23.55
yesterday, the lowest since Sept. 27.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s
largest Web search provider, fell 1.8 percent to $744.09.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
lost 0.9 percent to HK$4.40 at 10:54 a.m. in Hong Kong trading.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  