-- Money-Market Funds Should Have Risk Limitations, IOSCO Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-10-09T21:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/money-market-funds-should-have-risk-limitations-iosco-says-2-.html
Money-market funds  should have limits
imposed on the riskiness of their investments and should conduct
regular stress tests, a global body of markets regulators said.  “Funds should not take direct or indirect exposures to
equities or commodities,” the International Organization of
Securities Commissions said in a report on its website today.
The funds, which invest in short-term debt, should hold buffers
of liquid assets to prevent runs, IOSCO said.  “Some important measures have been taken to reform the MMF
industry,” IOSCO said in the  report . “These funds may still
present vulnerabilities which could have broader consequences
for the financial system.”  Regulators have pressed to make money funds safer since the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund, which triggered an industrywide run and helped freeze
credit markets. The crisis calmed only after the  U.S. Treasury 
guaranteed shareholders against losses.  Money-market funds have about $4.7 trillion under
management and make up a significant part of the so-called
shadow-banking industry. Shadow banking must be reined in by
regulators as it is “potentially very unstable,”  Adair Turner ,
chairman of the U.K.  Financial Services Authority , said earlier
this year.  The recommendations from IOSCO include increased disclosure
to investors of how funds value their investments and how they
would act in times of financial stress.  Regulators should be able to stop outflows in “exceptional
situations,” which “may have implications for the broader
financial system,” according to the report.  SEC Opposition  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, gave up on a plan in August to strengthen
regulation of the funds after three of the agency’s five
commissioners told her they wouldn’t vote to issue it for public
comment.  Today’s report was backed by all members of IOSCO aside
from a “majority of the Commissioners of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission,” IOSCO said in the statement.  “All the recommendations are important for the safety and
robustness of the money-market fund industry,” IOSCO said.  “However, the implementation of some recommendations may
need to be phased in, in order to avoid disruptive impacts on
the MMF industry and the functioning of the financial system at
large.”  IOSCO brings together market regulators from more than 100
countries to coordinate rule-making and share information.  Floating Value  Paul Schott Stevens, president of the  Investment Company
Institute , said IOSCO drew a misinformed conclusion that money
market funds with a constant net asset value are more
susceptible to runs than funds with floating values.  “This misinformed claim fuels flawed regulatory proposals,
including options of imposing  capital requirements  and
redemption holdbacks, and a strongly expressed preference for
floating or VNAV funds,” Stevens said in a statement today.
“The report failed to include any recommendations that would
improve the transparency of money market fund portfolio holdings
for the benefit of investors and regulators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  