-- Morrison Executive Says Sales Hurt by Weak Online, Convenience
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-10-09T16:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/morrison-executive-says-sales-hurt-by-weak-online-convenience.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc’s (MRW) 
sales underperformed the U.K. grocery market in the last three
months because of weakness in the growth areas of online food
and convenience shops, Commercial Director Richard Hodgson said.  “It’s a structural deficiency that we have as opposed to
anything we’re doing wrong in terms of the marketing mix or
quality,” Hodgson said in an interview at the Institute of
Grocery Distribution conference in London today.  Morrison sales were unchanged in the 12 weeks ended Sept.
30, researcher  Kantar Worldpanel  said today, the slowest pace of
the U.K.’s four main grocers and below the average growth of 3.9
percent. The retailer’s share of the market declined by 0.4
percentage point to 11.4 percent compared with a year earlier.  “Am I happy with it? Clearly not,” the executive said.
“It’s sobering when we see the market share when we’ve gone
from the top of the tree to towards bottom.”  Hodgson said the fact that Morrison trails  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda and J  Sainsbury (SBRY)  Plc in two of the
market’s fastest-growing areas, is responsible for the slowdown,
rather than its product availability, pricing, promotions or
focus on fresh food. The retailer has a handful of  convenience
stores  and is considering an Internet offer after buying a stake
in New York-based online grocer Fresh Direct.  Sainsbury is opening about two convenience stores a week,
and “we’re playing catch-up,” Hodgson said. Morrison opened
its first small-format chain this year. A new depot in west
London will be able to service more convenience stores within
the boundaries of the orbital M25 motorway.  Morrison plans to have 20 small-format “M Local” outlets
by the end of the year, including its first in the capital.  Last month, the grocer said it was evaluating opportunities
to develop “a unique a profitable online food model in the
U.K.,” with a wine offer due to start in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  