-- Most-Accurate Forecasters Say Dollar Beats QE3
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-10-09T14:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/most-accurate-forecasters-say-dollar-beats-qe3.html
The world’s most-accurate foreign-
exchange strategists say the dollar will strengthen even as the
Federal Reserve debases it, unlike the previous two rounds of
economic stimulus, when cash injections weakened the currency.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s $40 billion-a-month of bond
purchases will leave a stronger currency in 2013, say nine of
the 10 forecasters with the lowest margins of error in the six
quarters ended Sept. 28 as measured by Bloomberg. Wells Fargo &
Co. and Westpac Banking Corp., which tied for most-accurate,
expect little damage from efforts to stimulate the economy and
the so-called fiscal cliff of spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled for next year.  While the Dollar Index, which measures the currency against
those of six major trading partners, fell 4.6 percent and 3.9
percent in the first two rounds of Fed stimulus that added $2.3
trillion to the banking system, this time will be different,
forecasters say. Investors will demand the world’s reserve
currency as U.S. growth outpaces its developed counterparts.  “If the U.S. economy keeps outperforming, then it
shouldn’t cause the U.S. dollar much damage,” given that most
of its trading partners are growing slowly or contracting, said
 Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac
Banking Corp. Monetary easing is only “a short-term negative
for the U.S. dollar.”  Relative Growth  Westpac, which matched Wells Fargo with a 3.34 percent
margin of error in the Bloomberg analysis, expects the dollar to
rally to $1.20 versus the euro from $1.3045 at the end of last
week, and 80 yen from 78.67 by the third quarter of next year.  U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to expand 2.1
percent in 2013 after growing 2.2 percent this year, according
to the median estimate of 80 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
That compares with a predicted 0.4 percent expansion in the euro
area and 1.2 percent for  Japan . The International Monetary Fund
projects growth of 2.1 percent in the U.S. economy next year,
0.2 percent in 17-nation currency bloc, and 1.2 percent
expansion in Japan.  The forecasts of the most-accurate strategists showed they
don’t expect the dollar strengthening to begin until 2013, and
that the euro will benefit this quarter from reduced concern
that the region’s debt crisis will worsen.  Emerging Markets  Seven out of the top 10 forecasters said that even as the
dollar gains, investors should favor  emerging markets , such as
India, Russia and  Mexico , where the domestic economies will
allow currency appreciation to help control inflation without
raising interest rates.  “We have entered a new frontier” of seemingly unlimited
central-bank stimulus, Eimear Daly, a currency analyst in  London 
at Monex Europe Ltd., the fifth most-accurate forecaster, said
in an e-mailed response to questions on Oct. 2. “For returns,
investors have to look to emerging market currencies.”  Interest rates in developing economies will likely remain
above those in Group of 10 nations as central banks try to
contain inflation. The cost of living in  India , where the
central bank’s benchmark rate is 7 percent, is forecast to surge
7.8 percent next year, according to a survey of 16 economists by
Bloomberg News. Inflation in Mexico and Russia is forecast to
reach 3.8 percent and 6.5 percent in 2013, above the projected
increase of 2 percent in the U.S.  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the U.S. currency against the euro, yen, pound, Swiss franc,
Canadian dollar and Swedish krona, advanced 0.3 percent to
79.761 as of 9:45 a.m. in New York. The gauge fell 0.8 percent
last week as the U.S. unemployment rate dropped below 8 percent
in September for the first time since January 2009. The  Dollar
Index (DXY)  is little changed since the Fed said Sept. 13 it will
conduct a third round of bond purchases in a policy known as
quantitative easing.  The dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.2929 per euro
after rising 0.6 percent yesterday. It was little changed at
78.34 yen following a 0.4 percent slide yesterday.  While the most-accurate forecasters’ predictions for 2013
averaged $1.25 for the euro next year, six of the 10 said the
shared currency is still the best buy in the next three months,
rather than the yen or the dollar as the European Central Bank
and President Mario Draghi step up efforts to fix the region’s
debt crisis.  Reduced Risk  The ECB’s decision to buy bonds of indebted members that
ask for aid reduced the risk that the group will splinter as
turmoil that caused spiraling borrowing costs in European
nations drags into its fourth year. The odds of a country
leaving the currency bloc by the end of 2013 fell to 45.2
percent from 55 percent before the ECB said Sept. 6 that it
would purchase debt, according to Intrade.com.  “In the near-term, we believe ECB policy actions could
offer some support to the euro as the worst-case scenarios are
priced out,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy
at Wells Fargo in New York, who with Vassili Serebriakov, has
either been the most-accurate forecaster or tied for the top
spot for the fourth consecutive quarter. The dollar’s “weakness
in late 2012 is temporary and related to near-term developments
in the  European debt crisis ,” he said.  Best Performer  The euro rose 1.1 percent in the past month, making it the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show. It had lost 5.1
percent this year through July 26, when Draghi pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to save the euro.  Wells Fargo, also the No. 3 euro-dollar forecaster, expects
the dollar to weaken to $1.31 per euro by the end of the year,
and then gain to $1.24 in 2013. Four of the 10 most-accurate
forecasters’ favorite trade for the fourth-quarter includes a
bet the euro will rise.  That means the Dollar Index, which normally falls when the
euro appreciates, should be weaker in the fourth quarter.
National  Australia  Bank Ltd., the fourth most-accurate
forecaster, expects that decline to continue.  “The dollar is probably the least favorite as the Fed
cranks up its QE3 program,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based
global co-head of currency strategy at National Australia Bank.  Weaker Aussie  The firm’s favorite trade is a bet the euro will rise and
the so-called Aussie dollar will fall. Attrill said he expects
Australia’s currency to weaken to 75 euro cents by the end of
the year from 78.09 cents last week. The Sydney-based bank
forecasts the Dollar Index to fall to 76.75 by March.  America’s currency tumbled against all its major
counterparts except the pound by at least 4.2 percent as the Fed
purchased $1.7 trillion in Treasuries and mortgage-related debt
between December 2008 and March 2010 under QE1. During QE2, when
it bought $600 billion from November 2010 through June 2011, the
dollar was 4.4 percent weaker against the euro, little changed
versus the yen and 0.1 percent lower compared with the pound.  The open-ended nature of the QE3, where Bernanke said the
Fed will buy $40 billion of bonds a month until policy makers
see “ongoing, sustained improvement in the labor market,”
makes the effect on the dollar different this time, according to
Danske Bank A/S. The firm is the seventh-most-accurate
forecaster.  ‘Fed’s Resolve’  “The market can no longer underestimate the Fed’s resolve
to boost growth,” Arne Rasmussen, the head of currency research
at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview on Oct.
4. “That will benefit the economy and the dollar. We see the
dollar picking up from the second quarter next year.”  A stronger dollar makes it easier for the U.S. to finance a
fourth straight year of budget deficits exceeding $1 trillion as
the government borrows for programs designed to pull the economy
out of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Now, the U.S. faces the fiscal cliff of $1.2 trillion in
mandated spending cuts and tax increases starting Jan. 1 if
Congress can’t agree by Dec. 31 on ways to reduce the deficit.  The Fed and ECB aren’t the only central banks boosting
stimulus as global growth slows. The Bank of Japan increased its
asset-purchase fund last month to 55 trillion yen ($702 billion)
to counter deflation. The Bank of England plans to buy 375
billion pounds ($602 billion) of government bonds to boost
growth after the U.K. economy contracted for three quarters.  “We do not believe that QE3 will have anywhere near the
potency of QE1 and QE2,”  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole, the eighth-most
accurate overall and the top euro-dollar forecaster, said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Oct 3. That will allow the
dollar to appreciate amid “relatively stronger growth.”  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
forecasts for 13 currency pairs in each of six quarters through
September. To test long-term accuracy, Bloomberg Rankings added
one annual estimate, which was made at the end of September 2011
for the end of September 2012.  Companies with at least eight forecasts for a particular
currency pair were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least eight of 13 pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall forecaster. Thirty-two qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  