-- Total Raises Oil Price Reporting Agency Accuracy Concern
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-10-09T16:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/total-raises-oil-price-reporting-agency-accuracy-concern.html
Total SA (FP) ,  France ’s largest oil
company, said price reporting agencies need more regulatory
oversight to maintain their accuracy and consistency while  BP (BP/) 
Plc said the current process is satisfactory.  The comments, including one from state-run Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. and a lobby group representing airlines, formed part of
an investigation by the International Organization of Securities
Commissions into the risk of manipulation of published prices of
crude and oil products in the over-the-counter market.  “We encounter, several times a year, estimates of market
prices on key indices that are out of line with our experience
of the day and with the available information on which the price
formation is based,” Totsa, the Geneva-based trading arm of
Total, said in an Aug. 24  letter  to IOSCO, which was later
published on the organization’s website.  IOSCO was appointed by the Group of 20 nations in November
to investigate the role played by price reporting agencies, or
PRAs, in oil markets. The Madrid-based organization published
its final report on its website on Oct. 5 that called for the
agencies to adopt “robust” controls to protect the reliability
of the benchmarks. IOSCO stopped short of recommending new rules
for traders or trading companies.  Boxing Consequences  Total also said that excluding market participants from the
assessment process, or “boxing,” by PRAs such as Platts, a
unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , can have “significant economic
consequences both on the prices assessed in the market and on
the company concerned.” Total also said accuracy was variable
and subject to judgment calls.  The agencies, including Platts, Argus Media Ltd. and  Reed
Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s ICIS unit report on various spot and forward
prices that are not traded on exchanges and their assessments
are used to price the majority of the world’s physically-traded
oil.  BP, in its submission to IOSCO, said that it was important
that the methodologies used by PRAs in setting prices were
transparent and publicly available and that it is
“unconvinced” of the need for external regulation.  The  International Air Transport Association  said PRAs
shouldn’t be self regulated, citing the banking industry crisis
as an example of the failure of that system. The association,
whose membership includes airlines that consume jet fuel, said
that a code of conduct for PRAs is necessary but insufficient on
its own unless overseen by a regulator such as the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority.  Stakeholder Control  IATA recommended that a set of principles and controls for
PRAs “should be set by a group consisting of experienced
stakeholders such as traders, oil producers, refiners,
government body and large end consumers.”  Platts said on Oct. 5 that many of the principles mentioned
in IOSCO’s report are in line with the company’s current
practices and were covered in the draft code that the agency
issued in April, along with Argus and ICIS, in response to an
earlier version of the regulatory body’s report.  Saudi Aramco , as the state oil exporter is known, said that
PRAs “should not have any impact on the physical oil market as
PRAs do not play a role of trading houses.” As such, PRAs do
not need to be subject to the same level of financial regulation
as companies that actually handle people’s money, Aramco said.  IOSCO brings together national market regulators from more
than 100 countries, including the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the U.K.’s FSA, to coordinate rules and share
information.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts, Argus and ICIS in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  