-- Toyota-Led Slump May Drag China Car Sales Growth to 8-Month Low
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-09T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/toyota-led-slump-may-drag-china-car-sales-growth-to-8-month-low.html
Chinese passenger-vehicle sales
probably rose at their slowest pace in eight months as a
territorial dispute with Japan turned consumers away from buying
cars made by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   The state-backed auto association will probably say
deliveries increased 2 percent to 1.35 million units last month,
based on the average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Toyota and Nissan yesterday reported their biggest
drops in  China  sales since at least 2008, while  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s sales were the lowest since May 2011, according to monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese brands may lose their collective market-share lead
in China for the first time since 2005 after rioters torched
dealerships and smashed cars in protests over disputed islands.
The China slump is the third crisis for the automakers in less
than two years, after the Japanese tsunami and Thai floods that
destroyed factories and disrupted supply lines.  “People are afraid of buying Japanese cars,” said Satoshi Yuzaki, Tokyo-based general manager at  Takagi Securities Co. (8625) 
“If the situation doesn’t settle and if Japanese carmakers
can’t quantify the impact soon, there will be a lasting effect
on their earnings.”  The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers is
scheduled to release its monthly wholesale vehicles sales
numbers at about 3:30 p.m. in Beijing.  Honda fell 2.5 percent, the most since Sept. 28, yesterday
in  Tokyo , where it is based. Toyota,  Asia ’s largest carmaker and
located in Toyota City, dropped 1.5 percent and Nissan slid 1.9
percent. By comparison, the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
declined 1.1 percent.  Sales Tumble  Toyota’s September deliveries tumbled 49 percent from a
year earlier to 44,100 vehicles, Nissan’s fell 35 percent to
76,066 and Honda’s dropped 41 percent to 33,931, the companies
said yesterday.  Last week,  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  reported that deliveries in
the country tumbled 35 percent to the lowest in 19 months and
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  said that Chinese sales plunged 63
percent.  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  said yesterday they fell 43 percent.  Automakers from Japan, which as a group have a higher share
of China’s market than any other foreign country, are bracing
for what may become a bigger crisis in China than last year’s
tsunami in Japan, according to the China Passenger Car 
Association. Their share will fall to 22 percent this year from 
23 percent in 2011, according to the to the group.   GDP Contraction  The territorial dispute over the group of islands -- known
as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese -- may cause the
Japanese economy to contract this quarter and hasten a current
account slide as exports decline and Chinese tourism to  Japan 
drops off, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Toyota and Honda reported damage to dealerships from fire
last month, while TV footage showed overturned Japanese cars and
window shields smashed by demonstrators in some cities.  Nissan, based in Yokohama, Japan, will weigh the impact of
the Chinese protests before deciding whether to revise its sales
target there, Executive Vice President Takao Katagiri said on
Oct. 5. Japan’s three largest automakers plan to cut production
to half of normal levels in China, the Nikkei newspaper reported
on Oct. 8.  It’s “looking very difficult” for Toyota to meet its
target of selling 1 million vehicles in China this year, said
Dion Corbett, a Tokyo-based Toyota spokesman.  Corbett said the company is adjusting production based on
demand, comments echoed by Nissan spokesman Chris Keeffe.  Audi, Hyundai  Most non-Japanese brands appear to be benefiting.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s luxury Audi unit boosted sales by 20
percent last month to 35,512 vehicles, according to the German
company. Audi last month asked a Chinese dealer to remove a
banner advocating the murder of Japanese people after a
photograph of the sign went viral on the Internet.  South Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and affiliate  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  said Oct. 7 they will probably sell more vehicles in 2012
than the 1.25 million they had projected and that combined
deliveries rose 9.5 percent to a record.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest foreign automaker in China,
may be missing out. The company earlier this week reported its
slowest China sales growth in eight months and said deliveries
of Buicks and Cadillacs declined.  Slowing Economy  More broadly, demand has slowed this year as China’s
economic growth cooled to a three-year low of 7.6 percent in the
April-June period. The nation’s services industries expanded in
September at the weakest pace since at least March 2011,
according to the purchasing managers’ index by the government
and Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  Last month’s sales may put at risk CAAM’s forecast for an 
acceleration in second-half sales.  China’s passenger-vehicle sales growth will rise 15 percent
to 8.48 million units, driven by demand from first-time buyers
and as the economy rebounds, CAAM said in July. Full-year
deliveries may increase 11 percent to 16.09 million units, the
association has said.  “The situation with the Japanese automakers is
unpredictable,” said Ole Hui, an analyst with Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. in  Hong Kong . “We expect slower growth this year
because of the slower economy and because the market still has
to digest the high levels of inventory from the first half.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Michiko Mezaki in Tokyo at 
 mmezaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  