-- P&G’s McDonald Says Company Has ‘Laser’ Focus on Plan
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-10-09T20:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/p-g-s-mcdonald-says-company-has-laser-focus-on-plan-1-.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer Bob McDonald, under pressure from activist  Bill Ackman ,
told shareholders the company is “focused like a laser” on its
plan to boost productivity and innovation.  “We recognize the need to improve our performance, and
we’re working hard to do that,” McDonald told several hundred
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting at the Aronoff
Center for the Arts in Cincinnati today.  P&G is working to save $10 billion in costs through 2016,
as it also seeks to develop more blockbuster products. McDonald
faced shareholders for the first time since Ackman’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP took a $1.8 billion stake in July.
Ackman has pushed to replace McDonald and split the CEO and
chairman roles, according to a person familiar with the matter.  McDonald faced little criticism during the event, although
one shareholder asked what the company was doing to overcome a
languishing  stock price .  McDonald told her that sticking to the company’s plan to
boost productivity and innovation would best help shareholders.  “We are holding our own feet to the fire do this,”
McDonald said.  All 11 directors, including McDonald, were re-elected at
the meeting for another year.  P&G  fell  0.6 percent to $68.70 at the close in  New York .
The shares have advanced 3 percent this year.  McDonald is “doubling down on the plan, and now it’s up to
him to execute,” said  Matt McCormick , a fund manager at Bahl &
Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati, with 4.9 million P&G shares as of
June 30, in an interview.  McCormick said one unscripted moment at the end of the
meeting gave him optimism that McDonald has a “high degree of
confidence” that the turnaround will work. After the last
shareholder to speak complimented McDonald at length, the CEO
told the man to hold onto his shares.  “You’ll be glad you did,” McDonald said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  