-- Picasso Nudes in 50 Shades of Gray; Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-10-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/picasso-nudes-in-50-shades-of-gray-lance-esplund.html
The  Metropolitan Museum  of Art’s
astounding “Bernini: Sculpting in Clay” may be the biggest small
show ever to hit  New York .  It does so with a reverent thunderclap.  The 39 tabletop-scale terracotta sculptures and 30 related
chalk drawings are all masterpieces from the hand or workshop of
Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1598-1680).  The Baroque master, who commanded the largest and most
esteemed 17th-century workshop in  Europe , created epic, life-
size bronze and marble figures, portraits, tombs, monuments and
fountains that are the magnificent centerpieces of churches and
piazzas all over  Rome .  To begin, Bernini drew from classical, antique models for
inspiration. Then, working rapidly with his hands, tools and
brushes, he sculpted small, forceful studies in clay.
These expressive terracotta maquettes -- or working clay
drawings -- were used as models in the studio or as examples to
win commissions.  Confronted with a Bernini angel, horse, lion, cherub or
saint, we experience not a figure but energies and emotions.  Bernini’s exaggerations and distortions are grand and
sweeping, yet never feel mannered or overstated -- drama without
melodrama.  The clay study for “Charity with Four Children” is as much
tornado as figure-group. In “St. Jerome,” drapery radiates
outward from the center like lightning bolts. The saint’s
tender, handheld Crucifixion is the calm at the center of the
storm.  Sometimes Bernini’s inanimate forms feel possessed.
In his clay study for the tomb sculpture “The Blessed Ludovica
Albertoni,” the nun grasps at her breast in ecstasy, her body
equal parts bucking bronco and thrashing sea.  The last section of the show is devoted to an astonishing
array of 14 angels, 9 of which stand like sentries as if along
Heaven’s corridor.  All I could do was swoon.  “Bernini: Sculpting in Clay” runs through Jan. 6 at the
 Metropolitan Museum of Art , 1000 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-
535-7710;  http://www.metmuseum.org .  Picasso  Picasso is often considered a master draftsman more than a
colorist, especially when compared to that other Modern titan,
Matisse.  With “Picasso: Black and White,” the Guggenheim Museum
makes a strong case that the artist’s black and white works
continue in the tradition of the Le Nain Brothers, Velazquez,
Rembrandt, Corot and Braque.  Comprising 118 paintings, sculptures and works on paper,
this chronological show has a large number of masterpieces, as
well as rarely and never-before exhibited works.  It includes the somber Blue-Period “Woman Ironing,” the
stunning Cubist “Accordionist,” “The Charnel House (Le
charnier)” and the monumental “Maids of Honor.”  Painting in chords and moods, Picasso extends gray across
the entire range of temperament, tone and texture.  His whites are warm and cool, resembling sand, snow, lace,
sunlight, bodily fluids, cake icing and soiled linen. Blacks can
be stormy, brooding, murky, dreamy and metallic.  “Dead Cock and Jar” is cold and stark, “Bust of a Woman
with a Hat” is a wintery mountain peak while the neo-classical
“Seated Nude” (1922-23) is the texture of softened stucco.  The inclusion of more drawings, prints and Blue, Rose and
Cubist pictures -- the roots of Picasso’s lifelong exploration
of black, white and gray -- would have given the later works
deeper footing.  But this show is stunning.  “Picasso: Black and White” runs Oct. 5 through Jan. 23 at
the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Ave. Information:
+1-212-423-3500;  http://www.guggenheim.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include a Zinta Lundborg  interview  and
Richard Vines on  dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 