-- Poland to Seek Carbon Fix Details at EU Ministerial Meeting
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-09T11:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/poland-to-seek-carbon-fix-details-at-eu-ministerial-meeting-1-.html
Poland  has asked the European Union
to provide at a ministerial meeting on Oct. 25 more details on
the timeline for a draft plan to curtail an oversupply of carbon
permits, Polish Environment Minister Marcin Korolec said.  “Poland has asked that the European Commission present at
the council of ministers in October information on the date of
an impact assessment and that the presidency present its
agenda,” Korolec said yesterday in an interview.  EU governments are considering a strategy proposed by the
commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, to delay auctions of some
emission allowances as of 2013 to help prices in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade program recover. The plan requires
quality-majority backing from national governments and approval
by the European Parliament to be enacted.  European carbon permits for 2012 sank to a record low of
5.99 euros ($7.75) in April after the financial crisis boosted
an excess of allowances to 950 million metric tons at the end of
2011, according to EU estimates, or almost a half of an average
annual pollution limit in the program. The EU plan to curtail
the oversupply consists of two elements, an amendment to the EU
law to clarify the commission’s right to decide on timing of
auctions and a separate measure to “backload” an as-yet
unspecified number of permits.  EU Intervention  Ministers from  Bulgaria , the Czech Republic,  Hungary ,
Poland,  Romania  and Slovakia held a meeting yesterday in Warsaw
to discuss the backloading plan and the EU’s position for the
United Nations climate summit in Doha, Qatar, due to start on
Nov. 26, Korolec said. Poland has repeatedly said it objects to
the idea of an EU intervention in the carbon market to delay
auctions.  “The countries that we met are skeptical about backloading
and they are highlighting the lack of an impact assessment,”
Korolec said. “There are many weeks of work ahead of us, we are
only at the beginning of a long road. The issue is so serious
that we can’t hurry and use shortcuts.”  The commission, which submitted the draft change to the EU
emissions law and an outline of the backloading measure to
member states in July, is working on an assessment of the impact
of auction delays and is planning to present the document in the
coming weeks, Jos Delbeke, its director general for climate,
said on Oct. 2. The impact assessment will give the commission
the basis for deciding about the number of permits to be
delayed.  Carbon Auctions  EU Climate Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in July that
she aimed for a decision on the backloading measure, which was
proposed as an amendment to the bloc’s regulation on carbon
auctions, before the end of this year. Denmark’s Climate and
Energy Minister Martin Lidegaard said yesterday in an interview
that he hopes the EU will agree “within months” on how to
improve the bloc’s emissions trading system before 2020.  The six countries that met yesterday also discussed the use
of UN emission permits after the climate-protection Kyoto
Protocol expires in 2012, Korolec said. The EU’s position on the
carry-over of surplus Assigned Amount Units, or AAUs, will be an
element of its negotiating strategy at the next climate summit
in Doha, Qatar.  Central and east European countries led by Poland have
objected to curbs on the use of surplus AAUs for the 2008-2012
period, arguing they reflect deeper-than-required emission cuts.
The six nations are unanimous on what the EU position on AAUs
should be in a political statement that will follow the Oct. 25
meeting, Korolec said.  “They should be carried over to the next period,” he
said. “It should be a regulated market, meaning revenue from
their sales should be spent on pro-climate goals. But there’s in
principle no consent for curbs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  