-- Romney Pulls Ahead in Pew Poll as Gallup Gives Obama Lead
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-09T18:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/polls-skewing-after-obama-romney-debate-neeed-more-time.html
Two recent national polls showed one
of the presidential candidates moving ahead of the other.  They just couldn’t agree on which one.  A Pew Research Center survey of likely voters conducted
Oct. 4 to Oct. 7 gave Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  a four-
percentage point lead over President  Barack Obama . A Gallup poll
of registered voters Oct. 2 to Oct. 8 showed Obama ahead of
Romney by three points after, in a shorter tracking survey of
three days immediately following their Oct. 3 debate, it called
the race a tie.  Gallup for the first time this year also released a
tracking poll of likely voters, which gives Romney a 49 percent
to 47 percent lead for the Oct. 2-8 period. Gallup said neither
lead among the different sampling groups was “statistically
significant.”  The Gallup surveys of 3,214 registered voters and 2,721
likely voters had margins of error of plus or minus two
percentage points. Pew surveyed 1,112 likely voters with a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  Favorability Ratings  Another post-debate poll released today, the  ABC
News/Washington Post survey , put Romney’s favorable rating at 47
percent, up three points over last month and his highest score
since the survey first asked the question in September 2011.
Even so, 51 percent view him unfavorably, second only to his 52
percent negative mark in March. Obama emerged with a 55 percent
favorable rating in the latest poll, three points higher than
last month and his best mark since April 2010.  The released results didn’t include a match-up between the
two candidates. The poll of 845 registered voters was taken Oct.
4-7 and has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage
points.  The results underscore the lack of clarity in an
environment in which, almost every day, new polls are released
that vary depending on how voters are contacted, how they are
counted and other variables tied to an individual polling
group’s approach to conducting surveys.  Both Democratic and Republican pollsters have a general
sense that Romney’s support has grown and Obama’s slipped since
the former Massachusetts governor’s performance in last week’s
first presidential debate in Denver. There’s little consensus,
though, on how deep or enduring that change in the race’s
dynamic may be.  Clear ‘Boost’  “Romney clearly has gotten a boost coming out of the
debate and it’s for obvious reasons,” said  Whit Ayres , a
Republican pollster who’s worked on several presidential and
congressional campaigns and is part of  National Public Radio ’s
bipartisan polling team.  Even so, Ayres said he’s looking for more of a pattern that
shows Romney closing a gap with Obama before pronouncing that
the gains are lasting ones.  Peter Hart, a longtime Democratic pollster who has run
surveys for the Wall Street Journal and NBC News, agreed.
“Romney has been helped” by his debate performance. Yet “a
pattern is a series of results showing something in the same
direction,” he said. “It’s just too few polls and too few
days.”  Romney’s improved standing in some polls conducted since
the debate has “added an exciting twist because things were
moving in one direction,” toward Obama, said J. Ann Selzer, an
Iowa-based pollster who conducts surveys for  Bloomberg News .  Still, conflicting results also have emerged in polling of
the states that both campaigns say will decide the election.  Colorado Results  In  Colorado , Selzer conducted a poll for the University of
Denver of likely voters from Oct. 4-5 that gave Obama a four-
point lead, 47 percent to 43 percent. Rasmussen Reports had
Obama ahead, 49 percent to 48 percent, among likely voters
surveyed Oct. 7.  Rasmussen Reports, which Ayres said “tends to lean more
Republican in the makeup of its sample,” had Romney leading in
Virginia, 49 percent to 48 percent, according to an Oct. 4 poll
of likely voters. The firm uses a technique, questioned by some
polling experts, called robo-calling, which relies on automated
phone surveys that require participants to respond using dial
pads.  A Democratic-aligned firm, Public Policy Polling, uses the
same robo-calling technique and put Obama ahead by three points
in  Virginia , 50 percent to 47 percent, according to its Oct. 4-7
poll of likely voters.  Screening Question  Other pollsters express concern that groups using robo-
calling may fall short in adequately screening voters to verify
their identity, in reaching mobile phone users who tend to be
younger and Democratic-leaning and in providing enough
transparency to confirm their sampling populations are balanced
to reflect the makeup of the general population.  “The focus of a robo-poll is being very quick and short
so, as a consequence, they may or may not ask enough questions
to help them judge the likelihood of someone voting or enough
demographic questions to weight their sample appropriately,”
said David Hill, a Texas-based pollster who has worked for
Republican candidates since 1984.  Scott Rasmussen, founder of  Rasmussen Reports , said
automated polls mean that each respondent hears the same
questions the same way, without any nuances from a live
operator.  He said his company uses an online polling tool to reach
people without conventional telephones.  ‘Best’ Indicator  While pollsters usually adjust their data to reflect the
demographics of the population they’re sampling -- such as age,
race and gender -- Rasmussen also weighs his data to reflect
political party enrollment or preference.  He calls it “the
best single indicator of how” someone will vote.  Other pollsters don’t do that, because they say party
identification can be fluid and change from survey to survey.  “It goes up and down; it changes,” said Evans Witt, chief
executive officer of the nonpartisan Princeton Survey Research
Associates. “Party ID is not stable. It varies.”  Voters excited about a candidate might tell a pollster they
identify with that nominee’s party, and then decide they lean
independent in the next survey if their enthusiasm has waned,
Witt said.  Jobs Report  Another complicating factor in reading the most recent
polls is the impact of a Labor Department report Oct. 5 showing
the jobless rate fell to 7.8 percent, the lowest since Obama
became president in January 2009.  “We have to get to the point where we have enough polls
that were conducted past the debate and at least long enough
past the jobless numbers,” Witt said. “I don’t think we’ve had
a huge move. We’re seeing a good debate for Romney, a good
jobless number for Obama and I don’t think that fundamentally
changed the race.”  A number of interest groups have added to the morass in
presidential election polling. The  Service Employees
International Union  sponsors polls with the Democratic-leaning
Daily Kos website. Wenzel Strategies of Columbus,  Ohio , partners
in polls with groups including the Family Research Council,
which supports a ban on abortion and calls homosexuality
“unnatural.”  “For whatever reason, if a poll is sponsored, it can
influence the results,” said  Frank Newport , editor in chief of
the Gallup poll. “Be very suspicious of polls sponsored by a
political party or advocacy group. When they report to you,
they’re spinning.”  Paul J. Lavrakas, president of  American Association  for
Public Opinion Research, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , said
respondents may decide to participate in a sponsored poll
depending on whether they agree with the aims of the group
behind it.  “You’re going to get biased results,” Lavrakas said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 