-- Porsche Loan Request Left Out $1.8 Bln Need, Witness Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-10-09T12:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/porsche-loan-request-left-out-1-8-bln-need-witness-says.html
Allegations former Porsche SE Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter downplayed the carmaker’s
liquidity needs when pursuing a  bank loan  for a planned takeover
of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009 were supported by a witness at the
former executive’s loan-fraud trial.  A former  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  employee who worked on the bank’s
500 million-euro ($647.4 million) share of a planned 10 billion-
euro loan testified at a Stuttgart court today that information
indicated the carmaker’s liquidity need was 4.1 billion euros.
Torsten Mueller, when questioned by judges, said he was never
under the impression the company needed about 1.4 billion euros
more than that, which is what prosecutors have said.  “That would be news to me,” Mueller said. “Had it been
more, we would have been talking about a dimension that was very
substantial, and we should have known that.”  Haerter is on trial with two other Porsche managers on
charges they downplayed Porsche’s liquidity needs for a hostile
Volkswagen bid using derivatives. Prosecutors claim the men also
concealed 45 million put options on Volkswagen shares Porsche
sold at the time.  All three denied the charges on the first day of trial last
month.  Had BNP known about the 45 million options, the factual
basis for the loan decision would have changed and the risk
department would have asked for a new assessment, Mueller said.
He testified he couldn’t tell whether that would have led to a
different decision on the loan request.  “It’s in the nature of the process that you expect a full
picture of the data in such a transaction,” said Mueller.  The case is part of a broader criminal investigation into
Porsche’s Volkswagen bid that later faltered. Stuttgart
prosecutors are still probing Haerter and former Chief Executive
Officer Wendelin Wiedeking over allegations of market
manipulation and breach of trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Stuttgart via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  