-- Putin Critics Join U.S. Theorist as Top Nobel Peace Contenders
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-10-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/putin-critics-join-u-s-theorist-as-top-nobel-peace-contenders.html
The top contenders for this year’s
Nobel Peace Prize are Russian activists and critics opposed to
the regime of President  Vladimir Putin , and a U.S. advocate of
non-violent struggle.  Echo of Moscow radio and its chief editor, Alexei Venediktov, as well as Memorial and one of its founding members,
Svetlana Gannushkina, are among the top three picks at the
International Peace Research Institute in Oslo, or Prio. U.S.
professor Gene Sharp, an 84-year-old theorist of non-violent
struggle, is the favorite at both the institute and bookmakers
 Paddy Power Plc  and Betsson AB, ahead of the Oct. 12
announcement in Oslo. Sima Samar, an Afghan human rights
activist, is No. 2 at both bookmakers.  Forecasts say the Norwegian committee will probably
highlight Russian activists amid a crackdown on opposition and
non-government groups in  Russia  after Putin secured a third
presidential term. Protests drew tens of thousands into the
streets in December to denounce alleged fraud in parliamentary
elections. Hundreds of people were arrested after clashes on the
eve of Putin’s May 7 inauguration, including 17 who face trial.  “The Nobel Committee would want to send a clear signal to
the Russian opposition that the world sees and supports them,”
Christian Berg Harpviken, who leads Prio and ranks possible
winners each year, said in an interview on Oct. 5. “It would
also send a clear signal to Putin, who doesn’t want to be an
international outcast, that the way he runs his regime is
unacceptable.”  The Prize  Nobels are also given for achievements in physics,
chemistry, medicine, peace and literature. The prize was
established in the will of Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel ,
who died in 1896. The other prizes are handed out in  Stockholm ,
including one for economics that was set up by  Sweden ’s central
bank. Recent winners of the 8 million-krona ($1.2 million) peace
prize include Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  in 2010, who has been
serving an 11-year prison sentence in his country since 2009,
the year U.S. President  Barack Obama  won.  Last year, the prize was awarded to Liberia’s President
Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, Liberian peace activist Leymah Gbowee and
Yemen’s Tawakkul Karman, a human rights activist and journalist.  Russia in July passed legislation requiring groups that
receive aid from abroad to register as “foreign agents” and
submit to tighter restrictions. Authorities this month also
ordered the shutdown of the U.S. aid agency USAID’s activities
in the country, a financier of Memorial among others.  A Target  Memorial , founded in 1989, has been mentioned for several
years as a Peace Prize contender. The group assists forced
migrants and campaigns for human rights and has documented
repression dating as far back as Stalin’s Soviet regime.  Gannushkina said at a press conference on Oct. 4 that the
Russian government should embrace Memorial’s and similar groups’
efforts. “The main opposition now is civil society,” she said.
“We’re becoming a target.”  Echo of Moscow was founded in 1990 and regularly interviews
opposition politicians with limited access to state-run
television. Putin earlier this year accused the station of
“slinging mud” at him “from morning to night” and of serving
U.S. interests.  “It’s an honor” to be mentioned as a favorite, Venediktov
said in an Oct. 4 interview. “It’s quite amusing when a radio
station that’s always in a war with somebody is nominated for
the Nobel Peace Prize.”  A prize could also include other media such as  Novaya
Gazeta , where journalist  Anna Politkovskaya  worked before she
was assassinated in 2006, Harpviken said.  Kicking Putin  Researchers said such a prize may sour Russian-Norwegian
ties, just as the award to Liu froze the Nordic country’s
relations with  China . While the committee is independent of the
government, it’s made up of former Norwegian politicians and led
by former Norwegian prime minister and current secretary general
of the  Council of Europe , Thorbjoern Jagland.  Regime critics in Belarus, where President Aleksandr
Lukashenko won all seats in parliamentary elections last month,
are also strong candidates, said Nobel historian Oeivind
Stenersen. His picks include Memorial and Gannushkina, as well
as human rights activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva, who heads the
Moscow Helsinki Group, and Belarus dissident Ales Bialiatski.  “Jagland wouldn’t mind giving a kick both to Putin and the
Belarusian president,” he said in a phone interview. “He’s a
loose cannon who can shoot in any direction.”  Asle Sveen, a professor at University of Oslo who has
researched at the Nobel Institute, said his favorites also
include Alexeyeva and Bialiatski.  Non-Violence Toolkit  Sharp, Prio’s favorite, had the lowest odds at  Paddy Power 
of 6-4. Betsson also favored Sharp, at 2-1.  Unibet Group Plc,  a
Swedish bookmaker, had Sharp in third with 10-1 odds, tied with
Memorial and Gannushkina.  Sharp could be honored for his  contribution  to uprisings
from  Tiananmen Square  in 1989 to the Arab spring in 2011.  Sharp, who founded the Albert Einstein Institution in
 Boston  in 1983 to promote non-violence, is professor emeritus of
political science at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth
and held a research position at  Harvard University  for 30 years.
He’s the author of books including “The Politics of Nonviolent
Action” (1973) and “From Dictatorship to Democracy” (1993).  “He is the leading non-violence theorist in the world,”
Harpviken said. “He isn’t a pacifist by principle, he just
believes non-violence, pragmatically speaking, is a more
efficient tool.”  The EU  Other candidates include Myanmar President  Thein Sein , a
former member of the country’s military junta, for starting a
 peace process  some 20 years after opposition leader  Aung San Suu
Kyi  was awarded her Nobel. Nigerian religious leaders John Onaiyekan and Mohamed Sa’ad Abubakarmay also be awarded for
promoting interreligious dialogue, Harpviken said. The European
Union and former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl could be
contenders as well, he said.  Harpviken also mentioned  Afghanistan ’s Sima Samar, one of
his top picks in 2010 and 2011. She was second at Paddy Power
with odds of 5-2 and at Betsson at 3-1. Unibet had  Egypt ’s
Maggie Gobran as its lead contender at 6.5-1 for her efforts to
help the poor of Cairo.  This year’s announcements started with the medicine prize
Oct. 8 and end with the economics prize Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  