-- QNB Falls to 3-Week Low Before SocGen Deal Details: Doha Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-09T10:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/qnb-falls-to-3-week-low-before-socgen-deal-details-doha-mover.html
Qatar National Bank (QNBS)  shares declined
to the lowest level in more than three weeks as investors
awaited details on the potential purchase of  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) ’s stake in an Egyptian unit.  The shares of the Middle East’s biggest lender by assets
retreated 0.7 percent to 134.7 riyals at the close in Doha,  the
lowest since Sept. 16. The QE Index was little changed.  “While in the long term it might be value accretive, most
investors are waiting to see what price might be paid for
 National Societe Generale Bank (NSGB)  if a deal transpires,” said
 Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of institutional sales
trading at EFG-Hermes.  Shares of QNB are set to surge more than 50 percent if a
deal is concluded,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a note
yesterday, with the stock of the Doha-based bank potentially
reaching 207 riyals. QNB received approval from  Egypt ’s central
bank on Sept. 13 to begin due diligence on the 77.2 percent
stake in Cairo-based NSGB. The shares of the Qatari bank lost
0.2 percent since, while NSGB has climbed 9 percent.  The potential transaction “is still in a gray area in
which traders stay watchful rather than speculate positively
toward the reaching of an agreement and due diligence
findings,” said Talal Touqan, head of research at Al Ramz
Securities LLC in Abu Dhabi. The deal may also be “fraught with
political aspects, such as the regulatory framework, taxes, the
cost of takeover and a currency risk,” he said.  Third-quarter profit at QNB, which missed out to OAO
Sberbank in its bid to buy  Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s Turkish unit  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) ,
increased 11 percent on higher lending. Ten analysts recommend
investors buy the shares, while one has a hold rating, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  