-- Quest Buys Brazil Consumer-Driven Stocks to Beat Small Cap Index
-- B y   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   A r a i
-- 2012-10-09T16:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/quest-buys-brazil-consumer-driven-stocks-to-beat-small-cap-index.html
Quest Investimentos Ltd, whose  small (SMLLBV) 
caps  fund  beat 99 percent of peers in the past year, is buying
stocks that benefit from a rebound in local consumer demand,
including Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Pao de Acucar, Klabin
SA and Kroton Educacional SA, said Walter Maciel Neto, a
managing-partner of the Sao Paulo asset manager.  Quest’s strategy is based on forecasts that wages will
continue growing as the Brazilian economy expands 4.5 percent in
2013 and 3.5 percent on average through 2020, when the country’s
per capita income will be at $18,000 for an estimated population
of 215 million, Maciel Neto said.  “ Brazil ’s consumer market will become so big that all
global industries will be selling here,” said Maciel Neto, who
helps manage 1.3 billion reais ($641 million) in assets, with
partners Paulo Pereira Miguel and former Communications Minister
Luiz Carlos Mendonca de Barros. “We are going through a change
in habits of Brazilian consumers, who will demand more health,
education, housing and insurance services.”  Quest Small Caps FIC FIA (QUESMCP)  rose 56 percent in the 12 months
through Oct. 5, compared with an average gain of 21 percent for
its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
BM&FBovespa Small Cap index increased 32 percent in the period,
while the benchmark  Bovespa (IBOV)  index gained 12 percent.  Brazil’s economic growth probably will slow to 1.6 percent
this year, according to a central bank survey of about 100
economists published yesterday.  Other stocks that Quest has bought include Cosan SA
Industria e Comercio and Even Construtora e Incorporadora SA,
according to Maciel Neto.  The asset manager is underweight on basic materials
companies and on defensive domestic stocks from utilities to
non-durable consumer-goods, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marisa Castellani in  Sao Paulo  at 
 Mcastellani7@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 Aarai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  