-- RBC Offers Negative Interest Rates on Danish Krone, Swiss Franc
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-10-09T18:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/rbc-offers-negative-interest-rates-on-danish-krone-swiss-franc.html
Royal Bank of Canada  is imposing
negative interest rates on some customers who hold Danish kroner
and Swiss francs, joining U.S. rivals in charging depositors who
seek refuge from the crisis-stricken euro.  Royal Bank, Canada’s largest lender, cited recent market
conditions for the policy, which reverses the traditional
practice of paying customers who deposit funds at a bank.  State
Street Corp. (STT)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , two of the
world’s biggest custody banks, have already disclosed plans to
offer negative interest rates on those currencies.  Denmark and  Switzerland  have cut interest rates close to or
below zero to keep the krone and franc from rising as investors
flee the euro for safer havens, reflecting concern that the
currency may break up. While negative rates may drive off some
customers, global lenders want to restore the profit margin
between what they pay for deposits and what they earn on
investments.  “If these markets return to positive nominal interest
rates, we would reflect this change in the interest rates
applicable to client balances,” said Katherine Gay, a
spokeswoman for Toronto-based Royal Bank, in an e-mailed
statement. She didn’t specify the  interest rate .  Investors are willing to accept negative interest rates if
they believe it will cost less than riding out a decline in the
value of another currency. Depositors have turned to Denmark and
Switzerland as they hunt for currencies with less risk than the
euro, whose fate depends in part on whether cash-strapped
nations such as  Greece  can pay their debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  