-- Treasuries Gain by Most in Three Weeks After IMF Cuts Forecasts
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-09T15:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/treasuries-gain-by-most-in-three-weeks-after-imf-cut-forecasts.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose the most
in three weeks after the International Monetary Fund cut its
economic forecasts and said there is an “alarmingly high” risk
of a steeper slowdown.  The gains pushed 30-year bond yields down from almost the
highest level in more than two weeks as investors sought the
securities as a haven. U.S. debt was also buoyed as European
Union ministers prepared to meet in Luxembourg amid a lack of
clarity about whether Spain will ask for external financial aid.
The U.S. plans to sell three-year notes today, the first of
three auctions of coupon-bearing Treasuries this week totaling
$66 billion.  “The general trend for rates is higher and what’s been
holding them down is  Europe  with all this stuff about Spain,”
said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist BNP Paribas SA in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at
government-debt auctions. “That started us off on a better
footing for Treasuries.”  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  slid four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.70 percent at 11:12 a.m. New York
time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after falling as much
as six basis points, the most since Sept. 18. The 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 gained 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 9/32.  Thirty-year bond yields dropped four basis points, to 2.93
percent, after reaching 2.97, matching the most since Sept. 21.  The Treasury market was closed yesterday for Columbus Day.  Notes Sale  The U.S. plans to sell $32 billion of three-year debt
today, $21 billion of 10-year securities tomorrow and $13
billion of 30-year bonds on Oct. 11.  Investors at the most recent three-year auction on Sept. 11
submitted  bids  for 3.94 times the amount of debt offered, an
all-time high. The three-year notes scheduled for sale today
yielded 0.34 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.337
percent at last month’s sale and 0.334 percent in September
2011, a record auction low yield.  Demand will be strong at the auction, “aided by the safe-
haven bid on the vast global uncertainties and the Fed’s most
recent pledge to keep rates exceptionally low through at least
mid-2015,” Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21 primary dealers that
are required to bid at government debt auctions, wrote in a note
to clients.  The government has attracted a record $3.16 in bids for
each dollar of the $1.59 trillion of securities it has sold in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That exceeds the
previous high of $3.04 set last year.  Fed Buying  The Federal Reserve bought $1.889 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2036 to August 2042 today as part of its
program to replace $267 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a recession.  U.S. debt has shrunk to a six-year low relative to the size
of the economy as homeowners, cities and companies cut
borrowing.  Total indebtedness including that of federal and state
governments and consumers has fallen to 3.29 times gross
domestic product, the least since 2006, from a peak of 3.59 four
years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Private-
sector borrowing is down by $4 trillion to $40.2 trillion.  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said. That compares with July predictions of 3.5
percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based
lender said it sees a one-in-six chance that growth will slip
below 2 percent.  ‘Fiscal Consolidation’  “The news flow overnight hasn’t been particularly
attractive for risk assets,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank AG in  London . There’s “this
lack of euro-zone leaders to deliver a breakthrough. All these
factors are coming together to give Treasuries a bid,” he said.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said there is
no alternative to austerity as Italian and Spanish officials
balk at asking for bailouts that may impose more budget cuts,
further depressing their economies.  “It’s without doubt that the process of fiscal
consolidation has depressed output in parts of the euro area,”
Draghi told lawmakers at the European Parliament in Brussels
today. “But what’s the alternative? We need to do that, we need
to do that in the best possible way, as effective and as short
as possible, complying with basic grounds of social justice.”  Liquid Bonds  Fort Washington Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $42 billion, has been taking money out of the stock
market, Nick Sargen, the chief investment officer, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with  Susan Li .  “We’re parking it in bonds that are fairly liquid,” said
Sargen, a former economist at the San Francisco Fed. “What I
want is to have that money available to buy stocks back when
they’re cheaper.”  There are signs of improvement in the U.S. economy, as
President  Barack Obama  and challenger  Mitt Romney  prepare for
the leadership election on Nov. 6.  The U.S. jobless rate declined to 7.8 percent in September
from 8.1 percent the month before, the Labor Department reported
Oct. 5. Existing-home sales and retail sales were both stronger
in August than analysts expected, industry and government
reports showed last month.  Debt strategists at top-ranked Wall Street firms can’t
agree on what investors should do as yields on everything from
government to corporate and asset-backed bonds plunge to record
lows.  Mixed Views  While JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts a “year-end storm in
the market for U.S. Treasuries,” Barclays Plc advises buying
government bonds and cutting  investment-grade  company debt. Bank
of America Corp. recommends high-grade bonds over both  junk-
rated  and U.S. government notes. The three firms are rated the
best at fixed-income research by Institutional Investor
magazine.  Ten-year Treasury yields will rise to 1.75 percent by Dec.
31 and to 2.06 percent by the end of June, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  