-- Treasuries Gain as Three-Year Note Auction Draws Record
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-09T21:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/treasuries-gain-after-record-demand-at-three-year-note-auction.html
     Oct. 9 (Bloomberg) --Treasuries rose the most in three
weeks as the U.S. sale of $32 billion in three-year notes met
record demand after the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
economic forecasts, boosting the appeal of the safest assets.  Treasury  10-year note yields  dropped earlier amid European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s comments that the common-
currency bloc faces risks from financial instability. It
extended losses as the IMF warned of even slower expansion
unless officials in the U.S. and  Europe  address threats to their
economies. The Treasury is selling $21 billion of 10-year
securities tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year debt on Oct. 11.  “The auction had a very strong direct bid, which is
consistent with investor interest rather than dealers,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The ongoing uncertainty in
Europe, the inconclusive employment data domestically and the
prospect for a slowing global economy continue to add downward
pressure on yields.”  The  yield  on the current three-year note was little changed
at 0.34 percent at 5 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader Prices. The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year  note  fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.71 percent
after dropping as much as six basis points, the most since Sept.
18. Thirty-year bonds fell 5 basis points to 2.93 percent.  Notes Auction  The three-year notes sold today drew a yield of 0.346
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.350 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was a 3.96,
topping the previous high last month of 3.94 and an average of
3.56 for the previous 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 22.5 percent of
the notes at the sale, versus an average of 9.3 percent for the
prior 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 28.8 percent of the
notes, compared with an average of 33.9 percent for the past 10
sales.  The Treasury’s $66 billion in notes and bonds auctions this
week will raise $26.7 billion of new cash, as maturing
securities held by the public total $39.3 billion, according to
the  U.S. Treasury .  The Federal Reserve bought $1.889 billion of Treasuries
maturing from February 2036 to August 2042 today as part of its
program to replace $267 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce
borrowing costs further and counter rising risks of a recession.  ‘Rate Guidance’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week defended the central
bank’s bond-buying program, saying officials will sustain record
stimulus even after the domestic expansion gains strength. The
Fed said on Sept. 13 it will keep the main  interest rate  at
almost zero until at least mid-2015 and buy $40 billion of
mortgage debt every month in a third round of so-called
quantitative easing.  “The Fed’s rate guidance continues to buoy front-end
notes, so three-year notes should stay well bid,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., which as a primary dealer is required to bid at
Treasury auctions. “Front-end paper hasn’t had a problem being
bought.”  ‘Alarmingly High’  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said. That compares with July predictions of 3.5
percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based
lender said there is an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper
slowdown and it sees a one-in-six chance that growth will slip
below 2 percent.  The ECB’s Draghi said there is no alternative to austerity
as Italian and Spanish officials balk at asking for bailouts
that may impose more budget cuts, further depressing their
economies.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis “still weighs,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New
York. “There are unanswered questions as to how they resolve
their situation and stabilize things and promote growth. It just
keeps you committed to believing that rates are low for a long
period of time.”  Three-year notes have gained 0.5 percent this year,
compared with a 1.8 percent return for Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Mixed Views  While JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts a “year-end storm in
the market for  U.S. Treasuries ,” Barclays Plc advises buying
 government bonds  and cutting investment-grade company debt. Bank
of America Corp. recommends high-grade bonds over both junk-
rated and U.S. government notes. The three firms are rated the
best at fixed-income research by Institutional Investor
magazine.  Ten-year Treasury yields will rise to 1.75 percent by Dec.
31 and to 2.06 percent by the end of June, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  