-- Treasuries Rise Most in Almost Two Weeks on IMF Cuts
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-09T09:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/treasuries-rise-most-in-almost-two-weeks.html
Treasuries rose the most in three
weeks as stock markets declined after the  International Monetary
Fund  cut its economic forecasts and said there is an
“alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown.  The gains pushed 30-year bond yields down from within a
basis point of the highest level in more than two weeks as
investors sought the securities as a haven. U.S. debt was also
buoyed as European Union ministers prepared to meet in
Luxembourg amid a lack of clarity about whether  Spain  will ask
for external financial aid. The U.S. plans to sell three-year
notes today, the first of three auctions of coupon-bearing
Treasuries this week totaling $66 billion.  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  slid four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 10:45 a.m.  London 
time, based on Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after falling as much
as six basis points, the most since Sept. 18. The 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 gained 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 10/32. The 30-year bond yield dropped four
basis points to 2.93 percent, after reaching 2.97 percent on
Oct. 5, the most since Sept. 21.  “The news flow overnight hasn’t been particularly
attractive for risk assets,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. There’s “this
lack of euro-zone leaders to deliver a breakthrough. All these
factors are coming together to give Treasuries a bid,” he said.  IMF Forecasts  The world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next
year, the IMF said. That compares with July predictions of 3.5
percent in 2012 and 3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based
lender sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown,
with a one-in-six chance that growth will slip below 2 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.2 percent, extending
yesterday’s 1 percent decline. Treasuries were closed yesterday
for Columbus Day.  Fort Washington Investment Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $42 billion, has been taking money out of the stock
market, Nick Sargen, the chief investment officer, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up” with  Susan Li .  “We’re parking it in bonds that are fairly liquid,” said
Sargen, who is a former economist at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
 San Francisco . “What I want is to have that money available to
buy stocks back when they’re cheaper.”  Improving Economy  There are signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy , as
President  Barack Obama  and challenger  Mitt Romney  prepare for
the leadership election on Nov. 6.  The U.S. jobless rate declined to 7.8 percent in September
from 8.1 percent the month before, the Labor Department reported
Oct. 5. Existing-home sales and retail sales were both stronger
in August than analysts expected, industry and government
reports showed last month.  In  Europe , finance ministers hailed  Greece ’s determination
to cut the budget and reshape its economy, raising the chances
that aid will keep flowing to stop the country from exiting the
euro.  The Federal Reserve is scheduled to buy as much as $2.25
billion of Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to August 2042
today as part of its efforts to support the economy, according
to Fed Bank of  New York ’s  website .  Debt Sales  The U.S. plans to sell $32 billion of three-year debt
today, $21 billion of 10-year securities tomorrow and $13
billion of 30-year bonds on Oct. 11. Investors at the last
three-year auction on Sept. 11 submitted  bids  for 3.94 times the
amount of debt offered, an all-time high.  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.34
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.337 percent at
last month’s sale, a record auction low yield.  The government has attracted a record $3.16 in bids for
each dollar of the $1.59 trillion of securities it has sold in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That exceeds the
previous high of $3.04 set last year.  U.S. debt  has shrunk to a six-year low relative to the size
of the economy as homeowners, cities and companies cut
borrowing, undermining rating companies’ downgrading of the
nation’s credit rating.  Total indebtedness including that of federal and state
governments and consumers has fallen to 3.29 times gross
domestic product, the least since 2006, from a peak of 3.59 four
years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Private-
sector borrowing is down by $4 trillion to $40.2 trillion.  Record Lows  Debt strategists at top-ranked Wall Street firms can’t
agree on what investors should do as yields on everything from
government to corporate and asset-backed bonds plunge to record
lows.  While JPMorgan Chase & Co. forecasts a “year-end storm in
the market for U.S. Treasuries,” Barclays Plc advises buying
 government bonds  and cutting  investment-grade  company debt. Bank
of America Corp. recommends high-grade bonds over both  junk-
rated  and U.S. government notes. The three firms are rated the
best at fixed-income research by Institutional Investor
magazine.  Ten-year Treasury yields will rise to 1.74 percent by Dec.
31 and to 2.05 percent by the end of June, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  