-- Reckitt Says Non-Disclosure of CEO Share Pledge an Oversight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-09T10:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/reckitt-says-oversight-led-to-non-disclosure-of-ceo-share-pledge.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the
maker of Durex condoms, said an administrative oversight led to
its failure to disclose that Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor pledged 8.7 million pounds ($14 million) worth of shares
to secure a personal loan more than two years ago.  Kapoor, who at the time was an executive vice president in
charge of category development, notified the company about the
pledge, which was done across four separate transactions, a
spokesman for the Slough, England-based company said. Reckitt
Benckiser should have informed regulators of the development and
the company said it has since tightened procedures.  The shares were used as collateral against a loan from Bank
of America Merrill Lynch and represent 85 percent of Kapoor’s
total shareholding of 281,869 shares, according to a statement
from the company yesterday. Liam Parker, spokesman at the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority, declined to comment.  “It sounds more like an embarrassing oversight than a
fundamental issue,” Andrew Wood, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in an e-mail.  In December 2008, David Ross stepped down from the boards
of mobile-phone retailer  Carphone Warehouse Group Plc (CPW) , self-
storage operator  Big Yellow Group Plc (BYG) , and long-distance coach
provider  National Express Group Plc (NEX)  after he backed personal
loans with those companies’ shares without informing them. The
failure to disclose the dealings breached U.K. rules for
directors of publicly traded companies.  Reckitt Benckiser  fell  0.9 percent to 3,614 pence at 10:35
a.m. in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  