-- Reserve Fund Lied About Losses on Lehman, SEC Lawyer Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-09T22:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/reserve-fund-lawyer-tells-judge-he-hopes-for-sec-accord.html
Reserve Primary Fund, the failed
$62.5 billion money-market fund, misled shareholders about the
safety of its fund after it lost money on Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. debt, a government lawyer told a jury.  Reserve, which held $785 million in Lehman debt, caused a
run on money-market funds after its net asset value fell below
$1 a share on Sept. 16, 2008, the day after Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in history. The failure of Reserve, the first
money fund in 14 years to “break the buck,” contributed to the
global financial crisis.  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  sued Reserve,
founder and Chief Executive Officer Bruce R. Bent and his son,
President Bruce Bent II, in May 2009. The SEC accuses the Bents
of violating federal securities laws by making misleading
statements to investors and trustees in the run-up to the
collapse of the fund.  “What this case is about is how the Bents, Mr. Bent Sr.
and Mr. Bent II, defrauded investors on Sept. 15 and Sept. 16,
2008,” SEC lawyer Nancy Brown told a nine-person jury in her
opening statement today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Brown told jurors that the Bents lied on the morning after
Lehman announced its bankruptcy, falsely telling investors,
regulators and the fund’s trustees that they would use money
from their firm, Reserve Management Co., to support the $1 net
asset value of fund shares.  Ill-Gotten Gains  The commission seeks disgorgement of unspecified ill-gotten
gains, a civil fine and an order barring the defendants from
violating the securities laws in the future.  John Dellaportas, a lawyer for the Bents and the company,
told jurors in his opening statement that his clients didn’t lie
or defraud investors.  He said the trial is about a 12-hour period when Lehman
filed for bankruptcy and the Bents decided they didn’t have
enough money to cover a $785 million shortfall.  “The whole world changed between Monday and Tuesday and
the SEC says, ‘You’re lying,’” Dellaportas said.  He told the jury that both Bents will testify and explain
what occurred and what they were thinking during these two days.  ‘Reasonable Care’  “We are going to tell you nobody committed any fraud here
and people executed their jobs with reasonable care,”
Dellaportas said.  The father and son believed “sufficient capital could be
made available,” he said. “Did they know on 1 p.m. on Monday
Sept. 15 that the world economy was going to collapse?”  The lawyer read to jurors excerpts of statements he said
were made by then SEC-Chairman  Christopher Cox  on that day
regarding the health of the economy and the impact Lehman’s
bankruptcy would have upon the markets.  “The market seems to be reasonably resilient,”
Dellaportas quoted Cox as saying. “The market mechanisms
continue to work as they’re supposed to.”  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe told the jury he expects
the trial will take three weeks.  Among Gardephe’s pretrial rulings is one barring both sides
from introducing evidence of how much investors lost in the
fund’s collapse. The defendants had argued they should be
permitted to introduce evidence demonstrating that investors
recouped “most” of their investment after the fund’s collapse,
demonstrating that “this is not a Madoff situation.”  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co. Inc. 09-cv-04346,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  