-- Revlon to Pay $9.2 Million to Settle Share-Exchange Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-09T22:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/revlon-to-pay-9-2-million-to-settle-share-exchange-suits.html
Revlon Inc. (REV)  officials agreed to pay
more than $9.2 million to resolve investors’ claims that Ronald Perelman, the controlling shareholder, shortchanged them in a
deal designed to acquire common stock he didn’t already own.  Revlon, maker of  Almay  cosmetics and  Mitchum deodorant ,
will pay the money to resolve eight lawsuits filed by company
investors in state and federal courts in Delaware and New York
over a 2009 share-exchange offer involving Class A common
shares. Shareholders said Perelman sought to acquire the shares
at an unfair price.  The cosmetic maker’s executives agreed to the accord to
“eliminate the burden and expense of further litigation and to
put the settled claims to be released hereby to rest finally and
forever,” Revlon’s lawyers said in a filing today in  Delaware 
Chancery Court in Wilmington.  Revlon said last month that it will cut about 250 jobs as
it closes two plants as part of a $10 million cost-reduction
plan. The job cuts represent about 4.8 percent of the company’s
total headcount as of the end of last year. New York-based
Revlon employed 5,200 as of Dec. 31, according to a company
filing.  Christine Taylor, a spokeswoman for Perelman, declined to
comment on the settlement of the investors’ claims.  Fidelity Settlement  Earlier this year, Revlon officials agreed to pay  Fidelity
Management & Research Co ., a company shareholder, $19.9 million
to resolve its claims over the share exchange. Company officials
said in U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings that the
Fidelity settlement was separate from the other cases brought
over the deal.  Lawyers for investors who sued in Delaware and New York had
worked out an earlier settlement of the cases that involved
additional disclosures about the deal without any financial
payment.  The accord fell apart after Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster criticized the work of investors’ attorneys in the case
and replaced them. Laster found the lawyers wanted to settle the
case without adequately probing whether there was a basis to
seek a financial recovery from Revlon.  Billionaire Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes, which already
holds 75 percent of Revlon’s voting shares, proposed to swap all
of the outstanding shares of Revlon’s Class A common stock it
didn’t own for preferred stock.  ‘Future Revenues’  Investors alleged in court filings that Perelman had
positioned Revlon to reap “enhanced future revenues and
earnings” from new product offerings and wanted total control
of the shares to take advantage of increasing profits.  Revlon executives said in an SEC filing today that they set
aside $6.7 million in the second quarter to resolve suits over
the share exchange. The cosmetics maker is setting aside an
additional $2.2 million in the third quarter to cover the
settlement, officials added in the filing.  Laster, based in Wilmington, Delaware, still must decide
whether to give final approval to the accord.  The case is In Re Revlon Inc. Shareholders Litigation, CA
No. 4578, Wilmington, Delaware, Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  