-- Rigged Libor Hits States-Localities With $6 Billion: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/rigged-libor-hits-states-localities-with-6-billion-muni-credit.html
The Libor bid-rigging scandal is
poised to more than double the losses suffered by U.S. states
and localities that bought $500 billion in  interest-rate swaps 
before the financial crisis.  Manipulation of the London interbank offered rate cost
issuers in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market at least $6
billion, according  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap
Financial Group in South Orange,  New Jersey . Shapiro, a muni
adviser for more than 20 years, specializes in the contracts.  Any taxpayer losses on derivative deals linked to Libor
would add to at least $4 billion in payments that localities
have already made to unwind backfiring interest-rate swaps sold
by Wall Street banks as hedges to cut borrowing costs, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This number shows that banks can’t be trusted in this
market,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for
Financial Reform, a Washington group that has pushed for
stronger regulation of lenders. “Municipalities would be the
group most likely victimized by the abuse of Libor.”  Issuers from  New York  to  California  have entered swap
agreements, which are bets on the direction of  interest rates .
They attempted to lower borrowing costs while guarding against
increasing rates by exchanging variable-rate loans for fixed
ones. The strategy went awry when the  Federal Reserve  lowered
its  benchmark rate  almost to zero to counter the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007.  $500 Billion  Banks sold as much as $500 billion of swaps to
municipalities before the credit crisis, according to a  report 
by Randall Dodd, a researcher on the U.S. Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission. Shapiro based his calculation of losses on
his estimate that $200 billion of the derivatives were tied to
Libor and that banks suppressed the rate by 0.30 percentage
points for three years.  Some U.S. municipal interest-rate swap payments were tied
to Libor, the basis for more than $300 trillion in securities
and loans worldwide, which is supposed to represent what banks
pay each other for short-term loans. While traders have said for
years that the benchmark was rigged, the suspicions were
confirmed in June when  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest
lender by assets, paid a record 290 million-pound ($468 million)
fine for manipulating the rate.  Raised Cost  Three-month dollar Libor, the most commonly used of the
rates overseen by the British Bankers’ Association, was at
0.35025 percent yesterday, down from 0.58250 percent at the
start of the year.  In the  derivatives market , setting Libor too low raised
what issuers had to pay to their swap counterparties. That drove
up their costs and boosted the price of ending the arrangements.  Libor losses may spawn “a wave of lawsuits,” said  Michael Greenberger , who studies derivatives at the University of
 Maryland ’s law school in Baltimore. He said civil complaints,
settlements with more banks, and, possibly, criminal indictments
lie ahead.  “Libor was a bid-rigged rate,” said Greenberger. “Almost
all interest-rate swaps begin with Libor.”  Five-State Probe  Since the Barclays settlement, governments around the U.S.
have started their own probes, including attorneys general of at
least five states, including Florida and Connecticut. Jaclyn
Falkowski, spokeswoman for Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen, and Jennifer Meale, spokeswoman for Florida Attorney
General  Pam Bondi , each confirmed the investigations. They
declined to comment further.  “I have a board and they want to know what Libor is doing
to us,” Brian Mayhew, chief financial officer of the San
Francisco Bay area’s Metropolitan Transportation Commission,
which finances roads and bridges, said in an interview.  The Libor investigations have implications for states and
cities that are still contending with the fiscal legacy of the
recession, which left them grappling with falling tax revenue
and rising costs. States have had to deal with combined deficits
of more than $500 billion since fiscal 2009, according to the
Washington-based Center on Budget & Policy Priorities.  Baltimore, Maryland, and the New Britain Firefighters’
Benefit Fund, a pension for workers in the  Connecticut  city, had
already sued more than a dozen banks before the Barclays
settlement, alleging Libor was artificially suppressed as part
of a conspiracy.  Rates Diverge  Baltimore claimed that Libor’s divergence from its
historical correlation to overnight swaps showed manipulation.
Since the financial crisis, the spread between three-month Libor
and three-month swap rates has increased by 95 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hilary Scherrer, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Washington-
based Hausfeld LLP, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  North Carolina  is among states waiting for findings from
federal investigations into the abuse of Libor, Treasurer Janet Cowell said in a Sept. 28 interview on Bloomberg Television.  “We don’t know what the manipulation was at this point,”
Cowell said. “It’s a lot of analytics and data collection.”  Because each swap is unique in its pricing and structure,
it is possible that not all issuers were harmed by the Libor
rigging.  Libor Theory  “There’s a theory that the Libor manipulation lowered the
interest rate we got paid on our swaps,” said Mayhew. “But the
inverse of that is it also then lowered what we were paying on
the variable-rate debt.”  Mayhew said he doesn’t expect a quick resolution.  “This is one of those things that won’t be solved in
court, it won’t be solved by lawsuits,” said Mayhew. “This is
going to be a global settlement where whoever is guilty of
whatever gets in a room, makes a global settlement, and then
that’s it.”  In muni trading last week, the  yield  on 10-year munis rated
AAA dropped about 0.07 percentage point to 1.65 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The index touched 1.63 percent on
July 27, the lowest since at least January 2009, when data
collection began. The U.S. bond market was closed yesterday for
the Columbus Day holiday.  Following are pending sales:  CITY & COUNTY OF DENVER plans to issue $700 million in
airport system revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 10, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will be used to finance
part of Denver International Airport’s capital plan.  Standard &
Poor’s  rates the securities A+, fifth-highest. (Added Oct. 9)  MASSACHUSETTS SCHOOL BUILDING AUTHORITY will sell $725
million in sales-tax bonds as soon as Oct. 11, Bloomberg data
show. Proceeds will be used to refund debt. S&P rates the bonds
AA+, its second-best grade. (Added Oct. 9)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  