-- Romney Speech Offers Few Differences With Obama Policies
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/romney-speech-offers-few-differences-with-obama-policies.html
Mitt Romney ’s speech on foreign
policy did more to highlight his similarities with President
 Barack Obama  than to draw sharp distinctions over handling
global affairs.  In an address yesterday at the Virginia Military Institute,
the Republican presidential nominee accused Obama of lacking a
strategy for the  Middle East , saying the region faces a higher
risk of conflict now than it did when the president took office.  “I know the President hopes for a safer, freer, and a more
prosperous Middle East allied with the United States. I share
this hope. But hope is not a strategy,” Romney told cadets and
military officials in Lexington, Virginia, during his fifth
visit in four weeks to the politically competitive state.  Still, Romney offered few details of his own approach, and
in his attempt to appeal to a broader base of American voters,
he echoed several policies already being pursued by Obama, said
 Charles Kupchan , a U.S. foreign policy specialist at the  Council
on Foreign Relations .  “The speech struck me as more moderate than previous ones,
with less bluster and less neoconservative rhetoric,” Kupchan
said in a phone interview, referring to a school of political
thinking that emphasizes unilateral American leadership and
military power. “The problem for Romney is when you take out
the neocon rhetoric, he starts looking a lot like Obama.”  Competency Hearing  With calls to support rebels fighting Syrian president
Bashar al-Assad’s regime and impose tougher sanctions on  Iran ,
which is suspected of pursuing nuclear weapons capability,
Romney’s remarks weren’t much different from Obama’s policies,
Kupchan said.  Romney’s attempt to draw a distinction between himself and
Obama is unlikely to resonate with voters because “the
president by and large has demonstrated competency on foreign
policy,” said  Aaron David Miller  of the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars who has served in both
Democratic and Republican administrations.  “If you say I don’t like the incumbent’s foreign policy,
then the question becomes how would you handle it differently?”
Miller said in a telephone interview.  A Pew Research Center poll taken from Oct. 4-7 and released
yesterday, found that 48 percent of registered voters said Obama
would do better on foreign policy, compared with 43 percent for
Romney. That’s closer than in the center’s Sept. 12-16 survey,
which had Obama leading 53 percent to 38 percent on the issue.  Pulled Punches  Romney yesterday pulled a few of the punches he previously
had thrown at Obama, including some regarding the Sept. 11
assault on a U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi,  Libya , that
killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three colleagues.  “The blame for the murder of our people in Libya, and the
attacks on our embassies in so many other countries, lies solely
with those who carried them out,” Romney said.  While he suggested that the administration’s policy of
“leading from behind” in Libya and  Syria  has left “our
destiny at the mercy of events,” Romney stopped short of
criticizing Obama for supporting the rebellions that toppled
authoritarian rulers in Tunisia,  Egypt  and Libya while leaving
the region vulnerable to violence and extremism.  Having previously called Russia the leading geopolitical
foe of the U.S., Romney only briefly criticized Obama’s claim
that he would have more flexibility in dealing with Russia’s
government in a second term.  Overlooked Facts  Some of Romney’s criticisms, including his contention that
the president has made “deep and arbitrary cuts” to defense
spending and “not signed one new free trade agreement in the
past four years,” ignored or stretched the facts.  Defense spending today is still more than double what it
was when President George W. Bush took office in 2001. A first
round of cuts to the Pentagon budget -- $487 billion over 10
years -- was the product of an August 2011 bipartisan agreement
between Congress and the Obama administration.  An additional $500 billion in defense cuts will start in
January if Congress fails to reach a deficit-reduction deal. The
White House and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  have said the
second round in reductions should be avoided.  Romney yesterday renewed his call for building 15 U.S. Navy
warships a year, without saying what that would cost or how he
would pay for it while cutting the  federal deficit . The Navy in
fiscal 2013 intends to buy 10 ships.  Israel Relations  On trade, the speech ignored Obama’s signing of free-trade
pacts with South Korea, Colombia and Panama. Each deal was
initiated under Bush, though they were stalled in Congress until
the Democratic administration pushed them.  In other cases, such as relations with  Israel , which
Republicans have emphasized to lure some traditional Democratic
voters, Romney exaggerated his differences with the president.  He criticized Obama for a strained relationship with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  that he said has “set
back the hope of peace in the Middle East and emboldened our
mutual adversaries, especially Iran.”  While administration officials concede that personal ties
between Obama and Netanyahu are poor, relations between the two
countries are fundamentally unchanged. The U.S. still provides
Israel with $3 billion a year in military aid and has helped
Israel finance and develop its “Iron Dome” shield against
rockets fired from Lebanon and Gaza, which Netanyahu in August
said has helped to significantly improve his nation’s defenses.  Romney yesterday backed away from his remarks at a closed-
door fundraiser in May that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
will remain an “unsolved problem” and that Palestinians are
“committed to the destruction and elimination of Israel.”  Mideast Peace  During his speech, the former Massachusetts governor said
he would “recommit America to the goal of a democratic,
prosperous Palestinian state living side by side in peace and
security with the Jewish state of Israel.”  On still other issues, notably assistance to Syrian rebels
fighting to overthrow Assad, Romney left himself maneuvering
room. While calling for military aid, he stopped short of saying
the U.S. should start providing that support.  Instead, Romney said he would “work with our partners to
identify and organize those members of the opposition who share
our values and ensure they obtain the arms they need.”  The administration is doing that now, in cooperation with
Saudi Arabia, Qatar,  Turkey  and other nations that support the
Assad’s opponents.  ‘Changed’ Mind  “He has changed his mind on a number of different issues,
in terms of Libya, for instance. At first he was for the
intervention; now he’s against it,”  Madeleine Albright ,
secretary of state under Democratic President  Bill Clinton , told
reporters yesterday on a conference call. “It’s unclear where
he is on Syria, for instance.”  After previously saying that he would arm the rebels
fighting Assad’s regime, “now he’s just kind of saying that he
might help them in some way,” said Albright who’s supporting
the Obama campaign.  “There’s an awful of lot of rhetoric and things, but when
you get to specifics, you kind of don’t get the sense that he
knows what kind of tools to use,” she said.  The vagueness of Romney’s speech reflects divisions in his
party and among his advisers. On one side are neoconservatives,
such as former United Nations ambassador  John Bolton  and Liz Cheney, daughter of former Vice President  Dick Cheney . On the
other are self-described realists, such as World Bank President
 Robert Zoellick , who was a deputy secretary of state under
 George W. Bush .  Party Divisions  Five Republicans who have briefed the Romney campaign on
foreign policy said neoconservatives have urged unconditional
support for Israel, including U.S.-backed military attacks on
Iran’s nuclear facilities; U.S. military intervention in Syria;
an aggressive posture toward China; and increases in Navy and
Air Force budgets for new ships, submarines, and aircraft.  Zoellick and other realists have emphasized fiscal
restraint and global cooperation, the Republican foreign policy
specialists said, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
internal deliberations. They pointed to Zoellick’s article in
the  November issue  of Foreign Policy magazine in which he argues
that “the connection between economics and security will
determine America’s future.”  The Republican strategists said Romney’s speech offered few
specifics because he has paid little attention to international
affairs, rarely met with his advisers and -- with the nomination
in hand -- is trying to avoid accusations that his criticism is
encouraging Iran, China and Islamic radicals to think they can
exploit partisan divisions on international issues.  “For years, Gov. Romney has engaged thoughtful foreign
policy thinkers from military careerists to former Secretaries
of State,” Andrea Saul, a Romney campaign spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail. “He weighs their advice and ultimately makes his own
decisions on policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  