-- TSA Lapses Preceded Honolulu Failures, Audit Concludes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-10-09T22:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/tsa-lapses-preceded-honolulu-failures-audit-concludes.html
Transportation Security
Administration mistakes, including leaving explosive-detection
equipment in a warehouse for more than two years, contributed to
unscreened baggage being loaded onto planes at Honolulu
International Airport for several months in 2010, a report said.  TSA managers struggled to implement changes in procedures
and had too few screeners for the volume of luggage, the
Homeland Security Department’s Inspector General said in a
report released today. The agency doesn’t know how many bags
went unscreened, the report said.  “This report and one TSA fiasco after another have
demonstrated that this isn’t the problem of a few bad apples,”
U.S. Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who
requested the review, said in a statement. “There are system-
wide problems with this massive bureaucracy.”  The Honolulu airport is the nation’s 29th-largest by
passenger traffic. The investigation started with an internal
TSA review after a whistle-blower alerted the agency that
unscreened bags were being put on flights, the report said. More
than 40 employees, including the top security official at the
airport, were fired or suspended.  While individual employees were primarily responsible for
the security lapses, TSA management contributed to the situation
by changing procedures frequently, failing to deploy enough
staff and not deploying equipment that would have made screening
easier, the inspector general said.  Equipment Sought  Explosive-detection machines were requested by airport
officials in August 2008, the report said. TSA informed the
airport in 2009 that the equipment would arrive in 18 months.
The machines arrived in December 2010 as an inspector general
audit began, the report said.  TSA’s initial investigation at Honolulu focused on the
behavior of individuals and not whether systemic shortcomings
may have been to blame, Mica said. The agency said Honolulu was
the only airport where screening procedures weren’t followed,
without showing the inspector general evidence it had reviewed
other airports, the Florida Republican said.  The inspector general looked at airport management in
response to a request from Mica and Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican.  TSA disagrees with the inspector general’s conclusion that
better implementation of screening-procedure changes could have
prevented the violations of security protocol, Administrator
 John Pistole  said in a response attached to the report. The
loading of unscreened luggage in Honolulu became “almost normal
practice,” Pistole wrote.  ‘Willful’ Violations  “The willful nature of the officers’ violations and the
lack of sufficiently diligent management oversight, does not
support the conclusion,” Pistole wrote.  TSA recently overhauled job requirements of checked-baggage
supervisors and managers, and added new training courses in
July, Lauren Gaches, a TSA spokeswoman, said in a statement. The
agency is also responding to the inspector general by reviewing
the way it implements changes to standard operating procedures,
she said.  Emily Ryan, a spokeswoman for the American Federation of
Government Employees, couldn’t provide an immediate comment on
the report or on whether dismissed TSA screeners would appeal
their punishments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  