-- Jets’ Sanchez Will Start Against Colts Despite Losses, Ryan Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sanchez-to-stay-starting-jets-quarterback-over-tebow-ryan-says.html
Mark Sanchez will remain the  New
York  Jets’ starting quarterback despite calls for the team to
insert backup Tim Tebow following successive losses.  Asked yesterday on a conference call with reporters if
Sanchez will start the Oct. 14 home game against the
Indianapolis Colts, coach Rex Ryan responded: “Yes, no
question.”  Sanchez’s 48.4 completion percentage ranks last in the
National Football League and is the worst of his four-year
professional career. His 208.6 yards passing per game rank him
26th among the league’s 32 starting quarterbacks.  The Jets, 2-3 this season, lost at home to the undefeated
Houston Texans 23-17 two nights ago and to the San Francisco
49ers 34-0 in Week 4.  Ryan wouldn’t speculate about what he’ll do if the 25-year-
old Sanchez continues to struggle. New York plays at the
division-rival New England Patriots on Oct. 21.  “I’m not going to get into the what-ifs and all that,”
Ryan said. “We’re not preparing to lose, that’s for sure. We’re
thinking we’re going to win, starting this week.”  Playing without top receiver Santonio Holmes, who is lost
for the season with a knee injury, as well as injured receiver
Stephen Hill and tight end Dustin Keller, Sanchez went 14-of-31
passing for 230 yards and a touchdown pass to Jeff Cumberland
against Houston. He also had two interceptions, one just before
halftime that yielded a field goal by the Texans and another
with about three minutes left in the game.  “I thought he played pretty good,” Ryan said of Sanchez’s
performance, noting three dropped passes by his receivers,
including one that led to an interception. “His night was going
to look a lot better had those things not happened.”  Tebow’s Statistics  Tebow, 25, who led the Denver Broncos to the playoffs last
season, is 1-for-2 passing this season and also has rushed for
57 yards on 14 attempts. He ran for a first down two nights ago
on a fake punt. The Jets are seeking more success with Tebow’s
offensive plays, Ryan said.  “I wish we would have a little more success with it,”
Ryan said. “At times, it looks really good and we just have to
stay with it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  