-- Sandusky Gets 30-Year Minimum Prison Term for Sex Abuse
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sandusky-sentenced-to-30-to-60-years-in-prison.html
Jerry Sandusky, the ex-Pennsylvania
State University assistant football coach convicted of sexually
abusing children, was sentenced to 30 to 60 years in prison,
concluding a prosecution that tarnished the school’s image and
led to the firing of head coach  Joe Paterno .  Sandusky, 68, appeared yesterday before Common Pleas Court Judge John Cleland wearing an orange jumpsuit and white
sneakers. The hearing in state court in Bellefonte,
Pennsylvania, came almost four months after he was found guilty
of abusing 10 boys over a 15 year-period. He was convicted on 45
counts.  Sandusky met the boys he abused through  the Second Mile , a
charity he founded for needy children. During a two-week trial
in June, prosecutors portrayed him as a serial child molester
who used the charity to recruit his victims, befriending them
and “grooming” them with gifts, trips to Penn State football
games and money.  “You abused the trust of those who trusted you,” Cleland
said. “The crime is not only what you did to their bodies but
the crime is your assault to their psyche and their souls.”  The judge said Sandusky will be kept in the Centre County
Correctional Facility for 10 days before being transferred to
 Camp Hill , Pennsylvania, for processing and placement. Sandusky
got credit for the 112 days he has been incarcerated since the
case began.  ‘Natural Life’  Sandusky will serve at least three decades before he’s
considered for parole, in essence “the remainder of his natural
life,” lead prosecutor Joseph McGettigan said after the
sentence was imposed.  The sentence is no more than anyone could reasonably
expect, said  Daniel Filler , a criminal law professor at  Drexel
University  in Philadelphia. The sentence could even be
considered lenient considering Sandusky was convicted of
indecent deviant sexual intercourse, Pennsylvania’s “old-
fashioned term” for rape, Filler said.  “If Sandusky lives to age 98, he won’t necessarily get
parole even after 30 years,” Filler said. “It’s hard to
imagine a court sentencing any serial rapist to a lesser term.”  Before a packed court, including his wife and four of his
six adopted children, Sandusky denied the charges against him.  ‘My Heart’  “Others can take my life, they can make me out as a
monster, but they can’t take away my heart,” he said. “And in
my heart I know that I did not do these disgusting things.”  Three of Sandusky’s victims addressed the court before
sentence was passed. Statements from a fourth victim and the
mother of one of the victims were read.  In a recorded statement posted on the  Penn State ComRadio
News  website Oct. 8, Sandusky blamed his conviction on a “well-
orchestrated effort” by the media, investigators, “the
system,”  Penn State , his accusers, civil attorneys and
psychologists. The “attention, financial gain and prestige”
they won will “all be temporary,” Sandusky said. He said his
lawyers didn’t have time to prepare for the trial.  Sandusky’s statement was “a masterpiece of denial and
self-delusion,” McGettigan said after the hearing. “It was
untethered from reality.”  Sandusky read his statement yesterday as victims seated
three rows behind him lowered their heads and shook them from
side to side. The former coach was at times defiant, pledging to
“continue to fight,” and at other times anguished at the
separation from his wife of 46 years and his grandchildren. He
said the victims are people he cared about and still does.  Abuse, Manipulate  Sandusky sought to abuse and manipulate his victims until
the very end, a teenager identified as Victim 1 said in a
statement read at the hearing by McGettigan.  “There is no remorse, no regret, only evil,” the victim
said in the statement.  Another victim who spoke during the hearing said his abuse
left him suffering from anxiety, post-traumatic stress,
embarrassment and guilt.  “I can never erase the filthy images of his naked body
against mine, his hands on me and him forcing my hands on him,”
the teenager said.  Another victim said he would never forgive the former
coach.  “You were the person in my life who was supposed to be a
role model. Instead you did terrible things,” the victim, who
now has a child of his own, said. “Rather than take
accountability for your actions you decided to attack us as if
we did something wrong. You should be ashamed of yourself.”  Victims Applauded  Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett, who oversaw the
beginning of the Sandusky probe when he was attorney general,
applauded the victims for stepping forward.  “Today’s sentence will hopefully give comfort to those
young men, whose trust in the justice system is rewarded by
seeing this man go to prison for the rest of his life,” Corbett
said yesterday in a statement.  Defense attorney Joseph Amendola said he believes Sandusky
would have been acquitted had his lawyers had enough time to get
ready for trial. The lawyers had 4 1/2 months to prepare a case
based on 52 criminal counts and 10 separate victims, much less
than a related case against two Penn State officials charged
with lesser crimes, Amendola said.  “Had we had the time, we would have had the opportunity to
prove Jerry’s innocence,” Amendola said after the hearing.  Appeal Plan  The issue will be the basis for an appeal that will be
filed within 10 days,  Karl Rominger , another defense attorney,
said.  Cleland’s denial of a request to delay the trial
“fundamentally taints the fairness of the process,” Rominger
said.  The Sandusky scandal cast a shadow over the university,
located in an area called “Happy Valley,” for almost a year.
The fallout led to the firings of university President Graham Spanier andPaterno, who headed Penn State’s football program
for 46 years. It also resulted in the university being
sanctioned and two other school officials facing related
criminal charges. Paterno died Jan. 22.  The scandal was a “train wreck” that captivated the
nation, Duquesne University law professor  Wesley Oliver  said.  “I couldn’t imagine the appetite for this case lasted as
long as it did,” Oliver said. “It was uncontroverted that
Sandusky raped these kids. We didn’t tune into this trial to see
what would happen or to see whether he did it. We tuned in
because we were drawn to the gruesomeness of it.”  Inappropriate Conduct  Sandusky, a former defensive coordinator for Penn State’s
 Nittany Lions , played and coached under Paterno for more than 30
years before retiring in 1999, the year after allegations first
surfaced of inappropriate contact with minors.  State prosecutors began investigating in early 2009 after a
teenager reported that Sandusky had inappropriately touched him
several times over a four-year period. Sandusky was arrested and
charged in November. Additional charges were added the following
month.  Sandusky’s lawyers argued that the case was the product of
overzealous investigators. Sandusky didn’t testify.  Some of Sandusky’s victims took the witness stand at his
trial, recounting their experiences with him at his home and on
campus.  “This case was very simple from a legal perspective,”
Oliver said in an interview. “You had overwhelming evidence
from credible accusers and you had the defendant’s own words,”
he said, citing TV and newspaper interviews by Sandusky.  “There was nothing particularly in doubt,” Oliver said.  Second Mile  Second Mile served children with physical, emotional and
academic needs, according to its website. The charity had
supporters with high-profile ties to Penn State including
Dorothy Huck, the wife of Penn State emeritus board trustee
Lloyd Huck, who sat on the charity’s state board of directors.  Sandusky’s success as the group’s primary fundraiser was
evident as the charity’s assets more than tripled from 2002
through 2009, according to Internal Revenue Service filings.
Second Mile had revenue of $2.7 million and net assets of $9
million, according to its 2010 annual report.  Second Mile said in May it planned to close and transfer
its assets to a Houston-based nonprofit. Those plans are on hold
pending the resolution of investigations tied to the Sandusky
case.  Violent Predator  Sandusky was designated a sexually violent predator before
his sentencing yesterday, a move that was uncontested by the
defense. Under Pennsylvania law, that status is applied to a
person convicted of sexually violent crimes who, because of
mental abnormality or personality disorder, presents a high risk
of recidivism.  The designation requires a lifetime registration, community
notification and lifetime counseling, according to the state’s
Sexual Offenders Assessment Board.  Last month, Penn State President Rodney Erickson said the
school plans to compensate Sandusky’s victims with money from
insurance policies and funds set aside from interest on internal
loans. The 157-year-old school is trying to move forward even as
it can never forget what happened, Erickson said in a Sept. 18
interview.  “Our thoughts today, as they have been for the last year,
go out to the victims of Jerry Sandusky’s abuse,” Erickson said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “While today’s sentence
cannot erase what has happened, hopefully it will provide
comfort to those affected by these horrible events and help them
continue down the road to recovery.”  University Changes  The school, which has spent $19.2 million responding to the
Sandusky scandal, has changed its governance structure,
implemented management changes and created more transparency as
it embarks on a search for a new president. In July the
university was fined $60 million by the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association , while it faces at least three victims’
lawsuits and a complaint filed by a former football coach who
testified against Sandusky. The NCAA also stripped the football
team of its wins from 1998 through 2011.  The former coach who sued,  Mike McQueary , is a prosecution
witness in the case against Timothy Curley, Penn State’s
athletic director at the time, and  Gary Schultz , a former vice
president in charge of university police. The men are slated for
trial in January on charges they lied to a grand jury about a
2001 sex-abuse allegation against Sandusky and failed to report
the incident to authorities. Both denied the charges.  Freeh Report  A university-commissioned report released in July by  Louis Freeh , the ex-director of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
said Curley, Schultz, Spanier and Paterno failed to take
responsible action after the February 2001 incident although
they knew of an early allegation and investigation in 1998.  Lawyers for Curley and Schultz said the report was unfair,
inaccurate and not based on a full record of the facts. An
attorney for Spanier said in August that the report was an
undeserved, biased attack on the former president.  McQueary said he was fired from his $140,400-a-year job
because of his cooperation with state prosecutors. He’s seeking
$4 million in lost earnings, according to a complaint filed Oct.
1 in state court.  The cases are Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-CR-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte); and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, CP-22-CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin
County, Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Pennsylvania state court in Bellefonte
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  