-- Saudi Banks Offer ‘Buying Opportunity’ on Valuation, Arqaam Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-09T12:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/saudi-banks-offer-buying-opportunity-on-valuation-arqaam-says.html
Banks in Saudi Arabia, the Arab
world’s biggest economy, offer a “buying opportunity” after
underperforming the benchmark stock index, Arqaam Capital said.  Saudi Arabian banks have a  price-to-earnings ratio  of 11.8
times compared with 14.3 times for the benchmark  Tadawul All
Share Index (SASEIDX)  and more than 16 for the  MSCI World/Financials
Index. (MXWOOFN)   Saudi Hollandi Bank (AAAL) , Samba Financial Group,  Arab National
Bank (ARNB)  and  Riyad Bank (RIBL)  offer the highest upside in Saudi Arabia,
 Jaap Meijer , Dubai-based Arqaam analyst, said in an e-mailed
note today. The banks “have de-rated and now offer compelling
value,” he said.  Shares of Saudi banks have underperformed the benchmark
index even as loan growth in the country climbs at the fastest
pace in more than three years. Profit growth at the nation’s
banks probably slowed to 8.7 percent in the third quarter,
Arqaam said. Cumulative profits expanded 23 percent in the first
quarter and 15 percent in the second, according to central bank
data.  The Saudi banking index decreased 1.3 percent in the third
quarter compared with a 1.9 percent advance for the Tadawul All
Share Index. The banking gauge fell 0.6 percent at the close in
Riyadh today.  Saudi Arabia’s $597 billion economy will grow 5.1 percent
this year, the second-fastest pace in seven years, according to
the median forecast of 17 economists compiled by Bloomberg.
Credit growth increased almost 15 percent in August as banks
extended loans to real estate and petrochemical projects amid
government plans to invest more than $500 billion on
infrastructure.  Arqaam has a buy rating on  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA) , Saudi
Hollandi Bank, Arab National Bank and Riyad Bank, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the country’s biggest
bank by market value, and  Bank Albilad (ALBI)  are also rated buy at
Arqaam, while  Alinma Bank (ALINMA)  has a hold recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  