-- Schaeuble Calls Debate on Legacy Assets a `Phantom'
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-10-09T15:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/schaeuble-calls-debate-on-legacy-assets-a-phantom-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the debate over so-called legacy assets under a
common European bank supervisor is a “phantom” and a transfer
of legacy bailouts is not compatible with firewall fund
agreements.  If a country applies for assistance and signs a memorandum
of understanding, the European Stability Mechanism pact does not
allow nations “to a certain extent to automatically transfer
existing bank recapitalization programs -- that doesn’t conform
to the rules of the ESM treaty,” Schaeuble told reporters in
Luxembourg today after a finance ministers’ meeting. “This
legacy debate is a phantom, if I can put it bluntly.”  European leaders agreed in June to set up common banking
supervision under the auspices of the  European Central Bank  and
said that the new oversight would make it possible to consider
direct bank bailouts from the 500 billion-euro ($646 billion)
ESM fund. Finance ministers of  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  on Sept. 25 issued a statement saying that legacy assets
that weigh down lenders’ books should be under the
responsibility of national authorities.  “We are talking about bank recapitalization only in the
context of  Spain ,” Schaeuble said today. “Spain is doing
everything right. Spain hasn’t in any way deserved this
discussion, this constant uncertainty. They also didn’t need 100
billion euros, but rather significantly less.”  Time Table  Asked if he agrees with ECB President  Mario Draghi  that the
common supervisor should come into force by Jan. 1, Schaeuble
said “we’re doing everything so that this can come to pass as
quickly as possible. But we also all agreed that we must stop
establishing expectations that we can’t fulfill.”  Draghi told lawmakers in testimony to the European
Parliament today that the ECB should begin taking over bank
supervision at the start of next year. He said the ECB needs a
year to fully assume its role.  “If President Draghi says in parliament that that’s what
he wishes, then I can only share this wish,” Schaeuble said.
“If you ask me whether I think it is realistic, that this will
be in force by Jan. 1, I would say that I can’t promise it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Luxembourg at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Luxembourg at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  