-- SEC Watchdog Cites Report as Proof He’s Not a Security Threat
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-10-09T20:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sec-watchdog-cites-report-as-proof-he-s-not-a-security-threat.html
David Weber , a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission internal watchdog who was put on leave after
co-workers accused him of being a security threat, is asking to
be reinstated after an independent review indicated the claims
were unsubstantiated.  “We call on the agency to publicly disavow the allegations
and return David Weber to work,” his attorney Cary J. Hansel
said today in a statement. Weber took over the job of chief
investigator of the SEC’s inspector general’s office last year
and was put on leave in May.  Weber stepped into the fray in March when he reported to
the SEC commissioners that H. David Kotz, the agency’s former
inspector general, may have had a personal relationship that
tainted reports on the agency’s failure to catch the  Bernard
Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford Ponzi schemes.  He also outlined concerns about then-deputy inspector
general Noelle Maloney’s failure to report the misconduct, and
separately reported possible espionage by foreign nationals
related to a case he investigating that involved unencrypted
computer hard drives that contained sensitive stock exchange
information.  Weeks later, a number of his co-workers submitted
complaints that he was creating a hostile work environment
through his suggestions that he and others should be able to
carry guns on the job. The SEC used an external security
consultant to review whether Weber was a threat and then placed
him on administrative leave.  Outside Review  An outside review generated by Weber’s complaints was led
by  David Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal
Service. Williams investigation, which found that Kotz appeared
to have conflicts of interest in two matters, didn’t unearth any
evidence to indicate that Weber’s conduct raised security
concerns, according to the probe’s final report.  Hansel said his client is prepared to file a lawsuit
alleging the agency retaliated against him for reporting the
issues.  “The SEC is forcing him into a posture where he’s going to
be a plaintiff instead of an investigator,” Hansel said in an
interview. “It’s not what he wants, but it’s the only choice
they’re giving him.”  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, didn’t respond to a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  