-- Singapore May Ease Currency Gain as Growth Slows: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-10T01:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/singapore-may-ease-currency-gain-as-growth-slows-southeast-asia.html
The Monetary Authority of  Singapore 
will probably slow the pace of appreciation in the local dollar
as moderating price pressures provide scope for measures to
support economic growth, according to a survey of analysts.  Officials will curb gains in Singapore’s currency when they
meet Oct. 12 by decreasing the slope of its trading band,
according to 17 of 23 financial companies surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Two said there’s a chance the MAS will widen the band in
addition to reducing its slope. Five predict no change, while
one projected a shift to a zero slope, the poll showed.  Recent data have shown bigger-than-forecast declines in
manufacturing and exports, leading economists and investors to
flag the risk of a technical recession. Singapore cut its 2012
growth forecast in August, and a report last month indicated the
slowest pace of  inflation  in almost two years. That means the
MAS has room to spur the economy by stemming gains in the
exchange rate, its main policy tool, according to analysts.  “The Singaporean economy has largely underperformed the
MAS’s expectations,”  Frances Cheung , a Hong-Kong based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in an e-mail Oct. 3.
“The balance of risk has clearly shifted from inflation to
growth.” Cheung predicted the MAS will announce a reduction to
the Singapore dollar’s trading band slope.  Singapore’s central bank uses the exchange rate rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace
of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
center of the band. A flatter slope allows slower appreciation
or depreciation over time.  Policy Stance  The local currency has soared 45 percent against the U.S.
dollar during the past decade as the Singaporean economy  more
than doubled  in size. Gains in the exchange rate hurt exporters
while making imports cheaper, moderating inflation pressures.  The MAS maintained the Singapore dollar’s pace of gains and
increased the slope of its trading band at its last review in
April. “This policy stance will help anchor inflation
expectations” and “keep growth on a sustainable path,” it
said in an April 13  statement  on its website.  Since then, evidence of a slowdown has accumulated. Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in August that Singapore’s gross
domestic product will expand this year between 1.5 percent and
2.5 percent, compared with an earlier projected range of 1
percent to 3 percent.  Export Figures  Non-oil domestic  exports  figures released Sept. 17 by the
trade promotion agency showed a 10.6 percent drop in August from
the same period in 2011, exceeding all 15 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, where the median was for a 4 percent drop. The
Economic Development Board said last month  industrial production 
declined 2.2 percent in August from the previous year, stumping
economists who predicted a 1 percent increase, as companies
reduced the output of electronics.  Currency strength has compounded the effects of slower
growth. The Singapore dollar bought S$1.2302 as of 9:22 a.m.
local time and has advanced 5.4 percent versus its U.S.
counterpart since Dec. 30, making it the best-performing major
Asian currency after the Philippine peso.  It reached S$1.2176 per dollar on Sept. 14, the strongest
level in a year. The currency will probably be at S$1.24 by
year-end before strengthening to S$1.21 by June 30, 2013,
according the median projection of the 23 economists polled.  While the island nation is trying to boost its economy, it
must also contend with an inflation rate that is one of the
highest among its Southeast Asian peers.  Above Average  Singapore’s  consumer price index  rose 3.9 percent in August
from a year earlier, the statistics department said on Sept. 24.  While that was the smallest increase since November 2010,
it exceeds the average rate of 2.4 percent in the past 10 years.
It compares with 1.4 percent in  Malaysia , 3.6 percent in the
 Philippines  and 3.4 percent in  Thailand , according to the latest
available data compiled by Bloomberg. Consumer prices rose 4.3
percent last month in  Indonesia  and climbed 6.5 percent in
 Vietnam .  “There aren’t enough concerns about growth to divert the
attention of the authorities away from inflation that’s on the
high side,” Tim Condon, Singapore-based head of Asian research
at ING Groep NV, said in an Oct. 1 phone interview. Condon said
he sees no change to MAS policy this month.  The World Bank said this week that growth in Asian  emerging
markets  will probably be the lowest in 11 years in 2012, dragged
down by  China ’s slowdown. This week the International Monetary
Fund cut its forecasts for global economic expansion.  Recession Risk  Data due on Oct. 12 may show Singapore’s GDP fell an
annualized 1.5 percent in the third quarter from the previous
period, when it dropped 0.7 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The MAS will need to “strike a balance” between inflation
and the weaker global outlook, according to Gerard Teo, head of
strategy & currency at Fullerton Fund Management, which oversees
about S$10 billion ($8.1 billion) and is wholly-owned by state
investment company Temasek Holdings Pte.  There’s a risk “the country may be slipping into a
technical recession,” Teo wrote in an e-mailed response to
questions. “We are marginally less sanguine about the global
macro outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  