-- Sotheby’s Raises $263 Million in Hong Kong Art, Wine Sale
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-10-09T17:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sotheby-s-hong-kong-auction-raises-record-263-million.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  five-day autumn auction in
 Hong Kong  ended last night with a total sale of HK$2.05 billion
($263 million) as buyers pushed prices of some top lots to
records and shunned others.  The event’s revenue, with fees, compares with a presale low
estimate of HK$1.6 billion at hammer prices. The figure was
boosted by highlights such as the HK$34.3 million paid for a
painting by Indonesian artist Lee Man Fong, the most for a
Southeast Asian artist.  “There might have been a fear of it all collapsing but in
fact people are more selective,” Daniel Eskenazi, a London-based
dealer, said in an interview.  In last year’s Sotheby’s autumn marathon, which lasted a
day longer, the New York-based auction house raised HK$3.2
billion. Its Hong Kong sale in April raised HK$2.46 billion.  A pair of Qianlong-era double-gourd vases sold for HK$107
million yesterday, nearly twice their presale high estimate,
proving that rarity still attracted keen bidding.  A 1992 painting by Chinese artist Liu Wei, entitled
“Revolutionary Family Series-Invitation to Dinner,” sold for
HK$17.46 million, setting a record for the artist. The work hung
for many years in David Tang’s  China  Club in Hong Kong.  A work by  Zhang Xiaogang  fetched HK$20.8 million, while
three other of his works went unsold, as did paintings by top-
selling contemporary Chinese artists Zeng Fanzhi and Yue Minjun.  Market Cracks  “The results of this sale are showing some cracks in the
market, with a large number of cornerstone artists’ works going
unsold,” Jehan Chu, a Hong Kong adviser who runs  Vermillion Art
Collections , said.  The contemporary Asian sale, normally the marquee event,
raised HK$117 million with 42 out of 153 lots unsold, making
less than its presale estimate of HK$130 million. In contrast,
the Southeast Asian contemporary sale earned HK$121 million,
more than twice its presale estimate.  There were some unanticipated hiccups for Sotheby’s. A work
by 20th-century master  Zhang Daqian , with a higher estimate of
HK$12.8 million, was pulled on the eve of its Oct. 8 sale after
a Taiwanese Buddhist nun contested its ownership.  The top lot of that 20th-century Chinese sale was a painting
by Chang Yu entitled “Potted Chrysanthemums” which sold for
HK$30.9 million, compared with a high estimate of HK$30 million.  Then the owner of 17 portraits from a Qing dynasty imperial
collection decided to withdraw them on the morning of their sale
yesterday, to offer them in a private sale, Sotheby’s said in a
statement.  Romanee Conti  Demand for wine continued to show strength, with 96 percent
of lots sold over a two-day period, raising HK$73.6 million. The
top lot of nine bottles of  Romanee Conti  Domaine de La Romanee-
Conti 1990 sold for HK$1.7 million, or $24,580 per bottle.  The most expensive watch was a Patek Philippe Sky Moon
Tourbillon wrist watch that sold for HK$10.5 million, compared
with a high estimate of HK$12 million.  The highlight of the jewelry auction, the last sale of the
series, was an 89-carat D-color diamond necklace that sold for
HK$39.9 million compared with a presale high estimate of HK$50
million.  Sotheby’s faced new competition in Hong Kong as the
Beijing-based China Guardian auction house ventured outside
China for the first time on Oct. 7 with a sale of Chinese
painting and calligraphy, and Ming and Qing dynasty furniture.  In an event dominated by mainland Chinese buyers, the
auction earned HK$455 million, more than doubling its presale
estimate of HK$185 million, with 90 percent of lots sold.  The top lot was a landscape series of colored-ink paintings
by Chinese artist Qi Baishi painted in 1922 that sold for HK$46
million compared with a high estimate of HK$26 million.  The next major Hong Kong sale will be held by Christie’s
from Nov. 23 to 28 at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition
Center.  Sotheby's stock declined more than 2 percent after the
sales total was reported, to $31.05.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Martin
Gayford  on art,  Richard Vines  on food and  Zinta Lundborg’s 
interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 