-- Gold Fields’ Ramphele Says S. African Mines Overstaffed
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-09T13:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/south-african-mines-stuck-in-19th-century-ramphele-says.html
Mamphela Ramphele, the chairwoman of
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , says the South African  mining industry  can no
longer rely on low-cost labor and will have to engage in mass
firings and mechanize more to remain competitive.  “The most fundamental problem of the mining industry is
that it has a 19th century business model which depends on cheap
labor, low-skilled labor, and therefore large numbers of
workers,” she said in an interview in Cape Town yesterday.
“It’s not sustainable. The 21st century will not tolerate an
industry that functions on the basis of a 19th century model. We
need to start the conversation around the medium and long-term
restructuring of the industry.”  The labor-intensive nature of South African mining has
deterred investment and contributed to it missing out on a
global resources boom, said Ramphele, a former managing director
of the  World Bank  and ex-director of  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   South Africa, which has the world’s most valuable mineral
reserves, according to a Citigroup Inc. assessment in 2010,
attracted $5.6 billion in mining investment last year, according
to government data. That compares with $58.2 billion for
Australia, a country that exports many of the same minerals to
 China .  South Africa established one of the world’s biggest mining
industries using poorly paid black laborers during colonial and
apartheid rule after the discovery of gold and diamond deposits
in the 1800s. While government data shows output has dropped in
seven of the past 10 years, the industry still employs about
half a million people, and President  Jacob Zuma ’s administration
is targeting 140,000 new jobs by 2020 to help reduce the
nation’s 25 percent  unemployment  rate.  ‘Credible Alternative’  “There’s got to be a smaller  labor force , a highly skilled
labor force, but the people who have given so much of their time
and their lives to the industry have to be looked after,”
Ramphele said. “We have got to offer workers a credible,
sustainable” alternative.  South African mines have very thin gold and platinum ore
bodies and several attempts at wide-scale mechanization have
failed because they cost too much, said Leon Esterhuizen, a
precious metals analyst at CIBC World Markets Inc.  “It could potentially change,” he said by telephone from
 London  today. “The fact that we are now having wage increases
that are now several-fold inflation means that labor is pricing
itself out of the market. Mechanization almost becomes an
imperative to survive.”  A wave of unauthorized strikes this year has shut shafts
owned by Gold Fields, the fourth-largest producer of the metal,
and platinum miners  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)   “This unrest comes about because of the simmering anger
about growing inequality in  South Africa  and workers feel they
are not benefiting from the wealth they are generating,”
Ramphele said. “They have lost faith in their representatives.
They believe employers are not doing a fair deal with them and
also feel the government doesn’t care about their welfare.”  Pay Increases  Lonmin granted its employees pay increases of as much as 22
percent to end a six-week stoppage and violence that claimed at
least 46 lives. Anglo American Platinum, the largest producer of
the metal, fired 12,000 of its employees on Oct. 5 after they
refused to return to work.  Ramphele said she is confident the  National Union of
Mineworkers  will be able to persuade about 24,000  Gold Fields (GFI) 
employees to call off a strike that began last month.  “There is a concerted effort to get the workers back to
work this week,” she said. “The managers of these mines have
got a terrible dilemma. The longer the mines stand still, the
greater the damage and so firing wildcat strikers is always an
option. One would like to avoid that option. We are not going to
be hanging on for week after week, without a resolution.”  A medical doctor and social anthropologist, Ramphele was a
one-time partner of anti-apartheid leader Steve Biko, who
founded South Africa’s Black Consciousness Movement and died in
1977 after sustaining  brain damage  during a beating while in
police custody.  Her name regularly surfaces in the local media as a
potential candidate to lead an opposition coalition to challenge
the ruling  African National Congress , which has lead the country
since all-race elections in 1994.  “I’m 64,” she said. “It would have to be something very
dramatic that makes me want to go into active politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  