-- South Africa Truckers to End Strike as Gold Miners Fired
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-09T14:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/south-african-truck-drivers-to-end-strike-as-mines-hold-talks.html
About 15,000 striking South African
truck drivers will return to work tomorrow after employers
agreed to raise wages by at least 10 percent, as gold miners
were fired for being part of an unauthorized stoppage.  Three transport unions agreed that strikes will end at 4
p.m., according to a statement by the  Road Freight Employers’
Association . Drivers will return tomorrow, said Tebogo Masango,
an administrator at the Transport and Allied Workers’ Union.
 Gold One International Ltd. (GDO)  said it fired 1,435 workers over a
wildcat strike that started Oct. 1 at its Ezulwini operations.  A spate of strikes at South African platinum mines spread
to other metal producers and industries after  Lonmin Plc (LON)  agreed
to pay increases of as much as 22 percent, four times the
inflation rate in August. About 46 people died in violence that
erupted during a six-week stoppage at Lonmin’s Marikana mine.  “It is no surprise that the strikes are spreading and we
expect to see most sectors affected by some form of action this
year,”  John Meyer , a Fairfax IS Plc analyst in  London , said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  South Africa ’s rand may
weaken further as exports are disrupted and as some companies
say they are unable to make deliveries because of strikes, he
said.  The rand rebounded from a 3 1/2-year low against the
dollar, gaining 1.3 percent to 8.7797 at 2:56 p.m. after the
news that truck drivers were returning to work, the first
increase in five days. The rand has slumped 4.8 percent since
Oct. 2 as strikes spread to other areas of the economy.  Fuel Shortage  The return of transport drivers will ease the threat of a
fuel shortage, MC Lamprecht, chairman of the 900-member South
African Petroleum Retailers’ Association, said by phone from
Johannesburg. “At one stage, we had to get by with only a third
of the truck drivers.”  A fourth transport union said its members remain on strike.
The  South African Transport and Allied Workers’ Union , which
represents about 30,000 drivers, won’t resume work and will
continue talks, spokesman Vincent Masoga said by phone from
Johannesburg.  The three unions who agreed to halt their stoppage did so
after winning “double-digit” increases, the freight employers
association said.  About 400 workers went on strike at  Xstrata (XTA)  Alloys South
Africa’s Eland platinum mine, the latest operation affected by
the walkouts, the company said yesterday. Xstrata is engaging
with employees through the  National Union of Mineworkers , the
country’s biggest union, Christopher Tsatsawane, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Gold, Coal  Gold and coal producers are discussing wages with unions in
a meeting today, Elize Strydom, chief negotiator for the
country’s Chamber of Mines, said in a phone text message. The
chamber, an industry body that negotiates wages with unions on
behalf of gold and coal producers, won’t reopen its agreement
with workers due to end in June next year.  “We are honoring our agreement,” Strydom said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  