-- Spectrum to Acquire Stanley Home Business for $1.4 Bln
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-10-09T14:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/spectrum-said-to-to-buy-stanley-home-business-for-1-4-billion.html
Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc. (SPB) , the
consumer-products company controlled by  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) ,
agreed to buy  Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) ’s home unit for $1.4
billion in cash, expanding into the home-improvement and
residential-hardware market.  The purchase will add 75 cents to 80 cents per share in
profit in fiscal 2013, the Madison, Wisconsin-based  company  said
today in a statement. Spectrum’s shares jumped the most in more
than two years.  The deal will give Spectrum, which emerged from bankruptcy
in August 2009, brands including residential lockset-maker
Kwikset and Pfister, a manufacturer of faucets. It will be
financed exclusively with debt and is Spectrum’s largest
transaction since the $661 million purchase of kitchen-appliance
maker Russell Hobbs in 2010.  Investors will be curious to see how quickly Spectrum can
boost earnings from the unit and if taking on such a large deal
brings on too much debt, said Hamed Khorsand, an analyst with
BWS Financial in  Woodland Hills ,  California .  “Spectrum has been selective in trying to find acquisition
targets,” Khorsand said in a telephone interview. Investor
reaction “depends on how accretive the deal is and how much
debt it brings. I haven’t seen the management team do something
as large as this since bankruptcy.”  Cash Flow  Analysts expect Spectrum to make $2.90 a share in fiscal
2013, according to the consensus of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Spectrum is 57 percent-owned by Harbinger Group,
which is affiliated with the hedge fund run by  Philip Falcone .  The hardware and home improvement unit’s  cash flow  will
help pay down debt that Spectrum will take on to buy the
company, Spectrum Chief Executive Officer Dave Lumley said today
in the statement. The acquisition is expected to add an
incremental $90 million of free cash flow in the first two years
after the deal closes, the company said.  After the deal is completed, the hardware and home
improvement unit will operate separately and will continue to be
managed by Greg Gluchowski, who will report to Lumley.  Spectrum  rose  12 percent to $45.96 at 10:41 a.m. in  New
York , the biggest intraday gain since May, 2010. The shares had
increased 50 percent this year through yesterday. Stanley Black
& Decker fell 0.9 percent to $73.53 and had advanced 9.8 percent
this year through Oct. 8.  Since emerging from bankruptcy, Spectrum has increased
sales through acquisitions. The 2010 merger with Russell Hobbs
boosted sales to an estimated $3.2 billion this year from $2.6
billion in 2010. Stanley’s hardware unit, which generated $985
million in revenue in the year ended June, will push revenue to
about $4.2 billion.  Spectrum’s divisions include Remington personal-care
products, a pet-supplies division that has 13 different brands
and a home and garden business that sells Black Flag and Hot
Shot pesticides, among others.  Stanley said in July it hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
explore a sale of the hardware and home improvement unit and
expected net proceeds of “significantly” more than $1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  