-- Ex-St. John’s Dean Enslaved Scholarship Students, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-09T22:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/st-john-s-dean-enslaved-scholarship-students-u-s-says-1-.html
A former  St. John’s University  dean
forced students to work as her personal servants under threat of
losing scholarships, prosecutors said as the trial of Cecilia
Chang started in  Brooklyn , New York.  Chang, 59, faces charges of bribery and forced labor for
allegedly demanding that recipients of discretionary
scholarships serve as round-the-clock housekeepers and
chauffeurs to her, her family and friends. She is also charged
with lying on tax returns and to U.S. Internal Revenue Service
agents and well as making false statements about bank accounts
overseas and interfering with an IRS investigation, according to
a 10-count indictment against her.  Chang “betrayed the very students she was supposed to
mentor,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Lan Nguyen told a jury of
eight women and four men in opening statements today in federal
court. “She took advantage of the university’s trust in her to
engage in multiple criminal schemes.”  While serving as the university’s Asian studies dean and
vice president for international relations, Chang had authority
to grant scholarships to as many as 15 students each year,
according to a criminal complaint filed in September 2010.  Overseas Students  The students, many of whom were from overseas, received
letters telling them they were “expected to perform duties
assigned by the Vice President for International Relations and
the dean of the Center of Asian Studies for a period of 20 hours
per week,” the government said in the complaint. The letters
also stated the “grant may be terminated at any time by the
Dean if the recipient fails to perform his or her work duties,”
according to the filing.  Officials of the Queens, New York-based university were
under the impression that the work was related to the Asian
studies program, the government said.  Between at least September 2007 and September 2010, Chang
directed students to cook, clean, and wash clothing in her
Queens home, act as a chauffeur for her, her son and others,
answer her personal e-mails and conduct financial transactions
for her, the government alleged.  “You will even hear that they were directed to hand-wash
certain items, like the defendant’s underwear,” Nguyen told
jurors today.  Personal Services  On one occasion, Chang had a student drive her son to the
airport at 3 a.m., the government said. She also had students
bring her cash while she was at Foxwoods Resort Casino, in
Ledyard,  Connecticut , the government alleged.  “Chang threatened the students and placed them in fear
that if they refused to perform these personal services they
would lose their scholarships and be unable to attend  St.
John’s ,” FBI special agent Kenneth F. Hosey said in the
complaint.  Undergraduate tuition at St. John’s is about $17,375 per
semester for fall 2012 and spring 2013, according to the
university’s website. The scholarships Chang awarded covered the
full cost of tuition, prosecutors said.  Separately, Chang was accused in September 2010 of
embezzling more than $1 million from St. John’s. Under a 205-
count indictment, the Queens County  District Attorney  charged
her with grand larceny in the first degree among other crimes
over her alleged theft.  Financial Records  In the federal case, Chang is also accused of stealing
from the university and trying to hide her crimes by creating
documents or altering financial records, Nguyen said in her
opening. Students were in some cases told to help with the
cover-up, she said.  Chang’s lawyers said in court documents that the
indictment is too general in describing the alleged bribery and
forced labor charges.  Awarding scholarships in exchange for labor “was
authorized by St. John’s” and “was not criminal in and of
itself,” her former attorney, Barry Bohrer, wrote in the
memorandum, which was filed May 6, 2011. Bohrer asked the court
to dismiss part of the indictment. U.S. District Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. denied that request in January.  One of Chang’s three new lawyers, Stephen Mahler, told
jurors today that his client put much of her time and money into
her former role and wasn’t given enough in resources from the
university.  Dabbed Face  Students who did chores around her house “could come and
go” and “could eat her food,” Mahler said.  “These poor slaves, the government says,” he said.  Wearing a black blazer and pants and seated next to her
lawyers at the defense table, Chang appeared to grow emotional
while Mahler was speaking and dabbed her face repeatedly with a
tissue.  Chang was initially released on a $1.5 million bond in
October 2010. She was sent to jail earlier this month, with
prosecutors citing her alcohol use and their fear that she may
flee. She was released on Oct. 5 under conditions that she not
use or possess any alcohol in her home and that she begin
alcohol abuse treatment, according to court records.  Chang had worked at the university since 1979, according to
the May 6, 2011, memo.  The case is U.S. v. Chang, 1:11-cr-00067, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  