-- States, Cities May Suffer From U.S. Spending Cuts, S&P Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-09T18:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/state-local-government-growth-forecast-for-2013-lowered-by-s-p.html
U.S. state and local economic growth
may be harmed more next year than previously estimated in part
because of bigger spending reductions from the federal
government, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  The nation’s economy will grow at a 1.8 percent pace in
2013, less than the 2 percent predicted in July, the New York-
based ratings company said in a report released today. S&P
didn’t give a projection for overall state and local government
growth next year.  Five of the nine U.S. regions tracked by S&P will see lower
gross domestic product in 2013 compared to this year, according
to the report. There’s a 25 percent chance of another recession
within the next 12 months, S&P said.  “Our extended forecast horizon, which looks at economic
prospects for 2013, shows an economy poised for even slower
growth overall,” S&P analysts including Gabriel Petek said in
the report. “Governments with limited revenue-raising ability,
greater economic reliance on exports, and greater economic or
fiscal reliance on federal spending would be most affected.”  The projected decline in growth comes as the forecast for
lower federal spending widened to 3.2 percent next year from an
earlier projection of 3 percent, according to the report. States
and cities have  cut  3.2 percent of their payrolls since August
2008 amid the worst recession since the 1930s.  The areas of the U.S. projected to face slower economic
growth are:  New England , Middle Atlantic, East North Central,
West North Central and Pacific. The South Atlantic, East South
Central, West South Central and Mountain regions will have
increased GDP in 2013, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  