-- STMicro Shares Advance as Adviser Reviews ST-Ericsson
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-10-09T12:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/stmicro-shares-advance-as-adviser-reviews-st-ericsson.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  rose the most
in more than two months as  Europe ’s largest semiconductor
company and Ericsson AB said they’re working with an adviser on
options for their unprofitable chipmaking venture ST-Ericsson.  “It is natural for the parent companies to continuously
review the strategy” of the venture, the two partners said in a
statement today, adding that they’re working “to ensure the
best possible future” for the unit. STMicroelectronics gained
as much as 5.5 percent to 4.55 euros, the biggest intraday
advance since Aug. 3.  The 50-50 partnership hasn’t turned profitable since it was
formed in 2009. Geneva-based ST-Ericsson said in July the
second-quarter net loss widened to $318 million from $221
million a year earlier. In April the venture announced a plan to
eliminate 1,700 jobs and on July 1 completed the transfer of its
application processor development team to STMicroelectronics as
part of a program to trim costs.  “ST-Ericsson is too small for its research and development
to remain competitive,” said Hakan Wranne, a Stockholm-based
analyst at Swedbank AB. “It’s something they should divest.
It’s hard to find a reason for them to keep the company.”  STMicroelectronics was up 5.3 percent as of 2:35 p.m. in
Paris trading, giving the company a market value of 4.13 billion
euros ($5.35 billion).  ST-Ericsson mandated JPMorgan to study strategic options,
 Les Echos  reported today. The newspaper also reported that
STMicroelectronics and the French state are in talks on research
and development investments at a nanotechnology plant in
Crolles, southeastern  France .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  