-- Sugar Rally May Help India’s Top Refiner Revive Profit
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-10-09T10:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sugar-rally-may-help-india-s-top-refiner-revive-profit.html
Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) ,  India ’s top
refiner, forecasts a drop in output will propel domestic prices
of the sweetener to a three-year high by January and help the
company stem four straight quarters of declining profit.  Prices may surge as much as 19 percent to 40 rupees a
kilogram (77 cents) at the factory gate by January, the highest
level since January 2010, from 33.5 rupees as India’s production
drops and demand climbs, said Managing Director Narendra Murkumbi. The increase in prices will help Shree Renuka, which
also owns mills in Brazil, counter a rise in cane costs and drop
in production, he said.  Output in the world’s second-largest producer of sugar is
set to decline for the first time in four years, said Food
Minister K.V. Thomas. That has helped boost shares at refiners
including  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) ,  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM)  and
Shree Renuka. The company may report a group profit of 2 billion
rupees in the year ending March 31, according to a median
estimate of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Domestic prices will rise sharply in the next few
months,” Murkumbi said. Margins at our Indian operations “will
be higher because of higher prices. Supply for 2013-2014 is very
uncertain and we’ll have two tight years.”  Sugar production in India, the world’s biggest consumer, is
set to decline to 23 million tons in the year that began on Oct.
1, the lowest since 2010-2011, Food Minister Thomas said on Oct.
3. Demand may total 22 million tons, he said.  Yield Worries  Shree Renuka’s shares have jumped 42 percent in Mumbai this
year, while Balrampur Chini has doubled in the period. Shree
Renuka rose 2.4 percent to close at 35.65 rupees today.  The rally in local prices and concerns about lower cane
yields in Maharashtra and Karnataka states, the biggest and
third-largest producers, have halted exports and made imports
viable, Murkumbi said. Shree Renuka’s cane crushing will drop 20
percent this year as dry weather in areas where its mills are
located cuts output.  “Prices in India will rise from now onward as stockpile
with traders and retailers is very tight,” Sanjay Manyal, an
analyst with ICICIdirect.com., said by phone from Mumbai.
“Higher domestic prices will help the company boost
profitability.”  Shree Renuka’s  net income  from its Indian business dropped
72 percent in the quarter ended June 30 to 133 million rupees
from 472 million rupees a year earlier. The company reported a
loss of 719 million rupees in the three months ended March 31
after including its Brazilian operations. It hasn’t released
group earnings data for June.  Refining Margins  Balrampur, Bajaj and other mills based in the northern
Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, the biggest cane grower, will
benefit more from the price rally as their  sales  may increase
because of a jump in cane harvest, Manyal said. The state’s
sugar output may increase 11 percent to as much as 7.8 million
tons in 2012-2013, C.B. Patodia, president of the  Uttar Pradesh 
Sugar Mills Association, said on Sept. 7.  Shree Renuka plans to boost processing of imported raw
sugar at its port-based refineries to export to countries in
 Asia , Murkumbi said. The company’s refineries near Kandla and
Haldia ports have a capacity to process 1.7 million tons of raw
sugar. Shree Renuka mainly processes duty-free imported raw
sugar for resale overseas.  “At the moment we are concentrating on exports as our
margin from re-export is higher at both our refineries,”
Murkumbi said. “In the export market we see very little
competition now because Indian sugar is not being offered yet.
And Thai sugar will not be available before January and in the
Asian market there is good demand for our white sugar.”  Scrap Duty  The Asian sugar market will probably swing to a deficit in
2012-2013 as dry weather cuts the harvest in India, Green Pool
Commodity Specialists Pty said last month. The deficit may total
about 900,000 tons from a surplus of 580,000 tons in 2011-2012,
according to Tom McNeill, a director at the Brisbane, Australia-
based researcher.  Refining will be profitable as long as the premium for
white sugar over raw stays above $100, ICICIdirect.com’s Manyal
said. Refined sugar fetches a  premium  of $109.6 a ton over raw
sugar, up 24 percent this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  India should scrap a duty on imports of the raw variety to
boost supplies after cane crushing is over in Maharashtra by end
of January to help refineries utilize capacity and boost local
supplies, Murkumbi said.  “We have surplus during the season and if India is
flexible it can export during the season and import after the
crushing season gets over,” Murkumbi said. “That allows market
forces to adjust demand and supply without needing any
government intervention.”  Brazil Sugar  India has bought 450,000 tons of raw sugar from  Brazil ,
according to Marex Spectron Group in  London . The sweetener can
be refined and re-exported as well as consumed in India after a
10 percent duty is paid, Paul Bannister, head of sugar brokerage
at the company in London said in a weekly report dated Oct. 1.  “If the government removes the import duty on raw sugar it
will majorly benefit Shree Renuka,” ICICIdirect.com’s Manyal
said. “The government will likely scrap the duty on an expected
shortfall in production.”  Shree Renuka may need to pay 20 percent more to farmers to
secure cane this year, Murkumbi said. Cane prices may climb to
3,000 rupees a ton from an average 2,500 rupees in 2011-2012, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  