-- Sugar Makers Bunge to Sao Martinho Try Biotech: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-10-09T14:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/sugar-makers-bunge-to-sao-martinho-try-biotech-corporate-brazil.html
Sugar-cane growers from  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to
 Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3)  propose building plants in Brazil to convert
crops into chemicals for products as varied as face cream and
industrial lubricants.  A joint venture between Bunge and U.S. biotechnology
company  Solazyme Inc. (SZYM)  will start late next year to produce oils
from sugar. Cane grower Paraiso Bioenergia SA will open the
first plant in Brazil by year-end with Emeryville, California-
based Amyris Inc. to make raw materials including a substitute
for shark liver oil used in lotions. Sao Martinho and ETH
Bioenergia SA are planning similar facilities within the next
two years.  The business of converting crops into renewable chemicals,
facing skepticism from some global investors, is becoming more
attractive in  Brazil  after prices for sugar fell 13 percent in
the past year and ethanol slumped 12 percent. Amyris  dropped  74
percent this year through yesterday after it delayed the Sao
Martinho plant and on concern its projects will fail to reach
the scale needed to turn a profit. Solazyme is down 12 percent.  “This is an incredible opportunity for cane mills if the
technology is right,” Steven Slome, a consultant at the San
Francisco-based energy-research and power-management company
 Nexant Inc. , said in a telephone interview. Companies “may be
able to make twice the revenue from the same feedstock.”  Sao Martinho rose 2.2 percent to 24.49 reais at 11:01 a.m.
in Sao Paulo, and has gained 46 percent this year. Bunge fell
0.3 percent to $68.72 in New York.  Bioengineered Algae  Sao Paulo-based Sao Martinho and Paraiso Bioenergia are
implementing Amyris’s systems at facilities that will use
designer microbes to convert sucrose, the main ingredient in
cane, into farnesene, a compound that may be processed into a
variety of specialty chemicals. Solazyme’s technology uses
bioengineered algae, which feeds on sugar in fermentation tanks,
to produce oils custom-tailored for specific chemicals.  Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which controls the world’s
biggest sugar-cane processor with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and
 Tereos Internacional SA (TERI3) ’s Guarani SA are both considering
similar ventures, the biotech company  said  in 2009.  While the market for these chemicals is small, companies
are betting the nascent technology will take off in Brazil
because of its sunny climate, abundance of sugar-cane mills and
demand for chemicals. Brazil is the world’s largest sugar-cane
grower.  Renewable chemicals made from cane will compete with
products derived from petroleum and may sell for more than $20 a
liter, compared with about 50 cents a liter for ethanol, Slome
said.  ‘Double the Margins’  “Compared to the old commodity business, this is much
better for us,” Paraiso Bioenergia Chief Executive Officer
Dario Costa Gaeta said in a telephone interview from Brotas,
Brazil, where the company is based. “Our target is to have
double the margins” of sugar and ethanol, he said.  Net sales for Brazil’s chemical industry more than doubled
to $158.5 billion last year from $72.3 billion in 2005,
according to the Brazilian Chemical Industry Association, based
in Sao Paulo.  Amyris plunged to a record low in May after it delayed the
Sao Martinho plant and reported losses that were wider than
analysts expected.  Amyris “hasn’t been clear in outlining technical hurdles
that the company faces,” Pavel Molchanov, an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc., said in a telephone interview from
Houston. “There’s a risk associated with all fermentation
scale-ups.”  100 Million Liters  Sao Martinho formed the joint venture with  Amyris Inc. (AMRS)  in
April 2010. The biotech company’s CEO John Melo has said it will
eventually be able to produce 100 million liters (26.4 million
gallons) of farnesene a year.  That project was delayed while Amyris focuses on its
venture with Paraiso Bioenergia, Sao Martinho CEO Fabio Venturelli, who worked for Dow Chemical Co. for 22 years, said
in an interview. Development may resume in July and it may take
18 months to complete.  Amyris invested as much as $80 million in the Paraiso
Bioenergia facility, Gaeta said.  Amyris is supplying fuel processed from farnesene to four
bus fleets in Sao Paulo and one in Rio de Janeiro, Adilson
Liebsch, marketing director for Amyris’s Brazil unit, said in an
interview.  Solazyme, based in South San Francisco,  California , expects
to open a $145 million plant at Bunge’s Moema sugar-cane mill in
the fourth quarter of next year that will produce 100,000 tons
of its algal oil a year, Miguel Oliveira, Bunge’s executive
director of global innovation, said in a telephone interview.  Solazyme expects to achieve gross margins of 30 percent or
more, according to its Chief Financial Officer Tyler Painter  Palm-Kernel Oil  The algal oil contains lauric acid, which can be processed
into detergents and replaces palm-kernel oil, which sells for as
much as $1,800 a ton, Oliveira said. The domestic market for the
oil may reach 400,000 tons a year, he said.  Other biotechnology companies including LS9 Inc., Green
Biologics Ltd. and Cobalt Technologies Inc. are also planning
cane-based chemical ventures in Brazil. Local petrochemical
company  Braskem SA (BRKM5)  already  produces  a raw material for plastic
from the crop at a facility in the southern state of Rio Grande
do Sul.  Sugar-cane fields in Brazil yielded on average 79 metric
tons a hectare in 2010, compared to about 70 tons in both  India ,
the world’s second biggest producer, and in the U.S., the United
Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization said on its  website .  “Brazil, with its low-cost feedstock, is at the very least
a proving ground for biotechnology,” Nexant’s Slome said. “If
you can’t make it with Brazil costs, you can’t make it anywhere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  