-- Suzlon Seeks Debt Extension as Dutch Supplier Claims Dues
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-10T10:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/suzlon-to-ask-for-debt-extension-as-supplier-seeks-dues.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the wind
turbine-maker that will seek a four-month delay on bond
repayments today, is behind on funding a Dutch supplier as a
cash crunch hampers its ability to carry out orders.  Suzlon owes 1.49 million euros ($1.9 million) to Multi-Fix
Group BV for studs and nuts bought to attach blades to turbines,
according to a list of invoices, about half dating back to 2011,
that was provided by the supplier based in Bergeijk,
 Netherlands .  Multi-Fix, which relies on Suzlon for 5 percent of its
sales and also supplies General Electric Co. and  Japan Steel
Works Ltd. (5631) , is preparing to sue the company to recover its dues,
Multi-Fix Chief Executive Officer Arthur Burgmans said in a
phone interview on Oct. 1.  “The matter under discussion refers to an ongoing contract
between the two parties and therefore remains commercially
confidential,” Suzlon said in an e-mail response to questions
about the dispute.  Suzlon, which has posted losses for three years, is under
pressure to raise cash. A lack of working capital constrained
its ability to complete orders in the quarter that ended June
30, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said after the company
reported its second-biggest quarterly loss since at least 2007.  Suzlon  shares  fell as much as 3.8 percent and last traded
at 16.60 rupees in Mumbai. The stock has declined 7.5 percent
this year, compared with a 21 percent gain in the key Sensitive
Index.  Bondholders Vote  Today, bondholders vote on whether to grant Suzlon’s
request for postponing the redemption of $220.8 million of
convertible bonds by four months to Feb. 11, the second time
it’s sought an extension this year. The company needs time to
raise funds from various sources, including fresh debt and the
sale of non-critical assets, according to a Sept. 18 statement.  The Pune-based manufacturer needed a 45-day extension to
avert default in June when it redeemed $360 million of
convertible notes. The bonds were repaid on July 27 after Suzlon
borrowed $300 million from banks and sold two Indian wind farms.  A global supply glut has depressed turbine prices by 23
percent from their peak in 2009, while the loss of government
incentives in  India  may cause order deferments in Suzlon’s home
market, according to Batlivala & Karani Securities India Pvt.  Rising Yield  The yield on Suzlon’s 2016 debt rose 35.7 basis points to
35.4 percent today, its highest since Sept. 27, according to
pricing data compiled by Bloomberg. It has surged 9.3 percentage
points this year, compared with 4.9 percent for similar-maturity
debt in  Denmark ’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S. (VWS)   E-mail exchanges between Multi-Fix and Suzlon executives,
including Vagadia, indicate that Suzlon tried to pay about
212,000 euros to Multi-Fix on Oct. 1. The transfer was rejected
by Multi-Fix’s bank.  Burgmans said he is having trouble paying his own suppliers
because of the delays in collecting from Suzlon.  “We called them 100 times, and we also sent someone to
India to try to get payment,” Burgmans said. “Now we have a
lawyer working on a winding-up petition if they don’t pay.”  The 41 outstanding invoices provided by Multi-Fix are for
receivables largely over the past 12 months from Suzlon units in
India and  Brazil . One dates to Feb. 19, 2009.  Suzlon last month filed its own lawsuit against a unit of
 Edison International (EIX)  for disputing the February due date for
payment of turbines supplied to an Illinois wind farm. Suzlon
hasn’t satisfied the conditions necessary to trigger payment in
February, Edison spokesman Douglas McFarlan said in a Sept. 28
e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  