-- U.S. IBD/TIPP October Economic Optimism Index (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-10-09T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/u-s-ibd-tipp-october-economic-optimism-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the October
economic optimism index as released by TechnoMetrica Market
Intelligence and Investors Business Daily.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index improved by 2.2
points, or 4.2%, in October posting 54 vs. 51.8 in September.
The index is 6.4 points above its 12-month average of 47.6, 9.6
points above its reading of 44.4 in December 2007 when the
economy entered into the recession, and 4.1 points above its
all-time average of 49.9.  Note: Index readings above 50 indicate optimism; below 50
indicate pessimism.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has a good track
record of foreshadowing the confidence indicators put out later
each month by the University of Michigan and The Conference
Board.  IBD/TIPP conducted the national poll of 824 adults from
October 2 to October 7. The margin of error is +/-3.5 percentage
points.  The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index has three key
components, all of which improved in October.  The Six-Month Economic Outlook, a measure of how consumers
feel about the economy’s prospects in the next six months,
gained 3.9 points, or 7.1%, to 59.1. The sub-index was 32.1 when
the economy entered the last recession in December 2007.  The Personal Financial Outlook, a measure of how Americans
feel about their own finances in the next six months, improved
2.0 points, or 3.4%, to reach 60.5.  Confidence in Federal Economic Policies, a proprietary
IBD/TIPP measure of views on how government economic policies
are working rose 0.8 points, or 1.9%, to reach 42.4.  “Confidence showed an unusual jump despite high gasoline
prices and high unemployment. Democrats’ continued upbeat
sentiment and recent stock market performance contribute to the
optimism. Despite the optimism, 23% of households have at least
one member of their household unemployed and looking for
employment,” said Raghavan Mayur, president of TIPP, a unit of
TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence, IBD’s polling partner.  “Perhaps buoyed by the performance of GOP nominee  Mitt
Romney  in the debates, Republicans posted the biggest optimism
gains of any major political group,” noted Terry Jones,
associate editor of Investor’s Business Daily. “That’s a big
reason why optimism is at its highest level since November of
2006.”  The Breakdown  This month, 19 of the 21 demographic groups that IBD/TIPP
tracks were above 50 on the Economic Optimism Index. Eighteen
groups improved on the component and three declined.  On the Economic Outlook component, 20 of the 21 groups that
IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory. Nineteen groups
improved on the component and two declined.  On the Personal Financial component, all 21 of the groups
IBD/TIPP tracks scored in optimistic territory. Eighteen groups
improved on the component, one remained the same as last month,
and two declined.  On the Federal Policies component, three of the 21
demographic groups tracked were above 50.  Eleven groups
advanced on the component, two remained the same, and eight
declined.  SOURCE: TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence and Investors Business
Daily  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  