-- U.S. Charges 530 in Mortgage Probe With $1 Billion in Losses
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-10-09T17:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/u-s-charges-530-in-mortgage-fraud-probe-with-1-billion-losses.html
The U.S. charged 530 people with
targeting homeowners in mortgage schemes that cost the victims
more than $1 billion, Attorney General Eric Holder said today.  More than 73,000 homeowners around the country were
affected, the  Justice Department  said in a statement. The cases,
brought over the past year, included “foreclosure rescue
schemes” that take advantage of those who have fallen behind on
payments, according to the statement.  “These comprehensive efforts represent an historic,
government-wide commitment to eradicating  mortgage fraud  and
related offenses across the country,” Holder said at a news
conference in Washington.  Frauds involving mortgages expanded after the 2008 housing
collapse, prompting federal and state law enforcement officials
to increasingly focus on the crimes.  Many of the scams were aimed at homeowners looking to
participate in foreclosure relief programs created by President
 Barack Obama ’s administration, Shaun Donovan, the Housing and
Urban Development Department secretary, said.  “The increase in the efforts that we have, unfortunately,
mean that you have more scam artists that are trying to take
advantage of families,” Donovan said at the news conference.  Typical schemes involved promises to homeowners that
foreclosures could be prevented by payment of a fee, according
to the statement. As part of the scams, “investors” purchase
the mortgage or the titles of homes are transferred to those
taking part in the fraud, resulting in homeowners losing their
property, the department said.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation led the crackdown,
which was done in coordination with the Justice Department, HUD
and Federal Trade Commission, Holder said. The initiative led to
285 federal criminal indictments and another 110 federal civil
cases, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  