-- U.S. Fiscal Cliff Threatens Growth, IMF’s Cottarelli Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-10-09T11:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/u-s-fiscal-cliff-threatens-growth-imf-s-cottarelli-says-1-.html
International Monetary Fund official
Carlo Cottarelli said the U.S. needs a medium-term plan to
reduce its budget deficit as the danger of the biggest fiscal
tightening in more than six decades threatens economic growth.  “Without additional support, there will be a fiscal
tightening next year of about 4 percent of GDP, which is the
largest adjustment seen on record since, I believe, 1947,”
Cottarelli, director of the IMF’s fiscal affairs department,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Sara Eisen in
 Tokyo  today. “This will be very negative and very bad for the
U.S. economy.”  The IMF released forecasts today which predict a smaller
narrowing of the deficit on the assumption that a political
compromise will be reached. Cottarelli’s comments echo those of
other fund officials including Managing Director Christine Lagarde, who told CBS on Oct. 1 that the U.S. may face a
recession next year if Congress doesn’t avert the so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases.  “At present, the U.S. has a lot of credibility, the U.S.
government has a lot of credibility, the fiscal account doesn’t
yet suffer from this correction, but this will not last for
ever,” Cotarelli said. “So there is a need for a plan. A plan
that clarifies how the debt will be first stabilized in relation
to GDP and then brought down.”  Deficit Forecast  The IMF said today in Tokyo that there remains a lack of
clear fiscal policies in the U.S. and  Japan  to tackle large
public imbalances at an “appropriately sustained pace.” The
fund forecasts the U.S. shortfall will narrow to 8.7 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 and 7.3 percent next year based
on the assumption of a political compromise to avoid the fiscal
cliff.  Cottarelli said that the economy could contract if such a
deal isn’t reached.  “It would essentially imply that there would be no growth
next year in the U.S. economy, or that GDP may even decline,”
he said.  In its World Economic Outlook today, the IMF said the
global economy will grow 3.3 percent this year, the slowest
since the 2009 recession, and 3.6 percent next year. That
compares with July predictions of 3.5 percent and 3.9 percent.
It said the euro area will contract 0.4 percent this year and
grow 0.2 percent in 2013.  IMF Chief Economist Olivier Blanchard said that while the
probability of a global recession is currently “relatively
small,” that risk might become “substantial” if the worst-
case scenario regarding either the U.S. fiscal cliff or the euro
area were to materialize.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about fiscal policy in the
U.S., about what happens in the euro,” Blanchard said in a
television interview in Tokyo. “If things go wrong, it could be
very bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  