-- Natural Gas Gains as Cold Snap Helps Cut U.S. Inventory Surplus
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-10-09T19:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/u-s-natural-gas-futures-gain-on-forecast-showing-cooler-weather.html
Natural gas futures advanced to a
five-day high in  New York  before a government report that may
show a below-average inventory increase for last week.  Gas rose 1.9 percent. The Energy Department may report a
supply increase of 80 billion cubic feet, based on the median of
five  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
average gain for the week is 84 billion. Price gains accelerated
after  National Weather Service  forecasts for the Midwest turned
cooler for mid-October.  “People are anticipating a smaller number and the surplus
to the five-year average could possibly fall even further,”
said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York. “They are going to take
advantage of any pullback in anticipation of a rally.”  Natural gas for November delivery increased 6.4 cents to
$3.467 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement price since Oct. 2.
The futures have risen 16 percent this year.  January $3 puts were the most active options in electronic
trading. They fell 0.2 cent to 1.7 cents per million Btu on
volume of 2,595 contracts at 2:38 p.m. January $4 calls were the
second-most active gas options today, jumping 3.1 cents to 21.3
cents on volume of 1,648 contracts.  The discount for November contracts versus December futures
widened 0.7 cent from yesterday to 30.1 cents, the most since
June 13.  Supply Surplus  U.S. gas supplies totaled 3.653 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Sept. 28, 8.3 percent above the five-year average for
the period, the department said last week. This week’s report is
due Oct. 11. The  surplus  has been narrowing since March as  power
plants  burned a record amount of gas as they switched from
costlier coal and demand rose during a hot summer.  A midday forecast from the National Weather Service showed
below-normal temperatures in the Midwest over the next 11 to 15
days. A Weather Service report earlier in the day showed warmer
weather, said  Dan Leonard , a senior meteorologist with Weather
Services International in Andover,  Massachusetts .  Chicago may see temperatures 3 to 6 degrees below normal
with highs in the 40s Fahrenheit (4 to 9 Celsius) and lows in
the upper 20s or low 30s for the period, Leonard said. The
northeast will be cooler from Oct. 20 through Oct. 24, but
temperatures will still be above the usual readings, he said.  About half of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Department.  Prices fell as much as 1.7 percent in earlier trading on
the outlook for milder weather signaled reduced demand for the
heating fuel.  Price Response  Even with bearish  weather forecasts , the market has been
showing some “price stubbornness,” possibly as hedgers buy gas
before winter demand arrives, Aaron Calder, senior market
analyst at Gelber & Associates in Houston, said in a note to
clients today.  This week’s inventory report will reflect heating demand
from last week and how sensitive power plants are to rising  gas
prices , he said.  Above-average gas use at electricity generators has helped
buoy demand during a seasonal lull. Power plants will consume an
average of 21.22 billion cubic feet a day of gas from October
through December, 13 percent higher than a year earlier, the
Energy Department said in its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook 
on Sept. 11.  The department predicted that coal-to-gas switching at
power plants may slow and start to reverse as gas prices
increase in the fourth quarter and in 2013.  Futures Volume  Gas futures may see support at $3.255 per million Btu and
see temporary resistance at $3.546,  Mike Fitzpatrick , editor of
the Energy OverView newsletter in New York, wrote today.  Volume was 433,957 contracts as of 2:42 p.m. in electronic
trading, exceeding the 333,913 contracts traded during
yesterday’s Columbus Day federal holiday. The three-month
average is 381,000. Open interest was 1.18 million contracts.
The three-month average is 1.11 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  