-- U.S. Investors ‘In No Hurry’ to Buy China Stocks, Citigroup Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-10-09T03:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/u-s-investors-in-no-hurry-to-buy-china-stocks-citigroup-says.html
U.S. investors are “in no hurry” to
buy China’s stocks on concern earnings will slump further as
the economy slows and policy makers refrain from adding stimulus
measures, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Only about 25 percent of the investors that Citigroup
officials met during a U.S. trip may consider purchasing
equities, “though with low levels of convictions,” according
to a report dated yesterday. There’s concern the economy or
earnings may get worse before they get better, the report said.  “The majority of investors seemingly are sidelined and are
in no hurry to participate, even if it means missing an initial
10 percent run,” said  Shen Minggao , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Citigroup, who met with about 60 equity investors in the U.S.
in the past two weeks. Investors are concerned “Chinese equity
is not as  cheap  as the numbers have suggested or there is no
clear sign that the de-rating is near its end.”  The Chinese government is seeking increased foreign
investment in the nation’s equities after the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index briefly dropped below the 2,000 level on Sept.
26 to a three-year low. The  Shanghai Stock Exchange  last month
completed a 10-day road show in  North America  after visiting
more than 30 institutional investors in the U.S. and Canada.  The Shanghai index rose 1.8 percent to 2,111.77 at 11:01
a.m. on speculation shares are undervalued. The index  trades  at
11.3 times the earnings of  China ’s biggest companies, the lowest
level since at least 1997. It has tumbled 34 percent from its
November 2010 high through yesterday, the most among benchmark
gauges in 21 developing nations tracked by Bloomberg.  At least 41 overseas institutions gained access to mainland
stocks this year as China eased capital restrictions. China
Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Guo Shuqing  expanded
the qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program
as part of a plan to restore confidence in the market.  Deepening Slowdown  Data for the past two months point to a deepening slowdown
after manufacturing contracted in September, imports
unexpectedly fell in August, industrial output expanded at its
weakest pace since May 2009 and industrial companies’ profits
dropped for a fifth month. Policy makers cut their expansion
target to 7.5 percent from the 8 percent goal in place since
2005, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on March 5. The  International
Monetary Fund  lowered China’s growth estimate by 0.2 percentage
point to 7.8 percent in 2012 and to 8.2 percent in 2013.  Policy Disappointment  Investors are hesitant to take a longer-term view on
China’s shares because of “policy disappointments,” according
to Citigroup. The central bank has refrained from easing since
rate cuts in June and July and a May reduction in  reserve
requirements  for lenders. The government has been reluctant to
lower rates further amid concern inflation will quicken and more
liquidity will re-flate the property bubble.  Some investors were “closely monitoring” growth
indicators, including accelerated infrastructure investment
growth and additional funding to support projects, in the near
term to gauge the timing of an economic recovery. The Economic
Information Daily reported today the country is planning to
invest 2.3 trillion  yuan  ($370 billion) in railroad
infrastructure through 2015.  Delegates from the Communist Party will gather in Beijing
starting Nov. 8, when they are forecast to anoint Vice President
 Xi Jinping , 59, and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , 57, as the so-
called fifth generation in charge, to replace President  Hu
Jintao  and Premier Wen. This announcement “provided comfort”
to investors, as it signals policy visibility should improve
gradually, Citigroup said.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-
traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, has rebounded 2.3 percent
this year. It plunged 17 percent last year after short sellers
said Chinese companies including Sino-Forest Corp. were
misleading investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  