-- Hubbard Agrees With Obama Aide on Keeping Fed Apolitical
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-09T02:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/hubbard-agrees-with-obama-aide-on-keeping-fed-apolitical.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s independence
shouldn’t be compromised by politicians who disagree with the
central bank’s policy actions, economic advisers to President
Barack Obama and  Mitt Romney  said in a debate tonight.  Glenn Hubbard , a senior economic adviser to Romney, said he
hopes “that whoever is elected president we see a cooling down
of discussions” about the Fed. Jeffrey Liebman, a senior
economic adviser to Obama, said research shows that countries
with independent central banks have faster economic growth and
less inflation than nations that don’t.  The advisers spoke at  Columbia University  in New York,
where Hubbard is dean of the business school. Their comments
were in response to a question from panelist  Michael Woodford , a
professor of political economics at the university.  Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, has said he
wouldn’t appoint Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to a third term.
Hubbard said in a Reuters interview in August that Bernanke
should “get every consideration” to stay on after his term
expires and called him “a model technocrat.”  Hubbard said tonight that he is “personally critical of
the efficacy” of the Fed’s third round of quantitative easing,
announced Sept. 13, and that the central bank should “focus
mainly on  price stability  and financial stability.” The Fed has
“wound up politicizing itself a bit” as its regulatory powers
have expanded, he said.  Crisis Consequence  “I don’t mean that as a criticism because it was actually
a necessary consequence of going through the financial crisis
and taking on a lot of turf in financial regulation which
definitely draws the Congress’s attention,” Hubbard said.  Liebman  is a public policy professor at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government. He served as chief
economist and later acting deputy director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.  Congressional Republicans who seek to “intimidate the
Fed” are not “helpful given the importance of independence of
the Fed to the economy of the U.S.,” Liebman said.  The debate was moderated by Chrystia Freeland, global
editor-at-large at Thomson Reuters Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  