-- UBS, Barclays Said to Make $1.6 Billion Loan to General Growth
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-10-09T18:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/ubs-barclays-said-to-make-1-6-billion-loan-to-general-growth.html
UBS AG and Barclays Plc teamed up to
beat at least four other banks to provide a $1.6 billion loan
for  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , highlighting Wall Street’s
growing appetite for commercial real estate debt.  The lenders, which plan to package the debt for sale as
securities, bid against banks including Deutsche Bank AG, Morgan
Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co ., according
to five people with knowledge of the deal. The mall operator
plans to use the cash to refinance six mortgages on properties
including the Fashion Show on the Las Vegas strip, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private.  Demand is surging for commercial mortgage-backed securities
as investors seek riskier assets with the  Federal Reserve 
holding its benchmark lending rate at zero to 0.25 percent for a
fourth year. Sales rose to $7.9 billion last month, the most in
almost five years, with banks offering new deals linked to
everything from strip malls to skyscrapers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Switzerland ’s largest bank is boosting its commercial real-
estate lending even as it cuts other units, with plans to
eliminate as much as 10 percent of its investment banking staff
after profit slumped 55 percent in the first half of 2012.  Representatives from UBS, Barclays, Deutsche Bank, Wells
Fargo and JPMorgan declined to comment. Officials from Morgan
Stanley and General Growth didn’t immediately return telephone
calls and e-mails seeking interviews.  ‘Stunning Number’  Borrowers with debt coming due such as Chicago-based
General Growth are benefiting from the growing investor appetite
for the securities.  General Growth, which emerged from the largest real estate
bankruptcy in U.S. history in November 2010, has refinanced $10
billion debt in the last couple of years, Chief Financial
Officer Michael Berman said last month.  That’s “just a stunning number in the real estate
business,” Berman said in a Sept. 12 presentation to investors
for a Barclays financial services teleconference. General Growth
is the second-largest U.S. mall owner behind Simon Property
Group Inc.  A record $232 billion of commercial mortgage bonds was sold
in 2007 before issuance came to halt as credit markets seized
the following year after the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. As much as $45 billion may be sold this year, from $28
billion in 2011, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  