-- Muller’s PDT Is Said to Get $500 Million From Blackstone
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-10-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/muller-s-pdt-said-to-get-more-than-500-million-from-blackstone.html
Peter Muller , founder of the Morgan
Stanley trading group being spun out this year as a stand-alone
hedge fund, raised more than $500 million from  Blackstone (BX)  Group
LP, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Muller, 49, whose proprietary trading group returned more
than 20 percent a year over the past decade, started his first
fund in July at New York-based PDT Partners LLC, according to
one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private.  Blackstone, whose hedge-fund unit manages about $43
billion, routinely invests as much as $500 million with new
managers, although for that amount of cash it usually takes a
piece of the business in return. Blackstone, also based in  New
York , isn’t getting a stake in PDT.  “It’s almost unheard of that a manager could get more than
$500 million at launch from an investor without giving up any
economics,” said Brad Balter, head of Boston-based Balter
Capital Management LLC, which invests client money in  hedge
funds . “It’s testament to his market power and ability.”  Muller declined to comment through a spokesman.  Peter Rose ,
a Blackstone spokesman, also declined to comment on the firm’s
investment.  Morgan Stanley said last year it would spin off Muller’s
group, founded as Process Driven Trading in 1993, to comply with
the Dodd-Frank legislation that bars banks from trading their
own capital.  Locked Up  PDT is planning a second fund that will start trading in
January with about $1.5 billion, said one of the people. By
then, Muller expects to have $2 billion under management in all,
the person said. He doesn’t plan any fee discounts and some of
the $2 billion will be locked up for seven years, said the
person.  Few funds in the past few years have started with so much
money. Rick Gerson’s Falcon Edge Capital LP raised $1.2 billion
this year, according to a person with knowledge of the firm.
Morgan Sze, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. trader, gathered
$1.1 billion for his Azentus Capital Management Ltd. when he
started trading in April 2011.  Muller, a native of Philadelphia, graduated from  Princeton
University  in 1985 with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics. He
is a so-called  quant manager , whose computer-driven trading
system is based on algorithms that look for price discrepancies
in global markets.  Subway Keyboard  Muller started at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in 1992 after a stint at
Barra Inc., a firm in Berkeley,  California , that used
mathematics to help fund managers measure and control risk.
After working for seven years at the bank, he took a sabbatical
during which he kayaked in the Grand Canyon, trekked in the
kingdom of Bhutan and played his keyboard in  New York City ’s
subway.  PDT has 100 employees including Muller, who is chief
executive officer; Brian Thomas, chief financial officer; and
Ajay Salhotra, chief compliance officer. Muller holds a majority
stake in the firm through PDT Capital Group LP and an affiliate
called Alpha Dog LLC, according to the filing.  In a July 2011 interview with  Bloomberg News , Muller said
that ownership of the firm would be spread among 11 partners
after it is spun off. Morgan Stanley holds a stake of less than
5 percent through a subsidiary called Pettingell LLC, the
investment adviser registration shows. It’s unclear whether
Morgan Stanley will continue to own that stake after the spin
off is complete, one of the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  