-- UN Advisers Say Global Social Fund Would Protect World’s Poor
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-09T12:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/un-advisers-say-global-social-fund-would-protect-world-s-poor.html
Basic social protection could be
provided to all the world’s poor at the cost of 2 percent of
global gross domestic product, according to the United Nations’
advisers on extreme poverty and the right to food.  Almost 80 percent of the world’s poor have no social safety
net to protect them against the effects of unemployment, illness
or disability, Olivier De Schutter, who reports to the UN on the
right to food, and Magdalena Sepulveda, UN adviser on extreme
poverty and human rights, wrote in a joint statement.  The world had 868 million hungry people in the 2010-12
period, or 12.5 percent of its population, the UN’s Food &
Agriculture Organization reported today. The advisers said the
fund plan should be discussed at an FAO food-security meeting in
 Rome  next week.  “Food and other basics must not be left to the mercy of
economic cycles,” De Schutter was cited as saying in the
statement. “The world’s poorest citizens must be able to fall
back on basic social protection.”  De Schutter and Sepulveda called for the creation of a
Global Fund for Social Protection that would be managed by an
existing international agency such as the World Bank or set up
as an independent organization, and funded by donations from
developed countries.  Such a global fund could close the funding shortfall for
minimum social protection in least-developed countries, the UN
advisers wrote.  The fund could also help underwrite against the risk of
excess demand triggered by major shocks by advising least-
developed countries on private reinsurance, subsidizing premiums
where necessary and by acting as a re-insurer of last resort, De
Schutter and Sepulveda wrote.  Social Protection  “When the global financial crisis struck, governments
stepped in to prop up banks that were deemed too important to
fail,” they wrote in the statement. “The same logic must now
be applied to basic social protection, which is too crucial to
be denied.”  The global fund would help move toward a system that’s more
predictable for government budgets and households, and allow
countries to put social-protection systems in place without a
fear of insolvency caused by disaster, according to De Schutter
and Sepulveda.  Comprehensive social protection would have knock-on
benefits such as advancing women’s rights, cash infusions for
local economies and improved work productivity through health
benefits, according to the UN advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  