-- UN Industrial-Gas Carbon Offset Supply to Quadruple in October
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-10-09T13:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/un-industrial-gas-carbon-offset-supply-to-quadruple-in-october.html
Supply of United Nations carbon
offsets from industrial-gas projects is set to almost quadruple
in October as 10 projects applied to receive credits from
tomorrow through Oct. 31.  The projects, which reduce greenhouse-gas pollution from
hydrofluorocarbon-23 and nitrous oxide produced in the
manufacture of adipic acid, requested 10 million Certified
Emission Reductions, or CERs, compared with a total of 2.4
million tons in September and 3.9 million metric tons in August,
UN  data  show.  The executive board of the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism, the body responsible for regulating CERs,  is
scheduled  to deliver a total of 28 million tons of credits this
month, compared with 14.5 million in September, according to UN
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest monthly volume
since January and the seventh-largest on record, the data show.  Credits from HFC-23 and nitrous oxide projects will be
banned in the European Union from April. These two project types
account for more than 60 percent of all offsets issued since the
market began.  Prices for UN offsets for December fell to a record 1.43
euros ($1.85) a ton on Sept. 18 after total supply of CERs
reached 1 billion tons a week earlier. They declined 1.4 percent
at 1.92 euros at 2 p.m. London time. The flow of offsets has
also helped depress prices for EU carbon permits, which reached
a record 5.99 euros on April 4.  The flow of credits in November will probably rise compared
with October, the UN data show. The CDM board is scheduled to
issue 18.4 million new credits between Nov. 1 and Nov. 7,
according to a timetable of requests for issuance on the UN
 website . That includes a further 13 million CERs from industrial
gas projects.  CERs are generated by clean-technology projects in
 developing countries  that reduce pollution compared with a
business-as-usual scenario. Factories and power stations
participating in carbon markets in the European Union,  Australia 
and  New Zealand  may use CERs to meet part of their cap on
greenhouse-gas emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  