-- E-Star Falls as Suppliers Threaten Insolvency: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-09T15:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/hungary-s-e-star-alternativ-declines-on-financing-difficulties.html
E-Star Alternativ Nyrt. (ESTAR) , a Hungarian
energy company, fell after  saying  that payment demands from
suppliers ahead of a bond maturity this month are threatening
its operations.  E-Star’s share price dropped as much as 9 percent and
closed 1.4 percent lower at 440 forint in Budapest, extending
this year’s slump to 90 percent. The company said today it’s
struggling to collect payment from Hungarian municipalities for
providing heating services.  The company is suffering “daily” difficulties as
suppliers seek to enforce claims before E-Star is due to repay a
bond on Oct. 24, E-Star said in a statement to the Budapest
Stock Exchange. The company is receiving orders to pay suppliers
“on a daily basis or requests for starting insolvency process
in some cases,” it said.  “The firm’s liquidity and financing situation seems more
than challenging,” Peter Szentirmai, a Budapest-based analyst
at  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s broker unit, wrote in a research report today.  Gabor Vilhelm, a spokesman for E-Star in Budapest, didn’t
have any immediate comment when contacted by phone and e-mail by
Bloomberg today.  E-Star’s bonds still offer value even given the threat of
the company being unable to pay creditors, said the fund
management unit of  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) ,  Hungary ’s largest lender.  OTP is holding on to E-Star’s bonds on the expectation in
the event of liquidation the company’s assets will cover 30 to
40 percent of the amount owed to bondholders, said Csaba Szalma,
who manages 21 billion forint ($96 million) in OTP’s Supra
Derivative Fund at OTP Alapkezelo Zrt.  “From a bond holder point of view the situation looks
rather hopeless,” said Szalma, who also oversees other bond
funds. OTP doesn’t own any of the bonds due this month, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  