-- Munich Re’s Asset Manager Targets Real Estate Lending, REITs
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-09T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/munich-re-s-asset-manager-targets-real-estate-lending-reits.html
Munich Re’s asset-management unit
plans to invest more in real estate lending and REITs as returns
from direct property investments come under pressure and banks
cut their loan portfolios.  The company is turning to  real estate investment trusts  and
is exploring “options for commercial real estate lending to
offer our clients low-risk and stable long-term returns,”
Guenter Manuel Giehr, management board member and global head of
real estate for Munich Ergo AssetManagement GmbH, said in an
interview in Munich.  MEAG, the asset manager for the world’s biggest reinsurer
and its primary insurance unit Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, plans
to increase its 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) real estate
lending portfolio by about 20 percent over the next two to three
years, said Giehr. Opportunities may arise as European banks cut
their 2.4 trillion euros of lending to real estate companies to
meet tighter capital regulations.  “The trend in real estate lending is favorable as banks
need to disband or reduce such portfolios to comply with Basel
III rules,” Giehr said. “The market will be reallocated over
the next two years or so and insurers’ asset managers consider
the senior segment as most appealing.”  European banks will cut real estate lending by about 25
percent to meet tighter rules agreed by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , Morgan Stanley wrote in a March report.  About 4 percent of MEAG’s 226 billion euros of  assets under
management  are invested in real estate, including as much as 250
million euros in REITs.  Retail Parks  MEAG’s focus in property acquisitions is on “large-scale
specialist retail parks in regions that do not appear to be too
attractive on the first glance, but where a current return of 7
percent per year is achievable,” Giehr said. Logistics centers
or harbors and airports also offer potential, he said.  “Residential real estate currently receives enormous
attention from private investors, which has led to a drastic
increase in  price levels ,” Giehr said. “In view of potential
recession risks, we find the purchase of pure office properties
currently somewhat difficult to justify.”  REITs, which invest in a portfolio of property assets, are
also an attractive asset class for MEAG, said Giehr.  “REITs offer more transparency, better liquidity and add
to our portfolio diversification,” said Giehr, who is targeting
10 percent of MEAG’s real estate assets for such investments.
“REITs satisfying our valuation criteria, including an analysis
of the underlying property portfolio, will be picked up at any
opportunity, especially in markets abroad such as the U.S.,
 Switzerland ,  Japan ,  Hong Kong  or  Singapore .”  The  Bloomberg Real Estate Investment Trust Index (BBREIT) , which
tracks 111 REITs based in the U.S. and  Canada  has gained 13
percent this year, after advancing 4.1 percent in 2011 and 25
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  