-- Murdoch’s Phone Hackers Savaged as Scum in ‘Enquirer’
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-10-09T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/murdoch-s-phone-hackers-savaged-as-scum-in-enquirer-.html
An anonymous  London  warehouse near
the  Barbican  is the unlikely venue for a sellout drama.  “Enquirer,” which takes on the hot topic of phone hacking,
is drawing theater-goers to an untrendy space with no bar or
washroom and few chairs, just piles of old papers. The floors
are concrete. The white walls are bare apart from tatty charts
showing plunging newspaper circulations.  You’ll spend the next two hours trudging around the cold
building, listening to its self-pitying occupants -- actors
playing the part of press people -- saying they’re “scum,”
“parasites,” “second-class citizens” or “egotistical dinosaurs.”  The  National Theatre of Scotland’s  spiky drama is based on
interviews with 43 hacks by three of their colleagues. It’s
horribly compelling, like staring at a gruesome car crash.  There’s a lot about fabricated stories and paparazzi;
rather less about honest reporters who risk their lives or
liberty, help charities and simply strive for accuracy.  It’s all edited into “a day in the life.” We see short
editorial conferences and long lunchtime boozing. At the end,
the paper and its staff are put to bed in mattresses of
newsprint.  There are constant non-naturalistic diversions on  Rupert Murdoch , royal privacy and the recent  Leveson inquiry  into media
ethics. (U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has just said he
prefers self-regulation to tougher controls on the press.)  Moving Audience  The “Enquirer” audience is forever moving between rooms
after each short scene, and cramming into tiny spaces. It would
work much better as a radio production or a briskly cut series
of TV interviews.  During the show, an editor declares: “Readers are never
wrong. They are repulsive but never wrong.”  Non-journalists will probably find equally repulsive the
navel-gazing characters, who are always ready to twist the truth
to get a story, a headline and five minutes of fame.  It’s hard to find sympathy for these monsters as they are
swept away by Twitter, bloggers and citizen journalists.  The show has two strongly redeeming features: solid acting
and smart quotes as the journos condemn themselves by their own
words. One says he never paid police officers for information,
but of course he’d entertain them, where’s the harm in that.
Journalism is “a sexy profession full of ugly people.”  Maureen Beattie  is outstanding as  Ros Wynne-Jones  of the
Mirror, whose eyewitness story of a massacre in  East Timor  is
delayed as her paper takes up 30 pages with a royal wedding.  Gabriel Quigley  also shows the human side of hackery, as a
Guardian journalist who dreams of burying an uncooperative
celebrity under a huge pile of newspapers in her editor’s
office. Nobody, she says, will ever find him there.  Rating: **.  “Enquirer” is at Mother at the Trampery, 188-192 St John
Street, Clerkenwell, EC1V 4JY, until Oct. 21. Information:
+44-20-7638 8891 or  http://www.barbican.org.uk .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Craig Seligman  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 