-- NATO Praises Turkish Restraint on Syria Shelling
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-10-09T15:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/turkey-s-army-chief-ozel-inspects-troops-at-border-with-syria.html
The North Atlantic Treaty
Organization praised  Turkey ’s restraint and pledged support as
the country’s top general inspected newly deployed units after
cross-border shelling by President Bashar al-Assad’s forces.  Radar-assisted Turkish guns have fired on Syrian artillery
units and tanks for six consecutive days in response to the
deaths of five people struck by a Syrian shell in the Turkish
town of Akcakale on Oct. 3 and other shellings. At least 14
Syrian soldiers were killed, Al Arabiya television reported.  Turkey subsequently deployed additional tanks, howitzers
and missile defense systems on the border after parliament gave
the government a one-year mandate to send forces into Syria if
necessary.  NATO, which called the attack on Akcakale “a flagrant
breach of international law,” today praised Turkey’s response
to Syrian shelling and assured the Turkish government of the
alliance’s military support if it is needed.  Tensions between Turkey, a NATO member, and  Syria  have
risen during the 19-month rebellion against Assad’s government,
as Turkey offers support to the rebels. These worsened in June,
when Syria shot down a Turkish warplane it said was in its
airspace and after the Oct. 3 deaths of two women and three
children.  “I would like to commend the Turkish government for the
restraint it has shown in its response to the completely
unacceptable Syrian attacks,” NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen told journalists in Brussels, where defense
ministers convened a two-day meeting today.  ‘Necessary Plans’  “We have all necessary plans in place to protect and
defend Turkey if necessary,” Rasmussen said. “We hope that
won’t be necessary. I do believe the right way forward in Syria
is a political solution.”  Article 5 of the NATO treaty, drafted at the start of the
 Cold War , deems an attack on one member an attack on all. It was
invoked only once, in solidarity with the U.S. after the Sept.
11 attacks. Turkey has invoked Article 4, allowing a country to
convene a NATO meeting when its security is threatened.  The U.S. and most of its NATO allies have signaled they are
reluctant to intervene militarily inside Syria. The conflict
began in March 2011 and has left more than 30,000 dead,
according to opposition-supporting rights groups. The Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said 31 people have died so far
today, including 28 in Damascus and its suburbs.  Syrian Refugees  Hundreds of Syrian refugees flee to Turkey daily as Syrian
rebels engage in fierce clashes with Syrian troops across the
border. Almost 94,000 Syrian refugees are inside the country,
the United Nations refugee agency estimated on Oct. 2.  General Necdet Ozel, chief of Turkey’s general staff, today
inspected troops in Hatay province, which was hit by seven
artillery shells and mortar rounds in the past week, state-run
TRT television said. General Hayri Kivrikoglu, chief of the land
forces, accompanied Ozel along with several other senior
officers, the state-run Anatolia agency said. Ozel will inspect
troops in Akcakale tomorrow, TRT television said.  Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told state-run television
on Oct. 6 that Syrian Vice President Farouk al-Sharaa hadn’t
taken part in massacres and could serve as interim leader if
Assad leaves office.  Syria’s Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said yesterday
that Davutoglu’s remarks reflect “obvious political and
diplomatic confusion and blundering,” Syria’s state-run SANA
news agency said. “Turkey isn’t the Ottoman Sultanate; the
Turkish Foreign Ministry doesn’t name custodians in Damascus,
Mecca, Cairo and  Jerusalem ,” he said in a reference to the
Ottoman empire that ruled Syria until 1918.  Syrian forces have continued firing at rebels along the
border even though Turkey has responded to artillery shells or
mortars landing inside its territory. At least 27 schools along
the border areas in Akcakale remain closed due to fears they
could be hit by an errant shell, Anatolia said today.  The two countries share a 911-kilometer (566 mile) border.
Turkey has a 720,000-strong military, the second-largest army
within the NATO alliance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  