-- Turkey Lowers Growth Forecasts as Industrial Output Plummets
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-09T17:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/turkey-lowers-growth-forecasts-as-industrial-output-plummets.html
Turkey  has lowered its growth
forecast and eased budget targets for this year and next as a
drop in  industrial production  added to evidence that the economy
is slowing.  The medium term economic plan unveiled by Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan today revised its gross domestic product
growth target downward for the year to 3.2 percent acknowledging
that it will not meet a 4 percent goal. It also lowered its
growth forecast for 2013 from 5 percent to 3 percent.  Economic growth in Turkey has been slowing as the debt
crisis in  Europe , Turkey’s largest trading partner, has reduced
 consumer spending  and as Erdem Basci, Turkish central bank
governor, has tightened monetary policy to stem inflation and
bank lending. Growth in the second quarter was 2.9 percent, the
slowest in more than two years. The decline has prompted the
central bank to reverse course and lower borrowing costs and has
set off a debate among Cabinet members between advocates of
growth and fiscal restraint. Consumer Price Inflation was 9.19
percent for the month of September.  “The government has finally acknowledged that this year’s
growth target will be missed,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at
Finansbank said in e-mailed comments. He called the figure for
2012 “realistic,” while saying that his position for 2013 was
more bullish than the government’s given looser global central
bank policies. “The government is still too optimistic
regarding the extent of disinflation next year and also about
the narrowing in the current account deficit,” he said.  Current Account  The government forecasts year end inflation to be 7.4
percent compared with the previous forecast of 6.2 percent. The
number is expected to slow to 5.3 percent in 2013 and 5 percent
in 2014. The current account deficit is expected to be 7.3
percent of GDP for the year-end, declining to 7.1 percent in
2013. The plan also suggests a budget deficit of 2.3 percent of
GDP declining to 2.2 percent in 2013.  “I find it implausible that an accelerating domestic
demand picture will be consistent with a narrowing” current
account deficit, Demir said.  Earlier in the month the central bank said that recent tax
and energy price changes would affect annual inflation by 1.16
percentage points.  “The magnitude of the revision to 7.4 percent implies that
the Bank has factored all of tax and energy price hike effects
into its new inflation forecast,” Ibrahim Aksoy, economist at
 Seker Securities (SEKMENB)  said in e-mailed notes.  Growth Debate  The central bank has found itself of the political debate
between growth and austerity. Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan
said earlier today that the industrial output drop was as a
result of too much “braking,” referring to comments made by
Babacan last month where he compared monetary austerity to a bus
driver on a foggy mountain road needing to keep his foot on the
brake.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci, who varies borrowing
costs on a daily basis, has pushed the  average cost of funding 
for banks down by almost half since May. It’s now 5.8 percent,
just 5 basis points above the floor of his so-called rate
corridor.  Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  retreated 5 basis points
to 7.63 percent at 6:30 p.m. in Istanbul. The lira declined 0.6
percent to 1.8216 per dollar the lowest level in more than one
month.  “Turkey is still a fairly good story in our view,”  Piotr Matys ,  Emerging Markets  Analyst at 4cast Ltd. said in e-mailed
comments, saying that he thought the growth figures were
realistic. “Turkey will be one of the first economies to regain
better growth when developed economies gradually emerge from the
crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  