-- Turkish Industrial Output Unexpectedly Shrank in August
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-10-09T08:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/turkish-industrial-output-unexpectedly-shrank-in-august-1-.html
Turkish industrial output
unexpectedly shrank in August for the first time in almost three
years, pushing this year’s growth target out of reach and adding
further pressure on the central bank to lower rates.  Industrial production  declined 1.5 percent from a year ago,
the statistics office in Ankara said on its website, compared
with a 3.3 percent increase in July. Output was expected to rise
by 2.6 percent, according to the median estimate of 7 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Production declined 2.3 percent from the
previous month when adjusted for seasonality and working days.  Economic growth has been slowing in Turkey after the debt
crisis in  Europe  worsened and the central bank tightened
monetary policy to stem inflation and bank lending. Gross
domestic product grew 2.9 percent in the second quarter, the
slowest for more than two years. The decline has prompted the
central bank to reverse course and lower borrowing costs, as
some Cabinet members press for further action.  “This is the official goodbye to 4 percent GDP growth this
year,” Turker Hamzaoglu an economist at  Bank of America  Corp.
in  London  said in emailed comments. “Expect the minister of
economy hitting the headlines soon blaming the Turkish central
bank for being late in cutting rates.”  Yields on  two-year benchmark bonds  retreated 5 basis points
to 7.63 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira declined 0.2
percent to 1.8147 per dollar.  Europe Impact  Speaking after the release of the figures, Deputy Prime
Minister Ali Babacan said that the government expects growth of
3.2 percent this year. He also lowered the 2013 goal to 4
percent from 5 percent, and announced larger budget deficit
targets for the next two years. Babacan said  Turkey ’s economy
couldn’t escape the impact from Europe, its main export market.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci, who varies borrowing
costs on a daily basis, has pushed the average  cost of funding
for banks  down by almost half since May. It’s now 5.8 percent,
just 5 basis points above the floor of his so-called rate
corridor.  Basci will probably respond by cutting the top end of the
corridor by 1 percentage point to 8.5 percent at the next policy
meeting on Oct. 18, said Emre Tekmen, an economist at TEB Invest
in Istanbul, in an e-mailed note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 