-- Venezuela Inflation Slows for 10th Month on Election Imports
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-10-09T17:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/venezuela-inflation-slows-for-10th-month-on-election-imports-1-.html
Venezuela ’s inflation slowed for a
10th consecutive month in September as the government maintained
price controls and boosted cheap imports ahead of elections last
week.  Nationwide annualized inflation slowed to 18 percent from
18.1 percent in August, trailing the 18.3 percent median
 estimate  of five economists in a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose
1.6 percent from the month before, when they gained 1.1 percent.  President  Hugo Chavez , who won another six-year term that
could extend his rule to 20 years in elections on Oct. 7, has
tightened price controls on 19 consumer care products this year
while ramping up imports to mitigate shortages, said Alejandro Arreaza, an economist at Barclays Plc in  New York .  “The price controls have delayed the adjustment of prices
while they’ve tried to control other products by increasing
supply,” Arreaza said in a phone interview. “We’re expecting a
rebound next year.”  Food costs, which account for 37 percent of the inflation
index, gained 1.9 percent in September, the fastest increase
since January. Educational materials, restaurants and hotels and
alcoholic drinks and tobacco also pushed prices higher, rising
4.4 percent, 1.9 percent and 1.7 percent respectively, the bank
said.  The bolivar slid 0.32 percent to a record 12.62 per dollar
in the unregulated market today following Chavez’s victory.  Foreign Currency  An increase in foreign currency allocations has allowed the
government to ramp up imports and slow price rises. Imports
leaped 26.8 percent in the first half of the year, according to
the central bank, after the bank-administered  currency market 
known as Sitme increased allocations by 32 percent to $5.16
billion from the same period a year earlier.  Annual inflation fell below 20 percent in July for the
first time since the national index was created in December 2008
to replace the Caracas index.  Inflation probably will accelerate after the election as
the government devalues the bolivar and reduces imports in order
as it looks to narrow the fiscal deficit, Arreaza said.
Venezuela will weaken the official rate to 6.2 bolivars per
dollar in the first quarter of 2013 from 4.3 at the moment,
according to the median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Ahead of the election, the government boosted spending,
raising government wages by 32.25 percent this year. The number
of bolivars circulating in the economy has increased 56 percent
since August 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Devaluation  Consumer prices in the capital Caracas rose 1.9 percent in
September, while annual inflation quickened to 19.1 percent from
18.6 percent, the bank said today.  Businesses who cannot buy foreign currency from the
government are obtaining it in unregulated trading and pricing
in a devaluation, said  Boris Segura , a strategist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. today.  “If you don’t have access to Cadivi or Sitme, this is
affecting your cost structure, the cost of importing,” Segura
said in a phone interview, referring to the government currency
agency and central bank-administered currency market. “People
are already pricing in a devaluation for early next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  