-- Vestager Says No Assurances Yet on ECB Bank Oversight Voting
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-09T13:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/vestager-says-no-assurances-yet-on-ecb-bank-oversight-voting.html
Danish Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said European Union officials haven’t yet resolved how
to include non-euro nations in financial supervision decision-
making at the  European Central Bank .  Vestager said the European Commission and Cyprus, which
holds the EU’s rotating presidency, had an “open attitude”
toward  Denmark ’s concerns so that the bank supervisor plan can
move forward. Representatives from the central bank, where the
new supervisor would be held, were not as forthcoming.  “I don’t think the ECB was that clear on it,” Vestager
said in an interview after finance ministers met in Luxembourg
today. “It was more the commission, the presidency, member
countries.”  EU leaders in June embarked on plans to create a common
supervisor as a step toward offering direct bank bailouts from
the euro-area’s firewall fund. All 27 EU nations must approve
the oversight proposal for it to move forward, and non-euro
region nations have said they need more assurance their voices
won’t be drowned out by the currency bloc.  Vestager said she’s optimistic the supervision plan will
move forward.  “There were very strong political guidelines, as there
should be,” she said. “Much more work remains to be done.”  Vestager said Denmark’s government hasn’t changed its mind
about staying on the sidelines as a coalition of EU nations
seeks to craft proposals for a common financial-transaction tax.  “Our position is the same as it was when we were
discussing the full proposal,” she said. “We’ll follow the
process closely and see what the outcome will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  