-- Wal-Mart Offers Bank Account Option With American Express
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/wal-mart-offers-bank-account-option-with-american-express.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, has been adding financial products for people
who don’t have bank accounts. Now it’s targeting those who do.  A prepaid debit card called Bluebird, created through a
partnership with  American Express Co. (AXP) , will be available in more
than 4,000 U.S. Wal-Mart stores and online next week, the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Services include direct deposit, automatic bill pay
and remote check capture using a smartphone application. The
card has no monthly or annual fees, and doesn’t require a
minimum balance.  “Bluebird is designed as a checking and debit
alternative,” Daniel Eckert, vice president of financial
services for Wal-Mart U.S., said in an interview. The product is
for “those customers who are waking up to the skyrocketing
costs of having a checking account.”  Wal-Mart abandoned plans to start its own bank in 2007 amid
opposition from legislators and financial-services companies. At
the time, the retailer’s application to open a so-called
industrial bank in  Utah  would have enabled it to process credit-
card and debit card transactions internally.  The retailer has been adding financial services and
products to boost store visits in the U.S. after so-called same-
store sales declined for two years through July 2011, according
to Matt Arnold, an analyst for Edward Jones & Co. in Des Peres,
 Missouri . Bluebird will probably appeal to the low-income
consumers Wal-Mart depends on because they can often only afford
basic accounts without such features, he said.  One-Stop Shopping  “There’s still a huge piece of the population that doesn’t
enjoy that, and for them this could wind up being a better
alternative,” said Arnold, who recommends buying Wal-Mart
shares. The card appears to be created to increase store traffic
and relevance rather than profit, he said.  U.S. sales at Wal-Mart fell in part because it removed
items from the stores, making it less of a one-stop shopping
experience, Arnold said. While Bluebird won’t have a major
impact on results, it could help improve that aspect, he said.  “Anything they can do that adds to the one-stop shopping
opportunity will only help their relevance,” Arnold said.  Bluebird had been tested in some stores in the U.S. since
2011. During the pilot phase, Wal-Mart learned that its
customers wanted the account to offer many of the services that
banks offer without the fees, Eckert said. U.S. consumers pay an
average of $259 a year for a basic checking account, Wal-Mart
said in the statement, citing a study by Bretton Woods.  Debit-Card Fees  Wal-Mart is further capitalizing on its push for Congress
to cap debit-card “swipe” fees charged to merchants, a Dodd-
Frank Act provision that has cut annual revenue at the biggest
U.S. banks by about $8 billion. The payments industry predicted
that lenders would impose checking-account fees in response to
the legislation, pushing lower-income consumers out of the
banking system.  The agreement may help American Express expand beyond its
core credit- and charge-card business and drive more spending to
its global payments network. Targeting Wal-Mart customers also
contrasts with AmEx’s historic focus on affluent consumers.  “Now we have the ability to address different segments of
not just the U.S. markets, but frankly across the world as well
as those who might not be traditionally best served through a
charge or credit product,” Dan Schulman, group president of the
firm’s enterprise growth business, said on a conference call
yesterday.  Wal-Mart and American Express are backing the start of the
program with a national marketing campaign that will include
television ads, Eckert said.  Dollar Stores  A Bluebird starter kit will sell exclusively in Wal-Mart
locations for $5. It will be merchandised at checkout and at the
front of stores, Eckert said. Consumers can also go to
Bluebird’s website and sign up for free.  The addition of Bluebird may help Wal-Mart to attract
shoppers from  Dollar General Corp. (DG)  and  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) 
that have been gaining customers since the recession by adding
food and other products, said Patrick McKeever, managing
director for MKM Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . Bluebird
users can deposit cash into the account at Wal-Mart stores.  “You get consumers in the stores to do more of their
financial transactions, and maybe that represents a modest
threat to the dollar stores,” McKeever said. “Dollar stores
don’t offer this kind of service currently.”  Wal-Mart declined to disclose the financial terms of the
partnership. Bluebird can only be used where American Express is
accepted, Eckert said.  Wal-Mart  rose  0.2 percent to $75.25 at the close in New
York yesterday. The shares have gained 26 percent this year.  Green Dot  The retailer already offers several financial services,
including check cashing, wire transfers and bill payment. In
some locations, the company partners with a bank to have a small
branch available in store.  Wal-Mart also sells a prepaid card from  Green Dot Corp. (GDOT) 
that can be used on the Visa Inc. and  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  networks.
Bluebird offers more everyday services such as automatic bill
pay and mobile deposits, Eckert said.  After withdrawing its plan to open its own bank in 2007,
this card only adds to Wal-Mart’s push into mirroring the
services found at a bank, McKeever said.  “They are kind of working around those hurdles,” McKeever
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  