-- Workday Boosts IPO Price Range Seeking Up to $591.5 Million
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-09T14:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/workday-boosts-ipo-price-range-to-raise-up-to-591-5-million.html
  Workday Inc. (WDAY) , a provider of cloud-
computing software that helps companies manage office operations
online, boosted the price range for its initial public offering,
seeking to raise as much as $591.5 million.  Workday is offering 22.75 million shares at $24 to $26
apiece, up from a prior range of $21 to $24, according to a
filing today. At the midpoint of the increased range, the
company would have a market value of $4 billion.  The company, based in Pleasanton, California, offers
payroll and human resources services software online and counts
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  among its  customers , according to people familiar
with that deal. Stock surges for cloud-related companies
ServiceNow Inc. and  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW)  after IPOs earlier
this year are bolstering demand for Workday, said Scott Sweet,
senior managing partner at IPO Boutique.  “It will be the biggest cloud-based tech IPO this year,”
Sweet said in an interview today. “The institutions are coming
in with monstrous orders and are willing to pay more than the
prevailing  price range . They want the deal very badly.”  ServiceNow, which provides software and services to help
companies manage human resources and financial information over
the Internet, has more than doubled since an IPO in June. Palo
Alto Networks, which makes data-center security technology,
through yesterday had gained 48 percent since its debut in July.  Guidewire Software Inc., a provider of Web-based insurance
claims software, and Demandware Inc., which sells e-commerce
software and services, have doubled since IPOs this year.  IPO Float  Workday was founded in 2005 by co-Chief Executive Officers
Dave Duffield and Aneel Bhusri, who both previously worked at
human-resources software pioneer PeopleSoft Inc.  The company is offering 14 percent of shares in the IPO. If
underwriters exercise an option to sell an additional 3.4
million shares, that would increase the float to 16 percent.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are managing
the sale. Workday plans to list on the  New York  Stock Exchange
under the symbol WDAY.  Greylock Partners , a  Menlo Park , California-based venture
firm, is the top outside investor in Workday with an 11 percent
stake and isn’t selling shares in the IPO, according to the
filing.  New Enterprise Associates  will retain its 10 percent
stake after the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  