-- Zacky Farms Files Bankruptcy, Cites Cost of Poultry Feed
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-09T20:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-09/zacky-farms-files-bankruptcy-cites-cost-of-poultry-feed.html
Zacky Farms LLC, a Fresno,
California-based poultry producer, filed for bankruptcy with
plans to sell itself to pay creditors owed as much as
$100 million.  The closely held company blamed the filing on heavy debt
and soaring feed costs in papers filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in  Sacramento ,  California . Zacky listed as much as $100 million
in assets.  “Normal operations and  customer service  will continue
without disruption,” Zacky officials said today in a statement.  The poultry industry has been under “severe stress due to
historically high corn and soybean meal prices” leading to
“significant operating losses” in its turkey and chicken
business, the company said.  Global food prices tracked by the  United Nations  will climb
to a record by June as droughts in the U.S.,  South America  and
 Russia  push up animal-feed costs, spurring meat and dairy
farmers to reduce herds, according to financial-services
provider  Rabobank International .  The worst U.S. drought in 56 years sent the price of corn,
the main ingredient in livestock feed, to a record $8.49 a
bushel on Aug. 10 on the Chicago Board of Trade. The UN’s gauge
of 55 food items reached a six-month high in September.  Operating Loan  Zacky spends about $1.8 million a week on feed for about
1.9 million turkeys and 600,000 chickens, according to court
documents.  Starting in April, the company tried to avoid bankruptcy by
borrowing $7 million from the Robert D. Zacky and Lillian D.
Zacky trust, which owns half of Zacky, court papers show. Family
members related to Albert Zacky own the other half.  Zacky needs to borrow $71 million at a 6 percent interest
rate to operate in bankruptcy, according to court papers. The
so-called debtor-in-possession loan is being made by the Lillian
Zacky Family Trust, the company said in a statement.  The loan, which must be approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Thomas Holman, requires “the commencement of an immediate
process to sell the company as a going concern,” Zacky said in
court papers filed today.  The company filed its case yesterday under Chapter 11 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which is used for companies that plan
to reorganize and continue operating. The filing was made public
today.  Biggest Creditors  The two biggest unsecured creditors listed in the Chapter
11 bankruptcy petition were Western Milling, of Goshen,
California, owed $6.6 million, and Foster Farms LLC, of
Livingston, California, owed $1.2 million.  Zacky Farms traces its roots to Samuel Zacky, who emigrated
to the U.S. in 1908 from Kiev and in 1928 opened a live-chicken
store in  Los Angeles , according to the company  website . In 1979,
the company opened a Fresno plant capable of processing more
than 1 million birds a week.  The case is In re Zacky Farms LLC, 12-37961,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  