-- Harper Lee Sues Agent Over ‘Mockingbird’ Royalties
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/-to-kill-a-mockingbird-author-files-suit-over-copyright.html
Harper Lee, the 87-year-old author of
“To Kill a Mockingbird,” sued her literary agent, claiming he
took advantage of her age and infirmity to deprive her of
royalties from the novel.  Lee, of Monroeville,  Alabama , sued Samuel Pinkus, the
agent, and others seeking to ensure her ownership of the
copyright to the 1960 novel and to compel forfeiture of the
agent’s commissions, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in New York.  Lee, who has failing eyesight and hearing, was residing in
an assisted-living facility in 2007 after suffering a stroke
when she signed a document assigning her copyright to Pinkus’s
company, according to the complaint. While the copyright was re-
assigned to Lee last year after legal action and Pinkus was
discharged as Lee’s agent, he was still receiving royalties from
the novel as of this year, according to the complaint.  “Pinkus knew that Harper Lee was an elderly woman with
physical infirmities that made it difficult for her to read and
see,” Gloria Phares, Lee’s lawyer, said in the complaint.
“Harper Lee had no idea she had assigned her copyright” to
Pinkus’s company.  There was no immediate response yesterday to a message left
on the voice-mail of Leigh Ann Winick of Hastings-on-Hudson,  New
York , a defendant in the suit and the wife of Pinkus, according
to the complaint. She is listed as the president of Keystone
Literary LLC, a defendant.  Also named as a defendant is Gerald Posner, identified as a
New York lawyer and investigative journalist who incorporated
one of Pinkus’s businesses. Posner didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail sent to his website yesterday seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Judgment, Arbitration  Lee’s literary agent for many years was McIntosh & Otis,
according to the complaint. When its principal, Eugene Winick,
became ill in 2002, his son-in-law, Pinkus, took over and
diverted several McIntosh clients to a company he controlled,
according to the complaint. McIntosh later won a judgment
against Pinkus’s company in an arbitration over commissions he
diverted from the firm, according to the complaint.  “To Kill a Mockingbird,” a story of racial injustice in
the American South, won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction and was
made into a film starring Gregory Peck, who won an Oscar for
playing the lawyer Atticus Finch. It is Lee’s only published
novel. The book has sold more than 30 million copies worldwide.  The case is Lee v. Pinkus, 13-3000, U.S. District Court,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at  mhytha
@bloomberg.net 