-- Macquarie Posts First Profit Rise Since 2010
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-03T06:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/macquarie-posts-first-profit-rise-since-2010.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, posted its first profit growth in three
years on cost cuts and higher fund management fees, sparking the
biggest share-price gain since 2009.  Profit for the 12 months ended March 31 rose to A$851
million ($873 million) from an eight-year low of A$730 million a
year earlier, beating the A$821 million average estimate of 13
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Macquarie’s stock jumped as much
as 12 percent as the bank increased its dividend and said it
expects profit to rise further this financial year.  The gain in profit at the Sydney-based bank follows a
global stock market rally and Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore ’s shift from deal-making and trading to less volatile
businesses such as lending and fund management. The bank has
reduced costs by measures such as cutting jobs and closing its
institutional derivatives businesses, after a slump in fees from
share sales and advising on acquisitions.  “As long as financial market activity continues to develop
and come off their lows, there should be several years of upside
ahead for Macquarie,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at
Sydney-based White Funds Management, which oversees more than
$350 million in assets and owns Macquarie shares.  The bank will post a 24 percent increase in net income to
A$1.05 billion in the 2014 financial year, according to the
average of 13 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Macquarie Group jumped 11 percent to close at A$43.11, the
highest level since June 2010, after rising as high as AU$43.64.
The benchmark S&P/ASX200 index was little changed.  Dividend Payout  The bank had surplus capital of A$3.4 billion, and
announced a final  dividend  of A$1.25 a share. That took the
total dividend for the year to A$2.00 a share, a 79 percent
payout ratio, compared with a new target range of 60 percent to
80 percent. Macquarie paid a total of A$1.40 per share in the
previous year. Its payout ratio target was previously 50 percent
to 60 percent.  “We can’t see any immediate way of using that capital,”
Moore said in an interview today. “We hope organic growth will
come through and we will see our books grow, and as our books
grow we will need capital.”  Fund management contributed the most to Macquarie Group’s
profit, posting a 17 percent rise to A$755 million, and its
banking unit registered a 22 percent profit rise.  “There is increased potential of more performance and base
fees going forward,” said Mark Nathan, a managing partner at
Sydney-based Arnhem Investment Management, which doesn’t
disclose its holdings. “We have probably seen most of the cost
cuts, so they can maintain the momentum if markets continue to
improve.”  Fee Income  Fee and commission income from Macquarie Funds rose 15
percent from a year earlier while the group’s total operating
expenses fell 10 percent. Macquarie reduced employees by 3.8
percent to 13,663 and cut other operating costs by 16 percent.  Net income in the six months ended March 31 rose 36 percent
to A$490 million, Macquarie said in a statement.  The MSCI ACWI Index of global equities, tracking emerging
and developed markets, climbed 8.3 percent this year as
investors bet that central banks in  Japan  and  Europe  will deploy
more measures to boost growth and policy makers in the U.S. and
 China  remain willing to increase stimulus if the recovery wanes.  Equity Trading  Macquarie Securities, the bank’s equity trading business,
reported a net loss of A$50 million for the year, narrowing from
A$194 million the previous year. Macquarie Capital, the advisory
and underwriting unit, reported a 76 percent rise in profit.  Client activity remains “subdued” due to fragile investor
confidence, Macquarie said. In the year to March 31, 2014,
Macquarie expects an increase in profit for its trading and
 investment banking  business while the other units will be
“broadly in-line.”  Global deal making slipped in the first quarter. Takeovers
fell 0.7 percent from a year earlier and 35 percent from the
previous quarter to about $480 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In Australia, whose 37 percent contribution to Macquarie’s
revenue makes it the bank’s  largest market , mergers and
acquisitions are headed for a third year of declines, the data
show. Equity offerings in Australia and  New Zealand  last year
dropped to their lowest level since at least 2004, according to
the data.  The group’s profit rise follows similar increases from
global competitors.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  on April 16 said
first-quarter revenue from investment banking climbed 36
percent.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said last week that quarterly
profit more than tripled to the highest in seven years as
investment banking fees and brokerage commissions surged.  Macquarie’s  return on equity , a measure of how effectively
the bank invests shareholder funds, recovered from a record low
to 7.8 percent, still about half the return delivered by
Australia’s largest commercial banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  