-- Madagascar’s Rajoelina Reverses Decision Not to Run in Election
-- B y   A n n e l i e   R o z e b o o m
-- 2013-05-03T12:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/madagascar-s-rajoelina-reverses-decision-not-to-run-in-election.html
Madagascar President  Andry Rajoelina 
registered as a candidate for elections scheduled for July, four
months after saying he won’t run as part of an agreement to help
restore political stability in the country.  The 38-year-old former nightclub DJ’s name is among a list
of 41 people whose candidacy has been approved by the Special
Electoral Court, according to a  statement  published on the High
Constitutional Court’s website today. Candidates who hold public
office must resign 60 days before the July 24 vote takes place,
the court said.  Rajoelina “meets the eligibility requirements of the laws
and regulations in order to be a candidate in the presidential
election,” it said.  Madagascar, the world’s second-largest producer of vanilla
and cloves, has been ruled by Rajoelina since March 2009, when
he removed President  Marc Ravalomanana  from power with the help
of the Indian Ocean island nation’s army. Ravalomanana is living
in exile because he risks arrest after being sentenced to life
in prison for civilian deaths that resulted from protests
against his rule.  In a deal brokered by the  Southern African Development
Community  in January, both Rajoelina and Ravalomanana agreed to
not compete in this year’s election.  “I will not be a candidate at the elections,” Rajoelina
said in a prime-time television address on Jan. 15. “I will
sacrifice myself for the sake of the 20 million Malagasy.”  Ex-President’s Wife  Yesterday, Rajoelina appeared on national television and
accused Ravalomanana of breaching the January agreement after
Lalao Ravalomanana, the ex-president’s wife, declared her
candidacy for president. Her name was among the 41 approved by
the court today.  Lalao’s candidacy had been in doubt because Madagascar law
stipulates that candidates must be residents of the country six
months before the election. The court said that both Lalao and
Didier Ratsiraka, a 76-year-old former president who ruled
Madagascar for almost 30 years and who returned from exile in
April, were allowed to run.  Lalao, who has been living with her husband in  South
Africa , returned to Madagascar in March after being granted
permission to care for her sick mother.  “Their absence on the Malagasy territory resulted from
facts and circumstances that were independent of their will,
while they have expressed clearly their desire to return to
Madagascar,” the court said.  Vital Candidacy  Former Prime Minister Camille Vital’s candidacy was also
approved, as was that of Edgard Razafindravahy, the mayor of
Antananarivo who is also a member of Rajoelina’s party.  Madagascar, a $10 billion economy dependent on agriculture
for a third of its output, achieved zero growth in the four
years since Rajoelina seized power, compared with a 5.7 percent
expansion before the coup, according to International Monetary
Fund data.  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , based in  London , built a $5 billion titanium
mine in the country, while Madagascar’s nickel deposits
attracted interest from companies including  Canada ’s Sherritt
International Corp. Lemur Resources Ltd., a Perth, Australia-
based coal-exploration company, owns 99 percent of the Imaloto
thermal-coal project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annelie Rozeboom in Nairobi at 
 arozeboom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  