-- Madison Square Garden Trades at Record High as Knicks Win
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-05-03T20:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/madison-square-garden-climbs-to-record-amid-knicks-playoff-run.html
Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , the sports
and entertainment company that owns the New York Knicks and
Rangers, rose to a record high after earnings topped estimates
and a playoff run by both teams brings a surge in ticket sales.  Third-quarter net income climbed 24 percent to $38.4
million, or 49 cents a share, from $31.1 million, or 40 cents, a
year earlier, the company said today in a statement. The average
analyst estimate was 31 cents a share, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg.  MSG shares  rose 0.4 percent to close at $60.71 at the close
in New York, reaching the highest level since the stock began
trading in 2010. The shares have gained 37 percent this year.  The Knicks advanced to the National Basketball Association
postseason last month, while the Rangers made it to the National
Hockey League playoffs -- bringing a double dose of extra
revenue from tickets, TV viewership and merchandise. That’s
helping the company rebound from work stoppages at both the NBA
and NHL over the past two seasons, which made for fewer games.  Last quarter’s profit gains were driven by the New York-
based company’s MSG Media unit. The MSG cable networks struck a
deal with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  in last year’s third quarter to
broadcast games of the Knicks and the Rangers, as well as the
NHL’s New Jersey Devils, New York Islanders and Buffalo Sabres.
MSG Media affiliate fee revenue, paid by cable-TV operators,
increased $16.8 million. Total sales rose 3 percent to $412.4
million in the period, which ended March 31.  Madison Square Garden is completing a restoration of the
eponymous arena it owns. The final phase of the project will
begin after the Rangers and Knicks end their seasons, Chief
Executive Officer Hank Ratner said in the statement.  The Knicks are currently leading the Boston Celtics 3-2 in
their seven-game playoff series. The Knicks are the Eastern
Conference’s second seed. Game 6 is tonight in  Boston .  The Rangers, seeded sixth, are trailing the Washington
Capitals 1-0 and play Game 2 at Washington tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  