-- Air Canada Sees Fare Pressure as Rivals Add Seat Capacity
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-03T20:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/air-canada-sees-2013-operating-cost-falling-faster-than-forecast.html
Air Canada (AC/B)  predicted further pressure
on fares this year after its first-quarter yield dropped as
competitors added seating and offered lower prices on some
routes in North and South America.  Yield, or average fare per mile, dropped 1.1 percent from a
year earlier to 19 cents, Canada’s largest airline said today in
a statement. The loss excluding such items as currency
fluctuations and employee-benefit costs narrowed to 52 cents a
share from 58 cents a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Calin Rovinescu said the fare
environment remains “challenging” as he works to bolster
earnings after the Montreal-based carrier returned to
profitability in 2012 from four years of losses. In addition to
fiercer competition, the company grappled with a less lucrative
passenger mix and and severe winter weather.  “The tough quarter could be the first sign of weaker
demand,”  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto, said in a note to clients. “While management did
indicate that a number of the factors were timing-related, we
are concerned that the yield pressure has extended into the
second quarter.”  Air Canada  fell  6.3 percent to C$2.70 at the close of
trading in Toronto today, the largest decline since April 22.
The stock had previously  gained  about 65 percent this year.  ‘Competitive Pricing’  Operating revenue slipped to C$2.95 billion from C$2.96
billion as the carrier faced severe-weather cancellations and
the loss of an extra day from the 2012 leap year. The number of
low-paying leisure travelers increased relative to premium-fare
business fliers, partly due to an earlier Easter holiday than
the year before, the airline said.  Air Canada (AC/A)  is seeing higher industry seating capacity and
“competitive pricing” on routes in eastern Canada, the
northeastern U.S. and South America, as well as service to
leisure destinations, according to a filing today.  “These markets are extraordinarily competitive, and we
have seen increased capacity in some of these markets and very
specific pricing action,” Rovinescu said today on a conference
call with analysts. “We need to continue as we are to tackle
our costs. To the extent that we see behavior like this in the
future, we’ll have a lower cost structure to be able to deal
with it.”  Yield Pressure  Should capacity continue to climb on these routes, “which
in the short term we believe it will as competitor airlines
launch new services, it will clearly place additional pressure
on network yields,” said Spracklin, who has a sector perform
rating on Air  Canada ’s stock.  While the airline expects yields to recover as the economy
strengthens, that may take some time, Rovinescu said.  Some of Air Canada’s corporate customers are “feeling the
pressure of the economy” and growth in the U.S. remains
“relatively weak,” the CEO said.  “We are not predicting that there’s going to be an
immediate recovery from the economic standpoint by midyear,”
Rovinescu said. “All trends indicate that it is still a
relatively slow period of growth.”  Air Canada today reiterated its April 22 prediction that
adjusted costs per available seat mile will fall 0.5 percent to
1.5 percent this year. Air Canada had forecast on Feb. 7 that
the costs would fall by no more than 1 percent.  Including an impairment charge of C$24 million related to
Airbus A340-300 aircraft, as well as an estimated C$10 million
due to flight cancellations, the carrier posted a  net loss  of
C$260 million, or 95 cents a share, compared with C$274 million,
or 99 cents, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  