-- American Capital Slumps as Mortgage Strategy Backfires
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-03T21:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/american-capital-agency-slumps-as-mortgage-strategy-backfires.html
American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the
 second-largest  real estate investment trust that buys mortgage
debt, tumbled after reporting an 8.6 percent drop in its book
value from the previous quarter.  The REIT  slumped  7.4 percent to $30.66 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York, the largest daily drop since October 2009. The
Bethesda, Maryland-based firm said in a  statement  yesterday that
its book value, a measure of its assets minus its liabilities,
declined $2.71 to $28.93 per share on March 31.  The company, led by Chief Investment Officer Gary Kain, may
have suffered a bigger drop than  peers  because of a strategy of
targeting securities with loans considered less likely to
refinance, according to Jefferies Group LLC analysts. Those
bonds had helped the REIT outperform last year.  “The surprising decline in book value from a company that
has had a stellar track record in value generation is likely to
be the key discussion point today with the stock,” Jefferies
analysts including Daniel Furtado wrote today in a report.
“Although we anticipate talk of AGNC losing their multiple
premium due to this bad performance, at the end of the day, we
expect AGNC will maintain a slight premium valuation,” they
said, referring to American Capital Agency by its equity ticker.  Refinancing Risk  Investors pay more for certain government-backed mortgage
bonds to avoid homeowner refinancing that can shrink returns on
debt trading for more than face value by returning principal
faster at par and curbing interest. The types of loans include
those with low balances or borrowers who have already tapped the
federal Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP.  The so-called pay-ups have dropped as investors focused
more on the risk that the lives of mortgage securities will
extend once interest rates rise, Kain said in the statement. The
firm’s book value was also damaged by widening relative yields
on generic securities amid concern the Federal Reserve could end
its buying sooner than expected, he said.  “The Fed’s massive involvement in the mortgage market is
clearly creating volatility,” Kain, who managed Freddie Mac’s
 investment portfolio  before joining the REIT in 2009, said today
on a conference call.  The U.S. central bank has been adding $40 billion of the
securities a month to  stimulate  the economy, as well as
reinvesting in the market with proceeds from existing holdings.  ‘Considerably Worse’  Kain defended his firm’s bets on securities with
refinancing protection, which he said performed “considerably
worse than we anticipated” last quarter.  “Faster prepaying pools may be a little more stable in
price but they’re not earning you much in many environments,”
Kain said. Still, pay-ups would drop “materially” if rates
went up 1 percentage point, he said.  The premiums on so-called specified pools have also
declined as the Fed’s purchases of generic securities made it
cheaper to finance investments in the debt through the so-called
dollar roll market, Bank of America Corp. analysts including
Satish Mansukhani wrote in an April 26 report.  At the same time, some types of refinancing protection may
prove less valuable if the HARP program for Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans is expanded. This week, President  Barack Obama 
nominated Representative Mel Watt to be director of the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , the overseer of government-controlled
firms. Rising home prices could also help expand refinancing.  Annaly Capital  Less than 5 percent of American Capital Agency’s portfolio
would be impacted by a one-year extension of HARP’s eligibility
date that allows homeowners to use it a second time, Kain said
on the call.  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the biggest mortgage REIT
with $125.5 billion of assets on March 31, said in a  statement 
May 1 that its book value per share fell to $15.19, down from
$15.85 on Dec. 31. American Capital Agency reported $93.4
billion of assets.  “While this quarter’s book value performance” at American
Capital Agency “is likely to be one of the worst in the space,
management has generated exceptional  returns  over the course of
the last three years,” the Jefferies analysts wrote.  Some of the drops in pay-ups and widening in spreads on
generic bonds have reversed this quarter as investors push back
their expectations for the Fed’s retreat, Kain said on the call.  Premiums on Fannie Mae 4 percent bonds with the mortgages
with loan-to-value ratios of more than 125 percent allowed by
HARP have risen to 3.3 cents on the dollar, from as low as 2.2
cents in April and a record high 4.5 cents in December,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG data. Pay-ups for similar
bonds backed by the smallest loans have climbed to 4 cents, from
3.4 cents in March, though remain down from a record 4.9 cents
in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  