-- Man Accused of Trying to Join al-Qaeda Ally Loses Bail
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-03T19:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/man-accused-of-trying-to-join-al-qaeda-ally-loses-bail.html
Abdella Ahmad Tounisi, the suburban
Chicago teenager accused of trying to join an al-Qaeda ally in
 Syria , must remain in federal custody, a U.S. judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Edmond E. Chang in Chicago today
reversed a federal magistrate’s decision yesterday to let
Tounisi, 18, be released into his father’s custody and confined
with electronic monitoring to his Aurora, Illinois, home.  Federal agents arrested Tounisi on April 19 at O’Hare
International Airport as he was about to board a flight to
Istanbul with plans to travel on to Syria, according to a
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  statement issued April 20.  “The record, as it stands, demonstrates to me there are no
conditions that can reasonably assure his appearance” at trial,
Chang ruled after a court hearing today.  At the hearing, prosecutor William Ridgway argued that
Tounisi was both a flight risk and a danger to the community.  Tounisi pressed on with efforts to join Jabhat al-Nusrah,
listed by the U.S. State Department as an alias for al-Qaeda in
 Iraq , a designated foreign terrorist organization, even after a
close friend was arrested by the FBI and Tounisi was questioned
by federal agents, Ridgway said.  Sting Operation  The friend, Adel Daoud, 19, was apprehended in September in
an FBI sting operation after trying to detonate a bomb outside a
bar in downtown  Chicago . The bomb was a phony supplied to him by
an undercover federal agent. Daoud has pleaded not guilty and is
being held pending trial.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel G. Martin said yesterday that
Tounisi was entitled to a presumption of innocence and, calling
the decision “close,” concluded the defendant could be safely
confined to his parents’ home under his father’s supervision.  Tounisi’s lawyer, Molly Armour, told Chang today that her
client isn’t a flight risk and that his father and members of
his community, about 30 of whom filled the magistrate’s
courtroom yesterday, would take an active role in assuring
Tounisi’s compliance with the terms of his release.  “It’s unusual to see that level of community support,”
she said.  Because Tounisi persisted with his plans after Daoud’s
arrest, after being questioned and after warnings from family
members, Chang said he had “little confidence” the support
community Armour described could contain him.  “I must not undermine the presumption of innocence,” the
judge said. “At the same time, the Constitution does permit
pretrial detention if the facts warrant it.”  The case is U.S. v. Tounisi, 13-cr-00328, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  