-- Man Advances as Firm Redeems Debt, Considers Stock Buy-Back
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-03T16:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/man-group-ceo-considers-stock-buyback-after-redeeming-debt.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge fund manager, jumped the most in a year in
London trading after saying it plans to redeem all debt and may
buy back shares.  Repurchasing the  debt  will reduce surplus capital by as
much as $470 million, leaving the company with about $450
million by January 2014, Man Group said in a statement today.
The firm may use the remainder to “benefit” investors through
stock buy-backs, special  dividends  or  takeovers , Chief Executive
Officer Emmanuel Roman said.  “We will look at the three options and do what makes the
most sense,” Roman, 49, told reporters on a conference call.  After taking the reins in February, Roman is trying to
appease shareholders who have seen the stock  slide  61 percent
since the end of 2010. London-based Man Group said today clients
pulled a net $3.7 billion from the firm’s investment funds in
the first quarter, the seventh consecutive quarterly outflow.  The stock jumped 13 percent to 120 pence, the biggest
increase since April 2012, for a market value of about 2.2
billion pounds ($3.4 billion).  The Financial Conduct Authority in April approved a
regulatory change that almost tripled Man’s surplus capital.
Calling or redeeming all Tier 1 hybrid, Tier 2 and senior debt
will lead to about $78 million of savings in annual interest
charges, the company said today.  Outflows Continue  Redemptions from Man Group’s funds reduced assets under
management by 3.8 percent to $54.8 billion over the first three
months of the year, the company said in a statement. That was in
line with the $3.8 billion estimate of Peter Lenardos, an
analyst  RBC Capital Markets  who rates Man Group a perform.  Roman is trying to reduce outflows by overhauling Man
Group’s fund management teams and adding more investment
products tied to AHL Diversified, the company’s biggest fund.
The stock has advanced 37 percent in 2013 after the $14 billion
AHL pool reversed losses suffered over the previous two years.  “We have seen a somewhat more stable market environment”
that contributed to “solid  investment performance ,” Roman
said. “However, this was a disappointing quarter from a flows
perspective with sales at a similar level to the previous
quarter and increased redemptions, chiefly due to the loss of
three sizeable low-margin mandates.”  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to spot profitable
trends in the prices of stocks, currencies and oil, has risen
9.9 percent this year through April 29, boosted by the fall of
the Japanese yen and rising equity values, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  High-Water Marks  Hedge funds tied to AHL are now 3 percent on average below
their high-water marks, the level at which Man Group can charge
lucrative performance fees for positive investment performance,
Lenardos said in a note to clients.  Investors pulled money from AHL after it underperformed
rivals in 2011 and 2012. So-called  trend-following hedge funds 
were hurt over the past two years as markets swung based on
investors’ optimism or pessimism about the European sovereign-
debt crisis.  The slide in Man Group’s stock over the past two years
prompted the company to remove former CEO  Peter Clarke  and
replace him with Roman, who had been chief operating officer.  Roman joined Man Group in 2010 as part of the company’s
$1.6 billion acquisition of GLG Partners Inc., a London-based
hedge fund and investment firm. Man Group wrote down the value
of GLG by $746 million last year after determining that the
outlook for the unit’s asset growth had worsened, according to a
February statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  