-- Man. United Want Klopp to Replace Ferguson, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-03T09:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/man-united-want-klopp-to-replace-ferguson-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  Klopp Coming?  Manchester United  wants Borussia Dortmund manager Jurgen
Klopp to take over the team when  Alex Ferguson  retires,  the
Daily Mirror said .  While Ferguson has not announced plans to leave, United’s
owners have been impressed by Klopp’s trip to the  Champions
League  final this season as well as his two German titles, the
newspaper said.  Ferguson, who led United to its 20th league title this
season, approves of the 45-year-old and believes Klopp would use
him if the Scotsman stayed on in a consultant’s role, the Mirror
said.  Higuain Available?  Tottenham, Arsenal and  Manchester City  are considering
moves for Real Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain, who the Spanish
club will allow to leave after the season,  the Daily Mail said .  Spurs had an offer for the player rejected last year, and
Real’s general manager, Jose Angel Sanchez, said his club will
bring in two new strikers and let the Argentine to leave, the
newspaper said.  Arsenal Alert  Arsenal is looking at Lyon midfielder Max Gonalons as a
holding midfielder to replace the injured Abou Diaby,  the Sun
said.   The 24-year-old, who is valued at 10 million pounds ($15.5
million) has three years left on his contract in  France , and the
 London  team is scouting him this weekend, the newspaper said.
Gonalons has been with Lyon his entire career and is very
consistent, the Sun said. Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has 70
million pounds to spend this season, the newspaper said.  Bale In  Tottenham winger Gareth Bale told the club that he will
stay in north London whether or not Spurs qualify for the
Champions League,  the Daily Star said.   Bale signed a four-year contract last year and has told
manager Andre Villas-Boas that he plans to stay next season, the
newspaper said. He’s been linked to Real Madrid and Manchester
City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  