-- Apple Bonds May Drive Electronic Bond Trading Boom, Tchir Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-05-03T16:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/apple-bonds-may-drive-electronic-bond-trading-boom-tchir-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new bonds may prove a
boon to electronic platforms, with the biggest corporate
offering on record spurring trading at a time when dealer
inventories were running dry, according to TF Market Advisors.  The company’s $17 billion sale of bonds this week, its
first since 1996, may “turn out to be a watershed moment in the
world of bond trading,” Peter Tchir, founder of the New York-
based firm, wrote in a note to clients today. Trading in the
Cupertino, California-based company’s bonds accounted for 3.8
percent of volume yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Apple is a well-known company “that has solved the problem
of too small fragmented issues, at the exact time the dealer
community is struggling to provide true liquidity,” he wrote.
Because the debt issues were so big, he said, “there is a real
shot to turn Apple into the first real electronically traded
bond.”  Banks from Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and
UBS AG and money managers including  Fidelity Investments  are
working on cheaper and more efficient trading through electronic
systems. Networks run by firms from Bonds.com Group Inc. to
MarketAxess Holdings Inc. threaten to siphon the revenue  Wall
Street  makes from the difference between offers to buy and sell
the securities.  The 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve 
have reduced the amount of their own money they use to
facilitate trading as the Dodd-Frank Act seeks to limit risk-
taking. Corporate bond holdings at dealers are “potentially
lower than originally believed,” making up only about 0.5
percent of the market, Barclays Plc credit strategists Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff wrote in a note to clients dated today,
citing  New York  Fed data.  ‘Remain Elevated’  “This suggests that transaction costs are likely to remain
elevated and secondary trading volumes subdued relative to pre-
crisis levels, given lower capacity for market making by dealers
combined with growing demand for daily liquidity from corporate
bond mutual funds,” they wrote.  Apple’s  stock  dropped as much as 44 percent from a record
closing high of $702.10 on Sept. 19, partly on concern that the
company may not quickly unveil blockbuster hits like the iPhone
or iPad.  After falling to $390.53 on April 19, the shares recovered
to $451.32 at 11:12 a.m. in New York.  The value of daily trading in Apple shares is greater than
any stock in the  S&P 500 , based on a 20-day average compiled by
Bloomberg. About 10 percent of U.S. volume comes from retail
clients, according to Joseph Mecane, co-head of U.S. listing and
cash execution at NYSE Euronext.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  