-- Tarullo Calls for Greater Capital, Liquidity at Large Banks
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-03T18:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/tarullo-calls-for-greater-capital-liquidity-at-largest-banks.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said regulators should impose higher requirements for
capital and liquidity at  banks  that pose the greatest risk to
the financial system, and should consider measures to link the
two.  “While there is decidedly a need for solid minimum
requirements for both capital and liquidity, the relationship
between the two also matters,” Tarullo said in  remarks  prepared
for delivery today in  Washington . An “interesting approach
would be to tie liquidity and capital standards together by
requiring higher levels of capital for large firms unless their
liquidity position is substantially stronger than minimum
requirements.”  Regulators should focus on the risks still posed by banks
and other financial companies that rely on short-term market
funding because they can be subject to runs in a  crisis , Tarullo
said. He said that existing capital rules for banks and broker-
dealers don’t fully reflect the risks that come from such
funding, and proposed that a higher capital charge could be
imposed to reduce the risks.  Tarullo, the Fed governor in charge of financial regulation
and bank oversight, is expanding the central bank’s efforts to
strengthen the financial system and prevent a repeat of the
2007-2008 financial crisis that precipitated the longest
recession since the Great Depression.  Long Term  Regulators should consider a requirement that large
financial institutions hold long-term debt that can be converted
to equity, Tarullo said in his speech at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics.  “We would do the American public a fundamental disservice
were we to declare victory without tackling the structural
weaknesses of short-term wholesale funding markets,” Tarullo
said. He said that applies “both in general and as they affect
the too-big-to-fail problem.”  The financial system still remains vulnerable to the risk
that short-term funding could be withdrawn and financial
institutions would face the type of liquidity crisis that led to
the collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008.  Among the proposals Tarullo outlined was to make capital
and liquidity more closely linked, so that firms with stable
deposit funding may not need as much capital as firms that rely
more heavily on short-term financing.  Worth Exploring  “This approach is worth exploring, precisely because it
rests upon the link between too-big-to-fail concerns and the
runs and contagion that we experienced five years ago, and to
which we remain vulnerable today,” Tarullo said.  “Whether it proves feasible, or whether we would have to
fall back on the more straightforward approach of strengthening
liquidity requirements for systemically important firms, the key
point is that the principle of increasing stringency be
applied,” according to Tarullo.  The Fed governor said that the current regulatory reform
agenda aimed at strengthening the largest banks so that
regulators would not resort to bail outs in a financial crisis
was insufficient.  “Completion of this agenda, significant as it is, would
leave more too-big-to-fail risk than I think is prudent,”
Tarullo said. Regulators have “the authority, and the
obligation, to apply regulations of increasing stringency to
large banking organizations in order to mitigate risks to
financial stability.”  Bank Regulators  Top U.S. bank regulators and lawmakers are pushing for
action to limit the risk that the government again winds up
financing the rescue of one or more of the nation’s biggest
financial institutions.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Senator  Sherrod Brown  are among those who share the view that the 2010 Dodd-
Frank Act failed to curb the growth of large banks after
promising in its preamble to “end too big to fail.”  Tarullo said there is “clear need for a requirement that
large financial institutions have minimum amounts of long-term
unsecured debt that could be converted to equity and thereby be
available to absorb losses in the event of insolvency.”  Such an approach is known as a bail-in. A bail-in is a form
of bank rescue that makes debt investors and stockholders absorb
losses instead of taxpayers. In some cases, debt may be
converted to stock to help recapitalize the bank.  U.S., Europe  Bail-ins have drawn favor in the U.S. and  Europe  after
taxpayers were forced to bear the risk of bailing out firms such
as American International Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc while senior bondholders weren’t asked to take losses.
Bail-ins have been used in Cyprus, Denmark and Ireland.  Fed Governor Jerome Powell said in March that the central
bank and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are “considering the
pros and cons” of setting a floor for the amount of long-term
unsecured debt to absorb losses and capitalize a bridge holding
company for banks that fail.  Tarullo has said before that he wants a minimum long-term
debt requirement for large firms. U.S. regulators are discussing
such a rule with the view that it would help buffer against
bailouts as debt holdings could be converted into equity in a
bank failure.  He also said today that leverage ratios agreed to as part
of the international banking standards known as Basel III “may
have been set too low.”  In response to audience questions, he said that the Basel
III regulations are “moving along” and that most of the
substantial issues “have been talked through.”  He said the regulations may be completed “within the
course of the next couple months.”  President  Barack Obama ’s first appointment to the Fed,
Tarullo, 60, helped create the Large Institution Supervision
Coordinating Committee, a group of senior Fed bank supervisors,
economists, payment experts and quantitative analysts that looks
for risks that may be clustering in several of the largest
financial institutions at once.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  