-- Asian Currencies Complete Best Rally Since September on Stimulus
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-05-04T00:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/asian-currencies-set-for-best-rally-since-september-on-stimulus.html
Asian currencies rose for a fourth
week, the longest winning streak in seven months, on speculation
central banks will provide more policy stimulus after data from
China to the U.S. fanned concerns that slowdown.  South Korea ’s won reached a seven-week high yesterday and
India’s rupee touched a two-month high on May 2, helping drive a
0.3 percent weekly gain in the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index. The  European Central Bank  reduced its benchmark  interest
rate  this week, while the  Federal Reserve  said it would maintain
its $85 billion monthly bond-purchase program. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of shares advanced for a second week.  “The rally is driven by liquidity and expectations that
policy makers will cap the downside,” said Roy Teo, a currency
strategist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Singapore. “Strong equity
performance is also supportive of risk sentiment.”  The won strengthened 1.3 percent this week to 1,097.20 per
dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Philippine peso rose 0.8 percent to 40.903 and the  Indian rupee 
climbed 0.7 percent to 53.9775.  Emerging-market bond funds had $1.72 billion of inflows in
the week to May 1, Morgan Stanley said in a report yesterday,
citing data published by EPFR Global. That’s the fourth-largest
inflow on record, it said.  Manufacturing Reports  Reports this week showed manufacturing growth slowed in
April in China, India and the U.S., while Taiwan’s first-quarter
growth trailed estimates. The  Bank of Japan  said April 4 that it
would buy 7.5 trillion yen ($76 billion) of debt per month to
stimulate its economy.  In South Korea, three of seven central bank board members
favored reducing the seven-day repurchase rate at last month’s
policy meeting, according to minutes released on April 30. The
 Reserve Bank  of India cut its repurchase rate to 7.25 percent
from 7.5 percent yesterday, a move predicted by 33 of 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The peso touched a three-week high yesterday after  Standard
& Poor’s  lifted the nation’s debt rating to investment grade on
May 2. The company lowered its outlook on Indonesia’s rating to
stable from positive, citing stalling reforms. The rupiah
declined 0.2 percent in the week to 9,741 per dollar.  Thailand’s baht was the biggest loser this week, dropping
1.2 percent to 29.60 per dollar on concern the authorities may
intervene to stem gains. The baht has rallied 3.2 percent this
year, which is hurting exports and may slow economic growth,
Commerce Minister Boonsong Teriyapirom said on May 1.  The monetary authority “seems to acknowledge the baht’s
appreciation has been too rapid,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a
foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in
Bangkok.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at 3.0335
per dollar this week before general elections on May 5, and
Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$29.61. China’s  yuan 
gained 0.15 percent to 6.1556, with local markets closed from
April 29 through May 1 for public holidays, while Vietnam’s dong
was steady at 20,940.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  