-- Australian Miners to Face Capital Raising Squeeze, Goldman Says
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-05-03T02:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/australian-miners-to-face-capital-raising-squeeze-goldman-says.html
Australian miners face a funding
squeeze in the second half as the local dollar’s strength and
slumping commodity prices drive investors away, said Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  “If the opportunity to raise capital is available it may
be prudent to look at that option rather than risk that window
closing,” said Anthony Miller, Sydney-based head of Goldman
Sachs’ financing group for  Australia . The Australian dollar’s 46
percent climb against the greenback since the end of 2008 is
crimping mining profits, making investors less willing to
subscribe for share sales, he said.  Resources companies raised $519 million from share,
convertible bond and rights offerings this year, down 74 percent
from the same period of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P/ASX 300 Metals and Mining Index has  lost  A$70
billion ($72 billion) in market value over the past year as
slowing growth in  China , the South Pacific nation’s biggest
trading partner, spurs a decline in commodity prices that’s not
being matched by a lower Australian dollar.  The so-called Aussie bought $1.0267 as of 12:30 p.m. in
Sydney, holding above $1 for an unprecedented 10-month streak.  Resources companies are doing “anything they can do to
reduce their cost base and protect their cashflows,” including
pulling back on spending plans and selling assets, Miller said
in a phone interview. “We are discussing with clients that yes
you should, where you can, reduce your discretionary capex,
sharpen your cost of production.”  Currency Concern  The currency’s strength is deterring all but the largest
foreign investors from providing funds to Australian mining
companies, said Miller, who heads the investment bank’s local
equity and debt capital markets, leveraged financing and risk
management businesses. KKR & Co., the private-equity firm run by
 Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is considering a bid for Rio
Tinto Group’s stake in the Northparkes copper and gold mine in
New South Wales valued at about $800 million, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  Goldman Sachs has a 7.8 percent market share in arranging
international debt for Australian and New Zealand companies this
year, ranking fourth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The bank ranks sixth for arranging equity and convertible note
issues in the nations, behind UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of
America Corp., Macquarie Group Ltd. and Credit Suisse Group AG,
the data show.  Capital Debate  “There is a lot of debate amongst corporates” about
capital raising plans, Miller said. “When a couple move to
raise capital, the market often speculates that others may also
need to raise as well and there is a risk it becomes self
fulfilling.”  Most vulnerable to a capital shortage are companies with a
high cost base, small or old operations, and firms caught off
guard by the disconnect between the Australian dollar and
commodity prices, Miller said. Most resource companies have been
more diligent about protecting cash flows than in earlier cycles
and are better prepared for a downturn, he said.  More than 150 Australian mining companies had less than $1
million of cash on their balance sheets as of their most recent
regulatory filings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Waning global demand for commodities is prompting producers
of everything from gold to coal to trim assets and staff as they
are squeezed by unfavorable foreign exchange rates, falling
prices and increasing costs.  BHP Sales  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, has
offloaded $5 billion of assets including selling the Pinto
Valley mine and railroad in the U.S. to Vancouver-based Capstone
Mining Corp. for $650 million in cash. OceanaGold Corp., the
Australian producer, is considering suspending some operations
in  New Zealand .  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC)  raised $200 million in convertible bonds
to pay down debt in March, helped by Credit Suisse, in the
biggest such raising from Australia’s mining industry this year,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Goldman Sachs last month correctly predicted a sharp fall
in the price of gold, which fuelled a rout that included the
biggest two-day slump for the precious metal in three decades.
The bank’s analysts estimate the cheapest listed company in the
space is Melbourne-based gold producer St. Barbara Ltd., which
last month lowered production forecasts after raising $250
million in five-year secured debt. Its stock has fallen 60
percent since Dec. 31.  Spot prices for aluminum, copper, lead, nickel, zinc, and
gold, have fallen this year driven by concerns sluggish economic
growth will undercut demand.  “The issue is that if companies in most need of raising
capital don’t provide a pathway to recovery, or if their only
way to survive is to wait and see commodity prices go back up,
then there are a lot of other less risky places for investors to
take that same exposure,” Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  