-- TAV Drops Most in 3 Years on Losing Airport Bid: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-03T15:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/tav-drops-most-in-3-years-on-losing-airport-bid-istanbul-mover.html
TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , Turkey’s
biggest airport operator, slumped the most in three years after
withdrawing from a government auction to build and operate a
facility in Istanbul.  The  shares  of TAV, in which  Aeroports De Paris (ADP)  bought a 38
percent stake last year, tumbled 7.8 percent to 11.8 liras at
the close in Istanbul. Almost eight million shares traded, more
than six times the stock’s three-month average daily volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Borsa Istanbul
National 100 (XU100)  index rose 0.6 percent, climbing for a ninth day to
extend its record.  A group consisting of five closely held constructors,
including Limak Insaat Sanayi ve Ticaret AS and Kolin Insaat
Turizm Sanayi ve Ticaret AS offered to pay  Turkey  a rental fee
of 22.13 billion euros ($29 billion) over an operational period
of 25 years in a government auction held today in Ankara. TAV,
which operates the Istanbul Ataturk Airport, withdrew before the
final round of bidding.  “This auction had become a lose-lose situation,” Omer Lutfu Omerbas, an analyst at Ak Investment in Istanbul, said in
a phone interview. “The winning bid is much higher than
predicted. Even if TAV had won, such a price would have been
questioned. But now, the company has lost the chance to extend
its most profitable contract.”  The new airport is planned to be built near the Black Sea
coast and about 60 kilometers (37 miles) northwest of the
Istanbul city center. It will replace the Ataturk Airport, which
generates 40 percent of TAV sales, according to the company’s
website. The company’s operational concession ends in 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  