-- Bangladesh Death Toll From Collapsed Building Exceeds 500
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-05-03T11:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bangladesh-death-toll-for-collapsed-building-rises-to-487.html
The death toll for Bangladesh’s worst
industrial disaster climbed to 511 as the army continued to
clear out debris at a garment-factory building that collapsed on
April 24.  Police yesterday arrested Abdur Razzaque Khan, an engineer
who worked as a consultant to Sohel Rana, the 38-year-old owner
of the collapsed building. The government also suspended Savar
Mayor Muhammad Refatullah.  Bangladesh’s garment factories face increased scrutiny
after last month’s building collapse and a November fire that
claimed 112 lives. Western retailers and labor activists have
been wrangling over a two-year-old memorandum aimed at improving
safety in the South Asian country, which supplies cheap clothes
to stores around the world.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and other companies
began discussing the agreement in April 2011.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,
the world’s largest entertainment company, removed Bangladesh in
March from a list of countries where partners can produce
clothing and merchandise, according to a letter to licensees
released yesterday.  Savar Mayor Refatullah has been suspended for
“irregularities in approving the design” of the building, the
local government ministry said in a notice. He has also been
charged with “negligence and failure to take proper action”
after cracks opened in the building, according to the notice.  Manufacturing Shift  After the cracks were found on April 23, workers were
forced to return to work the next day, being told that it was
safe as engineers checked the building, said Mokhlesur Rahman,
director general of the Rapid Action Battalion, a law
enforcement unit.  Rana and executives of four apparel makers housed in the
structure in Savar, 24 kilometers (15 miles) northwest of Dhaka,
have also been arrested and their assets seized. Rana’s wife and
father are also in police custody.  Surging wages and inflation in  China (CNGDPYOY) , the largest apparel
supplier, have prompted retailers to shift production to
Bangladesh. The manufacturing industry that has sprung up in
response has been marred by factories operated in buildings with
poor electrical wiring, an insufficient number of exits and
little firefighting equipment.  Western retailers and international labor activists met
earlier this week in  Germany  to discuss the Bangladesh safety
memorandum. The contractually enforceable document, which would
require companies to pay suppliers more so factory owners can
afford safety upgrades, was at the center of discussions in
 Frankfurt  on April 29.  10 Cents  Companies including Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart
and Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney attended the Frankfurt
meeting, which was scheduled before Rana Plaza collapsed. The
participants set a May 15 deadline to draft an agreement and
decide whether to accept the terms.  The global garment industry would have to spend about $3
billion over five years to bring safety standards at  Bangladesh 
apparel factories to Western standards, according to an analysis
by the Worker Rights Consortium. Upgrading the country’s
approximately 4,500 factories would cost the garment industry
about 10 cents per garment, the Washington-based labor
monitoring group said.  The annual cost would be $600 million, or about 3 percent
of the $19 billion the Bangladesh Manufacturers & Exporters
Association says Western companies spend annually on
manufacturing in Bangladesh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  