-- Barnes & Noble Partners With Google to Revive Nook Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-05-03T20:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/barnes-noble-partners-with-google-to-revive-nook-sales.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s latest effort to
revive its Nook tablet business involves another technology
giant. This time it’s  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s most
popular search engine.  The largest U.S. bookstore chain has signed a partnership
with Google that will install its Google Play online application
store, as well as Gmail, its Chrome Web browser and maps on new
Nook tablets. Owners of the latest Nook devices will be able to
access the Google services with software updates, the New York-
based company said in a statement today.  Barnes & Noble has upgraded the tablets in a bid to
reinvigorate sales and last year brought on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the
largest software maker, as an investor and partner to help
promote Nook digital books via the Windows 8 operating system.
Sales at the Nook unit fell during the holidays after gaining 38
percent the previous year as more competition sapped demand.  “This goes a long way toward addressing what was perceived
as a gap in our tablet offering,” Chief Executive Officer
William Lynch  said yesterday in an interview. This will make
Nook one of the “most versatile” entertainment tablets in the
market, he said.  Barnes & Noble shares rose 1.4 percent to $18.54 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 23 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Nook users will have access to more than 700,000
applications from Google, compared with the 10,000 options
currently available in Barnes & Noble’s application store. The
Barnes & Noble store will remain on devices and will still be
used to buy and download digital books and magazines.  Music Downloads  The deal will also allow Nook users for the first time to
buy and download music. Before the deal, Nook users couldn’t
access any Google applications despite the devices running on
Google’s Android operating system.  The addition of Google’s services will boost device sales
and help the company get through some of the inventory left over
from the holidays, Lynch said. Barnes & Noble will try to
leverage  Mountain View , California-based Google’s name by using
it in marketing, including on signage in stores, he said.  Increased competition in the third quarter forced
discounting, writedowns and a net loss in what is supposed to be
Barnes & Noble’s most profitable period. At that time, Lynch
said he would make Nooks more functional after pitching them as
tablets for readers.  Riggio Sale  Barnes & Noble is also considering selling its 680 retail
stores and website to founder and current Chairman  Leonard Riggio , who announced his interest in such a deal in February.
Just three days later on Feb. 28, Lynch tried to calm investors’
concerns about the deteriorating Nook business after sales sank
26 percent. Lynch declined to comment on how the deal is
progressing.  If completed, it would leave Nook Media, which includes
Nook and its college bookstore business, in the public company.
Barnes & Noble placed the two divisions together in Nook Media
when Microsoft invested with the goal of possibly separating
them from the retail unit.  Nook Media had an operating loss of $190.9 million and
sales of $2.18 billion in the three quarters through Jan. 26.
Nook drove those losses as it hasn’t turned a profit yet as it
spends on marketing and developing devices to compete in the
tablet market with the deep pockets of heavyweights such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Google.  Nook Funding  As Nook Media is losing money, analysts have questioned how
it will be funded. The company said in February that Nook Media
has been self financed since October when it was officially
formed as a result of investments from Microsoft and publisher
 Pearson Plc (PSON) , which totaled almost $400 million, and the cash
generated by the college business.  The first Nook was unveiled in late 2009 as a way into the
e-reading market that Amazon was dominating with its Kindle.
Within two years, Barnes & Noble had claimed the second-biggest
portion of the U.S. e-book market.  It’s 7-inch Nook Color tablet, released in 2010, also
became a hit as a cheaper, smaller option to Apple’s iPad. Since
then, Apple and Amazon have entered that market by making
tablets of a similar size.  “We kind of created the 7-inch tablet category,” Lynch
said. “We had the field all to ourselves and it’s gotten more
competitive.”  New Nooks will remain priced at $199 for the HD model and
$269 for the HD+ model. Barnes & Noble declined to comment on
the financial terms with Google.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  