-- Bayer Ordered to Pay Ex-Schering Shareholders More, Lawyer Says
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-05-03T13:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bayer-ordered-to-pay-ex-schering-shareholders-more-lawyer-says.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  must pay some former
shareholders of Schering AG more money after a Berlin court
ruled that their compensation in the $17 billion takeover wasn’t
sufficient, according to the lawyer representing shareholders.  The additional payments will cost Bayer more than 300
million euros ($391.71 million), based on 7.2 million Schering
shares outstanding, Peter Dreier, a Dusseldorf-based lawyer for
Dreier Riedel Rechtsanwaelte, said in an e-mailed statement
today. Shareholders in the 2006 deal who got 89.36 euros a share
will get an additional 46 euros a share, including interest,
Dreier said.  “The Berlin Regional Court’s decision has affirmed that
Schering was worth much more,” Dreier said in the statement.  Bayer fought off another German drug and chemical maker,
Merck KGaA, to win Schering. The deal formed  Germany ’s biggest
health-care company and added a palette of top-selling drugs to
Bayer’s portfolio, including the contraceptives Yaz and Yasmin
and multiple sclerosis therapy Betaferon. The deal was complete
on Dec. 29, 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are not aware of any decision,” Guenter Forneck, a
spokesman for Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer, said today by
phone. “We will evaluate the ruling upon receipt and take legal
action as necessary.”  Bayer said it believes the terms and conditions set at the
time of the takeover were adequate, Forneck said.  Dreier predicted the decision would influence a separate
case pending at the same Berlin court involving Bayer’s later
squeeze-out of remaining Schering minority shareholders.  “We expect a massive increase in that case also,” Dreier
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  