-- Bharti Gets $1.26 Billion Investment From Qatar Foundation
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-05-03T12:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bharti-receives-1-26-billion-investment-from-qatar-foundation.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, will sell a 5 percent stake to the Qatar
Foundation Endowment for $1.26 billion after the carrier posted
quarterly profit that missed estimates.  Bharti will issue 199.9 million new  shares  to the Qatar
endowment at 340 rupees ($6.3) each, according to an e-mailed
statement from the New Delhi-based company. That’s 7.3 percent
higher than yesterday’s closing price. The  stock  closed 0.3
percent higher after climbing as much as 4.7 percent in Mumbai.  Billionaire Chairman  Sunil Mittal  has seen Bharti’s
earnings decline for two straight years while  debt  has climbed
almost sevenfold since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company raised $1.5 billion last month to help
fund $2.3 billion of capital  spending  after interest costs
contributed to a 49 percent decline in net income in the March
quarter, according to results released yesterday.  “Bharti’s debt is significant, more than they should be
comfortable with,” said Amar Mourya, an analyst with Mumbai-
based India Nivesh Securities. “There will be further pressure
on their  balance sheet  ahead, with license renewals and other
expenses coming. With cash flows not being able to sustain these
expenditures, they were forced to raise cash through equity.”  Spectrum, Acquisition  Bharti bid 123 billion rupees in the 2010 auction of third-
generation wireless permits to introduce broadband services and
tap India’s growing market for consumption of mobile data such
as downloading applications and streaming videos. The sale was
followed by the company paying $9 billion to buy the African
business of  Kuwait ’s largest mobile-phone operator Mobile
Telecommunications Co., also known as Zain.  Ashutosh Sharma, a New Delhi-based spokesman for Bharti,
didn’t immediately respond to requests for additional comment.
Calls to the  Qatar Foundation ’s headquarters in Doha weren’t
answered before business hours.  The endowment is the investment arm of the state-controlled
Qatar Foundation. Qatar is the wealthiest nation per capita in
the world, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Bharti, the leader in the world’s second-largest mobile
market of about 860 million subscribers, has scuffled with
competitors in a market where call rates are among the lowest in
the world.  Mittal is trying to contain costs as Bharti prepares for
license renewals and regulatory changes. The company has
increased call rates to cover some costs by removing discounts
on tariff plans, Chief Financial Officer Sarvjit Singh Dhillon
told investors on Feb. 1.  ‘Start Outperforming’  “The worst seems to be over for Bharti,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at  Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. (GBNP)  in Kochi, southern India. “The stock has rallied
sharply over the past few days, hence investors are not seeing
much value. It should start outperforming the broader market in
the next three to four weeks.”  Bharti has gained 18 percent since April 5, when the stock
hit its lowest in five months. They closed at 317.70 rupees in
Mumbai. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.8 percent.  Net income  fell 49 percent to 5.09 billion rupees in the
quarter ended March, Bharti said yesterday. That missed the 7.6
billion-rupee median of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue rose 9.2 percent to 204.5 billion rupees, lagging
behind the median  estimate  of 208 billion rupees.  Criminal Investigation  Bharti’s mobile-phone users in India and  South Asia 
increased to 196.1 million at the end of March from 189.4
million at the end of December, the company said. Subscribers in
 Africa  rose to 63.7 million from 61.7 million.  Mittal, who started his business in the 1970s selling
bicycle parts, was charged last year with acquiring more mobile-
phone spectrum than the government allowed. His case is working
through the Indian courts.  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation filed criminal
charges in December against Bharti, along with government
officials and two other carriers, over purchases of wireless
spectrum that led to a loss of about 8.5 billion rupees to the
exchequer.  The legal battle over India’s airwaves has fueled a 95
percent drop in overseas investment in the wireless market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  