-- Yeung’s Soccer Club Purchase Funded by Unknown Deposits
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-05-03T07:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/birmingham-city-s-yeung-loses-bid-to-stop-hong-kong-trial.html
Hong Kong businessman  Carson Yeung ’s
purchase of the English  soccer club  Birmingham City was partly
paid with funds in bank accounts connected to his money
laundering trial, a prosecutor said.  Yeung received HK$721.3 million ($93 million) in deposits
from a Macau casino operator, securities firms and “unknown
parties” into five bank accounts controlled by him over a
seven-year period to 2007, John Reading, prosecution lawyer,
told a Hong Kong court at the start of Yeung’s trial on money-
laundering charges.  The deposits “amounted to more than 300 times the total
combined salary” of Yeung and his father, who co-signed on two
of the accounts, Reading said. Yeung “was a man of apparently
modest means,” the prosecution lawyer said.  Hong Kong, where the number of suspicious transaction
reports filed by banks and others required to do so doubled to
23,282 last year from a decade ago, won convictions earlier this
year in two of the city’s largest money-laundering cases with a
combined value of almost HK$20 billion. The Hong Kong Monetary
Authority said last month that it was doubling the size of its
anti-money laundering operation.  Yeung, 53, has pleaded not guilty to all five charges of
“dealing with property known or believed to represent proceeds
of indictable offense.” The hairdresser-turned-businessman
earned a significant portion of his income through  stock
trading , his lawyer Graham Harris argued at an April 29 hearing.  Halt Rejected  Judge Douglas Yau today rejected a request from Yeung’s
lawyers to stop the trial. Stock brokers aren’t required to keep
records for more than seven years and the lack of documents
proving how Yeung acquired his wealth would make a fair trial
impossible, Harris had argued last month.  Yeung was chairman of Grandtop International Holdings Ltd.,
which in 2007 bought a 29.9 percent stake in the West Midlands,
U.K.-based soccer club for 15 million pounds ($23 million).
Yeung bought the rest of the club in 2009, paying 81.5 million
pounds to David and Ralph Gold and  David Sullivan  and Grandtop
changed its name to  Birmingham International Holdings Ltd. (2309)   About one-third of the price of the initial stake was paid
personally from the bank accounts involved in the laundering
charges to Messrs. Prince Evans, a U.K. law firm, Reading said.  The securities firms deposited a total of HK$70.8 million,
Readings said. The prosecutor didn’t identify the firms. A
company operating casinos in Macau, which also wasn’t named in
the proceedings, deposited HK$62.5 million into Yeung’s
accounts, according to the prosecutor’s submission.  The trial is scheduled to resume May 7.  Yeung was arrested in June 2011 and shares of Birmingham
International have been suspended since. The soccer club had a
42 percent drop in sales for the six months ended Dec. 31, 2012,
after the team’s relegation from the top-flight Premier League
2011, according to its interim report.  The case is  Hong Kong  Special Administrative Region and
Yeung Ka-sing Carson, DCCC860/2011 in the Hong Kong District
Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  