-- Blackstone Shares Jump Most in Three Months on Expansion
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-03T21:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/blackstone-shares-jump-most-in-three-months-on-expansion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm by assets, rose the most in three
months as executives highlighted plans for expansion and said
fees for managing client money are rising.  Blackstone gained 4.7 percent, the biggest increase since
Jan. 31, after  Jonathan Gray , global head of real estate, said
today at the firm’s third annual investor day that he expects to
hold a first close on its $4 billion fund dedicated to Asia real
estate this quarter. Chief Financial Officer Laurence Tosi said
performance fees are approaching the levels of realized
performance fees that it earned before the U.S. financial
crisis.  “It’s like watching a great basketball team: the ball’s
getting passed around and people are putting in easy shots,”
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman said at the event,
held at the Blackstone-owned Waldorf Astoria hotel in New York.
“It’s like rushing across a front with tanks.”  Schwarzman, who co-founded Blackstone in 1985, said the
firm raised $96 billion over the past two years and is now more
than twice as big as it was at the time of its 2007 initial
public offering. Blackstone shares are still trading 30 percent
below the $31 at which it first sold shares to the public.  Schwarzman said he was most excited about the firm’s
tactical opportunities initiative, run by private-equity veteran
 David Blitzer . The business, which raises money from large
clients and customizes an investment strategy that could include
any of Blackstone’s segments, has raised $5 billion, said Joseph Baratta, global head of private equity.  Retail Opportunity  The firm is also focused on gathering more money from
individual investors, an opportunity that President  Tony James 
said today was the biggest path to higher assets under
management. Blackstone oversaw $218.2 billion as of March 31.  Blackstone’s hedge funds-of-funds business, known as BAAM,
is seeking to take advantage of the dwindling number of so-
called defined-benefit plans, in which employers provide
retirement savings to employees. Tom Hill, BAAM’s CEO, called it
a “massive opportunity” to step in and create relationships
with advisers who can manage and invest portions of worker
savings.  Some Blackstone executives have said they expect low growth
to continue in the U.S. and  Europe . James said last month that
“growth in the  U.S. economy  is anemic” and “Europe is flat to
down.” Today, the firm’s executives repeatedly told investors
that they collaborate daily to share information that each is
learning from their portfolios.  Blackstone, which closed at $21.75 in  New York , has surged
40 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  