-- BNP Paribas Quarterly Net Falls 45% on Trading Revenue
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-05-03T09:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bnp-paribas-quarterly-net-falls-45-as-trading-revenue-declines.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank,
reported a smaller decline in first-quarter profit than analysts
estimated, helped by French and Belgian consumer banking.  Net income fell to 1.58 billion euros ($2.06 billion) from
2.87 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said in
a statement today, beating the 1.34 billion-euro average
 estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings last
year were buoyed by the sale of a stake in  Klepierre SA (LI) ,
 Europe ’s second-largest publicly traded mall operator.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe embarked this
year on a plan to cut 2 billion euros of costs by 2015, while
also expanding in Asian investment banking and asset management.
The bank lowered operating expenses by 4.8 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier, and booked 155 million euros of
cost-cutting charges in the period.  “They’re swallowing the pill of the economic crisis in the
least painful way,” said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5
billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille and owns BNP
shares. “Reigning in costs is allowing them to preserve
profitability.”  BNP Paribas rose 1.2 percent to 43.40 euros by 11:27 a.m.
in Paris trading, bringing the  advance  over the past 12 months
to 49 percent and valuing the bank at about 54 billion euros.
That compares with a 28 percent  increase  in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index of 40 companies.  Consumer Banking  Revenue from BNP’s main European consumer-banking markets -
- France ,  Belgium ,  Italy  and Luxembourg -- fell 0.8 percent to
3.99 billion euros, while the bank shrank costs 1.4 percent to
2.43 billion euros, it said. Deposits from branch networks in
the four markets rose a combined 6.1 percent over the past 12
months. Provisions for bad loans improved in Belgium, were
stable in France and deteriorated in Italy, according to its
website.  “Excluding Italy, across the board there is good
discipline in the level of risk provisions,” said Jean-Pierre Lambert, a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  Pretax earnings at the French branch network fell 2.2
percent to 582 million euros in the quarter, surpassing
analysts’ 524 million-euro estimate. Revenue at the division
fell 2 percent to 1.78 billion euros, the company said.  Belgium, Italy  In Belgium, where BNP Paribas’s  consumer-banking  unit is
closing 150 branches and cutting 1,800 jobs by 2015 through
“natural attrition,” pretax earnings rose 7.3 percent to 205
million euros, the bank said, topping analysts’ average estimate
of 168 million euros.  Earnings at BNL, BNP’s Italian branch network, fell 43
percent to 84 million euros before tax, compared with analysts’
estimate of 79 million euros. BNP Paribas set aside 296 million
euros for bad loans at the Italian unit, up 35 percent from a
year earlier and almost one-third of the bank’s total provisions
in the first quarter.  Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’s corporate and investment
bank fell to 806 million euros from 1.16 billion euros a year
earlier, missing analysts’ estimate of 877 million euros. Fixed-
income revenue fell 27 percent, while equity and advisory sales
dropped 20 percent, the bank said.  In corporate and investment banking “it was an in-between
situation, European markets were not as strong as U.S.
markets,” Bonnafe, 51, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Asia Expansion  BNP Paribas said in February it plans to hire about 1,300
people over three years at its corporate- and investment-banking
and investment-solutions businesses in the Asia-Pacific region.
The firm, which currently employs about 8,000 people in those
activities in the region, foresees annual revenue growth of 12
percent through 2016 in  Asia .  “We have all means to develop the company and to grow the
business in geographies in which the economy is growing at a
stronger pace,” Bonnafe said. BNP Paribas is “not considering
acquisitions for the time being,” he said.  Pretax profit at the  investment-solutions  business, which
includes asset management, private banking and insurance, rose
13 percent to 541 million euros, in line with analysts’
estimates. The asset-management business had outflows “in
particular in money-market funds, but good asset inflows in
 emerging markets ,” the bank said.  The wealth management unit at BNP Paribas attracted 6.3
billion euros of net new funds from clients in the first
quarter, with “very strong asset inflows in Asia and in the
domestic markets,” it said on its website.  Capital Levels  BNP Paribas’s core  Tier 1 capital ratio  under fully-
implemented Basel III rules reached 10 percent on March 31, up
from 9.9 percent at the end of December. The lender, like French
competitors  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
bolstered capital and sold assets between 2011 and 2012 to meet
regulators’ demands.  “BNP is in full transformation, but it’s taking place with
capital levels that are far from being the worst,”  Valerie Cazaban , a  fund manager  at Stratege Finance said in an interview
before the results were published.  While they dodged the worst of the sovereign-debt crisis,
in part because of the  European Central Bank ’s three-year loans,
France’s three largest banks last year shrank risk-weighted
assets by 128 billion euros and cut hundreds of investment-
banking jobs.  Now French banks are counting the cost of the economic
slump at home. The French economy has barely grown over the past
two years and joblessness is at a record high. The total retail-
banking revenue of the country’s five largest lenders --
including Groupe BPCE and Credit Mutuel-CIC -- last year
declined for the first time in two decades and it will probably
keep falling 1.2 percent annually through 2015, according to
Munich-based Roland Berger Strategy Consultants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 