-- BofA $8.5 Billion Deal Won’t Face New York Objection
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-04T01:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bofa-8-5-billion-deal-won-t-face-new-york-objection.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s effort to
complete an $8.5 billion settlement with mortgage-bond investors
won’t face objections from  New York  and Delaware, which had
intervened in litigation over the deal.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  said they won’t seek to block it,
saying investors have benefited from litigation. New York had
previously said the deal represented “a tiny percentage” of
investor losses.  “Our intervention in this matter helped ensure a full,
thorough and transparent process,”  Damien LaVera , a spokesman
for Schneiderman, said today in a statement. “As a result, what
remains is a commercial dispute among sophisticated parties who
are well represented.”  The move comes almost two years after the settlement was
filed in New York state court for approval with backing from an
investor group that includes Pacific Investment Management Co.
The deal, which would resolve claims from investors in
Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds, is set to be considered by
a judge at a hearing starting May 30.  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America acquired Countrywide in 2008.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  argued in a court filing
today that New York State Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick
in Manhattan should reject the deal. The insurer said the
settlement is “unreasonably and unjustifiably small” and
“severely understates” Bank of America’s liability.  AIG Objection  “The resulting settlement is a pennies-on-the-dollar
bargain for BofA that woefully undercompensates” investors, AIG
and other investors said in the filing.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the filings by AIG and the attorneys general.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator for
mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , said
today it was withdrawing a “conditional objection” filed in
2011 in which the agency said it needed more information to
evaluate the agreement.  Schneiderman and Biden said in their joint filing that when
the settlement was submitted in state court in June 2011, it was
an agreement of “unprecedented size and complexity,” while
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee seeking approval for
the agreement, was offering “minimal disclosure” to investors.
After almost two years of litigation, “fulsome adversarial
examination” of the deal has occurred ahead of the approval
hearing, the states said.  ‘Unsettled’ Issues  “The  attorneys general  do not express a view as to the
unsettled substantive issues of the settlement’s adequacy,”
they said.  New York said in a court filing last year that there were
“serious questions about the fairness and adequacy” of the
settlement and that the facts “suggest that the proposed
settlement is unfair.” Biden’s office said in 2011 that it had
“significant concerns that the proposed settlement does not
adequately remedy the harm suffered by the beneficiaries.”  “We are satisfied that a sufficiently transparent process
has developed in which all parties are fully able to present
their sides to the court, and we believe the court will be able
to conduct a thorough evaluation and resolve these issues fairly
and impartially,”  Jason Miller , a spokesman for Biden, said in
a statement.  Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman, said the bank is
pleased New York, Delaware and the FHFA aren’t opposing
approval.  “We continue to believe that we have carried out our
duties as trustee under the governing documents and acted in the
best interests of the certificate holders,” he said in a
statement.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  