-- Bombing Pressures Technology Providers to Aid Police
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bombing-pressures-technology-providers-to-aid-police.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , Twitter Inc. and even
Silicon Valley startups are confronting calls by  law enforcement 
following the  Boston Marathon bombings  to make their products
more easily used for surveillance.  Police and federal agencies made record levels of requests
for data from companies including Google and Twitter in months
before the bombing, seeing increasing value in smartphone data,
e-mails and online chats to help find and prevent terrorist
plots and crime.  The  International Association of Police Chiefs  wants
Congress to update a federal law to compel more companies
providing communications services to build intercept tools that
allow them to conduct surveillance with court orders.  “We just don’t have the technology to keep up with what’s
going on,” Peter Modafferi, chairman of the association’s
investigative operations committee, said in a phone interview.
“It’s not just Verizon and phone companies like that, there’s
Twitter and all kinds of methods for people to communicate.”  Location-tracking data from an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone and images
from smartphone cameras helped track down the two suspects in
the April 15 attack, brothers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev.
Investigators told lawmakers the brothers were schooled online
in radical Islam and terrorist bomb-making, Maryland
Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on
the House Intelligence Committee, said April 24 after a closed
briefing.  Privacy advocates and Internet companies oppose the
request, saying building so-called back doors into devices and
platforms could cost them customers and expose them to
liability, open them up to cyber attacks and would be burdensome
to reconfigure products that anonymize user data.  Surveillance Requests  President  Barack Obama  said April 30 his administration is
examining government actions before and after the bombings in an
effort to determine if new procedures are needed to detect other
attacks.  The administration is discussing legislative options to
update the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, or
CALEA, and no decisions have been made yet, said a law-enforcement official who wasn’t authorized to speak about the
talks.  Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican, said
steps are needed to build the intelligence and surveillance
capabilities of local police departments around the country.
“We have to be aggressive and not worry about political
correctness,” King said in a phone interview.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and Representative
 Jason Chaffetz , a Utah Republican, introduced bills in March
requiring law enforcement to obtain warrants before acquiring
geo-location data of citizens, whether through a smartphone or
GPS-enabled device.  ‘Back Door’  Requiring companies to build surveillance capabilities into
their products could cost startups hundreds of millions of
dollars and damage their reputations with customers who believe
they are sharing data with government, said  Josh Mendelsohn ,
managing director at Hattery, a venture capital firm with
offices in  San Francisco  and New York.  “Anytime you try to introduce a back door into something
you create a huge vulnerability,” Mike Janke, chief executive
officer of Silent Circle Inc., said in a phone interview. The
Washington-based startup encrypts communications services.  It may be impossible for some companies to comply with
surveillance requests because they use aggregated, anonymous
data, Mendelsohn said in an interview. “We don’t want to be
forced to have to dismantle or change our business models due to
new legislation or non-judicial requests,” he said.  Record Requests  Law enforcement requests from in the U.S. for data from
some social media companies is at an all-time high. Google’s
online transparency report  shows  that, along with the company’s
video-hosting website YouTube, it received 8,438 data requests
from U.S. agencies between July and December last year -- the
most in any six-month period ever.  Twitter received 815 requests in the U.S. between July and
December 2012, up from 679 requests between January and June
2012, according to an  online company report . The latter figure
represents the most requests the company has ever received, said
Jim Prosser, company spokesman.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  received 11,073 requests in the U.S. in
2012, while its Skype unit received 1,154 requests, according to
the company’s first  online report . Microsoft and other companies
reject some requests. Microsoft provided law enforcement
customer data, such as words in an e-mail, in response to 13.9
percent of valid court orders or warrants. Skype didn’t provide
data at all.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  doesn’t publicize data about law enforcement
requests, Fred Wolens, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.
Apple declined to provide statistics, Steve Dowling, company
spokesman, said.  Location Data  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation opened a new center in
February for training law enforcement officials on electronic
intercept tactics and to “reach out to the communications
industry with one voice,” FBI Director  Robert Mueller  said in
prepared testimony for a March 19 congressional hearing.  Modafferi, of the police chiefs group, said law enforcement
should be able to get tracking data from smartphones without
first having to obtain a warrant. “We’re not talking about
snooping but if we have reasonable suspicion to believe that
somebody’s involved in criminal activity, we need to look at
that,” he said  Privacy, Security  Law enforcement agencies have options when a company
doesn’t comply with court-ordered wiretaps, said Paul Tiao, who
recently left the FBI after serving as senior counselor for
cybersecurity and technology. Those include bringing a contempt
action, which could be time-consuming, obtaining data from
another electronic or human source, or dropping the
investigation, said Tiao, now a partner at the law firm of
Hunton & Williams LLP in  Washington , in an interview.  “The challenge is how to develop a system that enables the
FBI and law enforcement agencies to protect the country without
undermining the competitiveness and innovation of Internet
entrepreneurs,” Tiao said.  The Internet Association, which represents Facebook,
Microsoft and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , opposes the efforts to broaden
law enforcement powers. A wiretap mandate for Internet products
and services is “dead on arrival,” the association’s
president, Michael Beckerman, said in an April 29 statement.  “The reality is we will never have perfect enforcement,”
Ben Wizner, a lawyer with the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
said in an interview. “Our laws need to reflect a balance
between values of privacy and security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  