-- Boston Suspects Said to Initially Plan Attack for July 4
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   T e d   B u n k e r
-- 2013-05-03T04:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/boston-suspects-said-to-initially-plan-attack-for-july-4.html
The two brothers suspected in the
 Boston Marathon bombings  initially targeted the city’s July 4
celebration and attacked last month’s race after building their
bombs faster than expected, according to a U.S. official.  The information about the brothers’ original plans came
from an interrogation of the younger suspect, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev,
said the official, who was briefed on the questioning and asked
not to be identified discussing an open investigation.  Tsarnaev also told interrogators that the pressure-cooker
bombs used in the attack were assembled at the Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , apartment of his older brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the official said. Tamerlan, 26, was killed in a
shootout with police on April 19, and his brother was captured
by authorities later that day.  The April 15 bombing killed three people and wounded more
than 260 in the highest-profile terrorist attack on U.S.
soil since Sept. 11, 2001. While authorities continue to
investigate whether the suspects had help in planning the
attack, no evidence of such assistance has surfaced, according
to a second U.S. official who asked not to be identified.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was apprehended after a manhunt that
paralyzed the Boston metropolitan area. He was found hiding in a
boat in the backyard of a home in Watertown, Massachusetts, and
taken to the hospital for treatment of multiple gunshot wounds.  The younger Tsarnaev, now held at a federal prison medical
center west of Boston, is charged with using and conspiring to
use a weapon of mass destruction and may face the death penalty
if convicted.  Miranda Rights  Tsarnaev, who has had trouble speaking because of a wound
in his neck, was questioned by specialized interrogators led by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , the official briefed on the
matter said. The questioning came before Tsarnaev had been
warned of his Miranda rights and federal charges were filed
against him.  Investigators are also scrutinizing Katherine Russell, the
widow of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who lived in the Cambridge apartment
with him and their 2-year-old daughter. FBI agents took DNA
samples from her on April 29, according to the U.S. official.  Investigators have found female DNA on a bomb fragment,
said this official, who cautioned that the genetic material may
have come from a number of sources and that its discovery
doesn’t necessarily mean that more people were involved.  Widow’s Lawyer  Amato DeLuca, Russell’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment. He has said she has been
cooperating with investigators. She has moved into her parents’
home in North Kingstown,  Rhode Island .  “Katherine will continue to meet with  law enforcement , as
she has done for many hours over the past week, and provide as
much assistance to the investigation as she can,” DeLuca, of
Providence, Rhode Island-based DeLuca & Weizenbaum, said in an
April 30 statement.  In another development yesterday, the three college friends
of the younger Tsarnaev -- who face related charges -- were
taken to the Essex County jail in Middleton, Massachusetts,
according to the U.S. Marshals Service.  The three 19-year-olds, Robel Phillipos of Cambridge,
Massachusetts, and Dias Kadyrbayev and Azamat Tazhayakov, who
are both from  Kazakhstan , all began college together with
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. The two Kazakhs have been charged with
conspiring to obstruct justice by removing items from Tsarnaev’s
dormitory room. Phillipos has been charged with willfully making
false statements to investigators.  Backpack Removed  All four are or were students at the University of
Massachusetts Dartmouth, south of Boston. Kadyrbayev removed
from Tsarnaev’s room a backpack that had fireworks emptied of
their powder along with a laptop, according to a criminal
complaint filed May 1 in federal court in Boston.  Robert Stahl, a lawyer for Kadyrbayev, said the laptop
wasn’t discarded. The FBI now has the laptop, he said. The U.S.
attorney’s office declined to comment yesterday on whether the
laptop was recovered.  In Washington, Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the top
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  asking how Tazhayakov re-entered the U.S. on Jan. 20, even though his student visa was
canceled Jan. 4, after he had been dismissed from the school.  Grassley cited “clear gaps” in the immigration control
system, and requested more information on how the two Kazakh
students were admitted to the country and how their visas were
dealt with by Napolitano’s department.  Suspect’s Body  Police in Boston plan to meet with their counterparts in
 New York  City to learn how police in Manhattan deal with
security issues during such events as the New Year’s Eve
celebration in Times Square, according to  Boston  television
station WBZ. Boston’s Independence Day celebration regularly
draws hundreds of thousands of people to the banks of the
 Charles River , with events centered at the Hatch concert shell.  The family of bombing suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev now has his
body, according to the Massachusetts medical examiner’s office.
A spokesman confirmed the release without saying which family
member took the corpse.  Local television stations that tracked the hearse that
retrieved the body reported it was taken to the Dyer-Lake
Funeral Home in North Attleborough, Massachusetts. Funeral
directors there didn’t respond to a telephone call and an e-mail
after normal business hours.  The cause of the older brother’s death will be made public
when an official death certificate is filed by the funeral home
involved, according to Terrel Harris, a spokesman for the
medical examiner’s office in Boston. Harris wouldn’t say where
the body was being taken for disposition.  “The body is claimed,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Bunker in Boston at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  