-- BP to Total Lead U.K. Oil Revival as $65 Billion Spent: Energy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-05-03T15:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/bp-to-total-lead-u-k-oil-revival-as-65-billion-spent-energy.html
The future of the U.K.’s 40-year-old
oil and gas industry lies on a stretch of windswept bogland in
the Shetland islands 200 kilometers (124 miles) north of
 Scotland .  Among those islands of 22,000 people living closer to Oslo
than  London ,  Total SA (FP)  is spending 3.3 billion pounds ($5.1
billion) to build a plant to process gas from undeveloped fields
125 miles away in the North Atlantic. On the same coastal inlet,
a  BP Plc (BP/)  facility will take petroleum from a 4.5 billion-pound
project.  Offshore fields in the deep waters west of Shetland are
leading a revival in the U.K.’s oil and gas output, which has
declined every year since 1999. As explorers invest a record 13
billion pounds this year, production is poised to rise as much
as 33 percent to 2 million barrels a day over the four years,
according to industry group Oil & Gas U.K.  “There is a lot of activity and this is expected to last
until 2016 or 2017,” said Lindsay Wexelstein, an analyst at
consultant Wood Mackenzie, which estimates $65 billion will be
spent on U.K. projects betweeen 2012 and 2015. “Stable  oil
prices  at the moment and government fiscal relief is giving
confidence to investors.”  After oil and gas producers received a surprise tax
increase in his 2011 budget, Chancellor  George Osborne  has used
rebates to encourage investment. Oil prices that have averaged
more than $100 a barrel for more than two years are encouraging
projects delayed when prices slumped during the financial
crisis.  Growing Reliance  The production increase will be a boon to the U.K. economy,
where  activity remains 2.6 percent below 2008’s peak, and help
stem the country’s growing reliance on imported energy, which
reached 36 percent of the total in 2011, according to goverment
data.  “The North Sea will remain competitive with the right
balance between risk and reward,” said Patrice de Vivies,
senior vice president North  Europe  at Total, which benefitted
from tax relief for its Laggan and Tormore project. The region
is a “mature basin and a high cost environment.”  The Shetland project will help Paris-based Total become the
U.K.’s biggest producer in 2015, when output is projected to
reach 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day from 168,000
barrels in 2011.  Total gained 1.4 percent to 38.44 euros in Paris trading
today. BP rose 1.1 percent.  BP, which holds top spot today, and partners  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have agreed to
invest more than $10 billion in west of Shetland projects
including Clair Ridge, Schiehallion and Loyal. Chevron and
partners are studying development of another project, called
Rosebank ,in the region.  Cygnus Field  Outside of the Shetlands,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA and its partners will
invest more than 1.5 billion pounds in the Cygnus field, the
largest gas discovery in the southern North Sea in 25 years.
Once on line it may supply about 5 percent of the U.K.’s gas
production.  “We are seeing investment at record levels,” said Mike Tholen, economics director at Oil & Gas U.K. “We’re getting
back to where we should be.”  Wood MacKenzie estimates that last year’s investment
levels, when  oil companies  battled cost inflation and
technically challenging projects, were equivalent to the boom in
the mid-1970s. As a result, there may be a rise in production in
the coming years, or at least a temporary halt in the decline,
it said.  Bigger Fields  The spending won’t last unless more and bigger fields are
discovered.  “The exploration success rate was at an all-time low in
2012,” Wexelstein said. “There haven’t been any big
discoveries announced since the start of the year.”  In about five years, after the burst of new start-ups and
lacking big finds, all of the U.K.’s biggest operators are set
to begin a steady decline.  The  International Energy Agency  is projecting a decline in
non-OPEC oil production almost entirely due to dwindling  North
Sea  fields, with the largest drop in the U.K.  By 2035, U.K. output is projected to slide to just 340,000
barrels a day, compared with 1.1 million barrels a day in 2011
and a peak of 2.9 million barrels of oil a day in 1999, the IEA
said in its  2012 World Energy Outlook . Norwegian output will
fall to 700,000 barrels a day from 2 million barrels a day in
2011 and 3.4 million barrels a day in 2001.  Very Small  “Most U.K. producing fields are already in long-term
decline and the fields that have been found in recent years are
generally very small,” according to the IEA. Norwegian decline
could be partly offset by increasing output from the Norwegian
and Barents Seas and the Johan Sverdrup field in the central
North Sea.  Total’s focus on the North Sea stems from a historic
presence as well as a desire to offset developments in countries
like Nigeria and  Yemen , where security issues including theft
and sabotage have led to production drops in the past year.  Half the explorer’s largest startups between 2012 and 2017
as measured by output will come from developed countries
including  Canada ,  Australia ,  Italy ,  Norway , the U.K. and U.S.,
according to Total’s head of upstream, Yves-Louis Darricarrere.  Satellite Fields  By connecting satellite fields to its Alwyn and Elgin-
Franklin hubs in the U.K. North Sea, Total has made them
equivalent to “elephants,” according to Darricarrere. He was
referring to a term used for giant field discoveries.  Total started up the Alwyn platform in 1987 and Elgin-
Franklin in 2001, regularly hooking up nearby discoveries to
keep output flowing. The Islay field was started through Alwyn
last year and the West Franklin Phase 2 could begin in 2014.  “Alwyn is an old lady of 26 years,” said Francois
Lallemant, offshore installation manager at Alwyn North. Total
is now investing to repair aging equipment on the platform to
keep it going.  When Total decided to invest in Alwyn, it was for two
decades, according to de Vivies. “Now we have 20 more years
ahead of us,” he said.  The French company wants to apply the same strategy in the
West of Shetlands.  “I am extremely confident that Laggan Tormore will become
our third North Sea hub and that is why we are continuing
exploration in the area,” Darricarrere said. Total has plans to
link the Edradour field to Laggan and Tormore next year and
could also tie in the Glenlivet discovery operated by Dong
Energy A/S.  “We believe that out of the total potential recoverable
resources in the U.K. North Sea, more than a quarter is left,”
Wexelstein said. “There are still opportunities for companies
to go after.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  