-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as U.S. Jobs Trump Output; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-03T15:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-u-s-jobs-trump-output-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed as U.S.
employment gains prompted traders to step up wagers that the
South American country’s central bank will seek bigger increases
in borrowing costs as it tries to contain inflation.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.22 percent at 12:09
p.m. in  Sao Paulo . The rates are down six basis points this
week. The real slid 0.1 percent to 2.0117 per dollar, extending
its loss since April 26 to 0.7 percent.  Employment in the world’s largest economy increased more
than forecast in April and the jobless rate unexpectedly
declined, the U.S. Labor Department said today. Brazil’s
national statistics agency reported that industrial production
increased 0.7 percent in March, missing the 1.3 percent median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The external market improved today, but internally,
things continue to be negative,”  Francisco Carvalho , the head
of  currency trading  at BGC Liquidez DTVM, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “The government is in a tricky spot.”  Brazil’s central bank board voted 6 to 2 on April 17 to
raise the target lending rate by 25 basis points to 7.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent, saying in its statement
accompanying the decision that “external uncertainties”
required “monetary policy be managed with caution.”  Brazil’s industrial production contracted 3.3 percent in
March from a year earlier, the biggest drop since December 2012.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
a 2.4 percent drop.  ‘Weak’ Output  “The indicator was weak,”  Newton Rosa , the chief
economist at Sul America Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
telephone interview. “The central bank is stuck in a trap of
high inflation and low growth.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has worked to
revive Brazil’s economy by extending tax reductions and cutting
electricity rates.  Consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 6.59 percent in
March, exceeding the 6.50 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s preferred range for the first time since November 2011.
The target is 4.50 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  The real erased its advance today as speculation the
government will contain currency gains offset increased demand
for emerging-market assets sparked by higher-than-forecast
employment increases in the U.S., according to Rosa.  Currency Policy  “The performance of the real reflects the idea that the
government won’t let it depreciate much because of inflation,
but it also won’t let it gain much,” Rosa said.  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly to contain
inflation and offering reverse currency swaps to protect
exporters by reining in gains.  The U.S.  jobless rate  fell to a four-year low of 7.5
percent in April as employers added 165,000 workers, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase
of 140,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  