-- Brazil’s Coffee Growers Seen Holding Back Beans on Minimum Price
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-03T15:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/brazil-s-coffee-growers-seen-holding-back-beans-on-minimum-price.html
Coffee producers in  Brazil , the
world’s largest grower, are holding back beans on speculation
the government will raise the minimum price for the commodity,
according to Rio de Janeiro-based Flavour Coffee.  The Agriculture Ministry planned to announce a new
benchmark in Brasilia yesterday and then canceled. The minimum
price guarantees growers receive enough money to cover costs of
production. When prices fall below it, the government takes
action including buying stockpiles or paying producers the
difference between the minimum price and market prices.  “It seems producers are holding back offers on hopes about
the announcement of higher minimum prices,” Flavour Coffee said
in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Arabica futures rallied as much as 4.2 percent yesterday on
speculation the minimum price would be raised.  President Dilma Rousseff authorized an increase in the
guaranteed minimum price for arabica coffee to 307 reais a bag,
O Estado de S. Paulo reported today, without saying where it got
the information. A group of growers proposed an increase in the
minimum price to 340 reais ($169) a bag from 261 reais now.  Arabica beans of fine-cup quality from last year’s crop
were trading at a discount of 12 cents a pound to the price on
the ICE Futures U.S. exchange, according to Flavour Coffee. That
compares with a discount of 10 cents a pound last week. Fine-cup
quality beans from this year’s crop were at a discount of 16
cents a pound from 14 cents last week, data from the broker
showed.  Good-Cup  Coffee of good-cup quality from last year’s crop in Brazil
was at a discount of 17 cents a pound, unchanged from last week,
data from the broker showed. New crop beans were at a discount
of 20 cents a pound, also unchanged. Fine cup beans are usually
more expensive because of their taste profile.  “There is still unfilled demand for nearby shipments up to
July,” it said. “One major U.S. roaster was searching offers
of standard good cup qualities for July and August shipments.”  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known, were
trading at a premium of 7 cents a pound ($154 a metric ton) to
the price on NYSE Liffe in  London  for shipments from May to
July, unchanged from last week, Flavour Coffee said.  “Harvesting is ongoing, but slower than usual,” the
broker said. “Producers are claiming yield is poorer than last
crop. Overall, bean size this crop is smaller than last
season.”  Arabica futures for July delivery gained 1.4 percent to
$1.4135 a pound by 11:40 a.m. in New York. Robusta coffee for
July delivery was up 0.2 percent at $2,023 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 