-- British Land Said to Win Approval for Offices in Technology Hub
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-05-03T09:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/british-land-said-to-win-approval-for-offices-in-technology-hub.html
British Land Co. (BLND) , the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, won approval to develop
offices in a central London area that’s the hub of the country’s
emerging high-tech industry, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  The City of London Corp., which governs the business
district, will grant long-term leases to British Land for three
sites with about 300,000 square feet (29,000 square meters) of
space, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. The London-based REIT will probably
redevelop the 22 properties on the site, known as the Shoreditch
Estate, into a large-scale office development, the person said.  British Land and the City of London Corp. didn’t
immediately return calls for comment. Though the site is in the
Tower Hamlets borough, the City is responsible for granting
approval because it owns the site.  The Shoreditch properties are mostly rented to technology
and media companies and they are about half a mile from the U.K.
government’s Tech City project, where Prime Minister David
Cameron has offered offices rent-free to small technology
companies in a bid to create a rival to California’s Silicon
Valley.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  IBM Corp. (IBM)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  have
offices there, the government said in December.  The largest of the three sites has planning approval for
more than 150,000 square feet of offices. British Land and
Blackstone Group LP’s 4 million square foot Broadgate offices,
which include the U.K. headquarters of  UBS AG (UBS) , are also nearby.  Property Week reported the news earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net 
BLND LN <Equity> 