-- Golden State Reaches NBA 2nd Round as Nets Tie Their Series
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-03T06:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/brooklyn-nets-beat-chicago-95-92-to-force-game-7-in-nba-series.html
The  Golden State Warriors  became the
first National Basketball Association team this postseason to
wrap up a playoff series at home, and the Brooklyn Nets won on
the road to force a decisive Game 7 tomorrow against Chicago.  Stephen Curry had 14 of his 22 points in the third quarter
as the Warriors defeated the Denver Nuggets 92-88 to complete a
four-games-to-two series victory and advance to face the  San
Antonio Spurs  in the Western Conference’s second round.  Deron Williams , Brook Lopez and  Joe Johnson  scored 17
points apiece as the Nets won 95-92 to tie their series 3-3
against the Bulls. The Nets are trying to become the ninth team
in NBA history to overcome a 3-1 deficit to win a best-of-seven
series.  “Most people would have counted us out being down 3-1,”
reserve center Andray Blatche, who scored Brooklyn’s final five
points, told reporters. “Now that it’s tied up, we have to go
out with the same hunger, the same attitude, finish this off.”  Tonight, the  New York  Knicks try for the third straight
game to finish off the host  Boston Celtics  in their first-round
series. The Knicks, who lead 3-2 as they attempt to win their
first playoff series since 2000, have lost two straight games
after winning the first three games of the series.  Also tonight, the Memphis Grizzlies are at home with a 3-2
edge as they try to finish off the  Los Angeles Clippers ; the
host Atlanta Hawks try to extend their series with the  Indiana
Pacers  to a decisive Game 7, and the Oklahoma City Thunder try
to complete a series win against the host Houston Rockets after
losing the past two games.  Spurs Opener  Golden State will be playing in the second round of the
playoffs for the second time in 22 years. Game 1 of the
Warriors-Spurs series is set for May 6 in  San Antonio .  Curry had eight straight points, including consecutive 3-
pointers, as the Warriors took the lead for good early in the
third quarter and built the margin to as many as 18 points in
the fourth period before surviving a late Denver rally.  The Nuggets used a 13-0 run to whittle the margin to five
points and got within two points in the final minute as the
Warriors missed shots and committed 10 turnovers in the final
period.  “God has a sense of humor, because he wanted to show folks
at the end as we threw the ball all over the place,” Warriors
coach Mark Jackson said in a news conference. “It’s only a
miracle that we advanced.”  Lee’s Return  Andrew Bogut had 14 points and 21 rebounds for the
Warriors, who got a cameo appearance from All-Star forward David Lee -- who played one minute in his return to the court after
hurting his hip in the opening game of the series.  Jackson, who played guard for the Knicks in 1987-92 and
2000-02, said his decision to play Lee was in part homage to
Hall of Famer Willis Reed, who limped onto the court and hit two
baskets for the Knicks early in Game 7 of the 1970 NBA Finals
against the  Los Angeles Lakers .  “I guess the  New York City  in me, the Willis Reed impact
as a kid, really played a role,” the Warriors coach told
reporters. “Not only did I put him in, but I ran a play for him
for a shot, just about where Willis hit his shot.”  The seventh game in the Bulls-Nets series will be tomorrow
at Brooklyn’s Barclays Center. The Nets are trying to become the
first team to fall behind 3-1 and then win a series since the
2006  Phoenix Suns  against the Los Angeles Lakers.  Joakim Noah had 14 points and 15 rebounds for Chicago,
which was led by Marco Belinelli’s 22 points.  Bulls Injuries  The Bulls, who have played all season without point guard
 Derrick Rose , also were missing guard Kirk Hinrich and forward
 Luol Deng  last night. Hinrich has missed the past two games with
a bruised left calf and Deng was sick for the game in Chicago.  The Nets-Bulls winner will advance to play the defending
champion  Miami Heat , who swept past the Milwaukee Bucks four
games to none in their first-round series after posting the
NBA’s best record this season.  The Bulls joined the Knicks and Thunder in failing to close
out a first-round series with a win at home. Less than three
hours later, the Warriors accomplished that feat by beating
Denver at the Oracle Arena in Oakland, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at Oracle Arena in Oakland,  California , at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  