-- BRP Aims to Raise C$262 Million in Canada IPO
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-03T14:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/brp-aims-to-raise-c-262-million-in-canada-ipo.html
BRP Inc., the Canadian maker of Ski-
Doo snowmobiles, watercraft and all-terrain vehicles, plans to
raise as much as C$262 million ($259 million) by selling shares
in its initial public offering, according to sale documents.  The Valcourt, Quebec-based company plans to sell 12.2
million shares for C$18.50 to C$21.50 each in its Canadian IPO,
according to the documents. The company will trade on the
Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol DOO after the sale
closes around May 27.  BRP  makes Ski-Doo snowmobiles, Sea-Doo personal watercraft,
all-terrain vehicles and motorcycles including the three-wheeled
Can-Am Spyder roadster as well as engines, according to a
regulatory filing.  BRP, which sells products in 105 countries, employs about
6,800 people, mostly in  Canada ,  Mexico ,  Austria , the U.S. and
 Finland , according to an April filing. BRP had net income of
C$121 million from about C$2.9 billion of revenue for its fiscal
year, the filing said.  The company is a spinoff of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , which in 2003
sold its recreational products business to a group of investors
including Bain Capital Partners LLC, members of the Bombardier
and Beaudoin families who are part of closely held Beaudier
Group, and Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s
largest pension fund manager, according to a filing.  Pierre Pichette, a BRP spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a telephone message seeking comment.  Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank of Canada, UBS AG and
Citigroup Inc. are leading the sale. The banks have an option to
buy an additional 15 percent of the offering after the sale
closes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  