-- Brzezinski Warns of Risk in Military Role in Syria (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-05-03T21:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/brzezinski-warns-of-risk-in-military-role-in-syria-transcript-.html
Zbigniew Brzezinski, who served as
national security adviser to former President  Jimmy Carter , said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that President  Barack
Obama ’s setting of a red line if Syria’s government used
chemical weapons was made “without too much thought.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former national security
adviser to President Carter, Zbigniew Brzezinski. Dr.
Brzezinski, let’s start with Syria. President Obama drew a red
line, said if they use chemical weapons, we will respond. If it
- if it’s conclusive that they did - that Assad did use chemical
weapons, would U.S. credibility suffer in places like  North
Korea  and Iran if we don’t take a strong reaction?  ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI : Well, it’s kind of a useful definition
of a trigger, because if they use it - if they use it against
two people, five people, 100 people, 10,000 people, does that
make any difference? And if who uses it, a centralized unit
commanded from Damascus or some unit somewhere out in the field,
I mean, it just doesn’t help you to decide.  HUNT: So it’s not easy.  BRZEZINSKI: It doesn’t help you to decide.  HUNT: There’s no clear red line.  BRZEZINSKI: It doesn’t bind you, but it’s one of these
things which, unfortunately, is said sometimes without too much
thought and then it becomes somehow or other operative and your
critics use it against you.  HUNT: And that was the case this time?  BRZEZINSKI: I think so.  HUNT: Let me ask you about some of the options, sending
more lethal weapons to insurgents?  BRZEZINSKI: What insurgents? Now, let’s maybe - maybe we
should just back off a little bit.  HUNT: OK.  BRZEZINSKI: There is an insurgency in  Syria  by whom? Well,
I think they’re different groups. First of all, there are the
Saudi-Qatar sponsored insurgents. Some of them may be just Sunni
fighters who would like to have a Sunni state. But there might
be also fanatics, Salafists, people who really are interested in
a kind of rigid fanatical religious sub-definition. Then beyond
that, there is the al-Qaeda elements who want to fight, so to
speak, against the Assad regime, but may have entirely different
-  HUNT: It’s hard to selectively pick which insurgents you’re
going to -  BRZEZINSKI: Exactly. And then we have our people, so to
speak, many of them nice Syrians, many lived in America,
democratic, but not exactly in command of strong units. Out of
the three group opponents of Assad, they’re probably number
three. So we have a problem here.  And I think what we can do is do some things to maintain a
foot in, maintain some influence, but we have to be very careful
not to get engaged in such a way that we become the chief
protagonist and eventually not just in Syria, but the region as
a whole, because as Syria explodes, some adjoining countries
will explode.  HUNT: Well, I want to ask you about that in a minute, but
let me just ask you one more option, airpower, taking out their
 air force , no-fly zones, bombing his palace. Do those have any
appeal?  BRZEZINSKI: Well, if the result is, for example, that the
more radical elements, the Salafis, not to mention the al-Qaeda
gains from it, and they are stronger militarily, what did we
accomplish by it?  HUNT: Right. So that’s the danger. Let’s go to what you
said a minute ago. What’s the likely spillover effect to Jordan,
the Kurds, Lebanon?  BRZEZINSKI: I think what we have to realize - and I don’t
think we have thought about it enough - is that we’re dealing
with a region that has become more volatile, because that region
has been organized for the last 100 years, since World War I, on
the basis of a scheme contrived by the British and the French on
how to divide among themselves the  Middle East . And they created
these artificial states which are amalgams of different
religions, different ethnicities, different aspirations, and
they becoming unstuck.  And if we get involved mindlessly, simply in the name of
democracy on behalf of a cause which we cannot win without
deploying a lot of our own forces, then we’re going to be
engaged in the region as a whole, and that will be a large-scale
disaster for the  United States .  HUNT: Let me switch to  China , another subject that you’re a
great expert in. President Xi’s much more aggressive territorial
claims and talks about a new Chinese pride. Is that a cause for
concern? Is there a danger of conflict in  Asia ?  BRZEZINSKI: There is, I think, as a general proposition a
potential danger that Asia could unwittingly replicate the
disasters that  Europe  experienced in the last century, that is
to say, ethnic wars, economic wars, maritime war, territorial
wars, resource wars. And I think we have to be careful. And if
we’re not sufficiently sensitive to all of these potential
animosities, we could unintentionally encourage them.  I think some of the things we did lately may have sent the
wrong signals to some of China’s regional opponents - the
presumption that we’re going to back them - and we might have
somewhat unintentionally signified to the Chinese that we want
to organize some sort of a coalition against them. I don’t
believe this is the intention of the administration. I really do
not.  HUNT: But giving off signals like Japan comes under our -  BRZEZINSKI: Well, like this - or the pivot, defined
militarily, why against whom? And I think that kind of confused
the situation. But the Chinese themselves also, I think, have to
acknowledge privately, at least - not publicly - I don’t want
them to be pleading penitence publicly - they have to
acknowledge that they were a little indelicate in dealing with
some of their neighbors, when then fled to us, thinking that
we’re going to back them against China.  HUNT: Let me ask you another issue with the Chinese, which
is hacking. It is clear that there’s been hacking in a number of
American interests, corporate and probably government. It’s got
to be done with some knowledge of the leadership over there.
What should be the American response?  BRZEZINSKI: I think our response should be private to the
Chinese, for the time being, in telling them, please, stop this,
because it’s going to lead to some unpleasantness and can get
out of hand. But at the same time, we have to have the capacity
not only to protect ourselves, but to retaliate.  And I don’t mean just against the Chinese. Again, anybody
who does it. And a lot of it is not the Chinese. Some of it are
some other governments. The Russians did it to the Estonians in
- no, 2007, 2007. And a lot of it is hackers.  We have to have the capacity to counterattack, to
counterattack credibly or to retaliate in kind as the point of
departure of saying to the parties interested, let’s draw some
rules to the game here, some self-restraint, because otherwise
we will be taken to the cleaners. We won’t be taken seriously
unless we have the capacity to retaliate.  And then last but not least, let’s not start new things
ourselves, because that could degrade the quality of the
international system. I have in mind, for example, something
which I think really is not in our interest, the Stuxnet stuff
that we sent by cyber to the Iranians. We’re not at war with
 Iran . We may not like what they’re doing. We may be punishing
them for it through sanctions. But if we start waging our own
new cyber wars, we’re opening the doors to them doing it to us.  HUNT: One more topic, drones. We wiped out a lot of al-
Qaeda. Are we killing more terrorists or creating more
terrorists?  BRZEZINSKI: I don’t know how to measure that. I also know
that we’re killing some innocents, as well, and it’s
troublesome. I’ve been thinking about that in the light of my
own experience in the government, and I think it’s a mistake for
the president to be, so to speak, “signing off” on what kind
of missions to undertake and who as a result can be killed and
how many collateral damages can be absorbed or tolerated.  I think it should be someone who has the position that I
had, which is the head of the national security staff for the
president, aided by some senior highly respected judicial
person, and also a person with political sensitivity for that
particular front or region in which the drones are used, so
that, first of all, the decisions are made through a collective
and responsible process, which has some inbuilt resistance
against indiscriminate use, and, secondly, so that the president
is not directly liable and the national security adviser or the
people working with him assume the role, let’s say, of a field
commander, a general, who conducts an operation.  The president doesn’t sign off on every one of them, but if
the general succeeds, he gets a medal. If he screws up, he gets
canned. But the president doesn’t take the rap right away. I
think that’s rather demoralizing.  HUNT: We’re going to have to close on that note. Dr.
Brzezinski, thank you so much for being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN  MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 