-- California Governor Says Inmate Numbers Cuts Sufficient
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-03T07:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/california-governor-says-inmate-numbers-cuts-sufficient.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown , under
a federal court order to reduce prison rolls, laid out a plan to
slash the number of inmates more than he already has while
telling judges he is reluctant to take the steps.  California prison authorities in court filings yesterday
proposed asking the legislature to consider early release of
elderly and sick inmates, provide money to lease private prison
space in California, continue to use out-of-state facilities for
some prisoners, and build new prisons.  A panel of federal judges told Brown on April 11 he had 21
days to submit a plan to produce a list of measures that could
be taken to make the cuts, including an estimate of the number
of prisoners who would be released as a result. The Brown
administration said the state has already taken steps to improve
inmate health care and has reduced the prison population by
43,000 inmates since 2006.  “It remains my informed opinion that the reduced
population, coupled with the state’s investment in focused and
appropriate facility improvements, makes it possible for the
state to provide appropriate, quality health care to its inmates
at the current population level,” Jeffrey Beard, Brown’s prison
secretary, said in one of the filings in federal court in  San
Francisco .  The proposed reduction measures would come close to meeting
the court-ordered target by the end of this year if lawmakers
pass the necessary legislation, Brown’s lawyers said in the
filing.  While required to file this list of measures, the state
still intends to appeal the court order for further prison
population reductions to the U.S. Supreme Court, the prisons
authority said in a statement today.  Stripped Control  Federal judges stripped California of control of its prison
health-care system in 2006 after inmates filed a legal challenge
to its quality. The judges ordered the state to cut its prison
population to 137 percent of capacity from 175 percent, saying
overcrowding was a cause of the inadequate care. The U.S.
Supreme Court upheld that order in May 2011.  Brown in January was supposed to produce the plan. Instead
he asked the judges to cancel the court-ordered reduction of the
state’s prison population, saying shortcomings involving inmate
health care and overcrowding have been rectified.  The judges responded in April again demanding a plan and
said they had up until that point “exercised exceptional
restraint” in not charging the 75-year-old Democrat with
contempt.  Beard said the state currently houses about 119,506 inmates
in its prisons, or 149.5 percent of capacity. Brown in 2011 put
in place a program to shift non-violent felons to county jails
or into alternatives such as house arrest as a way to reduce the
population. Since the start of that program, the population in
the 33 prisons has decreased by approximately 25,000 inmates,
Beard said.  “An example of the unintended consequences of implementing
many of the remaining options for reducing the prison population
is the potential early release of offenders from county jails
who could pose a risk to public safety,” Beard said in one of
the filings.  The case is Plata v. Brown, 01-01351, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  