-- EU Carbon Posts Biggest Weekly Gain as Merkel Urges Surplus Fix
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-05-03T16:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/carbon-soars-to-2-week-high-as-merkel-urges-work-on-surplus-fix.html
European carbon prices posted their
biggest-ever weekly gain after German Chancellor Angela Merkel
urged action on the bloc’s plan to delay supply of permits.  The December futures contract advanced 22 percent since
April 26 to close at 3.78 euros ($4.98) a metric ton on London’s
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange, the highest since April 16. The
contracts jumped as much as 23 percent today, and trading volume
doubled to 27 million tons from yesterday’s levels.  Prices plunged to a record 2.46 euros last month after the
European Parliament rejected a plan to postpone the sale of some
permits over the next three years and reintroduce, or backload,
them to the market in 2019 and 2020. Prices have slumped 50
percent from a year ago as the euro area’s second  recession 
since 2008 cut demand for permits, exacerbating a glut.  “This is a strong boost, it’s exactly what the market
needed,” Milan Hudak, an analyst at Virtuse Energy sro in
 Prague , said by e-mail. “Even though this is a strong signal
from Germany, backloading will not happen sooner than in 2014
and we still don’t know the final version of it.”  Europe’s emissions-trading system imposes limits on about
12,000 power plants and factories. The program allocates permits
to polluters that must surrender enough allowances to cover
their discharges of carbon dioxide or pay fines. Lower prices
mean it can be cheaper for companies to buy emission rights
rather than invest in climate-friendly technologies.  ‘Great Intensity’  Germany’s clean-energy law must be overhauled with “great
intensity” after the country’s elections on Sept. 22 and action
should also be taken in the carbon market as lower-than-expected
economic growth led to falling prices for certificates, Merkel
said today at a Protestant church event in Hamburg.  “Something also has to be done on backloading, otherwise
we have a development that goes in the wrong direction,” Merkel
said. “All of the assumptions that are the basis of CO2 trading
no longer apply.”  While Merkel acknowledged that her Cabinet doesn’t have an
agreed position on how to fix the carbon glut, “we have to
achieve a breakthrough in which we better link the CO2
certificates with the subsidy of renewable energies,” she said.  Germany ’s politicians and industry had expected certificate
prices of at least 15 euros a ton, Merkel said.  “That’s why at the moment, financing for a long-term
positive change for the climate isn’t adequately secured,”
Merkel said.  Most EU member states support the backloading proposal,
with  Poland  leading a group of nations that oppose it.  “This is good news,” Artur Runge-Metzger, the EU’s
Brussels-based lead climate negotiator, said of Merkel’s
comments. “Of course it will have to be followed through,” he
said in an interview at United Nations climate talks in Bonn.  United Nations Certified Emission Reductions for December
advanced as much as 15 percent to 31 euro cents, the most in two
weeks. The contract settled at 30 euro cents on ICE Futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  