-- McDonald’s Dinnertime Egg McMuffins Frustrated by Grills: Retail
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-05-03T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/mcdonald-s-dinnertime-egg-mcmuffins-frustrated-by-grills-retail.html
In the 1993 film “Falling Down,”
 Michael Douglas  enters a fast-food restaurant and orders
breakfast. The worker behind the counter informs Douglas he’s a
few minutes too late, and Douglas becomes unhinged.  Twenty years later, breakfast still ends too early for many
people -- 10:30 a.m. on weekdays and 11 a.m. on weekends -- at
most  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  restaurants. So when  Don Thompson , the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company’s president and chief executive
officer, said in late April that he was considering serving
breakfast all day, a lot of Americans thought it was about time.  Not so fast. Back in 2006, then-CEO Jim Skinner announced
that the chain was considering operational improvements that
would make it possible to offer breakfast 24 hours a day.  “It’s a concept for now --- no specifics yet,” Heidi Barker Sa Shekhem, vice president for global communications,
said in an e-mail in response to a request for an update. A few
breakfast items are offered all day in select countries.  Although breakfast accounts for only one-quarter of
McDonald’s U.S. sales, it dominates the market. A 2012 study by
Scarborough, a New York-based market research firm, found that
among the adults who said they’d eaten a fast-food breakfast in
the prior month, 48 percent had visited a McDonald’s.  Still, all-day breakfast?  “It’s been tried and failed repeatedly,” said Richard
Adams, a restaurant-franchisee consultant in  San Diego  and
former McDonald’s restaurant owner. “It just makes the
operation too complicated.”  The chain, which has about 14,100 McDonald’s stores in the
U.S., has conducted test runs in a few stores over the years, he
said.  Scrambled Eggs  One of the biggest obstacles to a McDonald’s breakfast 24/7
is logistical. There may not be enough “grill capacity” to
cook both eggs and burgers, said Don Boodel, who owns two
McDonald’s restaurants in the Denver area.  And burgers, like other meat, need to be cooked at a higher
temperature than eggs. At breakfast, the crew cooks the bacon
and sausage ahead of time. That solution might not be possible
during a busy lunch shift. Then there’s the scrambled egg.  “It’s something you’ve got to dedicate yourself to,
stirring the eggs,” Adams said. “You’ve got to keep them
moving; you can’t just let them sit there.”  During peak times, McDonald’s already struggles to quickly
serve drive-in customers, said Darren Tristano, executive vice
president at Chicago-based research firm Technomic Inc. About 65
percent of McDonald’s U.S. business comes from customers in
their cars.  Cheaper Fare  Another problem with all-day breakfast is that the morning
fare costs less than lunch or dinner meals, so some customers
might trade down.  Still, “there’s nothing better on the menu than
breakfast,” said Barry Klein, a former franchisee who now is a
marketing consultant in  Chicago . “The value is sensational. And
there’s a slightly healthier halo to what they serve then.”  The Sausage, Egg & Cheese McGriddle is the exception: It
has 550 calories and 31 grams of fat.  McDonald’s, which has more than 34,400 restaurants
worldwide, has become less valuable to investors during the past
year. The Big Mac seller is trading at a  premium  of about 21
percent to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on a price-to-
earnings basis, compared with a 28 percent premium in May last
year.  The company rose 0.8 percent to $102.92 at the close in New
York. McDonald’s has  gained  6.1 percent in the past 12 months,
while the  S&P 500  has advanced 16 percent.  First-Quarter Sales  Sales at U.S. stores open at least 13 months dropped 1.2
percent in the first quarter, the company said on April 19. The
decline is due in part to a “challenging eating-out
environment,” Thompson said during a call with analysts that
day.  “Throughout the year, we will feature even more compelling
new products in the  United States , especially in our four key
growth categories of chicken, premium beef, breakfast and
beverages,” Thompson said.  Klein and other observers suggested that restaurants could
offer only the breakfast sandwiches all day; they’re easier to
make and sell better than pancakes and scrambled eggs anyway.  Or they could experiment with serving breakfast until noon,
said Tristano of Technomic. Until then, he said, there’s always
the once secret Mc10:35. Customers arriving minutes late for
breakfast can often prevail on McDonald’s crew to put leftover
eggs from the Egg McMuffins on their burgers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Berfield in  New York  at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cristina Lindblad at 
 mlindblad1@bloomberg.net  