-- Chad Arrests Two Generals Following Failed Attempt to Oust Deby
-- B y   D a n i e l   N ’ D o h   N a d j i t a n
-- 2013-05-03T05:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/chad-arrests-two-generals-following-failed-attempt-to-oust-deby.html
Chadian authorities arrested two
generals after a failed coup attempt two days ago in which at
least eight people died, the country’s public prosecutor said.  General Weiding Assi Assoue, a former defense minister and
regional governor, and General David Ngomine Beadimadji, head of
gendarme training in  Chad ’s military tribunal, were detained on
May 1, Mahamat Saleh Youssouf told reporters yesterday in the
capital, N’Djamena. Two lawmakers, Saleh Maki and Mahamat
Malloum Kadre, have also been arrested, he said.  “Documents recovered led us to the arrest of these
generals,” Youssouf said.  Chad, which produces 114,000 barrels of oil a day and has a
$9.49 billion economy, has been ruled by President Idriss Deby
since he seized power in a coup in December 1990. In 2008, 270
people were killed during fighting between government forces and
rebel fighters who entered N’Djamena in an attempt to overthrow
Deby, according to  Medecins Sans Frontieres , the Geneva-based
medical charity.  Deby, who turns 61 this year, also survived another attack
on his rule when army defectors tried to shoot down his aircraft
while he was returning from a trip abroad in 2006.  Wednesday’s attempt to “destabilize the institutions of
the republic” took place while Deby was at his home in the
eastern Wadi Fira region, Youssouf said.  As many as eight people were killed and at least 15 were
injured in clashes between the plotters and security forces,
 Agence France-Presse  reported, citing a person it didn’t
identify.  Police maintained a heavy security presence in the south of
N’Djamena yesterday, checking all vehicles as they entered the
city. The two generals are from southern Chad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  