-- Chemed Declines Most in Five Years on Medicare Lawsuit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-03T20:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/chemed-declines-most-in-five-years-on-medicare-lawsuit.html
Chemed Corp. (CHE) , the provider of hospice
care and Roto-Rooter plumbing services, fell the most in five
years after its health unit was accused by the U.S. government
of false billing for Medicare services.  Chemed, owner of the largest for-profit hospice chain in
the U.S., plunged 17 percent to $68 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day drop since April 2008. The shares of the
Cincinnati-based company have increased 12 percent in the past
12 months.  The U.S. filed a lawsuit claiming Chemed’s Vitas Hospice
units knowingly billed the government’s Medicare program for
crisis-care services that weren’t necessary or provided, and
enrolled patients who weren’t eligible, the  Justice Department 
said in a  statement  yesterday. The department has settled civil
fraud complaints against at least eight hospice companies in the
past four years as federal inspectors probe providers of end-of-
life care for possible Medicare overbilling.  Too often “we hear reports of companies that abuse this
critical service by using aggressive marketing tactics to push
patients into services they don’t need in order to get higher
reimbursements,” said Stuart Delery, acting assistant attorney
general for the department’s civil division, in the statement.  Defend Vigorously  Chemed and its Vitas business “intend to defend this
lawsuit vigorously,” according to a statement from the company
today. The businesses have made significant investments in their
systems and procedures to be sure they meet regulatory
requirements and the highest industry standards, Chemed said.
The changes were designed to ensure services are provided only
to eligible patients, the company said.  Medicare is the U.S.-backed health insurance program for
the elderly. The suit claims the units set goals for the number
of crisis days they billed to Medicare, pressured staff to boost
claims and used aggressive marketing tactics to increase
improper billing. Crises-care services are billed at the highest
daily rate for Medicare patients and are intended for brief
periods to treat urgent symptoms of worsening health.  Hospices are supposed to enroll only people who they
believe will be dead within 180 days. About 21 percent of
patients stay longer, the U.S. inspector general responsible for
Medicare reported in July 2011, and more than 200,000 are
discharged alive each year.  Chemed acquired Vitas in 2004 and now provides  hospice care 
in 18 states and  Washington , D.C. The health-care business
generated revenue of about $271 million in the first three
months of 2013, or about three-quarters of the company’s total,
Chemed said on April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  