-- China Service Industries Expand at Slower Pace: Survey
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-03T01:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/china-s-service-industries-expand-at-slower-pace-survey-shows.html
China ’s service industries expanded at
a slower pace last month, adding to the drag on growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy after manufacturing lost momentum.  The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to
54.5 from 55.6 in March, the  National Bureau of Statistics  and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
today in Beijing. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  A deceleration in service industries may fuel concern that
China’s economic slowdown will extend into a second quarter
after two manufacturing indexes declined. Risks that include
surging  credit , overcapacity and an overheating  property market 
may limit the government’s room to stimulate growth.  “The PMI adds to downside risks for China and the
region,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The reading
suggests that growth momentum will remain relatively soft” in
the second quarter, and that the economy “has shifted to a
weaker growth trajectory,” he said.  The report “adds to the case for policy stimulus, and we
expect the government to orchestrate more investment,” which
will boost growth beginning in the third quarter, Kowalczyk said.
Weaker momentum in the economy adds to chances that the
government will set a 2014  expansion  goal of 7 percent, down
from this year’s 7.5 percent, he said.  Robust Production  Cai Jin, a vice president at the Beijing-based federation,
gave a more-upbeat view, saying in a statement that strength in
construction and logistics points to “robust production
activity in the future.”  “Price pressures have eased, which will help improve
quality and efficiency in economic development,” Cai said.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 0.2 percent at
10:17 a.m. in  Tokyo . China weakened the  yuan  reference  rate  by
0.11 percent, the most since April 18, to 6.2152 per dollar.  China’s  economy  expanded 7.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, trailing analysts’ forecasts and slipping
from a 7.9 percent pace in the previous period that was the
first acceleration in two years.  The federation’s April manufacturing Purchasing Managers’
Index released this week and a separate gauge from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics both fell from March, as export orders
contracted.  Survey Sample  The logistics federation’s non-manufacturing index is based
on responses from purchasing managers at 1,200 companies in 27
industry groups including catering, retailing, construction and
transportation. A new seasonally adjusted series began in March
2012 and the data were revised back to March 2011. HSBC’s index
will be released on May 6. The gauge rose to 54.3 in March, the
highest reading since September.  Service industries  are becoming a bigger part of the
economy, supporting the government’s efforts to shift the focus
of growth away from investment and exports. Their contribution
to gross domestic product in the first quarter exceeded that of
manufacturing for the first time, the  central bank  said in a
statement last month.  Ikea Group, the world’s biggest home-furnishings retailer,
plans to increase the number of outlets fourfold in China as the
nation is set to become the company’s second-largest market. It
will boost stores to 40 from 11 now by about 2020, Chief
Executive Officer Mikael Ohlsson said April 2 in  Shanghai .  Service industries accounted for 45 percent of GDP last
year, according to the statistics bureau, up from 41 percent in
2003. The government is seeking to increase the share to 47
percent by 2015. In the U.S., services comprise about 90 percent
of the economy.  --Zheng Lifei and Zhou Xin, with assistance from Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  