-- Chinese Police Arrest Suspects in Rat-for-Mutton Crime Ring
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-03T08:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/chinese-police-arrest-suspects-in-rat-for-mutton-crime-ring.html
Chinese authorities busted a criminal
operation that sold rat, fox and mink meat as mutton in Shanghai
and neighboring Jiangsu province for more than 10 million  yuan 
($1.62 million).  Authorities apprehended a person surnamed Wei suspected of
selling disguised rat meat and small mammals treated with
additives and chemicals in farmers markets since 2009, the
Ministry of Public Security  said  in a statement on its website
dated yesterday. More than 50 illegal dens were busted and 63
people detained by police during the crackdown in February,
according to the statement.  The arrests come as new Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged
on March 17 to improve consumer safety by regulating food
quality and environmental protection with an “iron fist.”
China elevated its  food safety  agency to ministry-level in March
as part of a nationwide push to improve food safety, after
recent reports on violations sparked public outrage and
increased scrutiny on the industry.  An outbreak of H7N9 bird flu has killed 26 people since
March, prompting authorities to shut down live poultry markets
and cull birds.  China Central Television  reported on Dec. 18 a former
supplier for  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  was indiscriminately feeding
antibiotics and growth hormones to their chickens. In March, the
Shanghai government pulled more than 10,000 dead pigs from the
Huangpu river, a water source for the city.  Police arrested 904 people and seized more than 20,000
metric tons of illegal products in meat-related crimes over
three months, the official Xinhua News Agency said May 2, citing
the Ministry of Public Security.  Crimes included injecting meat with water and selling
diseased or chemically treated pork or chicken, according to the
public security statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  