-- China Magazine Floats Idea of Selling Parts of Currency Reserves
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-03T10:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/china-magazine-floats-idea-of-selling-parts-of-currency-reserves.html
China  has the option of selling to the
public some assets from its $3.44 trillion  foreign-exchange
reserves , according to an opinion piece in Caixin Century
Weekly, a Chinese magazine.  The article, “How to Cope With ‘Excessive’ Foreign-
Exchange Reserves,” was published in the April 29 issue under
the pseudonym Xiao Yi. Caixin said the author is a “senior
economist” without elaborating and that a more detailed account
of the proposal will be published in a sister magazine, China
Reform.  One possibility is that the author is an official involved
in management of the reserves, said Zhang Bin, a Beijing-based
researcher with the government’s  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences . China could follow practices of the  Tracker Fund (2800)  of
 Hong Kong  to sell off the “best, the most complete, and the
most liquid” assets to investors, according to the piece.  “Judging by the writing, the person is well informed about
China’s foreign-exchange reserves management,” Zhang said. The
State Administration of Foreign Exchange’s management team “is
too small for the sheer size of China’s foreign-exchange
reserves, and delegating assets to outsiders is a quite-good
option.”  SAFE didn’t respond to a faxed request for comment on the
article or answer phone calls to the agency’s news office.
Caixin Editor-in-Chief Hu Shuli couldn’t be reached by telephone
at her office today and didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  The Hong Kong government acquired $15 billion of stocks
during the Asian financial crisis in 1998 to defend Hong Kong’s
dollar, then sold part of the holdings off in 1999 through the
Tracker Fund, which was designed to match the performance of the
 Hang Seng Index .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  