-- China Stocks Rebound From 4-Month Low on Financial Shares
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-03T07:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/china-s-stock-futures-signal-equities-to-rise-from-4-month-low.html
China’s stocks  rose the most in a
week, led by financial companies, after valuations on the
benchmark index dropped to a four-month low.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. and Haitong Securities Co.
advanced at least 1.4 percent, driving financial stocks to the
 biggest gain  in two weeks. Drugmaker Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. and
Goertek Inc., a supplier to Apple Inc., surged to record highs.
BYD Co., the automaker partially owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., jumped 6.5 percent after the Shanghai
Securities News reported the government may issue subsidies for
renewable-energy cars.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.4 percent to 2,205.50
at the close, rebounding from the lowest level since Dec. 24.
The benchmark index slipped 0.2 percent yesterday after a
private report showed decelerating manufacturing growth. Data
today showed service industries expanded at a slower pace.  “This is a technical rebound after investors digested bad
manufacturing data yesterday,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for
Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu.  The index, which had the biggest advance since April 24,
traded at 11.7 times reported profit yesterday, the lowest level
since Dec. 14, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The CSI 300 Index added 1.8 percent to 2,492.91 today,
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rose 0.3 percent.
The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index advanced 0.5 percent yesterday.
Trading volumes on the Shanghai measure were 2.5 percent below
the 30-day average today, data showed.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 9.4 percent from a Feb. 6
high on concern slowing economic growth is hurting  earnings .
Quarterly profit at 53 percent of the companies in the Shanghai
index missed estimates, according to data on 224 corporate
results compiled by Bloomberg since Feb. 16.  Services Data  A gauge of financial companies including banks, brokerages
and developers in the CSI 300 jumped 2.2 percent, the second
most among 10 industry groups. Poly Real Estate, the No. 2
Chinese developer, rose 1.4 percent to 12.04  yuan . Haitong
Securities, the second-largest brokerage, advanced 4 percent to
11.20 yuan.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the No. 2 lender,
surged 1.9 percent to 4.80 yuan. Ping An Bank Co. gained 4.3
percent to 19.73 yuan.  Chinese developers remain confident of achieving 2013
targets, with many of them expecting a pick up in sales in May,
according to a HSBC Holdings Plc report today. Macquarie Group
Ltd. said it likes Chinese banks as they continue to show
“stable and sticky earnings power,” according to a report
today. China’s four largest banks defied a sluggish economy to
report record quarterly profits in the first three months.  Smaller Companies  The non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to
54.5 from 55.6 in March, the National Bureau of Statistics and
 China  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
today. The services data come after official and private
manufacturing reports this week showed a weaker expansion.  The services report shows weakening demand and easing price
pressures, providing policy makers more flexibility to adjust
the pace of policy tightening, Nomura Holdings Inc. economist
Zhang Zhiwei wrote in a report today.  China is due to report April trade and inflation data next
week. The country will probably post a 10 percent gain in
exports from a year ago, unchanged from the previous month,
according to the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Inflation will quicken to 2.2 percent in April from
2.1 percent in March, another survey showed.  Yunnan Baiyao drove health-care stocks to the biggest
advance among CSI 300 groups, gaining 3.5 percent to 89.04 yuan.
The gauge of drugmakers has jumped 20 percent this year, the
best-performing group after phone stocks.  ECB Cut  BYD led  consumer-discretionary  companies to the third
biggest gain among groups, surging 6.5 percent to 26.20 yuan.
The Shanghai Securities News reported minimum subsidies for
renewable-energy cars may be more than 3,000 yuan ($487).
Goertek jumped 5.6 percent to 57.01 yuan, poised for the highest
level since the shares started trading in May 2008.  Smaller companies such as those in the technology and
health industries “are more insulated from slowing economic
growth than larger companies,” Mao said.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., added 0.5 percent to $37.38 in
New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent
after American jobless claims unexpectedly fell and the European
Central Bank cut interest rates to a record low.  “The ECB’s rate cut should help demand and economic growth
in  Europe  but it’s still a very fragile economy,” Timothy Ghriskey, chief investment officer at Solaris Group LLC in New
York, said by phone. The outlook for Europe and China’s slowdown
“keeps us, at least right now, on the sidelines in China in
terms of investing. There’s just too much uncertainty for us to
step up and take a position.”  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  