-- China Rate Swaps Rise Most in Two Months on PBOC Policy Outlook
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-05-03T03:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/china-rate-swaps-rise-most-in-two-months-on-pboc-policy-outlook.html
China ’s benchmark  interest-rate swaps 
rose by the most in two months amid speculation the central bank
will refrain from loosening monetary policy even as slowdown
signs mount in the world’s second-largest economy.  Growth in services output moderated in April, according to
an official Purchasing Managers’ Index published today. Similar
gauges released earlier this week indicated manufacturing is
also losing traction. People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  said April 20 that a slowdown was “normal” as policy
makers sacrifice growth to make structural reforms.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose four  basis
points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 3.22 percent as of 11:06
a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest increase since Feb. 28. The swap fell six
basis points yesterday, the most since Jan. 18.  “Weak growth momentum has already been priced in and
there’s a small retracement after a big move yesterday,” said
Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based strategist at UBS Securities Co. The
People’s Bank of China will “keep a neutral stance on liquidity
despite a weak economy. I don’t think it will loosen monetary
policy to boost growth.”  The PBOC sold 30 billion  yuan  ($4.9 billion) of 28-day
repurchase agreements at a yield of 2.75 percent yesterday,
draining funds from the financial system. according to a central
bank statement posted on the Chinese government bond clearing
house’s website.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 28 basis points to 3.23 percent in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  The yield on the government’s 3.52 percent bonds due
February 2023 increased one basis point to 3.41 percent,
according to data from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  