-- Citigroup Sees Dim Sum Loans Topping $16 Billion: China Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-05-03T04:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/citigroup-sees-dim-sum-loans-topping-16-billion-china-credit.html
Hong Kong ’s Dim Sum loans will top 100
billion  yuan  ($16.2 billion) this year after the city’s monetary
chief  Norman Chan  relaxed capital rules, Citigroup Inc. said.  The one-year yuan interbank deposit rate in Hong Kong was
2.42 percent today from as high as 3.20 percent in January after
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority allowed banks to better utilize
their Chinese currency deposits. Comparable  Hong Kong dollar  and
yuan rates in  China  are 0.81 percent and 3.44 percent
respectively. Outstanding yuan loans in the city almost tripled
to 86 billion yuan as at the end of February from 31 billion
yuan at the end of 2011, HKMA data show.  The HKMA changes “will leave banks more liquidity to lend
out in the interbank market,” said Tan Shiming, Citigroup’s
Hong Kong-based global yuan product manager for  Asia . Borrowers
will be companies with “real yuan funding needs who have the
flexibility to leverage their trade activities or pledge their
onshore assets to obtain low-cost offshore financing,” he said.  The biggest banks in Hong Kong, including HSBC Holdings Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc, are counting on offering low-cost
financing in the city for expansion. The growth of disposable
yuan in Hong Kong, where deposits in the currency reached a
 record  668 billion yuan in March, will also help spur demand for
Dim Sum bonds that have rallied for the past seven months,
Deutsche Bank AG predicts.  Limits Scrapped  The HKMA on April 25 scrapped a limit on lenders’ net open
positions for yuan as well as a requirement they keep a certain
amount of liquid assets in the currency. It also said that at
least 15 banks will start contributing to an interbank  interest
rate  fixing for offshore yuan, which will be compiled by the
Hong Kong Treasury Markets Association from June. Daily volume
of interbank lending in the currency was about 8 billion yuan,
the association said last week.  “Having an offshore yuan Hibor rate will make funding
costs and credit spreads much more transparent,” Citigroup’s
Tan said.  Hong Kong  introduced  a net open position limit on yuan
capital in December 2010 as a tool to manage banks’ foreign-
exchange risk. The so-called NOP limit refers to the difference
between banks’ yuan assets and yuan liabilities on their balance
sheets. Prior to last week’s changes, local lenders had also
been  required to  hold yuan assets in either cash, offshore
sovereign yuan bonds or debt in China’s  interbank market , at a
ratio of at least 25 percent of their customer’s yuan deposits.  Yuan Supply  The 12-month offshore yuan interbank offered rate has
dropped 70 basis points this year to 2.8 percent today,
according to  Bank of China  (Hong Kong) Ltd. data on the  TMA
website .  Relaxed capital rules will increase the availability of
yuan in Hong Kong, sending Dim Sum bond yields lower, according
to Beng Hong Lee, the Shanghai-based head of  product management 
for offshore renminbi at Deutsche Bank.  Average yields  on Dim Sum bonds have dropped 29 basis
points, or 0.29 percentage point, this year to 3.46 percent
yesterday, according to an index compiled by Deutsche Bank and
Standard and Poor’s. It touched 3.395 on April 30, the least
since September 2011. The yield on corporate dollar bonds in
Asia declined 15 basis points over the same period to 3.557
percent, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index showed.  Borrowing Costs  “The new rule will reduce banks’ requirement to hold
liquidity and encourage them to lend more, driving down yields
in general,” Lee said in an e-mail interview on April 30.
“This is good for the Dim Sum market in general as it makes the
cost of borrowing lower.”  Manufacturing in China is showing signs of slowing, which
could weigh on borrowing demand. The final April reading of 50.4
for a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index released yesterday by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics compares with 51.6 for March.
A number above 50 indicates expansion. An official guage today
on the nation’s services industries also expanded at a slower
pace last month.  The yield on China’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell
11 basis points last month to 3.43 percent, according to
ChinaBond data. The  cost  to insure sovereign notes in China
against non-payment has risen five basis points this year. Five-
year credit-default swaps were quoted at 71.5 basis points on
May 2 in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Yuan Appreciation  Hong Kong banks will get a “modest” benefit in terms of
growth and profitability from the relaxed rules, which increases
their capacity to put money into other yuan-denominated
investments, Sabine Bauer, an analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd. in
Hong Kong, said in an e-mail interview yesterday. Currency risks
and restrictions on cross-border lending will limit growth, she
said.  The yuan rose to a 19-year high against the dollar
yesterday amid speculation U.S. monetary stimulus will spur
faster gains. The currency slipped 0.01 percent today to 6.1568
per dollar as of 12:04 p.m. in  Shanghai  and dropped 0.03 percent
to 6.1588 in Hong Kong.  “Demand for offshore yuan loans in Hong Kong isn’t that
strong as the yuan isn’t fully convertible, making it less a
recognized currency for lending,” said Steven Chan, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Citic Securities International Co. “As
the yuan is appreciating and the interest rate for yuan loans in
Hong Kong is higher than for U.S. dollars and Hong Kong dollars,
why would a corporate borrow in yuan in Hong Kong?”  Onshore Vs Offshore  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  also doesn’t
expect “a surge in yuan loans immediately because it remains
easy for Chinese corporates to borrow onshore,” according to
Raymond Yeung, the bank’s Hong Kong-based senior economist.  Rising supplies of the currency boost the appeal of
borrowing in the city. Cross-border yuan trade is driving Hong
Kong’s supplies of the Chinese currency, with settlements
reaching a record 341 billion yuan in March, according to
Bloomberg Industries data.  Sichuan Expressway Co. borrowed 1 billion yuan in a two-
year offshore term loan last month, according to three people
familiar with the matter. HSBC was among nine banks which joined
the transaction that paid a fixed rate of 4.3 percent, the
people said.  Hong Kong’s rule loosening comes as cities including
Taiwan, London and Singapore vye to become the premier offshore
trading hub. Global yuan payments increased 33 percent in March
from February versus an average 5.1 percent gain across all
currencies, the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication said April 25. The  renminbi ’s share of global
payments rose to an all-time high of 0.74 percent, 13th highest
in the world.  “The HKMA’s move was a response to competitive pressure
from Taipei, which doesn’t have any NOP limit requirements for
renminbi lending,” said Chi Lo, a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, which managed the
equivalent of $660 billion of assets globally as of Dec. 31.
“These moves increase the banks’ renminbi liquidity, and that
should stimulate renminbi lending. It will also put competitive
pressure on other centers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  