-- Clearwire Investor Mount Kellett Forms Group Opposing Sprint
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-03T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/clearwire-investor-mount-kellett-enlists-group-to-oppose-sprint.html
Mount Kellett Capital Management LP
said it forged an alliance with other  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  investors
to coax  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  into making a better takeover offer
for the struggling wireless Internet company.  The group, which also includes Highside Capital Management
LP, Glenview Capital Management LLC, Chesapeake Partners
Management Co. and others, has 18.2 percent of Clearwire’s
publicly traded shares, they said today in a filing. The group
seeks to persuade Sprint to increase its $2.97-a-share bid.  The price offered by Sprint is “too low,” the group said
in the  filing .  The shareholders, which don’t include another vocal
opponent of the deal -- Crest Financial -- said they formed the
group May 1 to “engage in discussions with relevant and
interested parties to seek to maximize shareholder value.”  The investor group will also pursue discussions with other
parties, including  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , which has presented a
competing bid for Clearwire of $3.30 a share. Bellevue,
Washington-based Clearwire said this week that it will need at
least $1.7 billion in financing to cover operations through
2014. The company has scheduled a May 21 special shareholder
meeting to vote on the offer from  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint.  Clearwire rose 3 percent to $3.38 at the close in New York,
while Sprint climbed less than 1 percent to $7.15. Englewood,
Colorado-based Dish rose 1 percent to $39.68.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, and Mike DiGioia, a
spokesman for Clearwire, both declined to comment on Mount
Kellett’s alliance.  Sprint holds a stake of just over half of Clearwire, mostly
through a separate class of shares that aren’t publicly traded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  