-- Coeure Says Some ECB Crisis Measures May Be Worth Keeping
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-05-03T15:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/coeure-says-ecb-s-unlimited-lending-policy-may-be-worth-keeping.html
European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure said some non-standard measures introduced
during the financial crisis may be worth keeping once policy
returns to normal.  “We may want to ask ourselves which elements of our
current mode of operation have served us well, and not only as a
crisis-management tool, and may therefore survive as a more
permanent feature of the new steady state,” Coeure said in a
speech in Geneva today.  The ECB has provided banks with unlimited liquidity for as
long as three years to unlock markets and encourage lending.
That’s pushed market rates down toward the  deposit rate , which
has served as the de facto benchmark. President Mario Draghi
yesterday stirred a debate over whether that rate can be cut
below zero, after policy makers lowered the main refinancing
rate to a record low of 0.5 percent.  If policy makers decided in the future to continue to
provide more liquidity than is needed and adjust the policy
floor, “the volatility of the overnight rate would likely be
squeezed to minuscule numbers,” Coeure said. “It could enhance
the transmission of policy shifts throughout the term structure
of money-market rates.”  A second advantage for the central bank would be the
continued “capacity to disentangle interest-rate decisions from
decisions concerning the scale of its own liquidity operations
in order to remain resilient to large-scale liquidity shocks,”
he said.  ‘Drawbacks’  However, “there are drawbacks as well,” Coeure said. It
would “require banks to be willing to hold reserves in excess
of their needs,” which “is difficult to ensure” in a
situation without financial stress.  Furthermore, “a system of permanent  excess liquidity  could
potentially distort signals of liquidity and credit risk in the
money market, as money-market activity could be compressed -- or
suppressed altogether,” he said.  The ECB yesterday extended its policy of lending banks as
much as they want by a year to mid-2014. Policy makers
previously announced six-month extensions.  Coeure also said there could be “merits” in providing
longer-term loans to match “the more structural long-term
trends in the autonomous liquidity factors, most notably the
growth in currency in circulation.”  “Expanding the range of maturities following the exit
would probably go hand-in-hand with the decision to return to
competitive auctions,” Coeure said. “But such a steady state
framework would be nevertheless more robust to renewed bouts of
perceived funding risk in the market.”  Coeure said the ECB’s monetary-policy stance “will remain
accommodative for as long as needed,” echoing Draghi’s
comments. While the “exit from non-conventional policies will
come one day,” a “sound financial system is a necessary
condition,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  