-- CommonWealth REIT Judge Urged to Void Board Tenure Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-03T23:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/commonwealth-judge-set-to-rule-next-week-on-corvex-arbitration.html
Changes to the bylaws of  CommonWealth
REIT (CWH)  make a vote to remove its trustees almost impossible, a
lawyer for investors trying to oust the board told a  Maryland 
judge, urging her to throw out the provisions.  The amendments “give complete, unfettered control to the
board” and would “stop in its tracks” a vote by shareholders
on replacing the trustees, Adam Offenhartz, an attorney for
Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., told Judge  Audrey J.S.
Carrion . The companies sued CommonWealth to void 2009 and 2013
bylaw changes restricting who can vote to remove a trustee.  Carrion, in a hearing today in Baltimore, said she will
rule next week on the bylaws and on a request by Corvex and
Related to halt arbitration of issues raised in their lawsuit.  The fight over the bylaws is part of a suit brought by
activist investor Keith Meister’s Corvex, and Related, led by
chief executive officer Jeff Blau, to stop the sale of 27
million new shares because of the dilution it would cause. The
suit followed the board’s rejection of a $27 a share bid for the
company by the two, who together controlled 9.8 percent of
Commonwealth.  CommonWealth’s sale of 30 million shares settled on March
5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The offering priced
on Feb. 27 at $19 a share.  Minimum Holding  CommonWealth, based in Newton,  Massachusetts , changed its
bylaws on March 1 to make it harder for an investor to replace
board members. A shareholder or group of investors must own 3
percent of the company for at least three years before taking
action to remove a trustee, according to a regulatory filing.  Before March 1, no more than two shareholders had a
reported holding that fulfilled the requirements of the
amendment, Corvex and Related said in an amended complaint.  Robert Saunders, an attorney for the trustees, argued today
that the board was entitled to make the changes because of the
latitude granted in the bylaws.  Corvex and Related can’t “succeed in this motion without
convincing you that ‘may’ means ‘shall’ and it doesn’t,”
Saunders told the judge.  The companies, both based in  New York , made a consent
solicitation filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on April 10, a step to obtain shareholder permission to remove
CommonWealth’s board.  Shareholder Votes  Offenhartz said the investment companies have sent out
ballots and have gathered support from shareholders controlling
“more than 40 percent” of the outstanding shares in less than
two weeks. They need 66 percent to replace board members.  Saunders dismissed the results as invalid.  CommonWealth is undervalued because of a “misalignment of
incentives” between the REIT and its external management,
according to the lawsuit.  Related and Meister accused CommonWealth of breaching its
fiduciary duty by “self-interested conduct that has sacrificed
and continues to sacrifice CommonWealth shareholder value” for
the benefit of the company’s trustees and external manager, Reit
Management & Research LLC.  CommonWealth’s five-member board of trustees includes
President Adam Portnoy and his father, Barry Portnoy, a company
founder. They also own Reit Management & Research.  CommonWealth filed for arbitration as provided in its
bylaws shortly after the investors filed suit on Feb. 27.  Invalid Arbitration  The arbitration is invalid because Maryland law requires
that shareholders agree to it, Offenhartz said.  “We have not expressly assented to an arbitration
provision,” he said.  He warned Carrion that “Maryland courts and other state
courts would lose their primacy, their ability opine on their
own state’s corporate law” if the arbitration is allowed to
proceed.  Saunders said shareholders agree to be bound by arbitration
as a condition of owning CommonWealth stock.  Corvex and Related are trying “to pick and choose” which
bylaws they’ll be bound by, he said.  The case is Corvex v. CommonWealth REIT, 24C13001111,
Circuit Court of Maryland, Baltimore City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in  Washington 
at   azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 