-- Commerzbank Admits Defeat in $66 Million Dresdner Bonus Case
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-05-03T11:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/commerzbank-accepts-defeat-in-66-million-dresdner-bonus-case.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said it won’t appeal a
U.K. court ruling that paves the way for 104 bankers to recover
50 million euros ($66 million) in bonuses after four years of
legal skirmishing.  Continuing the case “would unnecessarily expend resources
that can be better employed on our current and future
activities,” said Margarita Thiel, a spokeswoman for
Commerzbank, which is 25 percent government-owned after
receiving an 18.2 billion-euro bailout in 2009.  The German lender reduced bonuses by as much as 90 percent
after taking over Dresdner in 2009. Two U.K. courts ruled the
cuts were illegal because of a pledge by Dresdner’s then Chief
Executive Officer, Stefan Jentzsch, to set aside 400 million
euros for compensation.  While European banks are facing proposals for some of the
world’s toughest pay curbs, Frankfurt-based Commerzbank has
fought legal battles in  Germany ,  Italy  and  Japan  to defend the
Dresdner bonus cuts. In the U.K. case, the Dresdner bankers were
seeking individual payouts of as much as 2 million euros.  Commerzbank maintains it was reasonable to reduce awards
because of a 6.5 billion-euro loss at the division. The decision
not to appeal doesn’t affect its position in legal proceedings
taking place in other countries, where courts have upheld
Commerzbank’s position, Thiel said.  ‘Common Sense’  “Common law and common sense have prevailed,” said Clive
Zietman, a lawyer for some of the bankers. The proceedings “are
now closed.”  Commerzbank bought Dresdner from  Allianz SE (ALV)  in January
2009, the same year it took an 18.2 billion-euro bailout from
Germany at the height of the financial crisis. At a 2012 London
trial in the case of the 104 bankers, Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Blessing  said he wanted employees to be motivated by
loyalty not money.  Dresdner was under pressure from the U.K. finance regulator
to prevent an exodus of staff during a 2008 restructuring.
Jentzsch’s comments at a town hall meeting in  Frankfurt  were
intended to stabilize the bank, according to a court of appeal
ruling confirming they were legally binding.  Commerzbank shares are down 26 percent this year amid a
fifth capital raising in four years. The bank is selling assets
and cutting staff to return to profitability, while investors
protested Blessing’s management at its annual general meeting
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  