-- Corporate Credit Risk Falls to Three-Year Low on Draghi Rate Cut
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-05-03T12:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/corporate-credit-risk-falls-to-three-year-low-on-draghi-rate-cut.html
The cost of insuring against losses on
corporate debt fell to the lowest in three years after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  cut the benchmark rate to a
record 0.5 percent.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped 3 basis
points to 92, the lowest since May 2010. The decline follows the
biggest monthly fall since January 2012.  Central bank purchases of  government bonds  to contain
borrowing costs, coupled with cuts in benchmark rates to
stimulate economic growth, have led investors to pour money into
corporate bonds as they search for yield. Draghi said policy
makers have an “open mind” about a negative deposit rate as
they try to rescue the 17-nation euro area from recession, with
the region’s economy forecast to shrink more than previously
expected in 2013 by the European Commission today.  “The mini-correction we have been expecting since last
week remains ever elusive,” Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  London , wrote in a note to investors. “It
is the constant search for yield that continues to drive credit
market direction, and yesterday’s rate cut maintains that
support, and thus downward pressure on spreads.”  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with high-yield credit ratings declined 10 basis
points to a two-year low of 373 basis points. A decrease signals
improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers fell eight basis points to 131, and the
subordinated index declined nine basis points to 216.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  