-- Deng Xiaoping’s Duke Law Alumnus Grandson Named County Official
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-03T05:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/deng-xiaoping-s-duke-law-alumnus-grandson-named-county-official.html
The grandson of late Chinese leader
 Deng Xiaoping , a Duke University law school graduate who later
worked for U.S. law firm  White & Case  LLP, was named deputy head
of a county in southern  China , the People’s Daily website said.  Deng Zhuodi, in his late 20s, will oversee economic
development, law, agriculture, poverty alleviation and major
projects in Guangxi province’s Pingguo county,  today’s report 
said, citing local media. Pingguo is part of the city of Baise,
where Deng Xiaoping helped lead a  Communist uprising  in 1929
against the Nationalist government.  Deng Zhuodi’s appointment illustrates  the influence  of
China’s so-called princelings, the descendants of the founding
fathers of Communist China. Chinese President Xi Jinping, the
son of a top party official, held a party post at the county
level in northern China’s Hebei province early in his career.  A county official in Pingguo confirmed that Deng Zhuodi had
been in his post for several months. The official, reached by
telephone, asked not to be identified, saying the details aren’t
public information.  The descendants of the Communist revolutionaries are part
of an elite network that has gained access to education abroad
and jobs in finance and government, Bloomberg News reported on
Dec. 27.  “In the 80s and 90s, princelings went into business,”
said Bo Zhiyue, a senior research fellow at the East Asian
Institute at the  National University  of  Singapore . “But
starting a few years ago you see signs that these people are
turning back to politics.”  Economic Opportunities  The younger Deng was born in 1985 while his grandfather
oversaw the country’s economic opening that lifted China out of
poverty and created opportunities for princelings to  get rich .
Deng Xiaoping died in 1997.  Deng Zhuodi is the son of Deng Xiaoping’s younger son Deng
Zhifang, who earned a physics Ph.D. at the University of
Rochester in the 1980s before returning to China to work in
property.  “Deng Zhuodi gives the impression of having great
knowledge and ability, yet is low-key, modest, careful and
diligent, and never gives media interviews, local officials and
citizens say,” People’s Daily said.  A bridge player like his grandfather, Deng Zhuodi received
a degree from Duke’s law school in 2008, according to the
school’s alumni web page. He went on to work at White & Case.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  