-- Direct Line’s Profit Climbs on Higher Releases From Reserves
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-03T06:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/direct-line-s-profit-climbs-on-higher-releases-from-reserves.html
Direct Line Insurance Group Plc (DLG) , the
U.K.’s biggest home and motor insurer, said first-quarter profit
rose 33 percent, missing analysts’ estimates, as the firm
released reserves from previous years.  Operating profit climbed to 107.5 million pounds ($167
million) in the first three months of the year, from 80.9
million pounds in the same period a year earlier, the Bromley,
England-based company said today in a statement. That missed the
111.9 million-pound average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
the Direct Line.  The improvement in underwriting was “driven by continued
prior year reserve releases and lower claims from weather
events,” Direct Line said in the statement.  The insurer is cutting costs and attempting to sell more
profitable policies amid falling premiums in the U.K., its
biggest market, and lower investment returns driven by record
low interest rates. Competitor  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  said low
investment returns caused it to cut its dividend by a third in
March.  Direct Line’s claims and expenses were 98 pence for every
pound it took in premiums in the first quarter, an improvement
on the 104.5 pence in the same period a year ago. The company’s
profit before tax was 94.3 million pounds, which was higher than
the 63.1 million pounds estimated by the analysts, due to more
profitable underwriting and lower restructuring costs.  Net earned premiums, a measure of revenue, dropped 5
percent to 885.3 million pounds.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which owns 48.5 percent
of Direct Line, sold a 30 percent stake in the insurer in
October and a further holding in March. The stock has risen 8.2
percent to 203.5 pence since its initial public offering in
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 