-- Disney Bangladesh Exit Pressure on Clothesmakers Who Stay
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-05-03T07:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/disney-bangladesh-exit-puts-pressure-on-those-who-may-stay-1-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s decision to pull out
of  Bangladesh  is fueling debate over whether other manufacturers
should leave the country or stay put to improve workplace
conditions in the South Asian nation.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, removed
Bangladesh in March from a list of countries where it authorizes
partners to produce clothing and merchandise, according to a
letter to licensees released yesterday. Belarus, Ecuador,
Pakistan and  Venezuela  were also taken off the list, which cut
the number of acceptable nations to 172 from 215, Disney said.  While Disney’s contractors had less than 1 percent of the
company’s  production  in Bangladesh, marketers with more activity
there will have to decide whether to stay and spend to improve
worker safety or go elsewhere and potentially see the costs of
their products rise even more. They need to make the calculation
as they assess the risk to their brand names.  “There is a move afoot for companies to say clearly, ‘We
need to be part of bigger oversight procedures,’” Cory Krupp,
an associate professor at Duke University’s Sanford School of
Public Policy, said in a phone interview. “The other way is
just to move to Vietnam or  Cambodia  where they have better
standards and the government is better at upholding them, and
Bangladesh is going to learn the hard way.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , asked licensees
making its goods in Bangladesh and the other barred countries to
end production in those places by March 2014. Safety standards
in Bangladesh have been in the spotlight after accidents
including an April 24 building collapse in Savar that killed at
least 501 people and a November factory fire that claimed 112.
Disney said its products weren’t made at either site.  Small Footprint  “If your footprint is low and you make the calculus and
there are other places where you have more leverage and can make
improvements, that’s a sound approach,” said David Schilling,
senior program director at the Interfaith Center on Corporate
Responsibility.  The head of Disney’s consumer products division, in a
statement yesterday, said there’s no easy answer.  “These are complicated global issues and there is no ‘one
size fits all’ solution,” said Bob Chapek, president of the
division. “Disney is a publicly held company accountable to its
shareholders and after much thought and discussion we felt this
was the most responsible way to manage the challenges associated
with our supply chain.”  The Interfaith Center’s approach historically been to stay
and work to improve health and safety standards, Schilling said
in an interview. His New York-based group has worked with Disney
and other companies on safety standards.  Global Effort  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  were among
retailers sending representatives to a meeting near  Frankfurt 
this week to discuss cooperating to improve worker safety in
Bangladesh following that nation’s biggest industrial disaster.  The talks, organized by  Germany ’s international cooperation
service known as GIZ, were aimed at winning support from the
companies, labor unions and non-governmental groups for
Bangladesh’s national action plan and for supplier assessments
of fire and building risk, said Peter McAllister, a director of
the  Ethical Trading Initiative , who attended.  The discussions were also aimed at winning backing for
remediation programs to make buildings safer, McAllister said.
The European Union, the country’s largest trading partner, has
said it may apply sanctions in the wake of the disaster.  “There will be a strong call for as many brands as we can,
who source in Bangladesh, to get behind” the call for higher
safety standards, McAllister said.  Wal-Mart, Penney  Loblaw’s Cos. (L) ’ Joe Fresh clothing label and the Primark
division of London-based  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , owners of
brands produced at the collapsed building, have vowed to improve
working conditions in Bangladesh. Both retailers also said on
April 29 they would pay unspecified compensation to the families
of victims.  “Bangladesh continues to be an important sourcing market
for Wal-Mart,” Megan Murphy, a spokeswoman for the world’s
largest retailer, said yesterday in an e-mail. The chain, based
in Bentonville,  Arkansas , said it has worked with government
officials, industry groups and suppliers to improve safety.  J.C. Penney will “take an active part in the dialogue that
aims to come up with a comprehensive approach -- that includes
multiple stakeholders -- to solving the factory safety issues in
Bangladesh,” Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for the Plano, Texas-
based retailer, said in an e-mail.  Walk Away?  The Children’s Place Retail Stores Inc. (PLCE)  obtained 15 percent
of its merchandise from Bangladesh in the year ended Feb. 2,
according to a March 28 regulatory filing, and isn’t going to
leave.  “Simply walking away is not the answer,” Jane Singer, a
spokeswoman for the Secaucus, New Jersey-based company, wrote in
an e-mail. “The terrible tragedy in Savar provides further
impetus for coordinated efforts between retailers, NGOs, and the
Bangladesh government to provide long term solutions to prevent
future safety issues.”  Companies that stay, such as Gap Inc., have to balance
demands for improved workplace standards against the low costs
and the risk of a workplace disaster that might damage their
reputations, Pietra Rivoli, a professor at  Georgetown
University ’s McDonough School of Business, said in a phone
interview.  The Gap is working with its suppliers and government
officials to improve safety, according to Debbie Mesloh, a
spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based retailer.  “When you have a brand name like Disney or Gap, they
really need to protect the value of the brand, and one way to do
that is to distance themselves from things like what happened in
Bangladesh,” Rivoli said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  