-- Duke Earnings Rise as Cool Temperatures Boost Heat Demand
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-03T11:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/duke-earnings-rise-as-cool-temperatures-boost-heat-demand.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest U.S.
utility owner, said first-quarter profit rose as cooler
temperatures than a year earlier boosted demand for power.  Net income increased to $634 million million, or 89 cents a
share, from $295 million, or 66 cents, a year earlier,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke said in a statement today
on PR Newswire. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit was
$1.02, one cent less than the average of 13 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke, which bought Progress Energy July 1, sells power to
about 7.2 million customers in  North Carolina , Florida and four
other states. It expects electricity use to rise less than 1
percent this year excluding the effect of weather, Chief
Financial Officer Lynn Good said in February.  “Any load growth in Duke’s case would be helpful and not
anticipated,” Andrew B. Smith, a St. Louis-based analyst for
 Edward Jones  who rates Duke a hold and doesn’t own the shares,
said in a telephone interview before the results were announced.
“Expense creep would not be helpful.”  Demand for  heating  more than quadrupled from a year earlier
for Duke’s 3.1 million customers in North Carolina as the
average  temperature  fell 12 percent to 43 degrees Fahrenheit (6
degrees Celsius), according to the National Climatic Data
Center.  Succession Plan  Duke’s board is seeking a replacement for Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jim Rogers  who agreed to step down by
year-end as part of a settlement ending state investigations of
the Progress takeover. Duke’s board reinstated Rogers hours
after the deal closed, ousting former Progress CEO  Bill Johnson ,
who had been promised the top job at the combined company.  “CEO succession is top-of-mind for a lot of investors,”
Andrew L. Smith, a Houston-based analyst for Drexel Hamilton LLC
who rates Duke a hold and doesn’t own the shares, said in an
interview. “I’d expect some discussion on the earnings call of
how timing of that will play out.”  The results were announced before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Duke fell 0.2 percent to $74.78 yesterday in  New
York . The shares have seven buy, 16 hold and one sell  rating 
from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  