-- ECB Rate Cut Boosts Investor Sentiment, Baring’s Khiem Do Says
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-05-03T08:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/ecb-rate-cut-boosts-investor-sentiment-baring-s-khiem-do-says.html
Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of
Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd.,
which manages about $51 billion, comments on the global economy
and stocks.  Asian shares rose today after the European Central Bank
lowered its benchmark interest rate to a record low yesterday
and President Mario Draghi signaled another reduction is
possible.  On ECB’s rate cut:  “Whether fundamentally the cut in interest rates in  Europe 
will send money to Hong Kong, I don’t think so. It helps
sentiment more than anything else.  ‘‘It’s a sign of relief that (ECB President Mario) Draghi
is still focused on helping those who help themselves. That’s
the message from Europe. ‘I will help you if you help yourself.
But if you do not help yourself I can’t help you.’ Europe is
about tough love. In the case with U.S. and  Japan , there is a
bit of unconditional love.”  On China:  “Investors, especially from off-shore, were hoping for
some stimulatory measures from the new leadership, but they
didn’t come. Investors were disappointed about the lack of
stimulus measures and also about the weakening of the economic
data relative to expectations.  ‘‘In the case with  China , there is excess capacity in some
areas, and when there is not enough demand, then corporates have
to cut prices in order to sell their products and the margin
goes straight down.’’  On Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong:  ‘‘Consumer stocks are always expensive, manufacturing and
banking stocks are not expensive. But with banking stocks
there’s always an issue with potential bad debt. As far as the
manufacturing sector is concerned, earnings are too volatile.  ‘‘If the People’s Bank of China and the China Banking
Regulatory Commission were to do a rigorous stress test on the
Chinese banks and prove to the world that they will survive, and
they don’t need to raise a lot more capital, then I think that
those banks will not trade at these multiples anymore. But we
haven’t seen that yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 