-- EDF Nuclear Power Talks With U.K. on Track, Local Official Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-03T16:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/edf-nuclear-power-talks-with-u-k-on-track-local-official-says.html
The U.K. and  Electricite de France SA 
are making progress on a deal that would guarantee a power price
for new nuclear reactors, said a local government official who
reported no indication the talks are failing.  David Hall , deputy leader for Somerset County Council,
attends strategy meetings with officials from French utility EDF
and the U.K. Department of Energy and  Climate Change  discussing
EDF’s proposal for two new reactors at Hinkley Point in Southern
England and said the talks seem to be on track.  “The main message we’re receiving from all sides is,
‘Don’t panic’,” Hall said. “This is a very complex and
important negotiation because it potentially fixes electricity
prices a long way into the future. That’s going to be a
challenging negotiation.”  Discussions between EDF and the government over the price
for power it earns for the first new nuclear plants in almost
two decades have appeared to falter as EDF last month cut staff
at the site and EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  said
the company may allow the a deal to fail because of a dispute
over the price of electricity.  Hall said he has had no indication the sides are preparing
for the talks to fall apart. “They have to make some economies
while this drags on but at the same time the overriding message
is the same, all sides are working on the solution,” he said.  Strike Price  EDF is seeking a strike price of at least 95 pounds ($148)
a megawatt-hour for power from Hinkley, and is trying to lock in
the rate for 40 years. The government says it’s trying to make
sure consumers get the best value for money from any deal.  Hall, who said he has not been part of the commercial
negotiations, expects a deal to be reached in “weeks rather
than months.” EDF referred to a statement on April 23 where it
said negotiations with the government are making progress, when
contacted today.  EDF intends to build two reactors made by  Areva SA (AREVA)  at
Hinkley Point, about 150 miles (240 km) west of  London  on the
southern edge of the Bristol Channel. The units would have a
total capacity of 3,260 megawatts, enough to supply 5 million
homes for 60 years.  Hall, whose job as a Conservative councilor for Bridgwater
East and Bawdrip includes new nuclear development, said the
project is “shovel ready” and may create as many as 25,000
jobs in the region. “It’s a huge employment opportunity and an
opportunity to boost the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  