-- Emerging Stocks Rise on U.S. as Commodity Shares Rally
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-05-03T21:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/emerging-market-stocks-head-for-steepest-weekly-gain-in-month.html
Emerging stocks rose, posting the
biggest weekly advance since January, as better-than-forecast
U.S. jobs data bolstered optimism about global economic growth.
Commodity companies paced rallies from  Russia  to  Brazil .  Vale SA, the third-largest mining company, added 1.4
percent in Sao Paulo, while natural gas producer OAO Gazprom led
gains in Moscow.  Philippine (PCOMP)  stocks surged to a record as the
nation won its second investment-grade debt rating,  Turkey ’s
benchmark index gained a ninth day, and Malaysian shares sank
before elections.  African Bank Investments (ABL)  Ltd. fell the most
since 1998 in Johannesburg after saying profit will drop.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,042.26 in New York, extending a weekly gain to 2 percent.
Stocks climbed as data showed U.S. employment picked up more
than forecast last month and the jobless rate unexpectedly
declined to a four-year low. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
briefly advanced above 15,000 for the first time.  “The market needed a good jobs report and we got it,”
 Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management,
said by phone from Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion.
“U.S. growth is proceeding and that’s going to provide a lift
to global stocks, including emerging markets.”  All  10 groups  in the emerging-market index rose today as
commodity gauges added at least 0.8 percent. The broad gauge has
lost 1.2 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent increase
in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks. The
emerging-markets measure trades at 10.9 times 12-month  projected 
profit, compared with the MSCI World’s 14.4 times, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund gained 0.8 percent to $43.52. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 5.7 percent to 18.19.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  rose 0.3 percent today, extending its
weekly rally to 2.3 percent, as Vale led gains by raw-material
producers after commodities prices jumped.  Mexico ’s IPC Index
climbed the most since April 23.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  jumped 2.3 percent as Gazprom
contributed the most to the advance in the measure of developing
nations. Benchmark gauges in  Hungary  and the Czech Republic
gained, while stocks in  Poland  retreated. Turkish stocks
extended a nine-day rally to 7.3 percent.  South Africa  South African lenders offering unsecured credit plunged as
African Bank Investments, the nation’s largest provider of loans
not backed by assets, plunged 18 percent.  China’s stocks rose as Poly Real Estate Group Co. and
Haitong Securities Co. advanced at least 1.4 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.4 percent, while the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of mainland Chinese companies listed in
Hong Kong rose 0.2 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.4 percent.  Mando Corp. (060980) ,
which makes automotive parts, surged 11 percent in  Seoul ,
leading gains in the emerging-markets index.  Indian stocks fell from a three-month high, paring a weekly
gain, as the central bank said there’s “little space” for
further monetary easing after cutting interest rates for a third
straight policy meeting.  The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index advanced 1.7
percent in  Manila . The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index sank 1.1
percent, the most since Feb. 6.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped ten basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 268 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  