-- Men’s Tennis Head Drewett Dies of Motor Neurone Disease at 54
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-05-03T16:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/men-s-tennis-head-drewett-dies-of-motor-neurone-disease-at-54.html
ATP World Tour Executive Chairman and
President Brad Drewett died today from motor neurone disease,
the men’s tennis body said. He was 54.  Drewett, an Australian who took over the job on Jan. 1,
2012, died in Sydney, the tour said today in an e-mailed
statement. He started to step down from the post in January,
saying he wanted to give the ATP’s board of directors time to
look for a successor.  Motor neurone disease causes the degeneration of neuron
connections, impeding movement, and most people diagnosed with
the illness die within five to 10 years of diagnosis, according
to  www.motorneuronedisease.org .  “Our thoughts are with Brad’s family on this extremely sad
day for them, the ATP and the entire international tennis
community,” the men’s tour said today in the statement. “He
will be sorely missed by all.”  Francesco Ricci, president of the  International Tennis
Federation , said in a statement that his group, the world
governing body of tennis, was “deeply saddened” by Drewett’s
death.  “His knowledge, experience and enthusiasm will be a great
loss to the whole sport,” Ricci said. “We send our deepest
sympathies to Brad’s family and to everyone at the ATP during
this very sad time.”  Drewett was ranked as high as 34th in the world during a
12-year professional tennis career. He had been part of the ATP
for more than 35 years, serving as a player council member,
player board member, regional chief executive officer and
tournament director before succeeding  Adam Helfant  as the
organization’s top executive.  During his 12 months in the job, the ATP negotiated with
the four Grand Slam tournaments regarding a more even
distribution of prize money that it says will benefit players
across all levels of the tour. The ATP also has been fighting
for a greater share of revenue generated at the majors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  