-- Merck’s Liptruzet Wins U.S. FDA Approval to Lower Cholesterol
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-03T20:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/merck-s-liptruzet-wins-u-s-fda-approval-to-lower-cholesterol.html
Merck & Co. (MRK)  won U.S. marketing
approval for Liptruzet, a combination of the company’s Zetia
pill and a generic version of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, to lower
elevated levels of bad cholesterol.  The medicine may benefit patients who aren’t able to get
their cholesterol to ideal levels with existing treatments, said
Peter Jones, associate professor of medicine at Baylor College
of Medicine, in a statement released today by  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based Merck. The two-drug combination
reduced cholesterol 50 percent in studies by blocking absorption
in the digestive track and production in the liver.  The Food and Drug Administration approval is a positive
turn for Merck, which has struggled with research and
development and has four other medicines under regulatory
review.  Roger Perlmutter , formerly of Amgen Inc., took the helm
of the company’s R&D efforts last month after setbacks including
the failure to win approval for a sarcoma therapy and the
termination of a different cholesterol-lowering drug program.  “This is certainly not a ‘high science’ product, yet there
is something to be said for a drug that can boast the best LDL
cholesterol lowering of any single oral agent currently
available, even better than  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Crestor,”  Timothy Anderson , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
said today in a note to investors.  Vytorin Connection  The approval may be most significant because of what it
could mean for Merck’s Vytorin pill, Anderson said. Vytorin,
which combines Zetia with the less-potent agent simvastatin
instead of generic Lipitor, is being studied in a closely
watched clinical trial to see if it’s safe and more effective at
preventing  heart disease  than standard cholesterol-lowering
drugs called statins.  If the FDA was worried about any harm stemming from Vytorin
during a current trial, it’s unlikely the agency would approve
an even more potent combination pill, Anderson wrote.  “If this logic is right, then the Merck story has just
been partially de-risked,” Anderson wrote.  Zetia  generated  almost $2.6 billion in 2012 global sales
while Vytorin brought in about $1.7 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  