-- Hess Insurgent Directors Get ISS Support in Proxy Fight
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-05-03T13:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/hess-insurgent-directors-get-iss-support-in-proxy-fight.html
(Corrects company name in third paragraph.)  Hess Corp. (HES)  shareholders should elect
all five directors nominated by billionaire  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. at a May 16 annual meeting, proxy
adviser Institutional Shareholder Services said.  Hess has “substantially underperformed” its peers and new
leadership may improve results, ISS, a unit of MSCI Inc., said
in a note to clients obtained by  Bloomberg News  today.  The ISS recommendation followed an endorsement of Elliott’s
director slate issued May 1 by Glass Lewis & Co. The two firms
collectively hold 60 percent of the proxy advisory market for
mutual funds and other institutional investors. Egan-Jones Proxy
Services, a third adviser, endorsed Hess’s board slate May 2.  “The dissident nominees appear to have more relevant,
robust experience -- particularly boardroom experience -- than
the management nominees, but also do not owe any allegiance to
the incumbent CEO and directors,” ISS said in the note.  Singer’s Elliott, holder of a 4.52 percent Hess stake, is
soliciting shareholder support to get its five nominees on the
board, citing “unrelenting underperformance” and
mismanagement. At the end of 2012, Hess had dropped 47 percent
in five years. The company has gained 36 percent this year as it
announced divestitures, a dividend increase and plans for a
stock buyback.  Hess closed its last refinery in February and on March 4
announced it would exit retail, energy marketing and trading to
become a pure producer and explorer.  Disrupted Plan  Election of dissidents to the board might disrupt the
company’s “persuasive, comprehensive strategic plan” to cut
costs and lift production, Egan-Jones, the proxy adviser, said.  Glass Lewis  disagreed, writing in its May 1 note that
Elliott has offered “a compelling case” that an ineffective
board at Hess resulted in “substantial damage to shareholder
value over most any meaningful time frame and against any
applicable peer group.”  Hess has proposed its own replacements for five long-
serving board members, including nominees  General Electric Co. (GE) 
energy CEO  John Krenicki ; Kevin Meyers, a former senior vice
president of Americas exploration and production for
ConocoPhillips; and  Mark Williams , formerly on  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s executive committee.  ‘Reactionary’ Moves  Elliott rejected the company slate, saying board leadership
retains close business or personal ties to 18-year Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer John Hess, 59, son of founder Leon Hess.  “A lot of stuff they are doing right now is quite
reactionary,” David McManus, among the five Elliott board
nominees, told investors at an April 30 meeting in New York
arranged by the fund. “I’m not sure whether they’re necessarily
in the longterm interests of shareholders,” said McManus, a
former Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BG Group Plc executive who also
was vice-president of international operations for oil and
natural gas producer Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  The other four Elliott nominees are Rodney F. Chase, former
chief deputy CEO of  BP Plc (BP/) ;  Karl F. Kurz, former chief
operating officer of Anadarko Petroleum Co; Marshall D. Smith,
chief financial officer of Houston-based producer  Ultra
Petroleum Corp. (UPL)  and  Harvey Golub , former CEO of  American Express
Co. (AXP) , a member of three corporate boards and former director for
more than a dozen companies.  “I would look forward to entering that boardroom trying to
put behind any tensions that may have been created through the
strangeness of this proxy battle,” Chase, who ran BP Plc’s
global exploration, production, refining and marketing
businesses from 2001 to 2003, told investors at the April 30
meeting. “There is only one position for directors to take: We
represent the interests of shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  