-- Methanex Seen Rallying on Demand for Methanol in Fuel
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-03T20:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/methanex-seen-rallying-on-demand-for-methanol-in-fuel.html
Methanex Corp. (MX) , the world’s largest
 methanol  supplier, is forecast by analysts to climb beyond last
month’s record price as demand rises for the chemical as a fuel
source in countries such as  China .  Methanol, used in paint, windshield-wiper fluid and
plastics, is increasingly being blended into gasoline and other
fuels. Investor optimism about Vancouver-based Methanex’s
outlook helped drive the shares to an all-time closing price of
C$44.09 ($43.69) in Toronto on April 25, a 53 percent increase
in six months.  “This used to be a boring industrial chemical company --
people didn’t really care about methanol,” Steven Hansen, a
Vancouver-based analyst at Raymond James Ltd. who has a price
target of C$50.84, said last week in a telephone interview.
“Now there’s this whole new group of demand silos that have
emerged that are energy related.”  Ten analysts, including Hansen, have an average target
price of C$47.95 a share, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg, 13 percent more than the close yesterday. The shares
rose 1.9 percent to close at C$43.20 in Toronto today. Analysts
have six buy, one sell and three hold ratings on the stock.  Methanol as an energy source “is seen around the world as
part of the solution to high gasoline prices,” Methanex Chief
Executive Officer John Floren said in an April 25 interview in
 Vancouver . “It’s economic and it’s clean burning.”  Rising Demand  Methanol is most commonly produced on an industrial scale
using natural gas. Global demand for methanol for energy use is
expanding at more than 10 percent a year, according to Methanex.
It accounted for 37 percent of global methanol demand last year,
up from 27 percent in 2007,  Jim Jordan  of Jim Jordan &
Associates, a Houston-based chemical industry consultancy, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Methanex, which manufactures methanol and trades the
commodity for other producers, expects demand of about 53
million metric tons this year.  “We believe a variety of new methanol applications will
support healthy supply-demand fundamentals,” Charles Neivert, a
New York-based analyst at Cowen Securities LLC who rates
Methanex a buy, said in an April 25 note to clients.  Demand for all uses is set to grow at a compound annual
rate of 7.6 percent through 2016, according to a presentation on
Methanex’s website.  “That’s quite robust,” Floren said. “It’s 4 million tons
a year of new demand for methanol.”  Moving Plants  To keep pace and exploit relatively low North American
natural gas prices, Methanex is dismantling and moving two of
its four methanol plants in southern  Chile  to Geismar,
 Louisiana . The company’s ability to produce methanol in Chile
has been hurt by restrictions on exports of gas from neighboring
 Argentina .  Methanex also produces methanol at plants in  Canada ,
Trinidad,  New Zealand  and  Egypt .  In addition to being blended with gasoline, methanol’s
other energy-related applications include replacing naptha in
the production of plastics and use in the manufacture of methyl
tertiary-butyl ether, an octane enhancer. Methanol, a clear,
colorless liquid, also is being tested in  Europe  for ships
facing more stringent emission standards.  Chinese Interest  “The energy applications are really what’s driving the
industry and our goal to add 3 million tons of production
capacity,” Floren said April 25 at the company’s annual
meeting. That will increase Methanex’s annual production
capacity to 8 million tons a year by the first quarter of 2016,
he said.  While methanol isn’t currently used for gasoline blending
in the U.S., use has surged in China, which is taking steps to
reduce crude-oil imports. Methanol also appeals to policy makers
in the Asian nation who would rather not encourage use of
ethanol made from corn because they don’t want to put pressure
on food prices, Floren said.  China is the largest consumer of methanol, accounting for
about half of global demand, Hansen said.  A potential stumbling block for Methanex and its
competitors would be a pronounced slowdown in global economic
growth or a steep decline in crude  oil prices , Hansen said.  “If oil went to $60 a barrel, it would seriously
disincentivize fuel blending,” he said.  Methanex reported quarterly  financial results  last week
that helped lift the company’s shares the most in four years.  Profit Increasing  The stock rose 10 percent on April 25, a day after the
company reported first-quarter net income more than doubled to
$60 million, or 63 cents a share, from $22 million, or 23 cents,
a year earlier. Profit excluding accounting charges and other
one-time items was 92 cents, topping the 73-cent average of nine
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Methanex said its average first-quarter methanol selling
price was $412 a metric ton, 7.9 percent more than a year
earlier, partly because of demand for use in the  energy
industry .  “In 2005, methanol used globally for gasoline blending was
really just a rounding error -- less than half a million tons a
year,” Hansen said. “Now it’s one of the most important
drivers of methanol demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  