-- Ex-Barrick CEO Said to Start Firm Seeking Mining Assets
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/ex-barrick-ceo-said-to-start-firm-seeking-mining-assets.html
Aaron Regent, who was fired last year
as chief executive officer of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest
producer of the metal, started a company to invest in mining
assets, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Magris Resources Inc. is looking to acquire assets mainly
in the Americas with backing from institutional and private-
equity investors, said one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the information isn’t yet public. Magris has
employees in Toronto, the people said.  The new company was one of the bidders for  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s Pinto Valley copper mine in  Arizona , according to a third
person familiar with that sale process.  Capstone Mining Corp. (CS) 
said April 28 it agreed to buy the mine and a railroad in the
U.S. for $650 million.  Regent, 47, joins other prominent figures in the  mining
industry  who are setting up, or plan to establish, companies to
buy assets. They’re doing so at the same time as some of the
world’s largest miners are selling off unwanted operations.  Former Xstrata Plc Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  and
Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid are weighing plans to set up
a privately backed mining fund, people familiar with the matter
said last month. Bankers led by Lloyd Pengilly, previously at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., are setting up a London-based fund that
plans to invest mainly in African mining.  Private-equity firms are also looking for deals, having
raised almost $9 billion in 16 months for investment in the
mining industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industry Writedowns  After a decade-long commodity-price boom spurred mining
takeovers, prices have retreated in the past year, leading
companies to review their assets. BHP and Rio Tinto Group are
among sellers of mines as they shore up earnings and cut costs
after more than $60 billion of writedowns across the industry.  BHP may potentially sell assets worth $25 billion while
London-based Rio might raise $10 billion, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts said in March.  Regent was replaced as CEO at Toronto-based Barrick in June
by Jamie Sokalsky, who was previously chief financial officer.
Barrick said at the time it was “disappointed” by the
company’s share-price performance. Regent became a director of
the Bank of  Nova Scotia  last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  