-- Ex-DocX Head Gets at Least 40 Months in Robo-Sign Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-03T16:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/ex-docx-head-gets-at-least-40-months-in-robo-sign-case.html
Lorraine Brown, former president of
the mortgage document processor DocX LLC, was sentenced to at
least 40 months in prison on a racketeering charge in a robo-
signing case,  Michigan  Attorney General Bill Schuette said.  The Alpharetta,  Georgia , resident was sentenced yesterday
by Judge Mark Trusock in  Grand Rapids , Michigan, and sent to the
state corrections department to start her sentence, the attorney
general said today in a statement.  Brown’s term could be as long as 20 years, Schuette said.
His spokeswoman, Joy Yearout, said today in a phone interview
that the duration depends on her conduct while incarcerated.  Brown “established and orchestrated a widespread scheme of
‘robo-signing,’ a practice in which employees were directed to
fraudulently sign another authorized person’s name on mortgage
documents in order to execute these documents as quickly as
possible,” Schuette said.  The company she founded was later acquired by Jacksonville,
Florida-based  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  The company agreed
to pay $2 million to resolve charges against its unit in August.  In November, Brown pleaded guilty to a single count of
conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud before a federal judge
in Jacksonville and faces a maximum punishment of five years
imprisonment.  She has not yet been sentenced there, according to the
court’s electronic docket. Brown was also criminally charged in
Missouri.  Jacksonville Attorney  Brown’s lawyer,  Mark Rosenblum  of Jacksonville, didn’t
immediately respond to a telephone message seeking comment on
his client’s Michigan punishment and status with regard to the
other cases.  More than 1,000 such documents were filed with county
registers of deeds in Michigan, Schuette said. He filed
racketeering charges against Brown in November. Brown pleaded
guilty in February.  The Florida case is U.S. v. Brown, 12-cr-00198, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Jacksonville). The
 Missouri  cases are State v. DocX LLC, 12BA-CROO433, and State v.
Brown, 12BA-CR00430, Boone County, Missouri, Circuit Court
(Columbia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 