-- Leveled Texas Fertilizer Plant Long Targeted by Thieves
-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/texas-fertilizer-plant-had-long-list-of-break-ins-records-show.html
Intruders repeatedly broke into the
West,  Texas , fertilizer plant that exploded last month,
revealing what critics called a pattern of inadequate security.  Many thieves in the past decade were believed to target
containers of anhydrous ammonia, which can be used to make the
drug methamphetamine, said Matt Cawthon, chief deputy for the
McLennan County Sheriff’s Office. A plant manager in 2002 said
ammonia tanks were tapped for as much as five gallons (19
liters) of the liquid every three days, according to a police
report.  Since 2002, the records show 11 reports of burglaries,
theft or criminal trespassing. Deputies responded to at least 10
reports of leaks, odors or suspicious vehicles at the plant
between 2006 and 2012, according to police call logs.  “It’s hard to say what measures they were taking, but
clearly the number of reported instances of burglary is
alarming,” Sam Mannan, who teaches chemical engineering at
 Texas A&M University  in  College Station , said in an interview.
“Probably their measures were not up to snuff.”‘  A fire broke out at the Adair Grain Inc. facility at about
7:30 p.m. on April 17. The plant exploded a short time later,
leaving a crater 93 feet (28 meters) wide by 10 feet deep. The
disaster has fueled a national debate over the adequacy of
chemical-safety laws and regulations. The processor hadn’t been
inspected by federal workplace regulators in more than 27 years.  Explosive Contents  While investigators haven’t said what caused the blast, the
plant was approved to store 270 tons of ammonium nitrate, which
is explosive. It is linked to some of the deadliest industrial
accidents and terrorist attacks, including the 1995 bombing of
 Oklahoma City ’s Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, in which 168
people died.  The McLennan County sheriff’s office provided incident
reports and police communication logs about the West plant in
response to a Texas Public Information Act request. The city of
West is in the county.  The facility was often open after hours, as farmers
frequently need access to fertilizer and would pick up loads
informally, said Ken Kubala, a former West city secretary. That
attracted not only ammonia thieves but vandals and petty
burglars, including one who watched pornography on an office
computer and another who stole a box of Oreo cookies, according
to the sheriff’s incident report.  Deputies found a leaking tank of anhydrous ammonia at the
plant as recently as Oct. 15, after a resident reported an
ammonia smell “so strong it can burn your eyes.” The plant
manager turned off the tank and told deputies a valve had been
tampered with, according to a police call log.  Security Cameras  Thefts diminished when owners Donald and Wanda Adair took
over the company and installed security cameras.  “I think he went to a lot of expense to curtail what was
going on down there,” Kubala said in an interview.  Daniel Keeney, a spokesman for Adair, declined to comment
on the police reports. “Those are all issues that are currently
being investigated, and we are referring questions to the
investigating authorities,” he said.  The reports of break-ins underscore the need for greater
government oversight, said  Tom Smith , the head of the Texas
office of  Public Citizen , a Washington-based nonprofit group
that advocates for more regulation of hazardous industries.  This “adds a whole new level of complexity,” Smith said
in an interview, referring to the news of the burglaries. At the
state level, “nobody is sitting down and trying to safeguard
these toxins or explosives.”  Incident Probed  State fire examiners say they plan to issue a report on the
incident by May 10.  “We are following up on all leads, but because this is an
active investigation, we cannot comment on the details or
outcome of any of the leads,” Rachel Moreno, a spokeswoman for
the Texas Fire Marshal, said by e-mail. The anhydrous ammonia
tanks weren’t part of the fire or explosion, she said.  State agriculture and law enforcement agencies have warned
for more than a decade that fertilizer depots and farms can be
sources of anhydrous ammonia -- a combination of nitrogen and
hydrogen that farmers inject in liquid form into the soil as a
crop nutrient -- for makers of illegal drugs. The plant stored
as much as 110,000 pounds (50,000 kilograms) of the chemical,
according to the state Health Services Department.  “While there are several ways to manufacture
methamphetamine, one of the most popular ‘recipes’ features
anhydrous ammonia as a key ingredient,” according to the
Illinois attorney general’s website. “Most meth manufacturers
reside in rural areas to avoid easy detection by police and
neighbors, and use the resources that are readily available to
them. These ‘resources’ often include anhydrous ammonia.”  In 2006 the Fertilizer Institute established a “Meth  Task
Force ,” which developed voluntary industry measures designed to
curb the theft and use of the liquid ammonia in making the drug,
also known as speed, both by including chemical additives and
introducing anti-tampering equipment on tanks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  