-- Fed’s Lacker Says QE Won’t Lift Growth While Posing Risk
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-05-03T18:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/fed-s-lacker-says-more-qe-won-t-boost-growth-while-posing-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  voiced opposition to bond purchases by
the Fed, saying the buying probably won’t spur growth beyond 2
percent while making an exit from stimulus more challenging.  “The benefit-cost trade-off associated with further
monetary stimulus does not look promising,” Lacker said today
in a speech in Richmond,  Virginia . “The Fed seems to be unable
to improve real growth, despite striving mightily over the last
few years, and further increases in the size of our balance
sheet raise the risks associated with the ‘exit process’ when
it’s time to withdraw stimulus.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said this week it will
keep buying $85 billion in bonds each month and may increase or
reduce the pace depending on the outlook for inflation and the
labor market. The Fed has expanded its balance sheet to $3.32
trillion with bond purchases aimed at spurring economic growth
and bolstering employment.  Payrolls expanded by 165,000 workers last month and the
 unemployment rate  fell to a four-year low of 7.5 percent, Labor
Department figures showed today. Revisions added a total of
114,000 jobs to the employment count in February and March,
showing employers are confident in the economic outlook in the
face of  federal budget  cuts.  “The April employment report shows we are on track with
the kind of labor market behavior we have been seeing over the
last six months or so -- pretty steady gains at a pretty healthy
pace,” Lacker said to reporters after his speech.  ‘Substantial Improvement’  The labor market outlook has made “substantial
improvement,” the threshold the Fed needs to reach to halt
asset purchases, Lacker said in response to an audience
question.  In light of the “broad sweep of the last four to six
months” in job growth, “you ought to evaluate the likelihood
of us reducing the pace of asset purchases accordingly,” he
said.  Recent strength in the housing market bolsters the argument
that the Fed should halt purchases of mortgage-backed securities
to ensure the industry doesn’t overheat, Lacker said. He has
opposed Feb buying of mortgage-backed securities as an
inappropriate targeting of a single industry.  The U.S. faces little risk of disinflation, he said. “I
see current low inflation rates most likely to be quite
transitory,” and a shift in inflation expectations would flag
any lasting change.  Stocks Rally  U.S. stocks rallied, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
reaching 15,000 for the first time. The Dow average climbed 1
percent to 14,983.33 at 2:35 p.m. in  New York . Ten-year Treasury
yields, which reached the lowest level of the year yesterday,
jumped 0.12 percentage point to 1.75 percent.  Even with a buoyant stock market, growth “appears as if
it’s limited, in large part, by structural factors that monetary
policy is not capable of offsetting,” Lacker said in a speech
to the Risk Management Association of Richmond. “This is why I
do not support the current asset-purchase program.”  Lacker dissented at every meeting in 2012, saying Fed asset
purchases probably wouldn’t help the economic expansion. He
doesn’t hold a policy vote this year.  The Richmond Fed leader said inflation is likely to “edge
back” toward the FOMC’s goal of 2 percent by next year and that
measures of price expectations show households and financial
markets are confident inflation will stay near its long-term
average over time.  ‘Heartening’ Behavior  “The recent behavior of inflation has been heartening,”
Lacker said. “Measures of inflation expectations remain within
ranges consistent with  price stability , and the low current
readings on some inflation indices are likely to be
transitory.”  “Well-contained inflation, the most fundamental
contribution a central bank can make to economic growth, seems
likely to continue,” he said.  Lacker said he sees several roadblocks for growth,
including uncertainty over “unsustainable” fiscal policy,
weakness in  Europe  and increased regulations that are hurting
business plans for hiring and investment.  Some Fed officials, including Lacker and St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard , said last month that a further decline
in inflation that persisted might warrant additional stimulus.
Consumer prices rose 1 percent in March from a year earlier, the
lowest level since October 2009, according to the Fed’s
preferred gauge of inflation.  Economy Expanded  The economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in
the first quarter, the Commerce Department said last week. The
gain followed a 0.4 percent fourth-quarter advance, and it
trailed the 3 percent gain that was the median estimate of 86
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The economy will probably grow at about 2 percent for the
foreseeable future, Lacker said.  Recent reports on retail sales, factory production and
household spending have pointed to a slowdown in economic growth
this quarter.  Lacker, 57, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004. He was previously the regional bank’s director of
research. His district includes  Maryland , Virginia,  North
Carolina ,  South Carolina  and most of  West Virginia .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  