-- G-7 Governments Not Playing Favorites as Central Banks Revamped
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-05-03T09:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/g-7-governments-not-playing-favorites-as-central-banks-revamped.html
It’s not paying to be either an
insider or the favorite when it comes to landing the top job at
a Group of Seven central bank.  In naming Stephen Poloz the next governor of its central
bank yesterday,  Canada  bypassed Tiff Macklem, the bank’s current
deputy head and the pick of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The appointment came just over five months after Bank of
Canada Governor Mark Carney agreed to run the Bank of England as
the U.K. government overlooked Paul Tucker, a three-decade
veteran of the bank and the bookmakers’ bet.  Ignoring the front-runner or casting the net wider may mean
governments are trying to shake up their central banks after the
financial crisis and in the hope monetary policy will stay easy
as economies slow amid fiscal cuts. The trend may have omens for
who replaces Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke if he
decides not to seek a third term next year.  “There’s a sense that the people at the top of central
banks who were on watch before and after the crisis may need
refreshing,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist at BNP
Paribas SA and a former Bank of  England  economist. “Bringing in
outsiders also allows for a more well-rounded view of all the
economic dynamics.”  More than five years since they began fighting a recession
and market turmoil with interest-rate cuts and asset purchases,
central banks are changing hands with the new bosses still under
pressure to remain activist as inflation ebbs and governments
lack scope to spend. The International Monetary Fund last month
pared its 2013 global growth outlook to 3.3 percent from 3.5
percent.  ‘Huge Surprise’  Poloz’s appointment, which CIBC World Markets economists
Benjamin Tal and Emanuella Enenajor called a “huge surprise,”
marks the third straight time a Bank of Canada deputy has failed
to be promoted. While Poloz had worked 14 years at the central
bank in roles including head of research, he was most recently
the chief executive officer of Export Development Canada. By
contrast, Macklem spent most of the last 30 years at the central
bank in Ottawa, which he first joined in 1984.  Carney, who has talked of securing “escape velocity” for
economies, will be the first outsider to run the Bank of England
in two decades when he takes over from Mervyn King in July. King
served as the bank’s No. 2 for five years before succeeding
Eddie George in 2003. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne said in March that there’s a need for “monetary
activism” in the U.K.  BOJ Appointment  Seeking an end to repeated bouts of deflation and
recession, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe also ignored the inner
ranks of the Bank of  Japan  when choosing Haruhiko Kuroda as
governor in February to replace  Masaaki Shirakawa , who stepped
down early.  While Shirakawa spent much of his career in central
banking, Kuroda previously led the Asian Development Bank, ran
foreign-exchange issues at the Ministry of Finance and worked at
the IMF. Since taking the job, Kuroda has doubled monthly bond
buying in a bid to hit a 2 percent inflation target within two
years.  “Obviously in the U.K. and Japan, the governments would
like to see faster growth and have a central bank governor
supportive of that view,” said Brian Hilliard, an economist at
Societe Generale SA and formerly at the Bank of England.  At the European Central Bank, it was Bundesbank President
Axel Weber who made the early running to replace Jean-Claude Trichet as head in 2011 before dropping out in part because he
anticipated clashing with governments. The post went instead to
Bank of  Italy  Governor Mario Draghi.  Weber was replaced at the Bundesbank by Jens Weidmann, an
economic adviser to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Draghi’s
successor in  Rome  was also a dark horse -- then Deputy Bank of
Italy Director Ignazio Visco rather than ECB Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi.  Yellen’s Chances  A question now is whether the recent practice
internationally has implications for the Fed, where Bernanke’s
term ends in January. Vice Chairman Janet Yellen was identified
as the most likely successor by 65 percent of those polled at an
April conference by International Strategy & Investment Group.  Yellen, who served on the Fed board in the 1990s and later
ran the Fed Bank of San Francisco, may appeal to President
 Barack Obama , having advocated that attacking unemployment and
boosting growth be put on equal footing with fighting inflation
at the core of Fed policy.  “Janet Yellen has the right of first refusal,” former Fed
Governor Laurence Meyer, co-founder of Macroeconomic Advisers
LLC, told a Bloomberg Link conference in Washington on April 30.
“There’s an advantage of transitioning to someone who has that
kind of experience.”  ‘Presumption’  Still, there have been 14 chairmen in the 100 years the Fed
has existed, and none previously served as vice chairman.  “The idea that there’s a right of first refusal or some
presumption that the vice chairperson has to be promoted is, I
think, actually contrary to history,” Adam Posen, a former BOE
policy maker and now president of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , told the same conference.  “In general, presidents appoint Federal Reserve
chairpeople who they have some kind of personal relationship
with,” Posen said, identifying former Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner as a possible candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  