-- Genesis High-Yields Show Why Oh Why Ohio Improving: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-05-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/genesis-high-yields-show-why-oh-why-ohio-improving-muni-credit.html
Genesis HealthCare System in southeast
 Ohio  sold $295 million of municipal bonds in the biggest junk-
rated hospital deal since 2011 as investor demand for extra
yield shrinks the penalty on such borrowers by 50 percent.  Debt-holders are joining the longest rally since 2007 in
lower-rated hospital munis. With the  Federal Reserve  holding its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero, investors are attempting to
pad returns by adding riskier debt. High-yield hospital
securities have earned 2.9 percent this year, almost twice the
broader muni market, Barclays Plc data show.  Pending changes to the nation’s health-care system and
predictions by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset
manager, that riskier munis will suffer outsize losses should
interest rates rise didn’t deter Genesis buyers. Investors
placed orders for three times the amount of bonds available at
the April 23 sale, said Paul Masterson, the Zanesville, Ohio-
based chief financial officer for Genesis.  “You really want to look for the strongest provider” in
the area, said  Jim Murphy , who oversees the $2.6 billion  T. Rowe
Price Tax-Free High Yield Fund (PRFHX)  from Baltimore and bought some
Genesis bonds. “That’s what these guys are. They have a chance
to get into investment grade.”  Market Dominance  Genesis, a nonprofit system about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
east of Columbus, has a 50 percent market share in a six-county
region of southeastern Ohio with a population of about 229,000,
according to offering documents for the issue.  Amid a boost in natural-gas exploration and a resurgent
automobile industry, Ohio’s  jobless rate  is close to the lowest
since 2008. Since the second quarter of 2009, when the 18-month
recession ended, Ohio ranks fourth among U.S. states in terms of
its economic improvement, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index. It trailed only  North Dakota ,
 Michigan  and  California .  Columbus was featured in the 1953 Broadway musical
“Wonderful Town,” based on the stories of Ruth McKenney and
featuring a score by  Leonard Bernstein  and lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green, according to the Leonard Bernstein
Office Inc.’s website.  The show follows the adventures of two sisters, Ruth and
Eileen Sherwood, who leave the state capital to find their
fortune in  New York City . In a moment of homesickness, they
sing, “Why, oh why, oh why, oh -- Why did I ever leave Ohio?”  Construction Financing  The hospital system issued revenue debt rated BB+, one
step below investment grade, to finance construction of a 221-
bed medical center to consolidate two facilities 1.5 miles
apart.  Plans call for a new tower, renovations, a new cancer
center and medical offices, according to bond documents.  It was the biggest noninvestment grade, nonprofit hospital
deal since August 2011, when Community Memorial Health System in
Ventura, California, issued $350 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Murphy said he was attracted to the Genesis offer because
of the system’s market position, “pretty strong” operating
income of $4.1 million in 2012 and the security provided to
bondholders through a mortgage on the facility.  Cost Difference  Genesis bonds maturing in 10 years yielded 3.95 percent, or
2.2 percentage points more than top-rated munis.  By comparison, similar-maturity bonds in the Community
Memorial deal priced at about 4.1 percentage points above
benchmark munis. The issuer is rated one level lower than
Genesis.  Investors bought Genesis debt even as hospital margins are
getting squeezed. Reimbursements from commercial insurers,
Medicare and Medicaid are falling while spending grows on
technology and systems changes, including better coordinating
care among doctors, hospitals and other health-care providers,
said George Huang, a senior analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in  New
York .  President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul will extend
coverage to as many as 30 million people by requiring
individuals to purchase insurance and expanding Medicaid, the
federal-state program for the poor.  Hospitals may benefit under the law, which will be more
broadly implemented in 2014, because they may spend less for
charity care as the formerly uninsured enroll in Medicaid or buy
policies on exchanges set up to boost competition for health
insurance.  Expansion Debate  Ohio is also among 26 states that aren’t creating their own
health exchange, defaulting to a federally run system. Seven
states are opting for a partnership exchange with the federal
government. Ohio’s Republican-led House of Representatives also
hasn’t signed off on approving a Medicaid expansion that would
bring the state $13 billion over seven years.  “Some states are planning to be just completely hands-
off” said Huang. “If you don’t have people signing up for
commercial insurance with subsidies, you’ll still be stuck with
a high uninsured rate. That could be a problem for hospitals in
these states, especially if they opt out of the Medicaid
expansion.”  Hospital munis rated BBB, or two steps above junk, have
outpaced the rest of the $3.7 trillion local-debt market for
eight straight quarters, the longest streak since 2007, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  Rally Duration  The extent of the rally means investors already have reaped
much of the gains, said Murphy at T. Rowe.  Peter Hayes , who oversees $114 billion as head of munis for
New York-based BlackRock, recommends selling lower-rated bonds
because of the risk that yields will rise as the economy
strengthens.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will climb about 0.6
percentage point to 2.25 percent by year-end, according to the
median forecast of 66 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  When interest rates rise, investors will move to higher-
rated securities and away from speculative-grade, Hayes said.  For Murphy, however, economic growth in the U.S.,  China  and
 Europe  isn’t strong enough to merit a jump in interest rates.  “The buzz word for first three months of 2013 was the
Great Rotation, the Great Rotation, rates are going up,” Murphy
said. “We’ve seen this movie probably three or four years in a
row now.”  2013 Sales  Three junk-rated non-profit health systems have sold
municipal bonds this year, the same number as all of 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Genesis formed in 1997 when two Zanesville hospitals
combined. The system continued to operate both hospitals while
recruiting medical staff, investing in electronic medical
records and offering new services such as heart surgery, said
Masterson, the chief financial officer.  “The vision was to get to a single campus,” Masterson
said. “Each time we tried to do it, the market wasn’t right.”  Consolidation will save an estimated $17 million, Masterson
said. He estimated the new medical center will help cut the
number of patients who go to Columbus hospitals to 15 percent
from 30 percent today.  Lower-rated hospitals that want to strengthen their balance
sheets by borrowing at historically low interest rates or take
advantage of consolidations or acquisitions to save may lead to
more issuance this year, said Jay Sterns, a  Barclays (BARC)  banker in
 Chicago  who managed the Genesis deal.  Management Bet  “If you’re an investor, you’re really betting on the
management teams, on who can implement operationally and who can
respond to the changes coming down the pike,” said Sterns.  Tax-exempt debt is rallying for a seventh straight week,
pushing yields to the lowest since January.  Benchmark munis  due in 2023 yield about 1.71 percent, down
from a 2013 high of 2.08 percent in mid-March. Local debt is
still trailing gains this quarter in Treasuries. The benchmark
federal 10-year note yields 1.62 percent, close to the lowest
since December, after the Fed this week repeated a pledge to buy
U.S. securities as it tries to spur the economy.  Ten-year muni yields have exceeded those on Treasuries on
all but one day since mid-March, showing city and state debt has
cheapened relative to federal obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  