-- Geodynamics Seeks Partners After Origin Energy Exits Venture
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-05-03T06:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/geodynamics-seeks-partner-after-origin-exits-australian-venture.html
Geodynamics Ltd., (GDY)  an explorer seeking
to produce power from hot underground rocks, is starting a
search for new partners to develop its project in central
Australia after  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  decided to pull out.  “We’re interested in bringing in other partners,” Geoff Ward, chief executive officer of Brisbane-based Geodynamics,
said by phone yesterday, declining to elaborate. “It’s
something that’s commencing and one of my key focus areas.”  Geodynamics, trying to become the first company in
Australia to start a commercial geothermal plant, expects to
start with a 5-megawatt to 10-megawatt project in the  Cooper
Basin . Origin Energy told Geodynamics in March that it would
withdraw from the Innamincka joint venture after earlier saying
the development hadn’t met expectations.  “A partner would be very significant, that validation
from a technology or finance partner with credibility in the
energy space,” Paul Jensz, a Melbourne-based analyst at
PhillipCapital Ltd., said today by phone.   The  shares rose  12 percent today to 14 cents in Sydney
trading to the highest in almost six months after earlier
surging as much as 60 percent to 20 cents. Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  Pacific Expansion  The  company  rose 56 percent yesterday after announcing that
its 1-megawatt Habanero pilot plant started producing power and
will carry out tests expected to run until August. The data is
expected to help Geodynamics develop a plan for the small-scale
project and sign a supply agreement, Ward said.  Possible customers are shale gas explorers  Santos Ltd. (STO)  or
 Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT) , which attracted  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  as a partner in
February, he said. The effort to get a customer would occur over
the next 12 months if the trial is successful, he said.  While Geodynamics moves forward with its plans in the
Cooper Basin outback region, it’s considering expansion outside
its home country, according to Ward, whose company has  lost more
than 90 percent  of its market value since late 2007. In
Australia, geothermal must compete with low-cost power sources
and contend with falling electricity demand, he said.  Papua New Guinea  and the Pacific islands are areas
Geodynamics is evaluating, he said. The company in November
agreed to acquire as much as 70 percent of the Savo Island
geothermal power project in the  Solomon Islands .  “Australia will remain a difficult market for the
electricity sector as a whole, but particularly for a new
technology,” he said. “You have strongly embedded incumbents
that have a very low cost base and we have declining demand.”  Technical Challenges  Geothermal power developers in Australia are using
technology that circulates water through cracks as deep as 5
kilometers (3.1 miles) underground, turning it to steam to run a
turbine. Unlike wind and solar, geothermal can provide a
constant level of power, the Australian Geothermal Energy
Association says.  Still, geothermal power is unlikely to play a significant
role in Australia’s energy mix this decade as companies in the
industry such as Geodynamics struggle to overcome technical
challenges, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said last year.  Origin,  Australia ’s largest electricity retailer, will pull
out of the Innamincka venture at the end of June, Geodynamics
said March 28. That followed Origin’s announcement in August
that it didn’t plan to invest more in the project as the
“activities have not met expectations for a timely and
commercial development of the geothermal resources.”  Geodynamics, which had A$17.6 million ($18.1 million) in
cash at the end of March and received a A$22.2 million refund
under the government’s research and development tax incentive
program, can take the geothermal trial into the next phase
without the need for additional funding, Ward said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  