-- Gilead Rises To Highest Price on Potential Drug Sales
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-05-03T20:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gilead-rises-to-highest-price-on-potential-drug-sales.html
Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  rose to its
highest price ever on optimism over potential sales for the
company’s experimental hepatitis C medications.  Gilead gained 5.7 percent to $55.15 at 4 p.m. New York
time, its highest closing value since the stock first started
trading in 1992. The shares of the Foster City, California-based
company have more than doubled in the past 12 months.  Gilead estimated during an earnings conference call
yesterday that 150,000 patients infected with hepatitis C may
seek treatment in the U.S. alone once a new class of all-oral
drugs is on the market, compared with 85,000 patients taking
therapies last year. That means the current analysts’ consensus
estimates of $5 billion to $7 billion in sales for Gilead’s
hepatitis C treatments are too low,  Michael Yee , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in San Francisco, said in a note.  “We believe the market will grow significantly” after the
drugs are approved, Bret Holley, an analyst with Guggenheim
Partners in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  Gilead said yesterday its all-oral hepatitis C treatments
sofosbuvir and ledipasvir cured 95 percent of patients after
eight weeks of the therapy. The company is moving the drugs into
a third of three stages of clinical trials typically required
for U.S. regulatory approval.  The interim results from a mid-stage study called Lonestar
show Gilead’s combination works well without ribavirin, an
antiviral that is paired with interferon for as long as a year
as part of the current standard treatment.  Gilead is competing with drugmakers including  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  in the quest for hepatitis C
regimens that don’t involve injections of interferon, which can
cause flu-like symptoms and depression. Hepatitis C affects
about 150 million people worldwide and the market for new pills
is estimated at $20 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  