-- Glencore Xstrata Stock Debut Values Group at $70 Billion
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-05-03T09:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/glencore-xstrata-stock-debut-values-group-at-70-billion.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s
biggest zinc miner and exporter of coal for power stations, rose
on its first day of trading as a combined company in London,
with the share market valuing the group at about $70 billion.  The stock gained 3.3 percent to 342.2 pence by 10:49 a.m.
London time, giving the company a market value of 45 billion
pounds. The $29 billion takeover by Glencore International Plc
of Xstrata Plc was completed yesterday and its Hong Kong-listed
shares will start trading on May 6.  The combined group has interests in about 35 coal mines in
Colombia, Africa and  Australia , accounting for about 10 percent
of global seaborne supplies of the fuel. The Baar, Switzerland-based company will be the fourth-biggest producer of mined
copper and third-largest in nickel.  “Glencore Xstrata is uniquely positioned to continue
sustainably supplying the world with the raw materials which are
essential to everyday life,” Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg wrote yesterday in a letter to employees.  “The key
long-term drivers of commodity growth remain solidly in place,
driven principally by the desire for improving  living standards 
in  emerging markets .”  Glencore plans to supplement its normal dividend payments
with special returns to shareholders, it said on its website
today. Share buybacks will also be considered as they have
“immediate impact and zero execution risk,” the company said.  Spending Reduced  The combined group sees  capital spending  on new projects of
$29 billion over the next three years. After 2015, spending is
expected to “materially decline” to $4 billion to $5 billion,
it said.  The world’s fourth-biggest mining company by market value
will employ about 190,000 people in more than 50 countries
across its industrial and trading divisions. The takeover of
Xstrata was completed almost two years after Glencore’s $10
billion initial public offering that ended more than three
decades of it operating as a closely-held company.  A previously announced cost savings target of $500 million
a year is expected to be “comfortably met,” Glencore said. It
plans to close Xstrata’s Zug and London offices, and plans
regional office centers in Sydney, Johannesburg, Toronto,
 Stamford  and  Singapore .  Trading Arm  The Xstrata acquisition will reduce the trading arm’s
contribution to earnings to 28 percent from 63 percent, Deutsche
Bank AG analysts Rob Clifford and Grant Sporre wrote yesterday
in a report. The copper and coal divisions will be the biggest
contributors to profit this year, according to Deutsche Bank.  Glencore last month cleared the final regulatory hurdle in
a 15-month battle to complete a transaction that will see a
number of senior Xstrata executives depart. Glencore will start
notifying managers of job losses following yesterday’s
completion of the deal, according to the letter from Glasenberg.  “By restructuring and refocusing, we will be better able
to take advantage of the opportunities that will inevitably
present themselves over the coming years to the benefit of
all,” Glasenberg wrote. “Those who will be affected within the
various management structures will be notified directly and as
soon as practicable.”  Austerity Age  Glasenberg “has set the tone for the new ‘age of
austerity’ for miners,” Bank of America Merrill Lynch analysts
Jason Fairclough and  Peter O’Connor  wrote in a note today.  “In
our view, his firm embodies the culture of owner-managers that
other CEOs may seek to emulate.”  Glencore may save $150 million a year by eliminating
Xstrata’s London office, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts said.  The company has retained two former Xstrata executives as
division heads amid the departure of a number of senior
managers.  Xstrata’s Peter Freyberg, who headed the acquired company’s
coal unit, will run the coal mining operations of the group with
Tor Peterson continuing to lead coal trading. Mark Eames, who
was chief operating officer of Xstrata’s iron ore division, will
lead the new company’s iron ore mining unit.  Telis Mistakidis, Glencore’s existing head of copper, will
lead both trading and mining of the metal in the new company.
Former Minara Resources Ltd. CEO Peter Johnston will head the
nickel mining business. Peter Coates, who steps down as chairman
of Australian oil and gas producer Santos on May 9, is asset
integration adviser.  Mick Davis  Mick Davis , the 55-year-old who headed Xstrata from its
inception in 2001, will act as a consultant until June 30. Other
senior management including  Charlie Sartain , head of copper,
nickel chief Ian Pearce and Loutjie Smit, interim CEO of Xstrata
alloys, were scheduled to leave yesterday.  Glencore has “announced the new leadership team, along
with clear lines of reporting and responsibility,” Glasenberg,
56, wrote in the letter. “For the vast majority of employees,
particularly those involved in key front-line processes of
production and marketing, there should be little impact on your
day-to-day activities.” The letter didn’t specify how many jobs
would be cut.  Thras Moraitis, Xstrata’s head of strategy and corporate
affairs, and Benny Levene, its chief legal counsel, will also
depart after acting as consultants for six months, Xstrata said
last month.  “We expect Glencore senior management to dominate the new
board and we expect them to impose Glencore’s leaner corporate
structure,” Credit Suisse analysts Liam Fitzpatrick, Michael Shillaker and James Gurry wrote in a report. The new company
could cut duplication and management costs by $200 million to
$300 million a year at copper, coal and zinc units, they said.  Glencore was advised by Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.
Xstrata hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  