-- GMP Capital Posts Quarterly Loss on Investment-Banking Slump
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-03T20:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gmp-capital-posts-first-quarter-loss-on-investment-banking-slump.html
GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) ,  Canada ’s second-
biggest non-bank brokerage, posted a first-quarter loss as a
capital-markets slump eroded investment-banking and trading
revenue.  The net loss was C$422,000 ($418,000), compared with net
income of C$211,000 a year earlier, the Toronto-based firm said
today in a statement. Revenue fell 26 percent to C$49 million.  “Senior management is fully cognizant of the near-term
impact of the ongoing malaise in global markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Harris Fricker said on a conference call with
investors. “Our franchise is sound and has proven itself
sustainable through what has been a prolonged and severe
downturn.”  Excluding some items, per-share earnings were break-even,
beating the 1-cent-a-share loss  average estimate  of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  GMP  rose  1.3 percent to C$5.36 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
stock has fallen 8.4 percent this year, compared with the 3.7
percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials Index.  Capital-markets revenue fell 29 percent to C$42.1 million
from a year earlier, mostly because of lower investment-banking
fees and trading commissions, GMP said. Financings and takeover
deals in the resource industry were hard hit in the quarter,
according to Fricker.  ‘Whipsaw Effect’  “We had such disruption in some of the primary
commodities, that you just saw activity grind to a halt almost
overnight,” Fricker said. “It’s very difficult for a CEO in
the commodity space to proceed with any aggression on the
acquisition front when you’re getting that sort of whipsaw
effect on prices and on share performance.”  GMP has reduced salaries and cut jobs, including
eliminating 15 positions on Jan. 8, as markets have slowed. The
firm had 369 employees at the end of March, down from 462 a year
earlier, according to financial statements.  “On staffing, I think we’re where we want to be,” Fricker
said.  GMP is also “inclined” to use its share buyback program,
Fricker said, which could mean buying back about 4.6 million
shares through a plan it renewed in March.  Fricker said GMP’s capital and liquidity position is
“extremely strong” and that the firm has no plans to change
its 5-cent-a-share dividend.  (GMP Capital will hold its annual investors meeting at 11
a.m. in Toronto.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  