-- Goldman’s Malaysian Bond Fees Would Face Scrutiny in Poll Upset
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-05-03T07:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/goldman-s-malaysian-bond-fees-would-face-scrutiny-in-poll-upset.html
Malaysia’s opposition coalition led by
Anwar Ibrahim may ask Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to renegotiate
terms on a $3 billion bond placement should it win the election
this weekend.  The U.S. bank arranged the March 19 debt sale by  1Malaysia
Development Bhd. , a sovereign-wealth fund known as 1MDB headed
by Prime Minister Najib Razak, whose political opponents have
questioned the timing, cost and pricing of the issue. New York-
based Goldman’s fees exceeded $200 million for arranging the
placement and three other dollar bond sales totaling $6.35
billion by Malaysian issuers in the past two years, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  “We are really focused on corporate governance and should
we win, we will review all public deals,” Rafizi Ramli,
strategic director at Anwar’s People’s Justice Party, said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur today. “The 1MDB transaction has been
shrouded in secrecy. We would go back to the renegotiation table
and see what would have been a fairer deal should there be any
questionable part of the deal mix.”  The ruling National Front coalition is facing its fiercest
challenge to date, after retaining power five years ago by the
narrowest margin since  Malaysia  won independence from the U.K.
in 1957. This is going to be the closest election Malaysia has
had and there’s a possibility the opposition will win, Kishore Mahbubani, dean of the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at
the National University of Singapore, told Bloomberg TV today.  Smear Campaign  The accusations over the 1MDB bond deal are part of a smear
campaign before the May 5 vote, a government spokesman, who’s
not authorized to be named, said yesterday. Rafizi said his
alliance “has nothing against Goldman Sachs” and if elected
would ensure there is proper governance in all its dealings.  Edward Naylor, a Goldman spokesman in Hong Kong, said
yesterday the bank competes aggressively against a strong field
of banks for business in Malaysia and applies the “same
consistently high global standards of due diligence and business
selection in connection with all securities offerings.” Naylor
declined to discuss fees involved in the 1MDB bond placement and
said today he had no further comments to make on the matter.  The debt placed in 1MDB’s March sale was priced to yield
4.4 percent, 141 basis points more than Malaysia’s sovereign
Islamic dollar bonds due July 2021 were offering at that time.
The yield has since fallen to 3.76 percent, giving investors who
were in at the start a return of 5.7 percent for the six weeks
they have held the securities. U.S. Treasuries gained 1.5
percent on average during the period, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  ‘Red Flags’  “The private placement raised too many red flags, coming
so close to the election date,” Wong Chen, a 44-year-old
corporate lawyer and opposition parliamentary candidate, said
yesterday in a Bloomberg interview. “They were rushing this out
and they don’t know how to spend it. We don’t know who received
this private placement and who they may sell it on to.”  1MDB considered all of its options in raising debt before
the March sale and chose the Goldman-led structure to “ensure
the timely completion of this economic initiative,” it said in
an April 23  statement . The $3 billion will be used for
investments in “strategic and important high-impact projects
like energy and real estate,” which are part of a collaboration
agreement between Malaysia and Abu Dhabi, it said.  1MDB Chief Executive Officer Mohd Hazem Abd Rahman was not
available to comment by phone today and has yet to reply to an
e-mail seeking clarification on the rationale for the March bond
sale. The fund won’t be commenting, Shahriza Embi, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail today.  Yields Spreads  Goldman was selected for the placement after arranging a
$1.75 billion bond placement for 1MDB in May 2012, as well as
having raised $1.6 billion in two offerings on behalf of the
Sarawak state government in the past two years.  The May 2012 issue of 10-year debt was sold to yield 5.99
percent, 4.25 percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries offered at the time. Less than two months later, the
Malaysian government paid a yield premium of 1.65 percentage
points when it auctioned $800 million of Islamic notes.  The latest offering of 1MDB bonds was unrated at the time
of the placement and graded A- by Standard & Poor’s on April 12,
putting it on a par with Malaysia’s sovereign debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  