-- Gold Volatility Fueled by Structured Note Trades, BNP Says
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-03T08:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gold-volatility-fueled-by-structured-note-trades-bnp-says.html
Investors in structured notes tied to
gold exacerbated the biggest slump in prices since 1980 as they
sold the precious metal to contain losses on the securities,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  Gold capped its worst two-day slump in 33 years on April
15, plunging 13 percent to $1335.75. Banks sold a total of $1.28
billion of gold-linked notes in the U.S. that remain
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private banks that bought so-called reverse convertibles
risked losing money when the gold price breached predetermined
 price levels , said Guillaume Picot, the global head of commodity
investor sales and structuring at BNP Paribas in Paris.  “It’s hard to determine what was the biggest cause for
gold’s decline, but structured products played a part in
exacerbating the downward spiral,” said Picot.  An investor in a reverse convertible gives up any future
gains in an underlying asset in exchange for a high fixed rate
of interest. The securities typically return investor’s
principal as long as the underlying is not below a predetermined
level at maturity.  The biggest reason for the move in gold was investor
liquidations of gold-backed exchange-traded products, said
Jerome Gaudry, the London-based head of commodity structuring at
Natixis SA. Gold holdings in ETPs plunged 174 metric tons last
month, the biggest drop ever, as prices entered a  bear market 
and wiped $17.9 billion from the value of the funds, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bullion for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.7 percent
to $1,477.05 an ounce at 9:17 a.m. in  London .  Gold traders are the most bearish in three years on the
metal. Twenty analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect bullion to
drop next week, with nine bullish and four neutral, the biggest
proportion of bears since February 2010.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is based on stocks,
bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  