-- Gold Imports by India to Decline as Central Bank Curbs Purchases
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-05-03T08:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gold-imports-by-india-to-decline-as-central-bank-curbs-purchases.html
Gold imports by India, the world’s
largest consumer, are poised to fall after the central bank
restricted overseas purchases by banks to reduce domestic demand
and curb a record current-account deficit.  Banks will be allowed to import bullion on a consignment
basis to meet only genuine needs of exporters of gold jewelry,
the  Reserve Bank  of India said in its annual monetary statement
today. The bulk of the imports by banks is on a consignment
basis that doesn’t require them to fund the purchase, the bank
said. At least 36 private and state-owned banks and companies
including  MMTC Ltd. (MMTC)  and State Trading Corp. are authorized to
directly import bullion, according to the central bank.  “The curbs will certainly bring down imports because gold
will not be freely available,” said Bachhraj Bamalwa, a
director and former chairman of the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation. “The banks import gold on consignment basis
from a miner without investing anything and it remains the
property of the miner until the bullion dealers take delivery.
If they are not allowed to buy on consignment basis, imports
will be restricted and chaos will prevail in the market.”  Buyers flocked to jewelry stores and bank outlets to buy
ornaments, coins and bars after gold plummeted 9.1 percent on
April 15 in the worst slide since 1983, causing a shortage in
supplies. The all-time high current-account shortfall,
exacerbated by bullion imports, and consumer-price inflation
above 10 percent are among risks that constrain room for further
policy easing, the central bank said today, after cutting
 interest rates  for a third straight meeting to revive growth.  Gold Passion  India has tripled  import taxes  on gold from as low as 2
percent in January last year after the current-account
shortfall, the broadest measure of trade, widened and the rupee
slumped to a record against the  U.S. dollar . Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram has blamed the deficit on a “passion”
for gold, saying the gap is a greater concern than the worst
 budget deficit  among the so-called BRIC nations. The deficit
widened to $32.6 billion in the last quarter of 2012.  Demand for gold in India was good ahead of the wedding
season and the Akshaya Tritiya festival on May 13, Bamalwa said.
The festival is considered by the country’s more than 900
million Hindus as the traditional day to buy precious metals.
Bullion is bought during festivals and marriages as part of the
bridal trousseau or gifted in the form of jewelry by relatives.  “There is a scarcity of gold in the Indian market,”
Bamalwa said. Jewelers were paying between $10 an ounce to $12
an ounce over the London cash price to secure supplies, he said.  Strong Appetite  UBS AG said the appetite for for gold continued to be
“very strong” in  India  and an index of physical flows showed
demand five times that of a 12-month average. “Appetite is
likely to hold up as we get closer to the Akshaya Tritiya
festival,” it said in an e-mailed report today.  India’s central bank will issue detailed guidelines on gold
imports by authorized banks by the end of this month, it said in
the statement. Banks also import gold on an unfixed price basis
and loan basis, according to the central bank.  Gold has rebounded from a two-year low of $1,321.95 on
April 16 as physical demand from the U.S. to  China  and the
 Middle East  increased and Elliott Management Corp. said that
bullion remains the best store of value in an uncertain global
economy, joining  John Paulson  in sticking with gold .  Bullion for immediate delivery rose as much as 0.8 percent
to $1,479.20 an ounce, and was at $1,477.35 at 1:16 p.m. in
Mumbai. The metal is 1 percent higher this week on signs of
increased physical purchases.  India’s gold imports dropped 11 percent last year to 860
tons from a record 969 tons in 2011, the World Gold Council
estimates. Demand for jewelry and investment fell to 864.2 tons
in 2012, the second straight year of decline, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  