-- Gomez Runs as Massachusetts Republican, Donated to Obama
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gomez-runs-as-massachusetts-republican-donated-to-obama.html
Massachusetts ’ newest Republican
leader looks and sounds nothing like those in charge of the
national party and has a resume full of partisan offenses.  Gabriel Gomez, 47, gave money to President Barack Obama’s
2008 White House campaign. He supports gay marriage. Fluent in
Spanish, he once worked for an  investment company  founded by
President  Bill Clinton ’s former chief of staff, and he
personally appealed to the Democratic governor of Massachusetts
for an appointment to the  U.S. Senate . He’s fine with some  gun
control  and a path to citizenship for undocumented workers.  Now, Gomez is the Republican nominee for the U.S. Senate to
fill the seat once held by  John Kerry , who in January became
Obama’s secretary of state.  Brian Camenker, who runs the Republican-leaning blog
MassResistance, has called Gomez, “Another pro-gay marriage
RINO” -- the dismissive acronym used by party stalwarts for
Republican in Name Only.  In the same April 25 blog post, he said “Gomez is telling
the media he’s ‘A New Kind of Republican.’ In other words, a
Democrat.”  Gomez’s unusual dossier also looms as a challenge for
opponent Ed Markey, 66, and other Massachusetts Democrats, who
don’t want a repeat of 2010, when they lost a special election
for a Senate seat to a fresh-faced Republican,  Scott Brown .  An Emerson College  poll  released yesterday showed a
potentially close race, with Markey leading Gomez by just six
percentage points, 42 to 36 percent. Independents were flocking
to Gomez, 46 percent to 25 percent, the poll showed.  Markey’s Challenge  Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic strategist based in Boston,
said that though the race is Markey’s to lose because of the
state’s Democratic tilt, he “will have to run like his hair is
on fire.”  To remind voters about the “R” next to Gomez’s name, the
state’s leading Democrats held a “unity breakfast” the day
after the April 30 primary and depicted him as part of the
Republican machine.  “He is the candidate of the National  Republican Party ,”
Markey said, speaking at the Omni Parker House Hotel in Boston.
“He is representing the values of the National Republican
Party. I think we’re in for a historically clear choice for the
people of Massachusetts to make.”  National Draw  The race is the first statewide contest for federal office
since President  Barack Obama  laid out a second-term agenda that
includes revising immigration policy and new gun control
measures, and it’s expected to draw national attention and
money. Democrats need to hold the seat to preserve their 55-to-45 caucus advantage in the Senate.  Gomez’s primary victory win over two other candidates comes
as Republicans are trying to retool the party’s image and appeal
to Hispanics, who are the fastest-growing voting bloc and heavily
supported Obama in the 2012 presidential race.  Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote, while Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts governor who said
undocumented residents should “self deport,” took 27 percent -
- the least for his party’s national ticket since 1996.  Gomez already is gaining attention outside Massachusetts.
He was interviewed May 1 on  Fox News  with Greta Van Susteren.
 Eric Fehrnstrom , a top adviser to the Romney presidential
campaign, posted a supportive note on Twitter, calling Gomez “a
new breed of Republican.”  Brown, who after his 2010 Senate win was defeated last
November for a full six-year term, posted on Twitter:
“Congratulations to Gabriel Gomez. I look forward to calling
him Senator.”  Personal Story  Gomez, married and the father of four, likes to tell his
personal story on the campaign trail. His parents moved to Los
Angeles from Colombia a year before he was born. He says Spanish
was his first language.  His resume includes graduation from the U.S. Naval Academy
and a stint as a Navy SEAL platoon commander deployed in the
West Indies and  South America . He’s also a graduate of  Harvard
Business School .  After Harvard, he landed a job at an investment bank founded
by  Erskine Bowles , the one-time White House chief of staff to
Clinton, a Democrat. He had been working for another company,
the Boston-based Advent International private-equity firm,
before quitting in January to seek the Senate seat.  Self Financing  Gomez put $600,000 toward his primary victory. In a
telephone interview, he declined to say whether he would
continue to tap his own resources.  “I’m highly confident I will be able to raise the money I
need to compete,” he said.  Gomez said he is in line with the Republican Party on
fiscal issues and wants to cut federal spending. “Even defense
has room to trim,” he said. One example he cited would be to
reduce by 10 percent to 15 percent the civilian employees at the
 Department of Defense .  Still, his positions on gay marriage and other issues could
cost him support among Republican activists.  “We do have some people who would rather stay home than
vote for him,” said Anne Fox, president of Massachusetts
Citizens for Life, the largest and oldest anti-abortion rights
group in Massachusetts. “I don’t see him giving us the
assurance that he would vote properly.”  Asked in an interview what his position in Congress would
be on abortion rights, Gomez said, “I’m not going there to
change the law.”  Helping Democrats  Another stumbling block for other Republicans is that Gomez
has opened his wallet for Democrats.  He donated $230 in 2007 to Obama’s presidential campaign,
according to Federal Election Commission records. Two years
later he wrote a $1,000 check to Alan Khazei, who was a
candidate in the 2009 Democratic primary for U.S. Senate. Khazei
lost to  Martha Coakley , who then lost to Brown in the 2010
special election to fill the seat that long had been held by the
late  Ted Kennedy , a Democrat.  Gomez, in a letter to Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick 
this January in which he sought the interim appointment to the
seat Kerry vacated, stressed support for Obama initatives.  “Two main issues that will dominate the political
discussion during this appointment will be immigration reform
and gun control,” Gomez wrote. “I support the positions that
President Obama has taken on these issues.”  Tea-Party Trepidation  That boast gives pause to some voters he will need to
defeat Markey.  “We take issue with Gabriel Gomez on a couple key
issues,” said Christine Morabito, president of the Greater
Boston Tea Party, citing his support for gun control and
immigration.  “We really need to know him better,” Morabito said,
adding that “a lot of members” of the anti-tax Tea Party
movement “do find the social issues really important.”  Gomez, in his letter to Patrick, also specifically noted
Bowles’s link to one of his former jobs.  Democrats want to focus on another aspect of Gomez’s past.
In 2012, he was a spokesman for a group called Special
Operations OPSEC Education Fund, which released a 22-minute video
criticizing Obama for, it asserted, politicizing the killing of
 Osama bin Laden  in a U.S. raid.  In a news release and video issued on May 1, Markey’s
campaign describes the group as a “secretly funded special
interest group” that put out a “radical” video attacking
Obama.  Gomez said he continues to believe the president released
too much information about the 2011 raid on a compound in
Pakistan where bin Laden was living  ``This endangered the men and women of the United States
armed services,” he said.  He added that he doesn’t plan to make that an issue in a
state where Democratic voter registrations outnumber Republicans
by 3-to-1.  “I’ve made my point before,” Gomez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  