-- Gross Sees New Normal Intact Amid 7.5% Unemployment: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-03T13:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/gross-sees-new-normal-intact-amid-7-5-unemployment-tom-keene.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest bond  fund , said the “new normal” of subpar economic
growth in the world’s biggest economy is intact even after U.S.
employment increased more than forecast in April.  “We don’t see higher real growth than 2 percent going
forward,” Pacific Investment Management Co. founder Gross said
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “We’ve seen basically 3.5 percent nominal GDP growth
even in the midst of an accelerating housing sector.”  The jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a four-year low
of 7.5 percent and Labor Department figures showed today that
more jobs than forecast were added last month, suggesting the
early stages of government budget cuts failed to destabilize the
U.S. labor market. The  U.S. economy  expanded 2.2 percent in 2012
and is forecast to grow 2 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Mohamed El-Erian, who serves as co-chief investment officer
with Gross at Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, coined
the term “new normal” in 2009 to describe an era of lower
returns, heightened  government regulation  and shrinking U.S.
clout in the world economy following the 2007-2009 financial
crisis.  Payrolls expanded by 165,000 workers last month following a
revised 138,000 increase in March that was larger than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed. The median forecast
of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 140,000 gain.
Revisions to the prior two months’ reports added a total of
114,000 jobs to the employment count in February and March.  ‘Escape Velocity’  “Today’s job report was a good one,” El-Erian, who is
also Pimco’s chief executive officer, said in a separate
Bloomberg Television interview with  Betty Liu . “‘We’ve taken a
good step toward escape velocity.”  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government securities
in the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 33 percent in March from 28 percent
in February, according to the latest available data on the
Newport Beach, California-based company’s  website . Gross has
been advising investors to buy government debt, including
inflation-linked securities and nominal Treasuries.  The $293 billion Total Return Fund gained 7.6 percent
during the past year, beating 92 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  