-- Ibovespa Advances as Commodities Gain Boosts Vale
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-05-03T21:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-commodity-gains-boosts-export-outlook.html
The Ibovespa posted a weekly gain as a
bigger-than-forecast increase in U.S. employment sparked a
commodities rally, boosting Brazilian exporters.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA contributed the most to today’s
advance.  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer,
led gains on the MSCI  Brazil /Materials index, which was the best
performer among 10 industry groups. State-run oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA dropped to a one-week low.  Brazil’s main equity index added 0.3 percent to 55,488.08
at the close of trading in Sao Paulo, extending this week’s gain
to 2.3 percent. The real was little changed at 2.0089 per
dollar. The Bloomberg Base Metals 3-Month Price Commodity Index
surged 5 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw
materials rose 1.4 percent.  “The jobs report in the U.S. was good, and that was the
main event in the market today, as it made investors more
optimistic about equities,” Larissa Gatti Nappo, an economist
at brokerage Souza Barros, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “A
faster recovery in the U.S. is positive for the economic
recovery in Brazil.”  U.S. payrolls expanded by 165,000 last month following a
revised 138,000 increase in March that was larger than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 140,000 gain.  Vale, Fibria  Vale jumped 1.4 percent to 32.20 reais. Fibria advanced 1.8
percent to 21.39 reais. Commodities producers account for about
39 percent of the Ibovespa’s weighting.  While signs of faster growth in the U.S. may help boost
Brazilian equities in the short term, gains may not last if the
recovery in  Latin America ’s largest economy falters, said Otavio Vieira, a partner at the Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Fides
Asset Management.  Brazil’s industrial production expanded 0.7 percent in
March from February, the national statistics agency said today.
Economists had forecast output would grow 1.3 percent, according
to the median  estimate  of 33 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Economic activity in Brazil is still weak, and things
need to get better in order for the equity market to sustain a
recovery,” Vieira said in a phone interview.  Petrobras slid 1.2 percent to 20 reais.  Totvs Earnings  Totvs SA (TOTS3) , a Brazilian maker of business-management
software, fell 4.1 percent to 37.70 reais after posting earnings
that trailed forecasts. Adjusted net income was 51.9 million
reais in the first quarter, less than the average  estimate  among
analysts of 60.7 million reais, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Ibovespa has  retreated  12 percent from this year’s peak
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The MSCI BRIC Index of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and  China 
has lost 5.6 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.6 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 10.12 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.71 billion reais this year
through April 30, according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  