-- Microsoft, AT&T Cross Atlantic for Euro Rates
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-03T16:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/microsoft-at-t-cross-atlantic-for-euro-rates.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are
among U.S. borrowers selling the most bonds in  Europe  since the
start of 2008, taking advantage of record-low borrowing costs
that outstrip dollar rates.  American issuers raised 17.2 billion euros ($22.5 billion)
from bond sales this year, nine times the amount for the same
period in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average yield on investment-grade euro corporate bonds fell to
an unprecedented 1.75 percent yesterday, or 89 basis points
below comparable dollar notes, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show. That’s the biggest discount since June 2010.  The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate
to a record 0.5 percent yesterday as it tries to lift the euro-
region out of recession, encouraging companies to take advantage
of cheap funding. In the U.S., where the economy is expanding at
a 2.5 percent annual rate, the  Federal Reserve  will probably
reduce its monthly bond buying in the fourth quarter as it
begins to scale back its record stimulus, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “U.S. companies will issue where they think they can
borrow cheaply and where there’s significant demand,” said
Craig Veysey, the head of fixed income at Sanlam Private
Investments Ltd. in  London , part of the Sanlam Group, which
oversees $72 billion of assets. “The huge drop in yields we’ve
seen over the last month, in particular in Europe, would have
meant that it’s easy for U.S. issuers to get their deals away.”  Microsoft Bonds  Bond sales from U.S. companies accounted for about 6
percent of total euro issuance this year, from 0.5 percent for
the same period last year and the most since about 10 percent in
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Microsoft raised 550 million euros on April 25 from 20-year
bonds in a debut sale in the currency that paid 2.625 percent.
That’s the lowest coupon offered in Europe for similar-maturity,
non-financial corporate notes, Bloomberg data show. Investors
placed 7 billion euros of bids for the notes, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction on April 26.  The debt sale was “opportunistic,” said Peter Wootton, a
spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft. It will help
the company reduce its cost of capital and the pricing was
“very attractive” for 20-year securities, he said. Microsoft
is rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s and Aaa at Moody’s Investors
Service, while  Fitch Ratings  ranks it a level lower at AA+.  Quality Shortage  “There is a shortage of high-quality credits like
Microsoft in Europe, allowing the company to issue at an
extremely attractive level,” said Geraud Charpin, a  fund
manager  at Bluebay Asset Management Ltd. in London which
oversees $55 billion. “It really showed that there is a glut of
money in the euro market that needs to be invested.”  AT&T, the largest U.S. telephone company, raised 1.25
billion euros from 10-year securities in March priced to yield
2.524 percent, according to a person familiar with the matter.
That compares with 2.634 percent yield on the Dallas-based
company’s $1.5 billion of bonds of the same maturity sold in
December, Bloomberg data show.  “We were pleased with the terms of the transaction,” said
Sarah Lubman, an external spokeswoman for AT&T based in  New
York , who declined to confirm whether the company converted the
proceeds of its euro bond sale into dollars.  Coca-Cola Enterprises  The cost for companies to convert euro interest payments
into dollars has increased from a 19-month low in January. The
cost of swapping using the five-year cross-currency basis swap
was little changed at 23.5 basis points below Euribor, up from
19.5 basis points on Jan. 30, the cheapest since June 2011.  As of the end of 2012, AT&T had swapped all its foreign
currency-denominated debt into dollars using cross-currency
swaps, the company said in its annual report on Feb. 22.  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE) , the third-largest independent
bottler of the bestselling soft drink, sold 350 million euros of
12-year bonds on April 29 to yield 78 basis points more than
swaps. That’s less than the 94 basis-point average spread for
companies including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Consumer Non-Cyclical Food & Drug Retailers and
Pharmaceuticals Index, which also contains Atlanta-based Coca-
Cola Enterprises’ debt.  Belden Debt  “U.S. borrowers are sitting up and noticing just how
strong the euro market is,” said James Tayler, a corporate bond
syndicate banker at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London
which helped manage Coca-Cola Enterprises and Microsoft’s deals.
“The market is offering strong execution in longer duration
trades, where previously tenors of more than 15 years have been
the preserve of the sterling and dollar markets.”  The average maturity of bonds in Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s euro index is 5.1 years, compared with 10.1 years for
dollars and 12.1 years for sterling securities.  Belden Inc. (BDC) , a maker of networking equipment, sold its
first euro bonds in March. The company, which has junk ratings
of Ba1 by Moody’s and BB at S&P, issued 300 million euros of 10-
year securities that were priced to yield 5.5 percent, the same
yield as on its similar dollar notes of the same maturity sold
in August, according to Bloomberg data.  Average yields on non-financial high-yield bonds in Europe
have held within a basis point of the record 5.35 percent low
reached on April 29, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  European Window  “Belden generates a meaningful portion of its operating
income from our European operations,” said Matthew Tractenberg,
head of  investor relations  at  St. Louis , Missouri-based Belden.
“The debt issued in March allows the company to pay euro
denominated interest with those euro denominated profits.”  Investors betting that the ECB would likely cut  interest
rates  poured $1.1 billion into high-grade bond funds in the week
ending April 24 and $970 million into high-yield securities
while pulling $78 million from equity funds, according to a Bank
of America Corp. April 26 report.  “There is a window for U.S. issuers to come to the
European market now as we can’t assume that this low level of
volatility will last forever,” said Veysey. “It’s a case of
taking advantage of the market place as much as you can to issue
at the best rates available.”  IBM’s Record  Elsewhere in credit markets, International Business
Machines Corp. obtained a record-low 1.625 percent coupon on
seven-year dollar-denominated debt and tied an all-time low for
three-year securities. The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted for a third week. Supervalu
Inc. is seeking to lower the rate on a $1.5 billion loan it
obtained earlier this year to support the sale of five
supermarket chains to an investment group led by Cerberus
Capital Management LP.  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. fell to a five-year low. The Markit CDX North American
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 3.5 basis
point to a mid-price of 74.3 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings, decreased 3.3 basis points to 91.5 at
5:12 p.m. in London. In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
fell 0.8 to 106.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 0.03 basis point to 14.01 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Bonds of Cupertino, California-based Apple Inc. were the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers, accounting for 4.6 percent of the volume of dealer
trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The iPhone maker sold $17 billion of bonds on April 30 in the
biggest corporate offering on record.  IBM’s $1.25 billion of notes due May 2020 beat a 1.65
percent rate on $750 million of debt sold last July by
semiconductor maker Texas Instruments Inc., Bloomberg data show.  Commercial Paper  The largest computer-services provider also sold $1 billion
of three-year debt at a 0.45 percent coupon, matching a record-
low for that maturity obtained by Apple, Texas Instruments,
Unilever Plc and Walt Disney Co., Bloomberg data show.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
dropped $12.4 billion to $997.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 1, the Fed said yesterday on its website. That’s the
lowest level since the market touched $968.6 billion in the
period ended Nov. 14.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as payroll
and rent.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose 0.02 cent
to 98.59 cents on the dollar, the highest since July 2007. The
measure, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, has gained 2.79 percent this year.  Speculative-grade loans and high-yield bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Supervalu, the third-largest U.S. grocery chain, is
proposing to pay interest on the covenant-light loan due in
March 2019 at 3.5 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate with a 1 percent minimum on the lending
benchmark, down from 5 percentage points more than Libor with a
1.25 percent floor, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction. Credit Suisse Group AG is arranging the financing.  In  emerging markets , relative yields declined 4 basis
points to 288 basis points, or 2.88 percentage points, according
to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index , which had averaged
281.2 this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  