-- India Cuts Rates Third Time to Extend Sole BRIC Easing
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-05-03T08:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/india-cuts-rates-third-straight-time-to-extend-sole-bric-easing.html
India  cut  interest rates  for a third
straight meeting to revive growth, extending the only reduction
in borrowing costs among major emerging nations this year.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the  repurchase rate  to
7.25 percent from 7.50 percent, the  Reserve Bank  of India said
in Mumbai today, as 33 of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted. One forecast 7 percent and the rest no change after
quarter-point reductions in both January and March.  Subbarao stepped up efforts to spur investment and
consumption after India’s  weakest expansion  in a decade led to
the slowest rise in wholesale prices in 40 months in March. At
the same time, a record current-account deficit and consumer-
price  inflation  above 10 percent are among risks that constrain
room for further policy easing, the central bank said today.  “The RBI can’t do more than small doses of rate cuts due
to high retail inflation and the current-account deficit,” said
 Indranil Pan , an economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Rate cuts are not the answer to resolve growth problems. The
push has to come from the government by cutting wasteful
expenditure and improving infrastructure bottlenecks.”  The yield on the government note maturing June 2022 rose to
7.77 percent from 7.72 percent yesterday as of 1:53 p.m. in
Mumbai. The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 53.945 per dollar,
while the BSE India Sensitive Index slipped 0.6 percent.  ‘Little Space’  “The balance of risks stemming from the Reserve Bank’s
assessment of the growth-inflation dynamic yields little space
for further monetary easing,” the central bank said, citing the
possibility of a resurgence in  inflation (INFINFY)  pressures and a
current-account shortfall it described as “by far the biggest
risk to the economy.”  Monetary policy alone can’t revive growth, the Reserve Bank
said, adding there needs to be a push to ease supply bottlenecks,
improve governance, step up public investment and maintain the
commitment to fiscal consolidation.  Gross domestic product  may expand 5.7 percent in the fiscal
year through March 2014, compared with the baseline projection
of 5.5 percent for the previous 12 months, the central bank said.
Wholesale inflation will probably be “range-bound” at around
5.5 percent in 2013-2014, it said.  Inflation based on wholesale prices eased to 5.96 percent
in March from a year earlier. The Reserve Bank said it will seek
to “condition the evolution of inflation” to 5 percent by the
same month next year. Food costs have a heavier weighting in the
consumer gauge, which surged 10.39 percent in March.  Held-to-Maturity  The Reserve Bank also proposed today to reduce the
proportion of bonds Indian banks are permitted to hold in the
so-called held-to-maturity category to 23 percent from 25
percent. The move may reduce some of the incentive for banks to
hold government notes, boosting funds for lending, according to
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd.  India’s rate cuts contrast with decisions to hold or raise
policy benchmarks so far in 2013 in  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China ,
the other members of the BRIC group of large emerging nations.  A report yesterday signaled Indian manufacturing expanded
at a slower pace in April. A purchasing managers’ index from
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics fell to 51 from 52.
That’s the slowest since the same reading in November 2011. A
number above 50 indicates growth.  The  European Central Bank  cut  borrowing costs  to a record-
low 0.5 percent yesterday to fight the euro-region’s recession.
The U.S. Federal Reserve said this week it will keep buying
bonds at a monthly pace of $85 billion, as Chairman Ben S. Bernanke presses on with his effort to boost employment.  China Services  In  Asia  today, China reported non-manufacturing  PMI (CPMINMAN) 
expanded at a slower pace in April. In  Australia , producer
prices rose at a faster pace last quarter from the previous
three-month period.  The European Commission will announce economic growth
forecasts while a report may show euro-area producer-price gains
slowed in March. The U.S. will release reports on non-farm
payrolls and factory orders.  Subbarao has loosened policy even as rising food prices fan
one of the fastest consumer inflation rates in the Group of 20
major economies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank faces a “difficult situation” as it has
little control over food prices in Asia’s No. 3 economy, said N.
R. Bhanumurthy, an economist at the National Institute of Public
Finance and Policy in  New Delhi .  Trade Deficit  Imports of gold contributed to a current-account shortfall
of $32.6 billion in October through December, or 6.7 percent of
GDP. A drop of about 8 percent in the metal’s price in April
stoked optimism the gap will narrow.  Monetary policy  will have to “remain alert to the risks on
account of the CAD and its financing, which could warrant a
swift reversal of the policy stance,” the central bank said.  India’s minority government has changed policies since
September to spur expansion and avert a credit-rating downgrade.  The steps included trimming the budget shortfall, opening
the retail and aviation industries to more investment from
abroad and slashing a levy on foreign investors in local bonds.  Indian GDP rose 5 percent last fiscal year, the least since
2003, as expenditure to add factories and infrastructure
moderated and exports waned, statistics agency data shows. The
 World Bank  projects a 6.1 percent climb in 2013-2014.  Unilever said this week it plans to spend up to 292 billion
rupees ($5.4 billion) on lifting its stake in its Indian unit,
wagering the spending power of 1.2 billion people will revive.  Political risk also clouds India’s prospects ahead of
elections due by May 2014. Opposition protests over graft
scandals have repeatedly disrupted parliament.  “The government has to resolve the infrastructure
bottlenecks, ease supplies and improve governance to put India
back on the high growth path,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, chief
economist at  Bank of Baroda .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  