-- India’s Nifty Index Futures Gain Before Monetary Policy Review
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-05-03T02:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/india-s-nifty-index-futures-gain-before-monetary-policy-review.html
Indian stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rise for a fourth day, before
the Reserve Bank of India meets today to review monetary policy.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery rose 0.2
percent to 6,017 at 9:56 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index advanced 1.2 percent to 5,999.35 yesterday, the
highest level since Jan. 31. The S&P BSE Sensex index added 1.2
percent to 19,735.77. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares climbed 1.5 percent.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will cut borrowing
costs today for a third straight meeting, reducing the benchmark
repurchase rate to 7.25 percent from 7.50 percent, according to
33 of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Asian stocks rose today
after U.S. jobless claims reached a five-year low and the
European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a
record low.  “The rally so far has been driven by a larger-than-
estimated rate cut hope and better-than-expected corporate
earnings,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director of CNI Research
( India ) Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “Now the ball is in the
central bank’s court. Central banks globally are in a generous
mood to pump in liquidity; it remains to be seen if the RBI
joins them to boost growth.”  Record Deficit  Profit at just two of the 12 Sensex companies that have
reported March-quarter results has  trailed  analyst estimates.
Net income at about 43 percent of the 30 index firms trailed
forecasts in the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with 40
percent in the previous two quarters.  The Sensex climbed the most since November last month as
slowing inflation and a drop in gold and oil prices stoked
speculation the RBI will cut borrowing costs today.  Still, the central bank signaled yesterday that elevated
consumer-price inflation and a record current-account deficit is
constraining scope for monetary policy to support economic
growth.  India’s  economy  expanded at the weakest pace in a decade in
the fiscal year ended March 31 and consumer inflation held above
10 percent, even as wholesale-price growth slowed in March to
the lowest rate in more than three years.  “Monetary policy would need to be calibrated recognizing
the very limited policy space available to ease further,” the
Reserve Bank said yesterday in an economic review before today’s
rate decision in Mumbai. It cited “significant” risks
including a “high” current-account gap and “inflation above
the threshold over which it becomes inimical to growth
sustainability.”  The Sensex has climbed 1.6 percent this year and trades at
13.3 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.4 times. The  Indian (SENSEX)  measure’s 50-day
volatility, a measure of price swings, climbed to a nine-month
high yesterday.  Foreign funds bought a net $183 million of local shares on
April 30, taking their net investment in equities this year to
$11.3 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Inflows last
year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  