-- Indonesia Stocks Post Biggest 2-Day Drop Since August on S&P Cut
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-05-03T09:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/indonesia-stocks-post-biggest-2-day-drop-since-august-on-s-p-cut.html
Indonesia’s stocks  posted their
biggest two-day loss in eight months on speculation other rating
companies would follow  Standard & Poor’s  in cutting its outlook
on the nation’s rating. Bond yields rose while the rupiah slid.  The Jakarta Composite Index dropped 1.4 percent at the
close, its steepest decline since March 22. The two-day loss of
2.7 percent was the most since Aug. 30. PT Astra International,
the largest company by market capitalization in Jakarta, slid
4.2 percent to its lowest close in five months. PT Bank Rakyat
 Indonesia , the second-largest lender by assets, recorded its
steepest two-day slump since October 2011. S&P yesterday revised
its outlook on Indonesia’s BB+ rating to stable from positive.  “With the market at an all-time high, people are wondering
if this would be followed by Moody’s and Fitch. And this came as
the  Philippines  got an upgrade.” Wilianto Ie, head of equities
research at PT Nomura Indonesia, said by telephone from Jakarta.
“The biggest risk is if the reversal in  market sentiment 
happens to be too drastic and we start to see a sell-off in the
 bond market  and the rupiah comes under pressure.”  Before the downgrade by S&P, the benchmark index had risen
17 percent to a record high and traded at 15 times 12-month
projected earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Astra International fell 4.2 percent to its lowest close
since Dec. 4. Bank Rakyat Indonesia dropped 4.8 percent, while
PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia, the largest telecommunication
company, slid 4.2 percent.  The yield on the government’s 5.625 percent notes due May
2023 climbed six basis points to 5.58 percent at the close, the
most since March 27, prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association show. The rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 9,735 per
dollar, prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank Indonesia’s Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said today
the central bank has been intervening in the  currency market 
from yesterday afternoon until this morning to signal that it’s
taking steps to stabilize the rupiah. He also said S&P’s outlook
cut would only affect the market temporarily.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  