-- Invensys Seen Luring Emerson Again After Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-05-03T03:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/invensys-seen-luring-emerson-again-after-sale-real-m-a.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the engineering company
whose takeover discussions with  Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  broke down
last year, is becoming more palatable for acquirers after
shedding its railroad division and reducing pension liabilities.  Siemens AG’s purchase of the rail-infrastructure business,
which closed yesterday, makes the rest of London-based Invensys
a more attractive takeover candidate, Baring Asset Management
Ltd. said. While Invensys’s 76 percent rally since the deal was
announced in November is  six times more  than the FTSE All-Stock
Index, its sales multiple is still cheaper than most peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerson is the most logical buyer and could offer a 19
percent premium for the $4.9 billion company, which sells
products such as safety systems and refrigeration components,
said Societe Generale SA. Other potential suitors may include
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  or  Schneider Electric SA (SU) , Royal
Bank of Canada said. With ValueAct Holdings LP -- the activist
investor that successfully pushed for Gardner Denver Inc. to
sell itself this year -- announcing a stake in April, Exane BNP
Paribas said Invensys could be bought.  “The road is now clear for Emerson or another larger
electrical group to come and bid” for Invensys, Jonathan Mounsey, a London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a
telephone interview. “I doubt the stock would be trading where
it is today if there wasn’t some belief that something is going
to happen.”  Prior Talks  Richard Mountain, a spokesman for Invensys, declined to
comment on whether the company is open to selling its remaining
businesses or has held discussions with buyers.  Invensys said in June that it had been approached by
Emerson about a possible deal and that talks ended without an
agreement. At the time, Invensys was grappling with pension
liabilities, which amounted to 490 million pounds ($761 million)
at the end of September.  The pension costs were an overhang Invensys “obviously
wanted the buyer to rectify as part of the purchase price,”
 Nick Heymann , a New York-based analyst at William Blair & Co.,
said in a phone interview. “Clearly Emerson decided that that
was not remotely feasible.”  Invensys agreed in November to sell its rail-signaling
unit, which makes technology that helps prevent trains from
colliding, to Siemens for 1.74 billion pounds. The company
pledged 625 million pounds of the proceeds for the pension.  More Digestible  The decision to slim down and bolster the pension make
Invensys a more digestible and attractive takeover target, said
James Buckley, a London-based fund manager at Baring Asset
Management, which oversees about $49 billion including Invensys
shares.  “It does make it a bit more streamlined,” he said in a
phone interview. “You’ve got a niche business with a pretty
leading position and long-term growth markets. There is probably
no shortage of potential suitors,” he added. “Sooner or later,
this one goes out.”  Invensys shares have gained 76 percent since Nov. 27, the
day before the divestiture was announced. Still, Invensys trades
at a multiple of 1.4 times its projected 2013 revenue, lower
than 67 percent of measurement instruments companies valued at
more than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerson is a “natural candidate” for a takeover of the
rest of Invensys’s businesses, Steven Winoker, a New York-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a phone
interview. The maker of technology for refrigerators and air
conditioners was mainly interested in Invensys’s meter and
control systems business -- which Invensys still has -- when it
approached the company last year, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Emerson’s Wants  Now that Invensys has sold off the rail unit, what’s left
are businesses with a large customer base that would bolster
Emerson’s own process management and industrial automation
operations, said Alasdair Leslie, a London-based analyst at
Societe Generale.  Following the sale, “you’ve effectively got the asset
that” Emerson wanted, Leslie said in a phone interview. “It’s
obviously going to be a lot easier” to justify a deal. He
estimated Emerson could offer about 460 pence a share for
Invensys. The stock closed at 387 pence yesterday.  David Farr, chief executive officer of St. Louis-based
Emerson, said in September that the company had considered a
deal with Invensys on and off for 15 years and would continue to
look at the company’s process-automation business. Mark Polzin,
a spokesman for Emerson, declined to comment on whether the
company is interested in Invensys.  ‘In Play’  While Emerson is the most logical buyer, other bidders
including ABB, Schneider or GE could be lured by Invensys’s
process-management businesses because they provide high margins
with limited competition, said Andrew Carter, a London-based
analyst at RBC.  Invensys will be “‘in play’ once the rail disposal is
complete,” Carter wrote in an April 19 note to clients. He
estimates the company could fetch more than 450 pence a share in
a takeover.  Representatives for Zurich-based ABB, Rueil-Malmaison,
France-based Schneider and Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE
declined to comment on whether their companies are interested in
Invensys.  Invensys has been losing market share in process management
to competitors including Honeywell International Inc., Rockwell
Automation Inc. and even Emerson, which may deter acquirers,
said Heymann of William Blair.  ‘Weakened Competitor’  “You’re buying kind of a weakened competitor, and I don’t
necessarily sense that Invensys’ exposure to any particular end
markets would be uniquely critical to Emerson,” Heymann said.  Still, ValueAct’s stake in the company may signal that a
deal is imminent, according to Carter of RBC. The investment
firm owned about 8 percent of Invensys shares as of April 22,
according to an April 24 statement.  ValueAct bought shares of  Gardner Denver (GDI)  last year and
pushed for a sale. Private-equity firm KKR & CO. agreed to buy
Gardner Denver for $3.9 billion in March. George Hamel Jr.,
chief operating officer of ValueAct, didn’t respond to a phone
message seeking comment.  “Activist investor involvement suggest some change/action
may be on the horizon,” Carter wrote in the report last month.
“Invensys will be more attractive to Emerson and potentially
others post completion of the rail disposal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  