-- Lithuania Starts Talks With Gazprom Seeking Price Reduction
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-05-03T13:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/lithuania-starts-talks-with-gazprom-seeking-price-reduction.html
Lithuania  asked  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  to reduce
natural-gas prices as the Baltic nation works to reduce its
dependence on the Russian supplier.  Energy Minister Jaroslav Neverovic made the request at a
meeting today with Gazprom Deputy Chairman  Alexander Medvedev  in
Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, the Energy Ministry said in an
e-mailed statement. The meeting was the start of formal
negotiations, in which which Lithuania is consulting with the
European Commission in Brussels, the ministry said.  “Obviously the process won’t be simple or fast,”
Neverovic said in the statement. He said the price Gazprom
currently charges Lithuanian gas consumers “doesn’t reflect the
real situation in the gas market.”  Seeking to diversify its gas options and get leverage in
talks with Gazprom, Lithuania is building a floating liquefied
natural-gas terminal on the  Baltic Sea , scheduled to start work
in late 2014. The country is also considering giving U.S.-based
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  a license to explore for shale gas and seeks to
build a gas pipeline link with neighboring Poland.  Lithuanian gas utility Lietuvos Dujos AB, which is 37
percent-owned by Gazprom, plans to spin off its transmission
activity to a new company on July 31 to meet European Union
rules intended to boost competition. Gazprom will be forced to
sell its stake in the new company, losing influence over the
pipelines that deliver gas to Russia’s Kaliningrad enclave.  At a meeting last month in  St. Petersburg , Russian Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  expressed concern about the future of
terms for the transit of Russian gas to Kaliningrad, Lithuania
Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said after the meeting.  Talking Points  Butkevicius, speaking on LRT television on April 7, said
transit terms would be negotiated together with gas prices. He
said Lithuania wouldn’t consider any delay in the implementation
of EU rules on separating gas sales and transmission, nor did it
want to sign a long-term supply contract with Gazprom.  In October, Lithuania’s previous government filed a
lawsuit against Gazprom in a Stockholm arbitration court for 5
billion litai ($1.9 billion), the amount the country says it was
overcharged for supplies since 2004. That followed the EU’s
announcement in September, and partly at Lithuania’s request, of
an antitrust probe regarding the Russian company’s pricing for
gas sales in central and eastern  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  