-- Mitsubishi, Areva Sign $22b Turkish Nuclear Plant Deal
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-05-03T15:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/mitsubishi-areva-set-to-sign-turkish-nuclear-plant-deal-today.html
Japan ’s  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011)  and Areva SA of  France  signed a $22 billion agreement today
to build a nuclear power plant in Turkey, the first major order
for Japan since the Fukushima disaster in 2011.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Turkish
counterpart  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  met in Ankara to oversee the
signing of the accord for the building of Turkey’s second
nuclear plant in Sinop province on the Black Sea coast.  “We have reached agreement on a $22 billion investment,”
Erdogan said at the televised signing ceremony today. “It will
be built in 10 years, but we want to bring that forward.”  Abe said in a news conference before the ceremony that
Japan had a responsibility to meet “high expectations” for
safety after the meltdown of reactors at Fukushima, Japan in
2011 following an earthquake and tsunami.  Turkey imported more than $60 billion in energy last year
and is seeking ways to improve  energy efficiency , Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said at a conference in Istanbul last
month. A single nuclear plant would reduce Turkey’s current-
account deficit, the third-largest in the world last year, by
about $3 billion, he said. Turkey picked Russia’s Rosatom Corp.
and ZAO Atomstroyexport for its first facility at a cost of $20
billion.  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  would operate the nuclear plant in Turkey with
a local partner should the deal be finalized, Chief Executive
Officer Gerard Mestrallet told reporters yesterday in Paris.  Energy Dependency  The plant won’t have an impact on Turkey’s energy
dependency for at least a decade, according to Naz Masraff, a
London-based analyst at Eurasia group.  “It is unlikely that  Turkey  will complete the project by
2023 as planned,” Masraff said in a report on May 1. “The
country’s increased gas dependency trajectory, therefore, is
unlikely to be altered in a meaningful way in the future.”  The Japanese-French group plans to build four reactors with
a combined capacity of about 4,500 megawatts on Turkey’s Black
Sea coast, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported on April 4, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. The first unit is
scheduled to begin operations by 2023 following the start of
construction in 2017, Nikkei said.  The Turkish reactor is still “years away” from
construction as the country has yet to create a nuclear safety
authority that will give building permits, GDF Suez’s Mestrallet
said yesterday.  Over Budget  The Franco-Japanese bid is being led by Mitsubishi Heavy,
which together with  Areva SA (AREVA) , the French reactor builder, has
developed a 1,100-megawatt model called the Atmea. The unit is a
smaller, less-expensive version of the EPR, which is being built
by  Electricite de France SA  in Normandy and Areva in  Finland .
Both projects are behind schedule and over budget.  “We are confident in the Atmea, Mestrallet said. ‘‘We
wanted to build one in France.’’ The Atmea has never been built
anywhere after a project in France was canceled.  Mestrallet declined to provide specifics about any
potential Turkish partners in the project or how long the
utility could take before committing to development.  GDF Suez, which operates seven nuclear reactors in  Belgium 
through its Electrabel SA unit, has long said it wants to push
ahead with new projects outside France in countries such as the
U.K. and possibly  Brazil .  Since the meltdown of reactors after an earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan two years ago, French developers of nuclear
technology have failed to win any orders. ‘‘This is a positive
sign’’ that countries are willing the keep nuclear in their
future energy mix, Mestrallet said.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors remain shut for safety
checks after three meltdowns and the release of radiation at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Abe told
lawmakers in Japan on Feb. 28 that he’ll restart some nuclear
reactors once new safety measures are in place.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  