-- Vinik to Shut Hedge-Fund Business to Focus on Hockey Team
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-05-03T21:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/jeff-vinik-s-hedge-fund-to-return-investors-money.html
Jeff Vinik, in a move that echoes his
departure 17 years ago from the  Fidelity Magellan Fund (FMAGX) , is
shutting his hedge fund after making ill-timed bets on gold and
the direction of stocks.  Vinik Asset Management LP, which oversees about $6 billion,
will give clients all of their money back at the end of June,
according to a client letter obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
owner of the Tampa Bay Lightning professional hockey team and a
minority investor in the  Boston Red Sox , Vinik founded the firm
after stepping down in 1996 as head of Magellan, then the
largest U.S. mutual fund, with more than $56 billion in assets.  While Vinik has beaten the market since starting the hedge
fund, he stumbled 10 months ago after a restructuring at the
firm. He relocated from  Boston  to Tampa and shifted from stock
picking to an oversight role that included analysis of
macroeconomic trends and risk management, only to have his hedge
fund trail stocks by a wide margin.  “While we are very proud of our excellent long-term record
of 17 percent annualized returns since we started VAM in 1996,
the last 10 months have been more difficult following our
restructuring,” Vinik said in the letter, adding that his fund
is down 4.8 percent since last July. “It is time for us to take
a break.”  Fund Consolidation  In tandem with his move to  Florida , Vinik consolidated
funds that were separately run by he and other managers at the
firm, including co-founder  Michael Gordon . A growth-oriented
strategy is run out of Boston while a Tampa-based team focuses
on value investing in stocks and bonds.  Gordon runs the growth team, which supplements bets on
companies with good earnings prospects by investing in exchange-
traded funds tied to industries and the broader markets. David Iben, the former chief investment officer of Tradewinds Global
Investors, joined Vinik Asset Management in June to head the
value group.  According to a March investor presentation, Vinik’s role is
to oversee the consolidated portfolio, allocating capital among
the different managers and focusing on his “strongest skills,”
cited as macro analysis, industry selection and risk management.
Following the restructuring, which was completed on June 30, the
combined fund lost 0.43 percent during the remainder of 2012 and
rose 0.69 percent during the first two months of this year,
according to the investor presentation.  Assets Shrink  Since the firm was reorganized, its net assets dropped
almost 11 percent to $6.03 billion as of March 1 from $6.74
billion on July 1 of last year, according to filings with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  This year’s underperformance may have stemmed from a
decision to call off a large bet on U.S. stock markets. During
the fourth quarter, the fund sold its $1.2 billion stake in the
SPDR  S&P 500  ETF Trust, a $370 million holding in the
Powershares QQQ Trust, which tracks the Nasdaq 100 Index, and an
$804 million stake in the  iShares Russell 2000 Index Fund. (IWM)   Each of these three market index funds reached a 52-week
high today, with the SPDR Trust up 13.3 percent so far this year
and the Russell 2000 fund up about 12.4 percent. Vinik Asset
Management’s holdings of U.S. stocks dropped to $3.4 billion on
Dec. 31 from $5.9 billion as of Sept. 30. The firm had gross
assets, including leverage, of $9.5 billion at the end of last
year, according to regulatory filings.  Gold Loss  At the same time, gold mining shares comprised about 14
percent of the U.S. traded stocks that Vinik Asset Management
reported owning. As signs increased that the economy is
improving without causing inflation, gold and mining stocks
plunged in April, leading to losses for billionaire investors
 John Paulson  and  Paul Singer  as well as Vinik.  Vinik Asset Management’s largest holding, the  Market
Vectors Gold Miners (GDX)  exchange-traded fund, has lost 36 percent
this year.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , his second-biggest holding, has
declined 43 percent, and  NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG)  has lost 45
percent.  A broad macro bet had marked the end of Vinik’s career at
Fidelity Magellan, a growth fund formerly run by Vinik’s mentor
 Peter Lynch . During the fourth quarter of 1995 and first quarter
of 1996, Vinik cut Fidelity Magellan’s technology holdings to
3.5 percent of net assets from 40 percent, stating that revenue
growth was slowing at such companies. He simultaneously plowed
21 percent of the fund into U.S. Treasuries.  Deja Vu  The move generated an outcry from shareholders who
complained that Fidelity Magellan shouldn’t be investing in
bonds. Vinik, who beat the market with average annual returns of
18 percent through 1995, left Boston-based Fidelity the next May
and Magellan finished the year with a total return of 12
percent, about half the 23 percent gain recorded by the S&P 500.  This isn’t the first time that Vinik has stepped back from
managing  hedge funds . He gave back most of about $4.2 billion to
investors in late 2000 after generating a 46 percent return
during the first nine months of that year. After a four-year
break, Vinik started accepting capital again, mainly to invest
his own money along with cash from friends, family and a few
outside clients.  In today’s letter, Vinik said that his team would “work
tirelessly” to produce the best possible returns for investors
during the next two months. “The liquidity of our portfolio has
improved dramatically” over the last several weeks, Vinik said
in the letter, adding that the firm expects to be “100 percent
cash” by June 30.  NHL Focus  Vinik said he plans to focus on Tampa Bay Sports and
Entertainment, the parent company for the Lightning, as well as
his charitable foundation and family. The Lightning, which Vinik
purchased along with the St. Pete Times Forum in February 2010
for $110 million, had the third-worst record in the  National
Hockey League  this year.  Mike Gordon and Mark Hostetter, Vinik’s co-founders, are
also planning to spend more time with family and charitable
endeavors, according to the letter. Portfolio managers Doug Gordon, Jon Hilsabeck and Don Jabro plan to start an long-short
equities hedge fund based in Boston, Vinik said, while Iben
intends to form his own independent investment management
company, possibly based in Vinik Asset Management’s Tampa
office.  Hostetter, vice chairman of Vinik Asset Management,
declined to comment on the decision.  .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  