-- JPMorgan Energy Traders May Face FERC Case, N.Y. Times Says
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2013-05-03T18:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/jpmorgan-energy-traders-may-face-ferc-case-new-york-times-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was warned by
U.S. energy-market authorities that they may take action against
its employees as part of an inquiry into bidding practices, the
New York Times said, citing a document it reviewed.  Enforcement officials at the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission plan to recommend the agency hold traders and
commodities-unit chief Blythe Masters “individually liable,”
the newspaper reported, citing a 70-page document the agency
sent the New York-based bank in March. Investigators said
Masters falsely denied awareness of problems, the Times said.  The case focuses on eight “schemes” adopted by traders in
Houston between September 2010 and June 2011, according to the
newspaper. The traders offered energy at prices “calculated to
falsely appear attractive,” prompting state authorities in
 California  and  Michigan  to make about $83 million in
“excessive” payments to JPMorgan, the Times cited
investigators as saying.  “The staff is challenging a bidding strategy that was
transparent and was in full compliance with the applicable
rules,” the Times quoted  Kristin Lemkau , a spokeswoman for the
bank, as saying. “We strongly disagree with the staff’s
conclusions.”  ‘Strongly Dispute’  JPMorgan intends to defend itself and the employees, she
told the newspaper. “We strongly dispute that Blythe Masters or
any employee lied or acted inappropriately in this matter.”  Lemkau and Mary O’Driscoll, a spokeswoman for the FERC,
declined to comment when reached by  Bloomberg News .  Congress expanded the agency’s enforcement authority in
2005, partially in response to trading by Enron Corp. employees
that disrupted California’s energy markets earlier in that
decade. Within the past two years, FERC has made public 13
inquiries into alleged market manipulation, including probes of
trading units at Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc.  Deutsche Bank agreed to a $1.6 million settlement Jan. 22,
backing away from from a previous assertion that it was prepared
to challenge fines in court. A unit of the bank, accused of
making manipulative trades in early 2010, neither admitted nor
denied wrongdoing, according to the commission.  It’s unclear whether the FERC will file an action against
JPMorgan, the Times said. The bank has until at least mid-May to
respond to the accusations in the document, and a majority of
the five-member commission must first back the case before
claims may be brought. If the FERC proceeds, it could seek to
fine the bank and Masters, according to the newspaper.  While Masters was “less involved in the day-to-day
decisions,” investigators said she got e-mails and
presentations outlining the trading strategies, the publication
reported, citing the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  