-- Kemira Looks for Acquisitions to Shift Focus From Water Business
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-05-03T08:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/kemira-looks-for-acquisitions-to-shift-focus-from-water-business.html
Kemira Oyj (KRA1V)  Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Buechele said he’s taking a more active stance on
acquisitions while the Finnish company’s historic water-chemical
business will be used to generate cash rather than growth.  Kemira is looking to add technology and broaden its product
range in areas including additives used in oil and mining. While
assets are available in those industries, price tags are
currently out of synch with buyers’ budgets, the former  BASF SE (BAS) 
executive said in an interview.  “A lot of companies in the oil and mining space,
particularly in the U.S., are per se available, but the asking
multiple is so high, you have to ask yourself does this really
make sense,” said Buechele. “The longer the market is in a
wait-and-see position, the more inclined the sellers will be
become to revisit their asking price, that’s my assumption.”  A year into his role, Buechele is pushing through a
transformation of the 93-year-old company, pursuing growth in
paper as well as oil and mining additives. Units making water-
treatment chemicals and bleaching agents will be optimized for
efficiency and run for cash.  Buechele plans to raise profitability to 15 percent by 2016
from 8 percent last year in terms of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization as a proportion of sales.
The paper, oil and mining markets have better prospects than
water purification for municipalities. Only 40 percent of
Kemira’s product line is currently in faster-growing markets,
and research budgets will be focused on those areas.  New CFO  Kemira is conducting the initial interviews for the
position of chief financial officer, to replace Jyrki Maeki- Kala, who left to take up the same position at  Neste Oil Oyj. (NES1V)  An
appointment may be announced in the coming weeks, said Buechele,
who has temporarily taken over Maeki-Kala’s responsibilities.  An appointment will be set against the challenge of
convincing workers that the Finnish company needs sweeping
changes as the CEO eliminates 600 jobs to boost efficiency. The
program caused employees in  Finland  to push management to
consider hiring extra workers to relieve pressure on remaining
staff with increased workloads.  “The pace of change is something that is challenging at
this point for many Kemira employees but I am sure we will get
there,” Buechele said.  Kemira shares have advanced about 8 percent since April 23,
when Buechele announced the 15 percent profitability target and
his plan to increase investment for the paper, oil and gas
industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  