-- Keystone Foes Seek Climate Measures in Case They Lose
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-03T18:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/keystone-foes-seek-climate-measures-in-case-they-lose.html
President  Barack Obama  is being
pressed by opponents of the Keystone XL pipeline to tie any
approval to measures that would curb climate change, reflecting
mounting pressure on the administration to mitigate the
project’s impact if it goes forward.  Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat, is
among those urging new steps to limit greenhouse-gas emissions
in the U.S. if  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s petition to build the $5.3
billion pipeline is approved. Other lawmakers say the
administration could extract concessions from  Canada , such as a
higher carbon tax in  Alberta , where the pipeline to carry tar-sands oil to U.S. refineries originates.  “He touted himself as the environmental president, and
he’s going to have to make sure that if he decides to go with it
that there is some kind of balance,” said Representative  Elijah Cummings , a Maryland Democrat.  Most congressional Democrats, including leaders in the
House and Senate, have joined environmentalists in fighting the
project backed by the oil industry, labor unions, the Chamber of
Commerce and Canadians. Some lawmakers who oppose the pipeline
say it appears probable Obama will sign off, triggering their
calls to mitigate environmental and political fallout.  “I think it’s going to happen,” said Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia Democrat and member of the House’s Sustainable
Energy and Environment Coalition. “The odds look pretty strong
right now.”  Four Years  In a deliberation that has stretched over four years, Obama
first rejected the pipeline because its original route took it
through Nebraska’s Sand Hills region, a national natural
landmark. Calgary-based TransCanada changed the route and filed
a new application, now  under review  by the State Department,
which must act on pipelines crossing an international border.  Environmental groups dismiss the State Department’s March 1
draft assessment that said the pipeline won’t raise the risk of
global warming, because the oil from Alberta would find its way
to market with or without the line. They say Keystone will show
whether Obama will fulfill an inaugural-address vow to tackle
global warming.  A decision is expected by year’s end. The administration
hasn’t said whether it could try to offset any approval with
other environmental policy changes.  Kerry’s Mark  Secretary of State  John Kerry , who fought for climate
change legislation during 28 years in the Senate, may seek green
offsets as part of the decision, although such action may be
modest and unlikely to spark resistance from pipeline advocates,
said two officials with knowledge of his thinking.  In Canada, Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver has said
his government isn’t designing oil and gas emissions rules to
appease the U.S. on Keystone, although Alberta provincial
officials say they’re discussing the possibility of tougher
emissions standards.  Obama may have some offset options, said Daniel Weiss,
director of climate strategy at the Center for American
Progress, a Washington policy institute with ties to the
administration. That includes making a firm commitment to issue
new U.S. rules on limiting  carbon emissions  from existing coal-fired power plants, said Weiss, who opposes the pipeline.  Coal Rules  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will soon issue a
standard that will effectively bar construction of new coal-fired power plants that lack carbon-capture technology. The
rule, opposed by companies such as  Southern Co. (SO)  and  American
Electric Power Co. (AEP) , won’t cover older plants, with the
administration saying such rules likely will come later.  Meanwhile, the administration could seek environmental
concessions from Canada, with the government agreeing to “adopt
real and steep reductions” in carbon pollution from tar sands
oil production and other sources, Weiss said.  Alternatively, the U.S. could push Alberta for changes,
including adopting a tougher carbon tax than the C$15-per-metric-ton levy for companies that emit above current limits.
The money goes  into a fund  that invests in emissions-reducing
technology.  Industry groups backing the pipeline say linking approval
to  climate-change  initiatives isn’t appropriate.  “We really do believe that the Keystone project stands on
its own and is fully justified on its own,” said John Kerekes,
Midwest regional director for the oil-industry-backed  American
Petroleum Institute . “We don’t think that the  greenhouse gases 
issue is as big as some have made it out to be.”  Executive Powers  Whitehouse says the administration can best achieve its
goals by using executive powers to force changes in U.S. climate
policy. That’s because Obama’s efforts in Congress to combat
greenhouse gases or aspects of the pipeline project have been
stymied at a time when Republicans control the House and some
Democrats from oil producing states side with industry.  “If you were to count on Congress to pass it, it’s not
going to happen because polluters own the place,” he said.  He’s seeking some carbon emission changes that would “more
than offset” increased pollution from the project.  Moran says the U.S. should press Canada to take some
actions of its own.  “This will benefit Canada a great deal, and it will
benefit those involved in shipping the exporting oil and gas a
great deal,” he said. “What benefit it has for the  United
States  in the long term is more questionable.”  ‘Tough Negotiators’  “We should be tough negotiators,” Moran added. “Even
though we’re close allies, they would do the same if they were
in our position.”  In Canada, where the government last year imposed a carbon
cap for coal-fired  power plants , officials have said that while
they now are working on new rules governing emissions by the oil
and gas industry, there will be no proposed carbon tax. They
haven’t ruled out other environmental policies that could be
politically helpful to Obama if he approves the project.  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper today announced C$82
million ($81.3 billion) in funding for 55 clean-energy projects,
part of an initiative announced in 2011 to curb emmissions
through technological innovation. Among the projects receiving
aid under today’s announcement is one to capture carbon dioxide
from oil sands operations, according to a statement from
Harper’s office.  Alberta Action  Alberta is weighing further action. Wayne Wood, spokesman
for the province’s environment minister, Diana McQueen, said the
government is reviewing policy for the oil and gas sector and is
in “very early discussions” with the federal government and
industry.  “We certainly are aware of the fact that we do need to do
this review, and we do need to probably set some new targets,”
he said in a telephone interview.  The Alberta government may be able to allay concerns about
the environmental effects of the pipeline, said Michal Moore,
professor of energy economics at the University of Calgary.  “It neutralizes some of the critique and it offers a
tremendous amount of cover for the political institutions to
say, ‘See, we are capable of causing change on the part of the
principal producer,’” said Moore, former commissioner of the
 California Energy Commission . “That’s the right message.”  At the same time, some analysts in the U.S. said pressing
Canada to take concrete environmental steps risks adding more
time to the lengthy approval process. It’s more realistic for
the Obama administration to seek changes in policy at home, said
Christine Tezak, managing director of ClearView Energy Partners
LLC.  Power Plants  “This project has been under a tremendous amount of
pressure,” Tezak said. “It’s been rerouted. It’s been
restudied. I don’t know how much blood you can get out of a
turnip at this point.”  If the project is approved, the administration may simply
want to marry any future pipeline approval with the promise of
power-plant rules for existing generators, said Michael Levi, a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  and author of
“The Power Surge,” which examines the fight over the future of
U.S.  energy policy .  “I really doubt the administration wants to invest a lot
of time in trying to change Canadian energy policy,” Levi said,
adding that China and  India  have far-higher carbon emissions.
“To the extent that there’s a trade to be done domestically,
it’s not about the companies that would be affected directly by
the pipeline. It’s not about  oil companies  so much as changing
how we use energy -- changing our power plants or our cars or
trucks.”  Border Tax  Still, the potential for other approaches remain, including
a U.S. border tax on Canada’s heavy crude, said Richard Dixon,
executive director of the Alberta School of Business. The State
Department may already have laid the groundwork for that in its
analysis of the project when it compared the impact of Canadian
oil to other crudes used in the U.S., he said.  Such work would have to precede the creation of a border
tax, Dixon said.  “This is exactly the kind of modeling and statistical
analysis that needs to be done to provide for doing that type of
taxation system,” Dixon said in an interview. “They want to
avoid the political bias and say okay, if we’re going to use
hard numbers, what do those numbers look like?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  