-- Kobe Bryant Sued Over Bid to Block Mom’s Memorabilia Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/kobe-bryant-sued-over-bid-to-block-memorabilia-sale.html
All-Star basketball guard Kobe Bryant
was sued by a  New Jersey  auctioneer for trying to block the sale
of memorabilia that has been held by his mother.  Goldin Auctions LLC, based in Camden, New Jersey-based
auctioneer, filed a lawsuit seeking a judge’s permission to sell
items consigned to it by Pamela Bryant, mother of the  Los
Angeles  Lakers star. On April 30, Kobe Bryant’s lawyers demanded
an end to a planned June auction, according to the complaint.  “Pamela Bryant represented to Kenneth Goldin of Goldin
Auctions that most of the sports memorabilia had been stored in
her possession for over 15 years,” according to the May 2
complaint in federal court in Camden. “Five years ago, she put
the items in a storage unit after  Kobe Bryant  indicated to
Pamela Bryant that the items belonged to her.”  The 70 to 100 items set for sale include Bryant’s high
school basketball uniform, several high school varsity letters
and his 2000 National Basketball Association championship ring,
according to the complaint.  Bryant, the fourth-leading scorer in NBA history, underwent
surgery last month to repair a ruptured left Achilles tendon. He
is a 15-time All-Star who has helped the Lakers win five NBA
titles.  Kobe Bryant’s lawyer, Mark Campbell, a partner at Loeb &
Loeb LLP in Los Angeles, didn’t immediately return a call
yesterday seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Nevada House  Goldin Auctions said in its complaint that it paid $450,000
to Pamela Bryant for the memorabilia. Pamela Bryant said in
court papers that she used that advance to buy a home in  Nevada .  “My son has never demanded the return of any of the items,
nor were they in any way improperly taken from him without his
permission,” she said in a court filing.  Pamela Bryant has 900 other items, worth about $1.5
million, that she has yet to consign for auction, according to
the complaint.  The case is Goldin Auctions LLC v. Bryant, 13-cv-02816,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in  New York  at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  