-- Kramer Levin Names Litigation Co-Head: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/kramer-levin-names-litigation-co-head-business-of-law.html
Barry H. Berke was named co-chairman
of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP’s 90-lawyer litigation
department alongside longtime Chairman Gary P. Naftalis.  Berke’s clients include SAC Capital Advisors LP fund
manager Michael Steinberg, who was arrested in a probe of
 insider trading  at the firm. Berke also represented Robert Craig
Brubaker, a certified public accountant who formerly worked as a
client adviser at a Deutsche Bank AG unit and was acquitted in
December of charges over a tax-shelter scheme.  Berke also successfully represented Bear Stearns Cos., in
the criminal investigation and civil proceedings arising from
the collapse of two investment funds, and former American
International Group Inc. director David Pinkerton, who won
dismissal of federal bribery charges in 2008.  “Barry is one of the leading trial lawyers in the country
and has a proven track record of successfully navigating complex
and highly publicized litigation on behalf of his clients,”
Paul S. Pearlman, Kramer Levin’s managing partner, said in a
statement. “His ability to develop creative strategies and find
innovative solutions in a wide range of cases makes him a
natural leader for our litigation department and we’re delighted
to have him assume this role.”  Naftalis, who is also co-chairman of the firm, has 40 years
of trial experience and has had such prominent clients as Ex-
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta  and Kenneth
Langone, former chairman of the  New York  Stock Exchange
Compensation Committee.  “I am honored to be moving into this role at the firm and
feel extremely fortunate to work with such extraordinarily
talented lawyers,” Berke said in a statement.  Kramer Levin has offices in New York, Silicon Valley and
Paris.  Moves  Kasowitz IP Head Joins Latham With Three Other Partners  Four intellectual-property litigators formerly with
Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP joined Latham & Watkins
LLP as partners in the litigation department.  Douglas E. Lumish, who led Kasowitz’s IP practice group,
along with Jeffrey Homrig and Gabriel S. Gross, will be based in
Latham’s Silicon Valley office. Michael E. Eisenberg will be
based in New York, Latham said in a statement.  “This is a tightly knit group of collegial practitioners
with a strong track record of trying and winning high-stakes
patent cases for blue chip technology companies,” Max Grant,
global co-chairman of Latham’s intellectual-property litigation
practice, said in the statement.  Lumish has experience trying patent cases involving diverse
technologies. Homrig has represented technology companies in
high-stakes patent cases. Gross has tried cases before juries
involving patent and copyright infringement. Eisenberg
represented clients in patent litigation in industries including
semiconductors and computer hardware and software, the firm
said.  Latham has been striving to build its IP practice and in
the past three years has brought on 15 patent litigation
partners in the Northern California,  Washington  and New York
offices, the firm said.  “I know my colleagues agree that we are excited about the
opportunity to join Latham & Watkins, a firm with the resources,
global platform and culture that will enable us to take our
practices to a higher level,” Lumish said in a statement. “We
were particularly attracted by the commitment of the firm and
its IP practice to build a premier trial team.”  The IP litigation practice at Latham now has more than 100
attorneys, including 35 partners. Latham has about 2,000
attorneys in 31 offices worldwide.  M&A Lawyer Lutz Englisch Joins Gibson Dunn in Munich  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP announced that Lutz Englisch,
formerly Ashurst LLP’s German head of corporate, will join the
firm’s Munich office as a partner.  “Lutz is an experienced M&A attorney with an exceptional
reputation in the Munich and German corporate market,” Ken Doran, chairman and managing partner of  Gibson Dunn , said in a
statement.  “He has 20 years of experience in handling German
and international corporate and M&A transactions, and his
arrival will enhance our ability to serve our corporate clients
locally and around the world.”  Englisch focuses his practice on mergers and acquisitions.
He also has experience advising on corporate law, including
stock corporation law, transformation law, equity capital
markets transactions, public takeovers and joint ventures, the
firm said.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers and 18 offices in
the Americas,  Europe , the Middle East and  Asia .  DLA Piper Adds Kirkland Patent and IP Litigators in Chicago  Patent and IP litigators Paul Steadman and Matthew
Satchwell joined DLA Piper LLP in the  Chicago  office. They were
previously partners at Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  Steadman works primarily on complex patent, trade secret,
trademark, copyright and other IP-related litigation matters.
Satchwell advises clients in the software, semiconductor, mobile
communications devices, automotive device, power electronics,
medical device, and communications technology markets, the firm
said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 30 countries throughout the
Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the  Middle East .  Allen & Overy Strengthens London Antitrust Group  Allen & Overy  LLP appointed Alasdair Balfour as a partner
in its London antitrust group. He was previously at Fried,
Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP.  Balfour advises clients on U.K. and European Union
antitrust matters, with a focus on cross-border merger control,
cartel work and other antitrust infringements.  Allen & Overy has 512 partners in 42 offices worldwide.  Sheppard Mullin’s Labor and Employment Group Adds Arbetter  Brian Arbetter, previously of Baker & McKenzie LLP, joined
Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the
labor and employment practice group in Chicago along with a
senior associate. He will also spend time in the firm’s  Los
Angeles  offices, the firm said.  Arbetter has experience advising and developing strategy
for multinational companies regarding labor and employment
issues in the U.S. and abroad, the firm said in a statement.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys in 16 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Trademark Attorney Joins Ulmer & Berne in Chicago  Ulmer & Berne LLP added trademark attorney  Thomas Williams 
as a partner in its intellectual property and technology
practice in the firm’s Chicago office. Williams was previously
at Winston & Strawn LLP.  “Tom’s history of servicing the trademark-related needs of
companies with large and highly sophisticated trademark
portfolios meshes ideally with our existing capabilities,” Eric M. Robbins, chairman of Ulmer & Berne’s intellectual property
and technology practice, said in a statement.  Williams manages prosecution and maintenance of trademark
portfolios and litigates trademark disputes. He has experience
representing clients in all aspects of trademark law, including
non-traditional marks and trade dress.  Ulmer & Berne has more than 185 attorneys in offices in
Cincinnati, Chicago,  Cleveland  and Columbus,  Ohio .  Davis Wright Adds Environmental and Energy Partners  Davis Wright Tremaine LLP added environmental litigator
Gerald F. George, previously at Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman
LLP, as a partner in the San Francisco office. The firm also
added energy lawyers Mark L. Perlis, from Dickstein Shapiro LLP,
and Glenn S. Benson, from Perkins Coie LLP, to the Washington
office as partners.  George has litigated complex environmental cases under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act and the  Clean Water Act , the firm said. He has
also represented international mining companies on the
resolution of response cost and NRD claims.  Perlis focuses his practice on representation of the
electric utility industry, particularly in industry
restructuring. Benson works with the  energy industry  to achieve
solutions to regulatory challenges and issues throughout the
U.S., as well as in  Canada  and Eastern Europe, the firm said.  Davis Wright Tremaine LLP has about 500 lawyers at nine
offices in the U.S. and  Shanghai .  Video  With Radical Changes, Law Firms Can Beat Recession  Just as legal process outsourcers are stealing business
from law firms today by doing it cheaper, they too will face
pressure in the coming years from technologies that can do the
the job even for even less, law firm consultant Richard Susskind
tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  Law firms still may ultimately come out on top, he says.
But lawyers will need to be trained to build those technologies
and processes, not just to counsel clients one-on-one, according
to Susskind. Attorneys must become legal knowledge engineers,
risk managers, project managers and process analysts -- jobs
which are “wildly different from what people expect when they
go to law school,” he says.  Susskind also talks about what kinds of law firms are
already following his advice, and which will probably be most
harmed by the legal technology of the future.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Businessweek Reporter: BigLaw Is “Crash Landing”  Paul Barrett, assistant managing editor and senior writer
for Bloomberg Businessweek, tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia
that Big Law is currently experiencing “a very difficult crash
landing that is taking place now and will persist for at least
another several more years.”  While acknowledging that the 2008 recession was partly to
blame for the slowdown, Barrett sees the current situation
compounded by the bursting of a bubble among large law firms
that hired too many lawyers and entered into ill-advised
mergers. We are seeing the reckoning from overkill that built up
over many years, he says.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  News  Lutz Says Mark-to-Market Proposal Could Affect Structured Notes  John Lutz, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery LLP, says
that Republican Representative David Camp’s proposal to mark
derivatives to market for individual investors could have
profound effects on the structured note industry, should it
become law and take effect Dec. 31. Lutz spoke to Kevin Dugan by
phone and e-mail from his office in New York.  To read the Q & A, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  