-- NASA Said to Face Soaring Costs Without Budget Approval
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/nasa-said-to-face-soaring-costs-without-budget-approval.html
The U.S. would have to extend a
contract with  Russia  and pay “significantly more” to send
crews into space if Congress doesn’t approve the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration budget request for next
fiscal year, agency Administrator Charles Bolden said.  NASA  needs full funding to develop a domestic industry to
transport U.S. crews to and from the International Space Station
and low-Earth orbit beginning in 2017, Bolden said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Capitol Gains,” airing
May 5.  Anything short of that would probably force the agency to
renegotiate a contract with the Russian Federal Space Agency,
known as Roscosmos, he said. NASA pays about $70 million for
U.S. astronauts to have a seat on the Russian Soyuz spacecraft.  Having to renegotiate the contract “will allow the
Russians to begin to believe that we are not committed to
reliance on American industry and we’re not committed to an
American capability to get our own astronauts into space,”
Bolden said. “They’ll name their price, and my guess is it will
be significantly more than $70 million.”  The U.S. retired its shuttle fleet in 2011 and had to rely
on countries including Russia to ferry astronauts and supplies
to the International Space Station. The Obama administration
wants the private sector to take over those jobs so NASA can
focus on missions to asteroids and Mars.  Budget Request  President  Barack Obama  requested about $17.7 billion for
NASA for fiscal year 2014, which begins Oct. 1. The agency’s
budget for this fiscal year totals $17.5.  NASA announced April 30 it signed a $424 million contract
modification with Roscosmos for crew transportation services to
the International Space Station in 2016, with return and rescue
services extending through June 2017.  NASA is relying on U.S. commercial spacecraft developers to
help it end dependence on Russia. Bolden said “the big race”
is between  Boeing Co. (BA) , Sierra Nevada Corp. and Space Exploration
Technologies Corp., or SpaceX, to transport crews.  “There is no international space race,” he said.
“American companies are racing each other.”  Chicago-based Boeing, Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX
and Sparks, Nevada-based Sierra Nevada are “all racing to see
who gets to the finish line and who wins a contract to carry
American astronauts and our partner astronauts to the
International Space Station, hopefully by 2017,” Bolden said.  SpaceX a year ago became the first company to dock a
commercial craft at the station.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  