-- New York Bike Tour Gets Increased Security After Boston Bombings
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-05-03T17:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/new-york-bike-tour-gets-increased-security-after-boston-bombings.html
New York police and event organizers
are beefing up security after the  Boston Marathon bombings  to
protect a Revlon Inc.-sponsored charity race through midtown
Manhattan and a citywide bicycle tour this weekend.  Police helicopters will use surveillance cameras above the
32,000 riders in the May 5  TD Five-Boro Bike Tour  as part of a
“counter-terrorism overlay,” said  Paul Browne , a deputy
commissioner. Organizers have banned use of strap-on hydration
backpacks.  About 11,000 people who have signed up for tomorrow’s  EIF
Revlon Run/Walk for Women  from 47th Street and Seventh Avenue
into  Central Park  have been told to leave their backpacks at
home and carry personal items in clear plastic bags. Event
organizers expect to raise about $1.2 million to promote women’s
health care, according to Rico Leno, a spokesman.  “We’re going to provide an increased police presence, both
seen and unseen,” Browne said in a telephone interview. “It’s
all as a result of  Boston .”  Police and federal agents in Boston say the April 15
attack, which killed three and injured more than 260, was the
work of two brothers who dropped two backpacks containing
homemade bombs near the marathon finish line. The new rules are
intended to minimize the presence of backpacks at large-crowd
events, Browne said.  The 40-mile (64-kilometer) bike tour will start at 8 a.m.
north of Battery Park in  Lower Manhattan  and finish in  Staten
Island . This year the event is dedicated to raising money for
Boston victims, said its organizer, Kenneth Podzhiba.  Cycling Cops  Browne said the camera-equipped helicopters will send
images viewable to officers with tablet devices on the ground.
Uniformed police on scooters will escort the cyclists, and some
participants will be on-duty officers in plain clothes. Heavily
armed sharpshooters will be deployed, and police boats will be
stationed near bridges, Browne said.  Tour riders may pay a suggested $5 for “I Ride for
Boston” stickers, with the proceeds going to  The One Fund
Boston , a charity set up to aid attack victims, Podziba said.  “We’ve received an overwhelming response from our heavy-
hearted riders who want to be able to express their solidarity
with Boston,” said Podziba, president of Bike  New York , which
organizes the annual event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at !  