-- Northeast Gas Poised to Surge on Pipeline Limits: Energy Markets
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-03T17:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/northeast-gas-poised-to-surge-on-pipeline-limits-energy-markets.html
Natural gas prices in the U.S.
Northeast are poised to reach five-year seasonal highs this
summer because increasing demand from power plants may be too
much for pipelines to handle.  Regional costs may average $5 to $5.50 per million British
thermal units, with the potential to jump to $7 to $8,  Chris Kostas , senior power and gas analyst for Energy Security
Analysis Inc., a market research and advisory company in
Andover, Massachusetts, said in a May 1 interview. Average
prices for summer delivery at Algonquin City Gates, which
includes Boston, were less than $5 from 2009 to 2012 after
jumping to more than $10 in 2008.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  and
Williams Cos., which own the region’s main interstate pipelines,
say their systems are running at or near capacity.  New England 
electricity customers were on the verge of rolling blackouts
last June and again in February amid equipment failures and
limited gas supply during periods of high demand, according to
Philip Moeller, a member of the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission .  “Boston is in the hot seat with their lack of offtake or
access to other sources,”  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said
in a phone interview yesterday. “We can certainly be paying the
highest prices since the 2008 commodity bubble.”  Futures rose 1 cent to $4.035 per million British thermal
units at 1:24 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
yesterday fell 7 percent in the biggest one-day percentage
decline in nine months.  Rising Premiums  Gas at the Algonquin City Gates surged to a  premium  to
benchmark gas at the Henry Hub in Erath,  Louisiana , of $30.82
per million British thermal units on Jan. 24, the widest spread
since January 2004, according to Intercontinental Exchange data
compiled by Bloomberg. That sent  spot prices  in the region to a
nine-year high of $34.38 per million Btu. The premium averaged a
record $6.11 this year through April.  The premium to the benchmark for  gas at Transco Zone 6 ,
with deliveries to  New York City , also reached a nine-year high
in January.  “Until we get infrastructure built, we will continue to
have price spikes,” saidKyle Cooper, director of research with
IAF Advisors in Houston. “On hot summer days in Boston you
could have spot gas going to $8 or $9.”  The pipeline bottlenecks are being driven by the
Northeast’s increasing reliance on gas to produce electricity
amid record  U.S. supplies  and the shutdown of older units fueled
by coal because of environmental regulations. The shift toward
gas accelerated last year, when  New York  futures dropped to a
decade low of $1.902 per million Btu in April.  Cold Weather  Frigid weather helped boost Northeast gas premiums to
benchmark prices, known as basis spreads, in January and a hot
summer may raise costs again as utilities seek the fuel to power
air conditioners.  “This basis blowout had been primarily considered a winter
phenomenon, but in the summertime, this market is getting pretty
tight,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in New York, said in an April 30 interview.  “It’s
really occurring during periods of peak demand, where there is
simply not enough delivery pipeline to meet regional demand.”  A jump in prices and premiums may be limited by power
generators switching from gas to coal and a possible restart of
Canadian imports in July, Kostas said.  Power Generation  Electricity produced from gas plants rose 51 percent to
554,000 megawatt-hours per day in 2012 from 2008 and will stay
near that record in 2013, the Energy Information Administration
said in its April 9 Short-Term Energy Outlook. Gas-fired plants
will produce 535,000 megawatt-hours per day in 2013, accounting
for 35.6 percent of total electric output in the region,
compared with 37.1 percent last year.  Prices at the  Henry Hub  have dropped 59 percent since 2008
as drilling technologies such as hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, made it more economical to tap shale deposits,
including the Marcellus in Pennsylvania,  Ohio  and  West Virginia .
Pennsylvania gas production climbed 69 percent in 2012 from a
year earlier to average 6.1 billion cubic feet a day, the EIA
said in a  March 21 report , citing data from the  Pennsylvania
Department of Environmental Protection .  “The supply situation has changed dramatically in a very
short amount of time,” especially for the Northeast market that
had been on the end of long-haul pipelines from the Gulf Coast
and Western Canada, Moeller said in an April 24 phone interview
from  Washington .  More Reliant  While New England customers benefited from the recent drop
in prices, “they became more reliant on gas, potentially to the
point where it endangers reliability,” he said.  Gas inventories in the consuming East totaled 704 billion
cubic feet in the week ended April 26, the lowest level for the
time of the year since 2008, the EIA’s weekly storage report
yesterday showed.  Power plants  accounted for 90 percent of the growth in
demand on Williams’s Transco pipeline system over the past three
to five years, Frank Ferrazi, a Houston-based general manager
and vice president for Transco, said in a March 21 interview.
 New York City prices  on the coldest days have surged to $30 per
million Btu from recent winter highs of $8 to $10, he said.
“It’s because of the lack of available transport capacity.”  Generating Capacity  Gas plants  accounted for 43 percent of New England’s power-
generating capacity in 2012, up from 18 percent in 1990, Marcia
Blomberg, a spokeswoman for the grid operator in Holyoke,
Massachusetts, said in an e-mail yesterday.  New pipeline capacity that has come online over the past
few years has been driven by the supply side, connecting the
wellhead to regional pipelines, with no major projects
increasing deliveries to consumers in New York and New England,
Viswanath said.  Spot on-peak wholesale electricity in New York City
averaged $75.13 a megawatt-hour from January through April while
 Boston  prices averaged $78.50, a five-year seasonal high for
both hubs, according to data from the regional grid operators
compiled by Bloomberg.  ISO New England Inc., which manages the six-state grid from
Connecticut to Maine, expects there to be sufficient supplies in
the region to meet projected peak demand of 26,690 megawatts
when temperatures reach 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius),
according to its  summer outlook  released April 29.  Unplanned generation outages, including those from fuel
limitations during seasonal pipeline maintenance, or extreme
heat “could create operational challenges this summer,” the
New England grid operator said April 29. Shipments of liquefied
natural gas to the region have dropped in the past year with the
slide in gas prices as suppliers routed deliveries to premium
markets in  Asia  and  Europe , according to ISO New England.  The New York Independent System Operator Inc., which
manages the state’s grid, hasn’t yet released its summer
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 