-- Obama Asks Trade Nominees to Tackle Slumping U.S. Exports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/obama-ask-trade-nominees-to-tackle-slumping-u-s-exports.html
President Barack Obama asked his
nominees for Commerce secretary and trade ambassador to revive
U.S. export growth as the administration’s goal of doubling
overseas sales by the end of next year slips out of reach.  Obama yesterday nominated Chicago businesswoman  Penny Pritzker  to lead the Commerce Department and  Michael Froman ,
deputy national security adviser for international economics, as
trade representative. Both posts, which promote the U.S.
overseas, require Senate approval.  “I urge the Senate to confirm Penny and Mike without
delay, because they’ve got a lot of work to do,” Obama said in
a White House Rose Garden ceremony before departing on a trip to
Mexico and Costa Rica. “I intend to work them to the bone as
soon as they’re official.”  While exports have climbed during Obama’s tenure, the pace
has slowed each year since he took office. U.S. exports advanced
17 percent in 2010 from the previous year as the economy began
to rebound from the global economic crisis. The rate fell to 14
percent the next year and was 4.3 percent last year as growth
slowed in Europe, a major market for U.S. goods.  Global Economy  ``The easy growth is over,'' Derek Scissors, a senior
research fellow at the  Heritage Foundation  in Washington, said
in a phone interview. The effects of short-term government
economic stimulus programs are wearing off, and the global
economy remains weak, he said. ``The recovery essentially
ended.''  Scissors said he doesn't think the U.S. will be able to
double exports by  next year because the goal is founded on
the world economy recovering quickly, which isn't probable.  World trade growth declined to 2 percent in 2012 from 5.2
percent the previous year,  according to  the  World Trade
Organization .  Amy Liu, co-director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the 
 Brookings Institution  in Washington, said a key to improving U.S.
exports will be to encourage small and medium-sized companies to
enter the global trading system. "This is the nut that we need
to crack," she said in a phone interview.  Export Pledge  Obama pledged to double  exports , to $3.14 trillion in goods
and services, by the end of 2014. Last year, they were a record
$2.2 trillion, a 39 percent increase from 2009, when Obama took
office, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.  Pritzker, 54, and Froman, 50, would join Obama’s Cabinet as
the U.S. sets out to forge a trade deal with the European Union
and embraces Japan’s participation in Pacific-region talks.  To curb what it calls unfair competition that hinders U.S.
exports, the administration has started legal proceedings
against nations including China and India at the World Trade
Organization, and last year it established a unit that includes
officials from the Commerce Department, which promotes U.S.
goods overseas, and USTR, which leads negotiations on trade
agreements, to police potential trade violations.  “It’s not simply a matter of filing a WTO case and then
doubling your exports,” Scott Lincicome, a trade lawyer with
White & Case LLP in Washington, said in a phone interview. The
success of a nation’s exports depends on macroeconomic conditions,
and to significantly boost sales abroad the U.S. will need to take
steps including reducing its debt, he said. “Until you do those
things, you’re kind of at the whims of the market gods.”  Pace Slows  Exports in March declined $1.7 billion from the month
before, to $184.3 billion, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. Exports for three months through March reached a
quarterly record $554.7 billion.  In picking Pritzker and Froman for his economic team, the
president chose confidants with whom he has longstanding
relationships.  Froman, a former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  executive who worked in
President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury Department, was an Obama
classmate at Harvard Law School. Pritzker, an heiress whose
family helped build the Chicago-based  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  chain,
has known Obama since the mid-1990s and served as finance
chairman for his 2008 campaign. Her birthday was yesterday.  “They both can have an impact, but they play different
roles,” Ira Shapiro, a trade lawyer with Greenberg Traurig LLP
in Washington and a former USTR general counsel, said in a phone
interview before the nominations were made. “Day-to-day export
promotion is likely to fall more” to Pritzker, he said.  Commerce Advocacy  The Obama administration’s 2014 budget proposes $520
million, about 6 percent of the Commerce Department spending, to
help reach the export goal. The request is 14 percent higher
than spending to promote U.S. products in 2012.  The secretary of Commerce leads a department with about
43,000 employees in 12 units including the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, the Census Bureau and the Patent and
Trademark Office. The department’s International Trade
Administration has 4 percent of the agency’s total employees.  The National Association of Manufacturers, a Washington-based industry group, welcomed Pritzker’s nomination. “We are
looking forward to working closely with Penny on policies to
increase trade promotion, reduce tariffs, reform our export
control system and improve enforcement of our trade rules,”  Jay Timmons , the group’s president, said in a statement.  Unwieldy Bureaucracy  Lincicome said the bureaucracy is too unwieldy for any
leader to have much of an effect on exports. Deputy Commerce
Secretary  Rebecca Blank  has led the agency after  John Bryson 
resigned last June for health reasons.  If confirmed at USTR, Froman will succeed  Ron Kirk , who
left the post in March. Demetrios Marantis has been acting U.S.
Trade Representative.  “Michael Froman has the vision and experience to deliver
new trade opportunities for American workers and companies at
the negotiating table,” U.S. Chamber of Commerce President  Tom Donohue , who leads the nation’s biggest business lobby, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Democrats led by Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, and Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan
expressed support.  ‘Nimble Agency’  Baucus is working toward bipartisan legislation by June
that would renew the president’s authority to negotiate accords
without amendments from Congress. Advocates of such a measure
say it would speed completion of trade negotiations.  “USTR is an effective, nimble agency, and by choosing Mr.
Froman to lead it, the administration is sending a clear signal
that trade is a top priority,” Baucus said in a statement.  Republicans such as Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah were muted
in their reaction.  “I want to know whether this nominee shares my commitment
to innovation and strong intellectual property rights,” Hatch,
the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, said in a
statement.  Consumer and environmental groups, which have sought access
to the texts of pending trade agreements, were skeptical.  Backward Policies  Froman “has been instrumental in pushing President  Barack
Obama ’s trade policies backward to the corporate agenda,” Lori Wallach, director of the Global Trade Watch for Public Citizen,
a Washington-based consumer advocacy group, said in a statement.  “Froman must not allow international trade and investment
rules to undercut the ability of nations to tackle climate
disruption,” said Ilana Solomon, trade representative for the
Sierra Club in Washington said.  As trade representative, a cabinet-level post, Froman will
be responsible for negotiation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership
and an accord between the U.S. and 27-nation EU. If concluded,
they would be the largest free-trade agreements in U.S. history.  “Not every USTR gets the opportunities that he’s going to
have if confirmed,” Shapiro said of Froman, whom he has known
since the two worked together during the Clinton administration.  Trade Enforcement  As trade representative, Froman will have to win lawmakers’
support for trade agreements. The accords will attempt deal with
issues such as Internet privacy that Congress has yet to fully
address, Susan Ariel Aaronson, a professor of international
affairs at George Washington University, said in a phone
interview.  “This has been the logical appointment all along,”
Clayton Yeutter, a former U.S. Trade Representative under
President  Ronald Reagan , said of Froman before the nomination
was announced. “He knows the issues and he knows the people.
That’s really the key.”  Robert Zoellick , a U.S. Trade Representative under
President  George W. Bush , said he and Froman recently had a long
conversation about trade policy.  “I tried to say, ‘You cannot do this from the White
House,’” Zoellick said May 1 at a trade conference at the law
offices of McDermott, Will & Emery in Washington. “The
president may think you can, but you can’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  