-- Offshore Tax Havens in Spotlight After 200-Year History
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-05-03T07:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/offshore-tax-havens-in-spotlight-after-200-year-history.html
The origins of the offshore finance
industry dates back to Vienna,  Austria , in 1815, when
Switzerland’s neutrality was established at the Vienna Congress.  Nurtured by the relaxation of incorporation laws written in
Delaware in 1889, and hastened by the decline of the British
Empire that began in the late 19th-Century, the business has
turned from a nascent tool to facilitate the flow of capital
into a point of contention for governments and the media,
according to John Christensen, a former economic adviser to
Jersey, a Crown dependency of the U.K.  More than 30 percent of the world’s 200 richest people, who
have a $2.9 trillion collective net worth, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , control part of their personal
fortune through an offshore holding company or other domestic
entity where the assets are held indirectly.  “Without understanding tax havens, we will never properly
understand the economic history of the modern world,” wrote
Nicholas Shaxson, author of ’Treasure Islands.’ “Tax havens are
now at the heart of the global economy. Their tentacles have
curled their way into pretty much everything.”  Supported by tax treaties and other legislation designed by
governments to entice the wealthy and multinational corporations
with low tax rates, a world of offshore finance was built during
the past 200 years by offering financial a range of financial
vehicles that provided security, secrecy and control.  Elite Banking  While island locations are the usual suspects in media
coverage of tax havens and offshore finance, the largest and
most powerful jurisdictions are in the U.S. and U.K., according
to Katja Gey, director of the Office for Financial Affairs in
Liechtenstein. The largest of them is Switzerland, which in 2011
booked about $2.1 billion in private wealth, established its
banking secrecy laws in 1934.  Using its far-reaching influence, the U.K. transformed the
elite banking center known as the City of  London  into the nexus
of global finance that, since 1980, has helped orchestrate the
movement or parking of about half of all international banking
assets and liabilities through offshore financial centers,
according to a 2009 paper written by Ronen Palan, professor of
international political economy at City University London.  Offshore Goldmine  “It wasn’t until the early sixties that the British
government understood there was a goldmine in tax havens,”
Palan said in a telephone interview. “They weren’t part of a
formal policy approach; they came together after certain
developments that happened for largely parochial reasons.”  As London’s financial community did with the City of
London, U.S. states also underwent a 19th-Century
transformation, beginning with New Jersey, which liberalized
incorporation laws in 1889 to entice out-of-state corporations
to register there by limiting the taxes they were required to
pay.  The U.K. passed legislation in 1925 that made it easier for
individuals to use trusts to keep their financial affairs under
wraps. Four years later, London courts ruled that Egyptian Delta
Land and Investment Co. Ltd., which was registered in London and
headquartered in Cairo, did not have to pay tax in the U.K.,
setting a precedent for future tax avoidance.  The ruling allowed the  City of London  to secure its
position as a top center for offshore financial advice. The
final piece with the devaluation of the British pound in the
1950s, which led the government to ban banks from lending to
non-British borrowers.  Blind Eye  An agreement struck in 1957 between the Bank of England and
the British banks created what they called the Euromarket, which
informal and temporary allowance for U.K. banks to carry out
unregulated deals, as long as they were in a foreign currency
and between non-British clients.  The agreement created a new industry that elevated to
prominence many of the former British colonies, which were
bolstered by their ties to U.K. banks and access to its legal
system, according to Christensen, director of the  Tax Justice
Network  in the U.K.  “With the U.K. economy and sterling under pressure, and
British banks working well below capacity because they were
constrained from expanding by exchange controls, the Bank of
England turned a blind eye to dollar denominated deposits being
held by London banks, creating an unregulated offshore market
that took off,” Christensen said in a telephone interview.  Double-Tax Avoidance  Offshore locations were further bolstered by double-tax
avoidance treaties, such as the 1998 treaty between  Russia  and
Cyprus that capped taxes on dividends from Russia at 5 percent,
and the 1980 treaty between Italy and Luxembourg that capped the
tax rates on dividends and profits for citizens of both nations.  The industry is once again in the spotlight since the near
bankruptcy of Cyprus -- which is home to $31 billion of Russian
deposits, according to Moody’s Investors Services -- and a  leak 
in April from two trust companies operating in the British
Virgin Islands and Singapore that exposed account information
for 120,000 individuals and companies.  Data Profits  The news, according to Goran Grosskopf, a Swedish economist
who has advised billionaires  Ingvar Kamprad , the world’s fifth-
richest man, as well as the Russian government, is a reality
facing all of the wealthy who hold their assets offshore.  “More and more people in the banking and financial
industry have come to the conclusion that there is money to be
made be selling information like this,” Grosskopf said in a
telephone interview. “It is something that would not have been
possible before the digital world came about. I think we’ll be
seeing much more of this in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  