-- London Mayor Calls for RBS to Be Broken Up When Shares Recover
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S t e p h e n   Y o u n g
-- 2013-05-03T11:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/london-mayor-calls-for-rbs-to-be-broken-up-when-shares-recover.html
London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  called for
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s largest state-owned
lender, to be broken up and sold as soon as the share price
recovers.  The Edinburgh-based bank today posted a bigger decline in
operating profit than analysts estimated as it signaled the
government could start selling its 81 percent stake as soon as
next year. Johnson suggested putting the bank’s impaired assets
into a bad bank, adding to similar calls from lawmakers and the
central bank.  “I’d like to see it broken up and flogged off but of
course they have got to wait till they can get the right
price,” Johnson told Bloomberg Television in London late
yesterday.  Lawmakers recommended in April that the Treasury conduct
a review into the advantages and disadvantages of splitting up
RBS and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , a month after  Bank of England 
Governor Mervyn King urged the government to break up RBS.
Britain pumped 66 billion pounds ($103 billion) of public money
into the two banks to keep them afloat at the height of the 2008
financial crisis.  The shares fell 5.8 percent to 289.60 pence as of 11:52
a.m. in London. The stock has dropped almost 11 percent this
year, making RBS the worst-performing bank in Britain. The
government would break even on its investment at 407 pence a
share.  King argued that RBS should be split into a so-called good
bank that could fund itself and a bad bank, where unprofitable
assets would be transferred to the government, a move Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has called impractical and
disruptive.  Government Decision  RBS Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester today told BBC
Radio 4 today that any decision to break up the lender “must be
for the government” because any such move would require “the
use of taxpayer money in large amounts” to absorb the losses of
a bad bank.  The lender is struggling to boost revenue at its U.K.
consumer and commercial unit amid a faltering economic recovery
and is under pressure from regulators to shrink its profitable
investment banking unit.  Since Hester took over as CEO in 2008, he has shrunk the
balance sheet, cut costs and announced more than 36,000 job
cuts. He reduced assets at the so-called non-core business by
4.5 billion pounds in the quarter to 52.9 billion pounds from
258 billion pounds at the end of 2008. Operating costs declined
by 3.5 billion pounds to about 4 billion pounds in the year-
earlier period.  Chairman  Philip Hampton  said the government could start
selling its stake in RBS about the middle of next year. Hester
said that even if the government begins selling at a loss, it
would ultimately profit on its holding as any divestment would
probably take years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Young in London at 
 syoung60@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  