-- Money-Fund Rules to Preserve Product’s Value, White Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-03T14:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/money-fund-rules-will-preserve-product-s-value-sec-s-white-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is trying to preserve the value of money-market
mutual funds to investors as it writes a rule intended to limit
risk, the agency’s chairman said today.  Mary Jo White said in a speech at an Investment Company
Institute conference in  Washington  that the SEC is “actively
engaged” in writing the proposal, which has been anticipated by
the fund industry since a similar plan failed to advance last
year. White said the proposal, which she declined to detail,
will balance the views of commissioners and fund investors.  “Our goal is to preserve the economic benefits of the
product while addressing potential redemption pressures and the
susceptibility of these funds to runs -- runs in which retail
investors are especially likely to suffer losses,” she said in
the speech, her first as SEC chairman.  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
the $2.56 trillion money-fund industry since the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure,
caused by losses on debt issued by bankrupt investment bank
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run on money
funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The SEC is considering reforms such as requiring adoption
of a floating share price, a move industry group’s have said
would destroy the funds’ appeal. Money funds now have a fixed $1
share price that makes them an appealing cash-management tool
for companies, institutional investors and retail customers.  Tax Implications  Regulators have been discussing ways to mitigate the tax
implications of allowing the share price of money funds to vary.
A floating share price would create small gains and losses that
could create tax liabilities for investors.  ICI, which lobbies on mutual funds’ behalf, says the SEC’s
proposal should be limited to allowing certain funds to halt
investor redemptions during times of financial stress.  Fidelity,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are among
companies urging regulators to exclude money-market mutual funds
that invest solely in government-backed or municipal securities
if they introduce new rules. BlackRock Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, head of the world’s largest
asset manager, said April 16 that the SEC would probably
restrict the floating-share rule to funds that buy corporate
debt.  “We are very focused on additional appropriate further
reform,” White said in comments to reporters after the speech.
“I do expect the staff recommendations to come before the
commission in the near future.”  Substituted Compliance  In her speech, White made the case for coordinating the
SEC’s rules and enforcement programs with global financial
regulators. The SEC’s proposal this week to allow so-called
substituted compliance with overseas swaps rules is an example,
she said.  The cross-border swaps rule would recognize comparable
overseas laws and allow the SEC to enforce its own rules when
foreign standards aren’t sufficient. The proposal seeks to avoid
a “line-by-line comparison” of U.S. and foreign laws.  “With the approval of this proposal, we can now move
towards adopting the many substantive derivative rules the
agency has proposed over the past two-plus years,” White said.  White said coordination of global rules would help guard
against regulatory arbitrage, in which countries scale back
regulations to attract more investment or economic activity.  “Effective regulation of the U.S. financial system
requires us to be a part of the fabric of a global financial and
regulatory system that transcends political boundaries,” White
said in her speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  