-- Hong Kong Overheating Risk Seen by HKMA’s Chan as Debt Up
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-05-03T04:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/hong-kong-overheating-risk-seen-by-hkma-s-chan-on-surging-debt.html
Hong Kong ’s economy is at risk of
overheating after household debt rose to a record 61 percent of
gross domestic product, said  Norman Chan , chief executive of the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority.  “Hong Kong’s consumption and personal-debt growth have
consistently outpaced overall economic growth,” Chan told
lawmakers today, citing risks to “macroeconomic stability.”  While the housing market has shown signs of cooling after
extra curbs in February, it’s too early to say that it’s in a
downward cycle, Chan said. A declining current-account balance
is a “warning signal” that consumption and the economy are at
risk of overheating, he said.  Hong Kong home prices, the most expensive among major
global cities, last month fell the most in three years after the
government imposed its harshest measures yet to curb prices and
as lenders raised  mortgage rates  for the first time since 2011.
Chan’s comments come amid signs that the global economic
recovery is faltering, with industrial and manufacturing data
from  China ,  Japan  and  South Korea  less than estimates.  In December, the HKMA said the overheated property market
is increasingly disconnected from the rest of the economy.
Sanford C. Bernstein H.K. Ltd. said prices could fall as much as
25 percent after the government stepped up measures to curb an
asset bubble and banks raised mortgage rates.  The government on Feb. 22 doubled the stamp duty on all
property transactions higher than HK$2 million ($258,000). The
HKMA has told banks to maintain the risk weighting for new home
loans at a minimum of 15 percent to help protect them against a
drop in home values.  Wealth Effect  Chan cited an “ultra-low interest rate environment” as a
factor in the economic risk, adding: “When property values
appreciate, people think they have more wealth even though they
haven’t yet sold the asset.”  In a February briefing of lawmakers, Chan cited  household
debt  to GDP ratios of 58 percent to 59 percent in the third and
fourth quarters of last year.  Chan said the monetary authority will monitor whether any
more property measures are needed.  The city’s economy may have expanded 2.5 percent in the
 first quarter  from a year earlier, according to the median
forecast of six economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News , ahead of
a release on May 10. That would be the same pace as in the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  