-- Long-Term Unemployment Is Turning Jobless Into Pariahs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-03T14:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/long-term-unemployment-is-turning-jobless-into-pariahs.html
Long-term unemployment is one of the
most vexing problems the U.S. faces, and today’s jobs report
shows all-too-meager progress in fixing it.  The U.S. created 165,000 new jobs in April, pushing down
the  unemployment rate  to 7.5 percent from March’s 7.6 percent.
But as of the end of April, 4.4 million Americans, or 37 percent
of the unemployed, had been without a job for 27 weeks or
longer, barely better than March’s 39 percent. The U.S. can’t
afford to  write off  more than 4 million people who would like to
work but haven’t for more than six months.  Long-term joblessness peaked in April 2010 at 6.7 million,
so the picture might seem to be improving. Hidden within that
number is this troubling fact: The average unemployed person has
been out of work for  36.5 weeks . That’s not much better than the
December 2011 duration of 40.7 weeks, which was the longest
since World War II. Long-term unemployment at the start of the
recession in December 2007 was 1.3 million people, and the
average duration was 16.6 weeks.  Terrible things happen to people when they are out of work
for long periods, numerous  studies  show. Beyond a sharp drop in
income, long-term unemployment is associated with higher rates
of suicide, cancer (especially among men) and divorce. The
children of the long-term unemployed also show an increased
probability of having to  repeat a grade  in school.  Finding Causes  There is less agreement on why so many people have been out
of work for so long. Democrats generally point to the anemic
recovery, in which weak demand for goods and services results in
less hiring. The cyclical nature of unemployment, they say, can
be addressed with more government stimulus.  Republicans tend to focus more on structural problems, in
which the education and experience levels of the unemployed
don’t match what employers say they want in job candidates. More
 government spending , they say, would be a waste of money because
it won’t close the skills gap. Some Republicans also think that
extended unemployment benefits are a disincentive to job
hunters.  Recently, though,  economists  in both camps have come to
agree that something bigger -- and more insidious -- is at work:
Unemployment causes social scarring. In other words, the stigma
of long-term joblessness is, by itself, causing persistent
joblessness. This is true whether you have a college degree or a
high-school diploma, whether you are middle-aged or 20-something. It’s also true whether your collar is blue or white.  When  researchers  at the  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston  sent
fake resumes to employers with  job openings , the length of time
candidates had been out of work mattered more than their job
experience in determining who got called in for an interview.
Applicants who had only recently lost a job but had no relevant
experience were far more likely to be called than those with
many years of experience who had been out of work a long time.
So much for the skills gap.  One way to thwart such bias is to make sure the unemployed
understand that their chances of getting work improve if they
are in a job-training program or working at least part-time. Not
 sitting idle  is paramount. This is where government can help.  Unfortunately, the U.S.’s job training effort is a mishmash
of 47 programs spread across nine agencies. At $18 billion a
year, it’s also costly. The effectiveness of those programs is
hard to quantify because of poor data collection and management
oversight, the Government Accountability Office  concluded in
2011.   Only five of the 47 programs could demonstrate whether a
positive outcome -- meaning a trainee got a job, for example, or
obtained a new credential -- could be attributed to the program.
About half the programs hadn’t had a performance review since
2004.  Finding Solutions  Finding out what works is crucial. Other solutions should
be tried, including giving preference to the long-term
unemployed when filling federal government jobs. In addition,
President  Barack Obama  should ask Congress to approve tax breaks
for companies that hire the long-term unemployed.  Work-share programs, in which employees accept reduced
hours when demand is slack in exchange for  unemployment
insurance  to compensate for lost wages, has worked in other
countries. The U.S. should also experiment with state-based
clearinghouses that connect employers with job-seekers in other
states and subsidize the moving expenses.  The U.S. is in dire danger of having a permanent class of
long-term unemployed. It has to do better.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 