-- Mongolian President Leads Rivals in Re-Election Bid, Poll Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-05-03T05:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/mongolian-president-leads-rivals-in-re-election-bid-poll-shows.html
President Tsakhia Elbegdorj leads his
nearest rival by 13 percentage points heading into June 26
elections, according to a new poll, making it unlikely that
he’ll face a serious challenge as he seeks a second term.  Asked whom they would choose as president, 19.2 percent of
respondents named Elbegdorj, the  Sant Maral Foundation  poll
said. In second with 6.2 percent was Nambar Enkhbayar, the
opposition leader serving a two-and-a-half-year jail term on
corruption charges. No one else received more than 3.2 percent.  A win for Elbegdorj, president since 2009, may ensure
continuity as Mongolian leaders debate the role of foreign
investors in exploiting the country’s mineral resources. While
Elbegdorj has made conflicting statements on whether the
government should take greater control of strategic mines, he’s
seen as a known quantity, consultant Dale Choi said.  “Elbegdorj has shown himself to be very inconsistent,”
Choi, founder of Ulaanbaatar-based Independent Mongolian Metals
and Mining Research, said in an e-mail. “Even in view of these
shortcomings, it would be good if he were re-elected because it
would mean the government authorities can continue functioning
as they are.”  The poll by Ulaanbaatar-based Sant Maral was conducted
between April 5 and April 21 and had 2,000 respondents. It
didn’t give a margin of error.  Elbegdorj’s Democratic Party took control of the government
last year after defeating the Mongolian People’s Party in
parliamentary elections.  Democrat Control  The Democrats now hold the positions of president, prime
minister, parliament speaker and mayor of Ulaanbaatar. The poll
said 53.2 percent of respondents were fairly satisfied or very
satisfied with the current government.  “Elbegdorj has no rival and it will be quite problematic
for anyone to stand against him in the time remaining,” Sant
Maral Foundation Director Luvsandendev Sumati said. “If he does
not make some major mistake he should get through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  