-- TOP Oil Market News: WTI Drops After Biggest Rally in Six Months
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-05-03T06:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/top-oil-market-news-wti-drops-after-biggest-rally-in-six-months.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  WTI Drops to Pare Weekly Gain After Biggest Rally in Six Months  West Texas Intermediate crude fell, paring a weekly
advance, as traders awaited U.S. jobs data that may signal the
economic recovery is accelerating.  Northeast Gas Poised to Surge on Pipeline Limits: Energy Markets  Natural  gas prices  in the U.S. Northeast are poised to
reach five-year seasonal highs this summer as increasing demand
from  power plants  may outstrip the ability of pipelines to
deliver enough fuel.  Crude May Fall Next Week on U.S. Inventory Gain, Survey Shows  West Texas Intermediate oil may decline next week after
U.S. crude inventories reached an 82- year high amid signs of
economic slowdown in the U.S. and  China , a Bloomberg survey
showed.  Naphtha East-West Gap Narrows; Gasoil Crack Widens: Oil Products  Naphtha’s East-West spread is at the narrowest in almost
three weeks. Asia gasoil’s premium to Dubai crude rises to the
widest in a week.  Pertamina Buys 1.2 Million Barrels of Saharan Blend Oil for July  PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state-owned oil company,
purchased two 600,000 barrel shipments of Saharan Blend crude
for delivery in July to its Balikpapan and Cilacap refineries,
according to a company official.  Methanex Gaining as Methanol Use in Fuel Grows: Corporate Canada  Methanex Corp., the world’s largest methanol supplier, is
forecast by analysts to climb beyond last month’s record price
as demand rises for the chemical as a fuel source in countries
such as China.  Keystone Foes Plan Worst Insisting Obama Find a Pipeline Offset  President  Barack Obama  is being pressed by opponents of the
Keystone XL pipeline to tie any approval to measures that would
curb  climate change , reflecting mounting pressure on the
administration to mitigate the project’s impact if it goes
forward.  Cnooc Raises $4 Billion in Biggest Asian Dollar Bond Since 2003  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore energy explorer, sold
$4 billion of bonds in the biggest dollar- denominated offering
from Asia outside of Japan in more than nine years.  Fusion Scientists Seeing Breakthrough Where Obama Shows No Arbor  Chris Bishop paces as he beams the world’s biggest laser at
a peppercorn-sized fuel pellet, a crucial step toward fusing
hydrogen atoms to replicate the explosive power of the sun,
stars and thermonuclear weapons.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for May 2 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Natural Gas Drops for Third Day on Forecasts for Mild Weather  Natural gas futures slipped for a third day in  New York  on
forecasts for moderating temperatures that would reduce demand
for the heating and power-plant fuel.  Natural Gas Climbs on Forecasts for Below-Average Supply Gain  Natural gas futures advanced in New York as analysts
predicted government data would show a smaller- than-normal gain
in stockpiles of the heating fuel, expanding a supply deficit.  Glencore Said to Hire Two Xstrata Executives as Managers Depart  Glencore Xstrata Plc hired two former Xstrata Plc
executives as division heads amid the departure of a number of
senior managers as it completed the takeover of the coal
exporter, a person familiar with the matter said.  Gasoil Stockpiles Fall in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage fell in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC Exports Seen Stable Amid ‘Glum’ Demand, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep
shipments little changed this month as “glum” demand in the
U.S. and Europe counters rising consumption in Asia, tanker
tracker Oil Movements said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Edmonton Refinery Work Causing Western Canada Gasoline Pinch (1)  Suncor Energy Inc.’s unexpected shutdown of gasoline
production units at the Edmonton, Alberta, refinery is causing a
fuel shortage at some gas stations in Western Canada.  Los Angeles Gasoline Rises to 10-Week High on Planned Exxon Shut  Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles  surged to a 10-week high
against futures as Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Torrance refinery
prepared to shut units for maintenance and Valero Energy Corp.’s
Wilmington plant had an upset at its fluid catalytic cracker.  Canadian Crudes Weaken as Output Rises After Spring Maintenance  Canadian crudes weakened on the  spot market  as Alberta
output began to rise after seasonal maintenance that temporarily
reduced production.  PBF to Export 20,000 to 25,000 Barrels a Day From East Coast  PBF Energy Inc. exported 1.8m bbls of middle distillate
fuel in Q1, company said on earnings call with investors today.  Valero Benicia Rail Unloading Will Operate by End of 2013  Valero Energy Corp. will be able to unload crude delivered
by trains at its Benicia refinery in Northern California by the
end of 2013.  Valero Quebec Plant Will Have Rail Unloading Capability by July  Valero Energy Corp.’s Quebec City refinery will have the
ability to unload 30,000 to 50,000 barrels of crude a day by
rail in July,  Bill Klesse , the company’s chief executive
officer, said after the company’s annual meeting in San Antonio.  Valero’s Klesse Says Little Industry Interest in Freedom Line  Valero Energy CEO Bill Klesse said there is “not a lot of
industry interest at the moment” for Kinder Morgan Energy
Partners’ proposed Freedom crude pipeline.  Exxon Torrance Refinery to Shut Units Starting Tomorrow  Some units to shut for planned maintenance that’s expected
to last “several weeks,” Gesuina Paras, Exxon Mobil Corp.
spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  WTI-Brent 16-Month Low Pits Goldman Against BofA: Energy Markets  The collapse in the price difference between the world’s
two most-traded crude oil grades is fulfilling a prediction
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has held for more than a year. Bank of
America Corp. says it won’t last.  Oil-Tanker Rates Climb as Demand to Book Vessels Seen Gaining  Charter rates for the largest  oil tankers  hauling Middle
East crude to Asia extended gains for a fourth session amid
speculation that demand to book the vessels strengthened.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Natural Gas Tumbles Most in Nine Months After Stockpile Increase  Natural gas futures dropped the most in nine months in New
York after a government report showed that U.S. stockpiles
expanded by more than forecast.  Buffett Disciple Donville Weighs Energy Stocks: Corporate Canada  Jason Donville, whose fund has outperformed Canadian stocks
for five years using  Warren Buffett ’s value investing strategy,
is eyeing Pulse Seismic Inc., Total Energy Services Inc. and
other energy stocks after the recent resources rout.  Shell Earnings Beat Analyst Estimates as Voser to Stand Down (2)  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s biggest oil company,
reported a surprise increase in first- quarter profit and Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said he will stand down next year.  Crude Gains Most in Six Months on Jobless Data as ECB Cuts Rate  West Texas Intermediate crude gained the most in almost six
months as the number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  slipped and the  European Central Bank 
reduced  interest rates  to a record low.  Keystone-Like Fight Looms in Enbridge’s Plan to Double Oil Flow  A new front may soon open in the battle over pipelines that
transport Canadian oil to the U.S.  JPMorgan Energy Traders May Face FERC Case, New York Times Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was warned by U.S. energy-market
authorities that they may take action against its employees as
part of an inquiry into bidding practices, the New York Times
said, citing a document it obtained.  PacificLight to Start LNG-Fueled Singapore Plant in November (1)  PacificLight Power Pte Ltd. said its 800 megawatt Jurong
Island power plant, the first in Singapore to be completely
fueled by liquefied natural gas, will be fully operational by
November.  Geodynamics Seeks Partners After Origin Energy Exits Venture (1)  Geodynamics Ltd., an explorer seeking to produce power from
hot underground rocks, is starting a search for new partners to
develop its project in central Australia after Origin Energy
Ltd. decided to pull out.  Energy Billionaire Kaiser Exploiting Charity Loophole With Boats  When Oklahoma energy billionaire  George Kaiser  opened the
Northeast Gateway liquid natural gas terminal in 2008, the
floating depot’s first delivery was shipped on the Excellence, a
909-foot supertanker that holds 138,000 cubic meters of LNG --
enough gas to meet more than 4 percent of daily U.S. demand.  Namibia Well May Revive Skeleton Coast Drilling After Failures  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA is expecting results this
week from a well in offshore  Namibia  that may revive interest in
oil exploration in the southwest African nation after two
failures last year.  OTHER MARKETS  Metals Climb With Asian Stocks Before Jobs Data; Dollar Weakens  Copper led metals higher and Asian stocks gained for the
first time in three days as investors awaited the release of
U.S. jobs data and Macquarie Group Ltd.’s earnings beat
estimates. The dollar weakened.  Dollar Snaps Biggest Advance in 2 Weeks Versus Euro Before Jobs  The dollar snapped its biggest advance against the euro in
two weeks before the U.S. releases April jobs data after the
previous report disappointed with employers adding the fewest
positions in nine months.  Policy U-Turn Spurred by Worst Sol Decline Since ’09: Currencies  Policy makers in Peru, South America’s fastest-growing
economy, are signaling an end to efforts to weaken the sol as
falling commodities and speculation the government will seek
more control over natural resources stoke the currency’s biggest
rout since 2009.  Asian Stocks Rise on Bank Profit, Europe Rate Cut, U.S. Jobs  Asian stocks climbed as profit at Australian bank Macquarie
Group Ltd. rose, U.S. jobless claims fell to the lowest in five
years and the European Central Bank cut interest rates to a
record low.  Australian Banks Beat Mining Stocks by Record: Chart of the Day  The combined value of Australia’s financial stocks surged
to the highest on record relative to mining companies, leaving
raw-material producers with the smallest proportion of the
market’s capitalization in a decade.  Elliott Tells Clients Money-Losing Gold Still Best Value Store  Gold remains the best store of value in an uncertain global
economy, Elliott Management Corp. told clients even as the $21.8
billion hedge-fund firm founded by  Paul Singer  lost money on its
bullion position this year.  Gold Traders Most Bearish in Three Years After Drop: Commodities  Gold traders are the most bearish in three years after
investors sold a record amount of metal held in exchange-traded
products and prices tumbled in a  bear market .  Obama Says Curbed Access Won’t Alter U.S.-Mexico Security Ties  President Barack Obama said the U.S. will keep up its close
cooperation with Mexico in battling drug trafficking and
organized crime even as Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
limits access by U.S. security agencies.  Deng Xiaoping’s Duke Law Alumnus Grandson Named County Official  The grandson of late Chinese leader  Deng Xiaoping , a Duke
University law school graduate who later worked for U.S. law
firm White & Case LLP, was named deputy head of a county in
southern China, the People’s Daily website said.  SPORTS  Chelsea Beats Basel, Will Face Benfica in Europa League Final  Chelsea moved within a victory of a European trophy for the
second straight year after it beat Basel 3-1 to reach to the
Europa League soccer final against Benfica.  Chelsea Advances to Europa League Soccer Final Against Benfica  Chelsea and Benfica both won 3-1 at home to advance to the
final of soccer’s Europa League.  Calls to Rename Rio’s Olympic Stadium Following Bribe Scandal  Protesters are pushing for a name change at the stadium
hosting track and field events at the 2016 Olympics in Rio de
Janeiro after soccer’s governing body said the man for whom the
facility is named took bribes.  ENERGY PRICES  Energy Prices:  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------  WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.69  -0.30  -0.3  Nymex     June
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    102.61  -0.24  -0.2    Ice     June
Gasoil ($/Ton)         848.50  +9.75  +1.2    Ice     June
Gasoline (c/Gal)       277.34  -0.72  -0.3  Nymex     June
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    4.02     --   0.0  Nymex     June
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    102.27  -0.23  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            285.00  -0.55  -0.2  Nymex     June
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.19    --
Gold ($/Oz)          1,467.60  +1.5
MSCI World Index     1,469.67    --
Prices as of 6 a.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  