-- How Austerity Pushed American Colonists to Revolt
-- B y   A n d r e w   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-03T19:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/how-austerity-pushed-american-colonists-to-revolt.html
As the euro area tries to wrestle
member states into fiscal submission through bailouts, austerity
and  capital controls , it would be well advised to consider a
historical precedent: the American Revolution.  In the early 18th century,  North America  held a role in the
British Empire that was similar to the one occupied by Cyprus or
Slovenia in the euro area today. Americans were slavers,
smugglers, rumrunners and fanatics -- as “opulent, commercial,
thriving” as they were irresponsible and fiscally profligate.
But as the empire struggled to stay solvent after the Seven
Years War, the government of Prime Minister George Grenville
attempted to bring the colonists to heel in the name of fiscal
austerity.  “The Circumstances of the Times, the Necessities of the
Country, and the Abilities of the Colonies, concur in requiring
an American Revenue,” wrote Thomas Whately, a Grenville ally, in
1765.  To be sure, the 18th century British Empire and the euro
area are very different. But the similarities are still worth
noting: A central unelected body (at least not by North
Americans), attempted to solve a fiscal problem by inflicting
misguided pain on the periphery.  Euro Zone  As the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and
the International Monetary Fund attempt to hold the euro zone
together, they might want to keep the British example in mind.
And countries such as Cyprus and  Greece  might want to look to
the model of the nascent U.S., which showed that there is a way
out.  In 1765, Britain owed 130.6 million pounds to bondholders
and foreign creditors. That’s the equivalent of 9.7 billion
pounds ($15 billion) in today’s terms. It might not seem like
much, but it was more than 10 times the 1765 British budget of
12 million pounds. It also entailed 4.7 million pounds in annual
interest payments.  Meanwhile, British taxes in America were minimal. Direct
 remittances  from the colonies to the Treasury had averaged only
1,900 pounds over the previous 30 years, and had declined
further since the war. To make matters “still more ridiculous,”
according to Whately, those taxes cost 7,600 pounds a year to
collect.  “The whole of this vast revenue is raised in Great  Britain (UKGRABIQ) ,
and is paid by the inhabitants of  Great Britain ,” Whately wrote.
The colonies in North America, with 2 million British subjects,
he added, contribute “to the national Expense by taxes raised
there, no more than seven or eight Hundred pounds.”  Meanwhile, Americans only had about 800,000 pounds in
public  debt . Surely, Whately argued, they could pay more.  The Grenville ministry had a three-part remedy. First,
Parliament banned Americans from printing their own currency,
implicitly forcing them onto the silver standard in use in the
rest of the empire. Second, it ordered British naval officers to
redeploy to strangle American smuggling and increase customs
payments. Finally, Americans would be forced, for the first
time, to pay  taxes  in silver that would go straight to the
central fisc, the famous “taxation without representation.”  It looked good on paper. To the British, the taxes were
light -- only about 100,000 pounds a year -- less than half what
was spent each to year to maintain the British army in America.
The protests from American agents and London merchants were
dismissed.  Grenville “said we told him we were poor, and unable to
bear such Tax; others told him we were well able,” recalled
 Connecticut  agent Jared Ingersoll. “Now, says he, take the
Business into your own Hands, you will see how and where it
pinches, and will certainly let us know it, in which Case it
shall be eased.”  Stamp Collector  Ingersoll accepted a position as Stamp Collector -- a move
he would later regret -- and returned to Connecticut to begin
implementing the new taxes. It was a daunting problem. The taxes
infiltrated almost every aspect of American life, including
newspapers and pamphlets, legal documents, bonds, and commercial
communications.  But when Ingersoll ran the numbers, he found a more
pressing issue: Americans -- at least in Connecticut -- didn’t
have enough silver to pay the tax because their wealth was tied
up in land, cattle and shipping.  In addition, the silver Americans had was already sent to
Britain -- not to pay taxes, but to cover the 4 million pounds
Americans owed British merchants for tea, coffee and
manufactured goods.  The result was a conundrum. Ingersoll expected stamp duties
in Connecticut to amount to 4,000 pounds a year. Not much, but
enough to bankrupt the colony.  “It was a doubt with me, whether we had even that Sum in
the Colony,” Ingersoll wrote.  In other words, Americans were being taxed in a currency
that they didn’t control, that they didn’t possess, and were
being asked to pay debts they didn’t incur.  They had little choice but to revolt, and they did. The
Grenville ministry was kicked out of office and the Stamp Act
was repealed. But the damage was done.  As the British economist Arthur Young put it on the eve of
America’s victory in the revolution: Grenville’s philosophy was
to blame.  “Nothing therefore can be more idle than to say, that this
set of men, or the other administration, or that great minister,
occasioned the American war,” Young wrote in 1780. “It was not
the Stamp Act, nor the repeal of the Stamp Act; it was neither
Lord Rockingham nor Lord North, but it was that baleful
monopolizing spirit of commerce that wished to govern great
nations, on the maxims of the counter.”  Words worth considering today.  ( Andrew Edwards  is a PhD student in American history at
 Princeton University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Andrew Edwards at  andrewdavidedwards@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  