-- Lloyds CEO Sees Turnaround Completion in 2014 as Sale Looms
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/lloyds-ceo-sees-turnaround-completion-in-2014-as-sale-looms.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said he expects to
complete his turnaround plan as soon as next year just as the
government tries to reduce its stake in the bank.  “I said when I was appointed two years ago that this would
be a long and difficult journey which would take three to five
years,” he said in an interview before speaking at a conference
in Estoril,  Portugal  yesterday. “In spite of a more difficult
economic environment, we will do it at the low end of the three
to five years.”  Horta-Osorio, 49, spoke after Lloyds, Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender, swung into profit in the first quarter as
impairments for souring loans dropped by more than analysts
estimated. The stock has climbed 13 percent this year, making it
the  best-performing  of Britain’s five biggest lenders.  The government, which owns 39 percent of the London-based
lender after giving it a 20 billion-pound ($31 billion) bailout
in 2008 following its takeover of HBOS Plc, is seeking to reduce
its stake before a general election due in 2015. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne , constrained by the biggest
austerity program since World War II, could use the proceeds of
a sale to fund tax cuts or more spending before the vote.  Shares of Lloyds and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
recipient of a 45.5 billion-pound government bailout, are both
trading for less than what the Treasury originally paid for
them. Based on yesterday’s closing prices, the government’s loss
on Lloyds is about 5 billion pounds and on RBS almost 18 billion
pounds.  Government Decision  Earlier this year, the Treasury reduced the price below
which it would recognize a loss from selling its stakes in the
two lenders to take into account fees the lenders paid the
Treasury, officials with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Lloyds rose 0.1 percent in  London trading  yesterday to
close at 54.26 pence, less than the 61 pence at which the
government now expects to break even on the investment and the
73.6 pence the Treasury originally paid.  “It’s still up to the government to decide when and how to
privatize the bank,” Horta-Osorio said yesterday. “It’s our
duty to operationally improve the bank prudently and as quickly
as possible.”  The bank posted a  net profit  of 1.53 billion pounds in the
first quarter, compared with a 5 million-pound loss in the year-
earlier period. Provisions fell 40 percent to 1 billion pounds,
the lender said on April 30.  Dividend Plans?  The bank also set aside no additional funds to compensate
clients mis-sold payment-protection insurance. Redress for
customers sold insurance that didn’t cover them adequately or
that they didn’t need has cost Lloyds 6.8 billion pounds, more
than any other British lender.  “As our legacy issues -- especially PPI -- get to an end,
it’s easy to envisage that statutory profitability will increase
very significantly,” Horta-Osorio said. “We are not going to
need a lot of capital to sustain increases in net lending.
Therefore, Lloyds will go back in the future to a high-dividend
stock as it used to be.”  He declined to say when the lender may resume paying a
 dividend . The bank last paid one in October 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  