-- HP Ignored Autonomy Accounting Warnings, Shareholders Say
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/hp-ignored-autonomy-accounting-warnings-shareholders-allege-1-.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  ignored warnings
about accounting irregularities at Autonomy Corp. and failed to
properly vet its finances before acquiring the British software
maker, shareholders said in a lawsuit.  Hewlett-Packard  board members  performed “no technical due
diligence” and the company’s executives and advisers
“misrepresented facts to conceal their own failings,” Joseph Cotchett, an attorney for investors, said in a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in San Francisco.  Autonomy engaged in “round trip transactions” in which it
bought goods from its customers, and engaged in other forms of
aggressive revenue recognition to inflate its financial health,
according to the complaint.  Hewlett-Packard, the  largest personal computer maker , faces
shareholder lawsuits stemming from its Nov. 20 announcement that
it was taking an $8.8 billion writedown on the value of British
software maker Autonomy, which it agreed to buy for $10.3
billion in 2011. More than $5 billion of the writedown was the
result of accounting practices at Autonomy, Hewlett-Packard
said.  “As we have continually said, HP relied on the audited
financial statements and the representations of Autonomy’s
management and its auditors regarding Autonomy’s business and
revenue,” Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “Those facts and figures appear to have been
willfully manipulated by certain Autonomy employees prior to the
company’s acquisition, to mislead investors and potential
buyers.”  Whitman, KPMG  Former Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive  Leo Apotheker  told
investors in September 2011 that Autonomy was examined in great
detail, while current CEO  Meg Whitman  said in November that
during extensive due diligence, auditor KPMG LLP, hired to
review the work of auditor Deloitte LLC, didn’t uncover any
problems, according to the complaint.  KPMG denied being hired by HP to audit Deloitte and said it
did “a limited set of non-audit related services,’” Cotchett
said in the complaint.  Cotchett is the lead attorney for investors who filed
lawsuits on behalf of the  company  that have been combined. The
consolidated complaint filed yesterday is based on public
documents, internal company records and witness interviews, some
of which are confidential. Portions of the complaint are
redacted.  The company was warned about accounting problems, including
the use of “round trip transactions,” by analysts, other
companies and investment firms, according to the complaint.  Autonomy sold one customer $9 million in software in 2009
and at the same time agreed to purchase $13 million worth of
licenses for data, according to the complaint.  $9 Million  “According to three people familiar with the matter,
Autonomy recognized the $9 million in software sales as top line
revenue, a key indicator for Autonomy,” according to the
complaint, which didn’t name the people. “Autonomy then buried
the cost of the data licenses” as part of its sales, marketing
or other expenses, a part of the income statement that is
usually not considered a key indicator for growing technology
companies like Autonomy.  Hewlett-Packard said in November that former members of
Autonomy’s management team used accounting improprieties,
misrepresentations and disclosure failures to inflate the
underlying financial metrics of the company, prior to Autonomy’s
acquisition. Autonomy managers denied the allegations.  The case is In Re Hewlett-Packard Shareholder Derivative
Litigation, 12-06003, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  