-- Pakistan Chief Prosecutor in Bhutto Assassination Shot Dead
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-05-03T08:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/pakistan-chief-prosecutor-in-musharraf-probe-killed-in-capital.html
The Pakistani chief prosecutor
investigating the assassination in 2007 of Benazir Bhutto was
shot dead by unidentified gunmen in the capital Islamabad early
today as he drove to a hearing.  The car carrying Chaudhry Zulfiqar was attacked as he
headed to an anti-terrorism court in the nearby city of
Rawalpindi for proceedings related to the Bhutto case, according
to police. “His guard said that someone from the rear fired on
the car,” Irshad Ali, the officer in charge of the police
station nearest the incident, said by phone. There was no claim
of responsibility.  Former army dictator Pervez Musharraf, now under house
arrest in Islamabad, is being probed in the Bhutto case over
allegations he failed to provide her adequate security.
Musharraf’s administration said former Pakistani Taliban leader
Baitullah Mehsud ordered Bhutto’s murder after she criticized
the Taliban for terrorist attacks in  Pakistan  and announced she
would help the U.S. eliminate the group.  A spokesman for the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences,
Wasim Khawaja, confirmed the killing of Zulfiqar, adding that a
female passerby hit by his car also died. The prosecutor’s
driver was injured during the firing, he said.  In a statement, President Asif Ali Zardari, Bhutto’s
widower, ordered a thorough investigation to get to “expose the
real culprits involved in the murder of Chaudhry Zulfiqar.”  Rally Bombing  Bhutto was killed in a gun and suicide bomb attack at a
rally in Rawalpindi in December 2007. A United Nations report,
issued in 2010, said her death may have been prevented had
security forces taken proper steps after death threats were made
against her.  “Bhutto was seen as pro-American and was on the hit-list
of al-Qaeda and its affiliates like the Pakistani Taliban,”
Muhammad Amir Rana, director of the Islamabad-based Pakistan
Institute Peace Studies, said by phone, while declining to
comment on possible motivations for Zulfiqar’s murder.  The prosecutor was also directing the investigation into
the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai by Pakistani gunmen, Geo
television reported, without saying where it got the information.  India  said the November 2008 commando-style assault that
killed 166 people was carried out by the Pakistan-based Lashkar-
e-Taiba militant group, possibly with the aid of what it called
Pakistani “state actors.” Pakistan denies any official
involvement.  After initial denials, Pakistan acknowledged the Mumbai
raid was planned on its soil and began a trial of some Lashkar
members. India has accused Pakistan of being half-hearted in its
pursuit of the perpetrators.  Musharraf has been under house arrest since April 19 after
a court revoked a bail agreement on charges relating to his
declaration of emergency rule in 2007, which was subsequently
ruled illegal. He has since been kept at his residence on the
outskirts of Islamabad, which has been declared a sub-jail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Rawalpindi at 
 Aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  