-- Pakistani Prisoner Critical After Retaliatory India Jail Attack
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-03T09:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/pakistani-prisoner-critical-after-retaliatory-india-jail-attack.html
A Pakistani prisoner is in a critical
condition after being beaten in an Indian jail in a possible
retaliatory attack a day after a convicted Indian spy died from
head injuries sustained in a Lahore prison.  Sanaullah Haq, who is serving a life sentence, was attacked
this morning in a jail in the disputed region of  Jammu and
Kashmir ,  India ’s home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said in
televised comments without specifying the man’s crime. A case of
assault has been registered against an Indian serviceman, the
Times of India reported, without saying where it got the
information.  “This obvious retaliation to the death of Indian prisoner
Sarabjit Singh is condemnable,” Pakistan’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs  said in a statement.  The attacks on prisoners are the latest to strain relations
between the two neighbors that were engaged in some of their
most serious cross-border skirmishes in almost a decade in
Kashmir in January and February. The fighting damaged efforts to
repair ties shattered by the 2008 Mumbai terrorist strike after
a bid to improve trade and ease travel curbs.  Pakistan ’s government called for the perpetrators of the
attack on Haq to be punished and for India to ensure the safety
and security of all Pakistani prisoners.  India will provide Pakistan with consular assistance, Syed Akbaruddin, the spokesman for Ministry of External Affairs, said
in televised comments today.  Sarabjit Singh, the Indian convicted of spying, sustained
several injuries, including a fractured skull, when attacked by
prisoners in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat prison on April 26. He died
shortly after midnight local time yesterday.  Singh ‘Innocent’  Singh was arrested in 1990 and later found guilty of spying
and involvement in deadly bomb blasts in Pakistani cities. His
family has said the man hails from a border village in the
northern Indian state of Punjab and had crossed the countries’
frontier by mistake.  India considers Singh innocent of his alleged crimes and
the prime minister brought up his case with the Pakistani
government as far back as 2005, Akbaruddin, told reporters in
 New Delhi  yesterday. There are 535 Indian prisoners in
Pakistan’s jails and 273 Pakistanis in Indian custody, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  