-- PanAust Says It May Be Acquisition Target
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-03T05:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/panaust-says-it-may-be-acquisition-target-after-metals-slump.html
PanAust Ltd. (PNA) , the Australian operator
of copper, gold and silver mines in Laos, said it may be an
acquisition target after losing a third of its market value this
year as metal prices slumped.  “We don’t look over our shoulder the whole time, but I
think at these sort of prices we are ridiculously cheap,” Gary Stafford, managing director of the Brisbane-based company, said
in an interview in Sydney.  Gold, silver and copper all fell into a bear market last
month as China’s economic growth slowed to 7.7 percent in the
first quarter from 7.9 percent in the previous three months.
Chinese mining companies may use an extended global slump in
commodity prices to boost acquisitions of foreign assets,
according to the investment banking unit of Bank of  China  Ltd.  Private equity and Chinese investors “probably are
monitoring us,” Stafford said yesterday. Chinese investment
group Guangdong Rising Assets Management Co. owns a 19.65
percent stake in PanAust, according  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  PanAust, which has dropped 35 percent this year, rose 0.2
percent to A$2.185 in Sydney trading at 1:10 p.m. local time,
giving it a market value of A$1.35 billion ($1.4 billion).  The company, which is weighing two potential expansion
projects, will defend itself if any approach was made, Stafford
said. It will decide within 12 months on funding either a third
mine in Laos, or a new development in  Chile , where PanAust
already has a joint venture with Codelco, the country’s state-
owned copper producer, he said.  PanAust estimates the  Laos  project would cost about $300
million to build. It said it would need to spend as much as $1
billion in Chile to develop both its joint venture with Codelco
and the Carmen copper-gold deposit.  “If we make a decision in the middle of next year, we’ve
another two years to build our cash in the business,” said
Stafford, adding that PanAust will still be able to make
dividend payments as it builds cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  