-- Pentagon Blames UnitedHealth for Failures Under Contract
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/pentagon-blames-unitedhealth-for-failures-under-contract.html
The Pentagon rebuked  UnitedHealth (UNH) 
Group Inc., the nation’s largest insurer, after military
families began experiencing long delays getting medical-care
referrals from the company.  The backlogs occurred almost as soon as Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based UnitedHealth took over a contract, valued as
much as $20.5 billion, from TriWest Healthcare Alliance Corp. It
assumed responsibility on April 1 for the western region of the
military’s health-care system, known as Tricare.  UnitedHealth’s “failure to meet contractor requirements”
has prevented a large number of beneficiaries in one Tricare
health plan from obtaining timely access to specialty care,
Jonathan Woodson, assistant secretary of defense for health
affairs, said in a memo yesterday to other military leaders.  Woodson, calling the situation “extraordinary,” said the
Pentagon stepped in to grant a temporary waiver so the plan’s
members in the western region could get specialty care without
UnitedHealth’s authorization and not incur penalties.  The affected beneficiaries are in the so-called Tricare
Prime program, a plan in which participants are assigned a
primary-care manager responsible for referring patients to
specialists for necessary services.  Those referrals require authorization from the contractor.
Participants who don’t obtain that approval are normally subject
to a fee. The Pentagon has waived that charge and the contractor
authorization through May 18, according to Woodson’s memo.  Referral Requests  The delays are occurring because UnitedHealth has received
requests for referrals and care authorizations that “far
exceeded the norms” since it took over the contract, said Bruce
Jasurda, a spokesman for the company.  “The increased volume was driven largely by people asking
whether previously authorized referrals and authorizations were
still valid, resulting in large numbers of duplicate referrals
in the system,” Jasurda said in a phone interview. The company
“understands the issues we need to improve on, and we are
taking aggressive action.”  UnitedHealth has deployed additional staff to help process
the increased number of requests, he said. It hopes to have the
issues resolved in about a month, Jasurda said.  There are 1.6 million Tricare Prime beneficiaries in the
region served by UnitedHealth, Kevin Dwyer, a spokesman for the
military health program, said in an e-mail. They include active-
duty military, retirees and their families in 21 states,
including  California ,  Idaho ,  Hawaii  and  Colorado .  Reduced Workload  U.S. Representative Doug Lamborn, a Colorado Republican,
said in a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel yesterday that
health-care providers in his state are facing “unexpected and
dramatic reductions in their workload” because of the backlog
in referrals. He also blamed UnitedHealth.  “They claimed to be aware of the problem and doing what
was necessary to get on top of the problem,” Lamborn said in a
phone interview. “There seemed to be a disconnect from the
reality on the ground.”  Most of the complaints came from providers, he said. “They
are the ones that are on the edge financially, in some cases,”
Lamborn said.  Scott Celley, a TriWest spokesman, declined to comment on
the issues with UnitedHealth.  TriWest, which coordinated care for military beneficiaries
for more than 16 years, got almost all of its revenue through
the contract. The company’s chief executive officer, David McIntyre Jr., said last year it would probably shut down if it
lost the contract.  The company lost a protest it filed last year with the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates contract
disputes. It had claimed the Pentagon didn’t pay enough
attention to UnitedHealth’s past performance issues when it
awarded the contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  