-- Philippine Stocks, Peso, Bonds Advance After S&P Rating Upgrade
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-05-03T09:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/philippine-stocks-peso-bonds-advance-after-s-p-rating-upgrade.html
Philippine stocks surged to a record
as the peso and bonds extended gains after the nation won its
second investment-grade debt rating.  The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  advanced 1.7
percent to 7,215.35 at the close in Manila. The nation’s long-
term foreign currency-denominated debt rating was raised to BBB-
from BB+, with a stable outlook, Standard & Poor’s said
yesterday, citing an improving external profile, strengthening
public finances and cooling inflation. Fitch Ratings Ltd. raised
the Philippines to investment grade on March 27.  The S&P upgrade was “critical” because some institutional
funds require at least two investment-grade ratings before
investing, Philippine Stock Exchange President Hans Sicat said
in a statement yesterday. Philippine stocks have jumped 24
percent this year, heading for a fifth annual advance, as
President  Benigno Aquino  increased state spending and narrowed
the  budget deficit . The peso has strengthened 3 percent in the
past 12 months, the best performer in Asia after the  Thai baht .  “The second investment upgrade further boosted investor
confidence, causing the rally in Philippine assets,” said
 Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at Manila-based BDO
Unibank Inc., the nation’s largest lender. “The market is more
confident that more foreign players will look at the Philippines
as an investment destination.”  Peso Gains  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 40.903 per dollar, its
strongest level since April 3, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose four basis points to
4.68 percent.  The yield on the 9.125 percent bond due September 2016 fell
15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 2.1 percent, the
lowest in a week, according to Tradition Financial Services.  Ayala Corp. (AC) , owner of the nation’s biggest developer,
gained 3.4 percent to 662 pesos, an all-time high.  Alliance
Global Group Inc. (AGI) , which owns property and casinos, jumped 3.9
percent to 25.05 pesos, its biggest advance in two weeks.  “We believe that the Philippine economy is poised for a
break out, supported by favorable macroeconomic factors and
augmented by stronger foreign direct investment and portfolio
flows,” said First Metro Investment Corp. President Roberto Juanchito Dispo. “It’s clear by all indications that the
Philippines credit stature is now at par with other emerging
economies.”  GDP Growth  Growth may have exceeded 6 percent in the first quarter,
Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said this week.
Consumer price gains probably slowed to a range of 2.2 percent
to 3.1 percent in April from 3.2 percent in March, Tetangco said
on April 29. The government will report last month’s inflation
data on May 7 and first-quarter gross domestic product growth on
May 30.  Aquino is seeking more than $17 billion of investment in
infrastructure projects to spur growth in the $225 billion
economy, which grew 6.6 percent in 2012, the fastest pace in
Asia after China.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will remain vigilant against
risks from inflows and has no plans to impose  capital controls ,
Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  The ratings upgrade “is well-deserved given what the
existing government has been doing,  Christopher Wong , a  fund
manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management in Singapore, said in an
interview today. ‘‘It just needs to get some of the basics right
and investment will flow through.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  