-- Poloz Hire at Central Bank Signals Weaker Loonie: Canada Credit
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-03T16:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/poloz-hire-at-central-bank-signals-weaker-loonie-canada-credit.html
Stephen Poloz’s appointment as head of
the Bank of  Canada  may signal a weaker currency and lower
borrowing costs as the world’s 11th-largest economy looks to
exports to revive growth.  Poloz, the former chief executive officer of  Export
Development Canada , a trade financing agency, was named
yesterday by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who bypassed deputy
governor Tiff Macklem for the top job to replace  Mark Carney .  “He’s historically a trade guy so he may favor a weaker
Canadian dollar to favor exporters,” Jonathan Lemco, senior
sovereign-debt analyst at  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc., the largest provider of U.S. bond funds,
said in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar’s relative strength is being blamed by
policy makers for helping to drag the economy to its slowest
pace of  growth  since the 2009 recession. It has been boosted by
investors searching for yield as other central banks embark on
stimulus measures that debase their currencies, policy makers
said in their April 17 report, Carney’s last before he leaves
June 1 to lead the  Bank of England .  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.2 percent to
C$1.0084 per U.S. dollar at 12:29 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
C$1.0052 on May 1, the strongest level since Feb. 15.  Canada’s central bank is alone among Group of Seven nations
with a tightening bias, meaning the next move on rates will
likely be higher. The Bank of Canada has kept its benchmark
overnight rate at 1 percent for almost three years.  Tightening Bias  Poloz “does not own this tightening bias and the markets
are wondering if, when, the bank will remove the tightening
bias,” said Ed Devlin, who helps manage $10.5 billion as head
of  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s Canadian portfolio management team. “That’s another
reason the Canadian dollar might depreciate a little bit and
people might think rates might go just a little bit lower.”
Devlin said he doesn’t think Poloz will remove the bias.  Poloz joined EDC in 1999 as chief economist after three
years with Bank Credit Analyst Research in  Montreal  and 14 years
at the Bank of Canada in roles that included head of the
research department. He was appointed president and chief
executive officer of EDC in January 2011, a position in which he
served until his appointment as Governor of the Bank of Canada.  During the first eight years of his tenure at EDC, the
Canadian dollar soared 32 percent against the U.S. dollar,
second only to the  New Zealand dollar  during the period,
Bloomberg data show.  ‘Key Period’  “He was the chief economist at the EDC at a key period for
the Canadian dollar and would have seen first-hand the impact on
exporters,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by telephone from Toronto. “He would have
understood the plight of exporters quite well.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Toronto-Dominion Bank sold $3
billion of two-year floating-rate notes yielding 18 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government held steady yesterday from a day earlier at 124 basis
points, or 1.24 percentage points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Canada Corporate Index. Yields were little
changed at 2.68 percent.  Provincial Bonds  Spreads on provincial bonds narrowed to 77 basis points
yesterday, from 78 basis points on May 1, while yields fell to
2.42 percent, from 2.43 percent, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial & Municipal Index.  Corporate bonds have returned 2.7 percent this year, while
provincial bonds have gained 1.9 percent and federal-government
securities have added 1.4 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  The dollar’s strength is undermining the economy just as
tumbling commodities prices detract from growth. Canada’s slice
of global non-commodity exports, adjusted for differences in
growth among trading partners, has declined about 35 percent
since 2000, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The currency is considered to be 17.4 percent overvalued
against the  U.S. dollar  based on the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s purchasing power, according to the
Bloomberg World Currency Ranker.  While acknowledging the impact of slower global growth and
a strong currency on the Canadian economy, the Bank of Canada
has refrained from cutting rates amid concern that such a move
would only spur a housing market in jeopardy of overheating, a
juggling act Poloz will now have to handle.  Rate Change  “The consensus view on the street is that he’s probably a
pretty dovish candidate that will probably lead to easier
monetary policy than we otherwise would have expected,” Jamie Price, director of fixed income at Macquarie Private Wealth in
Toronto, said in an interview.  At the same time, investors aren’t betting on a change in
 interest rates . Trading in overnight index swaps shows virtually
no chance of tighter policy this year. The yield on the
government of Canada two-year bond was unchanged at 0.91 percent
yesterday after the Poloz appointment.  “It’s not a real shock,” said Randy LeClair, Canadian
fixed-income strategist at Manulife Asset Management in Toronto,
which oversees C$17 billion of bonds. “I think the new
leadership is going to be a continuation of things we’ve seen.”  LeClair said he expects the Bank of Canada to maintain its
benchmark overnight interest rate at 1 percent, where it has
been since September 2010, through 2014.  Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist at the investment-banking unit of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a
note to clients the  Bank of Canada  will make no move to either
cut or raise interest rates until the first half of 2015.  “The patient has been given the right medicine thus far,
so in the near term Mr. Poloz will just have to watch and make
sure it keeps recovering,” Tal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  