-- Portugal Plans to Reduce Number of State Workers, Review Wages
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-03T21:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/portugal-plans-to-reduce-number-of-state-workers-review-wages.html
Portugal  proposed spending cuts that
include reducing the number of state workers as it tries to meet
deficit targets without relying on tax increases.  “The exact moment has arrived to advance to a second stage
of reforming the state and social security system,” Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said in Lisbon today. Coelho listed
possible measures that may generate savings of about 4.8 billion
euros ($6.3 billion) through 2015 and said he wants to discuss
alternatives with opposition parties.  Coelho plans to reduce the number of public sector workers
by seeking agreements to end employment contracts. Together with
a plan to “requalify” state workers through training, the
government estimates about 30,000 employees may be affected.
Ministries will have to reduce spending on purchases of goods
and services by at least 10 percent next year and the government
will consider applying a “sustainability contribution” on
pensions, he said.  The government also plans to review salaries and other
compensation paid to state workers, and their working week will
increase to 40 hours starting this year, in line with the
private sector.  Portugal (PTGDPQOQ)  is proposing alternative measures to meet budget
deficit targets set in its 78 billion-euro aid program from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  after the
country’s  Constitutional Court  on April 5 blocked a plan to
suspend the equivalent of a monthly salary payment to state
workers and pensioners this year. The measures blocked by the
court represented 1.3 billion euros of savings in 2013, or about
0.8 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  Loan Extension  The alternative measures together with proposals for other
“permanent” savings will allow Portugal to complete the
seventh review of its bailout plan and secure an extension of
rescue loans that was agreed upon in principle on April 12 by EU
finance ministers meeting in Dublin. The extension of the
maturities of Portugal’s aid loans will help the country issue
10-year bonds and regain access to bond markets, Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar said on April 12.  The government on March 15 announced less ambitious targets
for narrowing its  budget deficit  as it forecast the economy will
shrink twice as much as previously estimated this year. The
government targets a deficit equivalent to 5.5 percent of GDP in
2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3 percent limit in
2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It forecasts debt will
peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  About 80 percent of the 5.3 billion-euro deficit-trimming
effort in the 2013 budget comes from revenue gains, including
3.7 billion euros of tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  