-- Qantas Approached by Investors Seeking Stakes in Jetstar Units
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-03T04:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/qantas-approached-by-investors-seeking-stakes-in-jetstar-units.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s
largest carrier, has been approached by investors seeking stakes
in units of Jetstar budget airline across Asia as it readies to
start a venture with  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  in Hong Kong.  The investors offered more for their stakes than Qantas had
invested, Qantas Chief Executive officer Alan Joyce told a
Macquarie Group Ltd. conference in Sydney today. He didn’t
elaborate. Qantas and  China  Eastern will each invest up to $99
million over three years to set up a Jetstar unit in Hong Kong,
where no budget airline has a hub, the companies said last
March.  “First mover advantage is key,”  Joyce said. “We’ve
already had people approach us wanting to pay a multiple of what
we’re investing in them to get a share in it.”  Qantas has added flights and is buying 14 Boeing Co. 787
Dreamliner aircraft for Jetstar as it attempts to tap Asian
demand for budget flights, which has more than doubled low-cost
carriers’ share of regional traffic since 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  has also started budget airline
Scoot and is the largest investor in low-cost carrier Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. amid economic growth in China,  India  and
Southeast Asia.  Jetstar, run by Jayne Hrdlicka, accounts for  20 percent of
revenue  and 31 percent of operating income at Qantas. It has
grown to be Asia’s largest budget airline, carrying paying
passengers over 36 million kilometers during 2011, compared with
24 million kilometers at nearest competitor  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Hong Kong Base  No budget carrier currently has a hub at Hong Kong Airport,
the base of Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. Hong Kong Express, an
affiliate of Hong Kong Airlines, has said it will convert to a
low-cost model.  Oasis Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which operated budget long-
haul flights, collapsed in 2008 after racking up losses of about
HK$1 billion ($129 million) in under two years.  Qantas is taking start-up costs and losses as it builds and
expands Jetstar affiliates in  Japan  and Hong Kong, Joyce said
today. The latter venture should get regulatory approval in the
territory by the end of this calendar year, he said.  The Japanese venture should double its fleet over the next
18 months toward a target of 24 aircraft, while Jetstar Hong
Kong will target 18 aircraft in the next few years, he said.  Joyce said the investor interest illustrated confidence
about the future of Jetstar’s Japanese and Hong Kong Jetstar
affiliates, without specifying which divisions the investors had
sought stakes in.  Via Jetstar, Qantas has a wholly-owned domestic carrier in
Australia and New Zealand and four ventures in Asia. Qantas and
Japan Airlines Co. each have 33 percent stakes in Jetstar Japan,
which began operations in 2012, with Mitsubishi Corp. and
Century Tokyo Leasing Corp. sharing the remaining third.  Singapore-based  Jetstar Asia , which began flights in 2004,
is owned 49 percent by Qantas and 51 percent by Westbrook
Investments Pte. Jetstar Pacific, based in Vietnam, is 70
percent owned by Vietnam Airlines Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  