-- Rangers Fall to Capitals While Senators Top Canadiens in NHL
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-03T05:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/rangers-fall-to-capitals-while-senators-top-canadiens-in-nhl.html
The  Washington Capitals  beat the New
York Rangers 3-1 and the  Ottawa Senators  defeated the  Montreal
Canadiens  in the first game of their National Hockey League
Eastern Conference playoff series.  In the Western Conference, the St. Louis Blues topped the
Los Angeles Kings 2-1 to take a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven
series and the Detroit  Red Wings  evened their series at 1-1 with
a 5-4 overtime victory at the Anaheim Ducks.  Tonight, the New York Islanders will try to tie their
series 1-1 against the Pittsburgh Penguins; the Senators will
seek their second straight win against the Canadiens; the
Chicago Blackhawks, with a 1-0 advantage, host the Minnesota
Wild, and San Jose has a 1-0 lead at the Vancouver Canucks.  At the Verizon Center in Washington, New York’s Carl
Hagelin scored in the first period.  Alex Ovechkin  tied the game on a power play in the second
for the Capitals, who led 3-1 within another eight minutes on
goals 46 seconds apart by Marcus Johansson and  Jason Chimera .  Chimera did a sudden turn and fired his shot from 53 feet
past Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist .  “There was an unexpected pass, and I was a little slow to
react,” Lundqvist said. “But definitely I have to stop that. A
couple of minutes, a couple of big plays for them. It takes away
the fire.”  The Capitals host Game 2 tomorrow.  Lead Changes  Erik Karlsson put Ottawa ahead in the first period at Bell
Centre in Montreal. Goals by Rene Bourque and Brendan Gallagher
in the second made it 2-1 to the Canadiens.  The Senators restored their one-goal advantage in the third
on goals by Jakob Silfverberg and Marc Methot one minute, 53
seconds apart, and Guillaume Latendresse made it 4-2 for Ottawa
with 6:05 left in the game.  At Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Patrik Berglund of the
Blues tied the game 1-1 at 3:44 of the third period and Barret Jackman knocked the winner into the net with 51 seconds left to
play.  Dustin Brown gave the Kings a 1-0 lead on a power play
midway through the first period.  The teams move their series to  Los Angeles  tomorrow for
Game 3.  At Honda Center in Anaheim, California, the Red Wings blew
a 4-1 lead in the third period.  Justin Abdelkader, Damien Brunner and Johan Franzen scored
to give Detroit a 3-0 lead. Saku Koivu got a goal for the Ducks
and Franzen scored again, 20 seconds into the third period.  Ryan Getzlaf, Kyle Palmieri and Bobby Ryan then scored for
the Ducks to tie it at 4-4.  Gustav Nyquist got the winning goal for the Red Wings on a
power play 1:21 into overtime.  The series now moves to Detroit for Game 3 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  