-- RBS Falls in London Trading After Operating Profit Misses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-05-03T07:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/rbs-falls-in-london-trading-after-operating-profit-misses.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , the
recipient of the biggest bank bailout in history, dropped by the
most in 11 months after operating profit fell by more than
analysts estimated.  Operating profit declined to 829 million pounds ($1.3
billion) from 1.16 billion pounds a year earlier, Edinburgh-
based RBS said in a statement today. That missed the 1.2
billion-pound estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
The shares fell as much as 8.9 percent in London, the most since
June 28.  We’re “running hard to stand still,” Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Hester, 52, told reporters on a conference call
today. “If our customers aren’t growing we’re not going to
grow. We’re working hard on costs and impairments to offset
revenue trends. The business is solid, but it’s awaiting
economic recovery.”  Under pressure from the government to raise capital, Hester
said in February the bank would further shrink its profitable
investment-banking business. The bank, which received the
biggest banking bailout in the world in 2008, will
“substantially complete” its restructuring program next year,
Hester said today.  The shares fell 3.6 percent to 296.3 pence in  London  at
8:35 a.m. The stock has dropped about 9 percent this year,
making RBS the worst-performing bank in Britain.  Revenue at its investment bank, the markets division, fell
to about 1 billion pounds in the first quarter from 1.7 billion
pounds.  “The markets business is very disappointing,” said Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London with
a buy rating on the shares “There’s a risk the pressure the
government is putting on it kills the golden goose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  