-- Three-Year Hunt Nabs Hacker Who Popularized Cybercrime
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2013-05-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/three-year-hunt-nabs-hacker-who-popularized-cybercrime.html
An Algerian national who is allegedly
part of the cybercrime consortium behind a powerful hacking
software known as SpyEye appeared in an Atlanta courtroom after
a three-year manhunt ended with his arrest in a Bangkok airport.  Hamza Bendelladj, known for years in underground computer
forums simply as Bx1, was accused in a 23-count indictment of
crimes including computer and bank fraud. The charges, unsealed
yesterday, stem from his role in selling and supporting SpyEye,
which allows hackers to hijack victims’ bank accounts through
their own computers.  “Bendelladj’s alleged criminal reach extended across
international borders, directly into victims’ homes,” U.S.
Attorney Sally Quillian Yates in Atlanta said in a statement
before his arraignment.  SpyEye, which can be purchased for as little as $2,000,
helped turn hacking into an easy and lucrative occupation and
drove a cybercrime boom that has drained tens of millions of
dollars from bank accounts in the U.S. and  Europe , according to
Brett Stone-Gross, a security expert at Dell SecureWorks in
Atlanta.  The use of SpyEye has fallen off in the past year as law
enforcement operations against the group have intensified,
Stone-Gross said in an e-mail.  Thailand Arrest  Bendelladj, 24, was extradited from  Thailand  at the request
of U.S. authorities after his arrest there on Jan. 5. Wearing a
dress shirt and black athletic pants, he smiled frequently and
chatted in the courtroom. He said he didn’t need an interpreter
because he spoke fluent English.  Bendelladj was unable to enter a plea because his attorney,
Damian Martinez, hasn’t been approved yet to practice in
Georgia. Martinez said after the hearing that his client would
plead not guilty when he returns to court next week.  Prosecutors said Bendelladj is a flight risk and requested
that he be held without bail.  Bendelladj, who according to the indictment also helped
support hacking operations by providing servers to control the
hijacked computers, is a close associate of SpyEye’s creator, a
shadowy hacker known by the nickname ‘gribodemon,’ according to
security experts who helped track the group.  One expert who aided in the investigation said that
Bendelladj’s real identity was uncovered through a series of
mistakes made by the hacker, including the use of two e-mail
addresses that led to his Facebook account. The researcher
recorded a 2011 conversation with Bendelladj in  Asia , which
helped the FBI confirm his identity. The security expert asked
not to be named because Bendelladj’s associates are still at
large.  Enhanced Effectiveness  Prosecutors allege that Bendelladj sold the SpyEye hacking
software as well as designed modules that enhanced its
effectiveness.  The software can be customized to get around the security
of specific banks’ websites. Once a computer is infected with
SpyEye, hackers can use it to take over online banking sessions
and transfer money to accounts they control. It can also be
programmed to automatically steal passwords to e-commerce sites
and scrape credit card numbers and expiration dates.  The case is U.S. v. Bendelladj, 1:11-cr-0557, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net.fede  