-- Rodriguez to Rehab in Florida as Chamberlain Joins Disabled List
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/rodriguez-to-rehab-in-florida-as-chamberlain-joins-disabled-list.html
Alex Rodriguez  will begin
rehabilitation at the New York Yankees’ Florida training
complex, while right-handed reliever Joba Chamberlain is the
latest addition to the team’s disabled list with an abdominal
muscle strain.  Rodriguez, 37, will arrive in Tampa, Florida, on May 6 to
continue his recovery from left hip surgery, General Manager
 Brian Cashman  said yesterday.  “Every conversation we’ve had with the physical therapist
is that he’s exactly where he needs to be,” Cashman said on the
team’s website. “He’s on time, he’s working hard. I’ve never
heard anything about he’s ahead of schedule or ahead of time.”  Third baseman Rodriguez, writing on his Facebook page, said
he was “really excited to be getting closer to being back on
the field.” Rodriguez is fifth on the Major League Baseball
career list with 647 home runs.  Chamberlain was placed on the 15-day disabled list with a
mild right oblique strain, retroactive to April 28, the team
said.  Shortstop  Derek Jeter , third baseman Kevin Youkilis, first
baseman  Mark Teixeira , outfielder  Curtis Granderson , catcher
 Francisco Cervelli  and pitchers Ivan Nova and Michael Pineda are
also on the disabled list.  Chamberlain, 27, hasn’t pitched since April 27 because of
the injury. He has a 3.86 earned run average and one save in 10
appearances this season.  “Joba is a pretty miraculous healer, more so than anybody
I’ve seen,” Cashman said. “He does get hurt, but when he does,
he usually bounces back pretty quick.”  While the disabled list expands, Cashman said the team
would “keep plugging along.”  “This is a tough spot for Joba to have to take a time out
for the next 14 days, but it’s going to give somebody else an
opportunity and somebody else a chance to find a way to help us
win games,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  