-- Qiwi Advances in Nasdaq Debut After $213 Million Sale
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-05-03T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/russian-payment-company-qiwi-selling-shares-in-nasdaq-ipo.html
Qiwi Plc (QIWI) , an instant-payment operator,
rose in its first day of trading on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market
after raising $213 million in the second initial public offering
by a Russian company this year.  The  stock  rose 0.5 percent to $17.08 in New York, while the
Nasdaq Composite Index added 1.1 percent.  The company priced 12.5 million American depositary shares
at $17 apiece, according to a statement issued yesterday.
Shareholders, including billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s Mail.ru
Group, sold the stock and granted the underwriters of the sale
options on 1.875 million securities. The deal was priced in the
middle of the $16 to $18 per share offer range.  Qiwi, based in Nicosia, Cyprus, enables merchants to accept
cash and  electronic payments  from as many as 65 million
customers a month, according to the statement. The company runs
11 million so-called virtual wallets co-branded with  Visa Inc. (V) 
and operates cash-collecting terminals and kiosks. Revenue last
year totaled $293 million, and profit attributable to
shareholders amounted to $30 million, Qiwi said.  Russia ’s market for electronic payments probably doubled to
as much as 250 billion rubles ($8.1 billion) in 2012 and Qiwi
wallet, a system of electronic payments, “grew faster than the
market,” Boris Kim, the company’s chairman, said in an
interview at Nasdaq’s headquarters today. “The market grows so
fast that it’s too early to talk about any serious competition
in the next few years.”  WebMoney and Yandex.Money are the biggest rivals for Qiwi,
and the company benefits from operating both terminals and
kiosks that accept cash for payments, according to Kim. OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest bank, bought 75 percent of
Yandex.Money in December.  Second IPO  Yandex NV (YNDX) , owner of Russia’s most-used search engine, also
trades on the Nasdaq and is up 4 percent since its 2011 IPO.  Qiwi is the second Russian company to hold an IPO this year
after the Moscow Exchange raised 15 billion rubles in the
biggest debut on a Russian bourse since 2007. Qiwi initially
applied to raise $100 million before increasing the offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse Group SA acted as
joint bookrunners for the offering, and Robert W. Baird & Co.
Inc.,  Renaissance Capital , William Blair & Co. LLC were co-
managers, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  