-- Rwanda Readies First IPO in Two Years With I&M Bank Unit Listing
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a
-- 2013-05-03T11:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/rwanda-readies-first-ipo-in-two-years-with-i-m-bank-unit-listing.html
Rwanda ’s Stock Exchange plans to have
its first listing since June 2011 this year with I&M Bank’s
local unit, Banque Commerciale du Rwanda Ltd., Capital Market
Authority Chief Executive Officer Robert Mathue said.  The Rwandan government will sell its 20 percent stake in
Banque Commercial du Rwanda on the market, he said in an
interview yesterday in Kigali. He declined to give the amount
the stake may be worth. The bourse also plans to begin trading
corporate and Treasury bonds this year, Mathue said.  “We expect Banque Commerciale du Rwanda to list on the
market and other companies that the government still has shares
in,” Mathue said. Other listings are being discussed “but due
to disclosure restrictions, we can’t mention the companies.”  The bourse was established in 2005 and has had four equity
listings since the first in June 2009, split evenly between
Rwandan and Kenyan companies. It has one corporate bond, a 1
billion Rwandan francs ($1.59 million) 10-yr security by Banque
Commerciale du Rwanda, and 3-year and 5-year Treasury bonds
worth a total of 5 billion francs, according to its website. The
market’s capitalization is $1.9 billion.  Rwanda’s government plans to raise 10 billion francs by the
end of the 2014-2015 financial year by divesting 13 state
companies, according to a copy of the prospectus for the
country’s debut Eurobond. Its sale of stakes in  Bank of Kigali
Ltd . and Bralirwa SA via IPO gave the bourse its only local
listings, which account for 99 percent of trading, according to
the bond prospectus.  Nairobi-based companies are also planning to follow peers
such as Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. and Nation Media Group Ltd.
in cross-listing on the Rwandan bourse, Mathue said.  “We have received applications from a number of Kenyan
companies,” he said, including Uchumi Supermarkets Ltd., Equity
Bank Ltd. and KenolKobil Ltd. All three either have operations
in Rwanda or plan to expand there. Officials at the companies
were not available for comment when called at their offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  