-- S. Korean Workers to Exit Joint Plant With North Cutting Contact
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-03T08:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/s-korean-workers-to-exit-joint-plant-with-north-cutting-contact.html
The last remaining South Korean
workers at an industrial zone jointly run with North Korea will
leave the complex today, bringing activities to a halt for the
first time since the park opened nearly a decade ago.  Seven workers will re-enter South Korea at 5:30 p.m. local
time, South Korea’s Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk
said by phone in  Seoul . North Korea had prevented them from
leaving the Gaeseong complex earlier this week over a dispute
over unpaid wages and bills.  The withdrawal of the workers severs one of the last
channels of inter-Korean contact and shutters a plant that has
been an important source of income for the North. It comes amid
weeks of tension on the Korean peninsula since Kim Jong Un’s
regime in February conducted an atomic test and threatened
preemptive nuclear strikes against its enemies.  “The very existence of Gaeseong used to ease the political
tension between the two Koreas, so shutting it down even
temporarily means higher geopolitical risk,” Cho Bong Hyun, a
research fellow at IBK Economic Research Institute, said by
phone today before the ministry’s announcement. “It’s not easy
to shut Gaeseong, but it will be much more difficult to reopen
because restarting would need a shift in political climate
before both Koreas approve it again.”  North Korea  recalled all of its workers from the factory
park on April 8 to protest U.S. and South Korean joint annual
military drills which concluded this week. The decision by South
Korean President Park Geun Hye to withdraw workers was
“inevitable” after North Korea refused to hold talks over the
facility, Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said on April 26.  Profitable Park  Companies at the complex, about 10 kilometers (six miles)
north of the demilitarized zone on the border between the two
countries, have produced more than $2 billion of goods since
Gaeseong opened in 2005, according to Unification Ministry data.  North Korea generates $100 million in annual profits at
Gaeseong, while  South Korea  makes quadruple that amount,
according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul.  North Korea has not allowed supplies of food or medical
equipment into the complex since April 3. Gaeseong has remained
open during previous periods of tension, including tests of
nuclear weapons and missiles in both 2006 and 2009, and the 2010
deaths of 50 South Koreans in a ship sinking and the shelling of
a South Korean border island by the North.  South Korea will provide 300 billion won ($273 million) in
emergency loans for companies hurt by the closing of Gaeseong,
the Unification Ministry said yesterday. Damages include losses
from suspended factory production and inability to ship
completed products from the complex, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  