-- Samsung, Google, Nike, FIFA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-03T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/samsung-google-nike-fifa-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which is
battling  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for dominance in the smartphone market,
filed an application for a technology that permits the turning
of a “page” in an e-book.  Application  20130104017 , published yesterday in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, covers a
method and apparatus for displaying an e-book in a terminal.
According to the patent, an opened page would be modified based
on the position of a pointer.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, filed the application
in October.  Apple received a U.S. design patent on a display screen
with a page-turning function in November. Patent D670,713 covers
the ornamental design for a display with an animated graphic
user interface.  The Cupertino, California-based company filed its patent
application in December 2011, according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Google Seeks Patent on Identification of Problematic E-Mail  Google Inc. (GOOG) , creator of the most-used Internet search
engine, filed an application for a patent on a technology aimed
at identifying e-mails that may violate a company policy or leak
company secrets.  Application  20130110748 , published yesterday in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, covers
“methods and systems for identifying problematic phrases in an
electronic document, such as an e-mail.”  According to the application, a phrase in the text of the
message is compared against a database of phrases previously
determined to be problematic. If there is a match between the
phrases, the user is alerted by an online message.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , said in the
application that employees often knowingly or unknowingly will,
in e-mails, discuss actions that could “that could potentially
lead to violations of company policy, such as a confidentiality
policy, or run afoul of the law.”  The application was filed in August.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Nike Responds to Under Armour Suit, Says ‘I Will’ Is Weak Mark  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Beaverton, Oregon-based sporting-goods
manufacturer, responded to a lawsuit by Under Armour Inc. by
describing its disputed “I Will” trademark as “weak and
diluted.”  Under Armour sued Feb. 21 in federal court in Baltimore,
where it’s based, accusing Nike of infringing the “I Will”
trademark. According to court papers, Under Armour used the mark
since at least 1998 in connection with “hundreds of products
and in advertising.”  The company objected to promotional content on a Nike page
on Facebook Inc.’s social media site featuring images of
athletes and phrases that included “I will protect my home
court” and “I will finish what I started.”  Under Armour claims that Nike’s use of this phrase creates
confusion in the marketplace and causes consumers to believe
falsely that an affiliation exists between the two companies.  It sought orders barring Nike’s use of “I will,” the
destruction of any allegedly infringing content and promotional
material, and corrective advertising. Additionally, the company
requested awards of attorney fees, litigation costs and money
damages, and requested that the damages be tripled to punish
Nike for its actions.  In its April 29 response, Nike said that the phrase “I
will” used in combination with other words “is and has been in
common use by others, including in connection with athletic
apparel and products.” Under Armour’s mark is “at best a weak
and diluted phrase,” Nike said.  Nike said that Under Armour bought some of the rights to
trademark from others in 2012, and that those are limited to
certain classes of products. Under Armour and the mark owner
“have acquiesced in, and failed to adequately police the many
non-party users” of the phrase, Nike claims.  The Oregon company asked the court for a declaration that
it didn’t infringe the Under Armour mark and that the mark is
invalid. Nike requested that the mark’s registration be
canceled.  The case is  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  v. Nike Inc., 13-cv-00571,
U.S. District Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  ‘Golden Balls’ Trademark Fight Goes to European Court of Justice  A U.K. couple who operate a clothing company has taken its
battle over the “Golden Balls” trademark to the European Court
of Justice, the Brent & Kilburn Times  reported .  Their fight is with professional soccer’s governing body,
the  Federation Internationale de Football Association , which
awards the “Ballon d’Or” -- Golden Ball -- award to its
outstanding players, according to the newspapers.  To date, the couple has spent more than 100,000 pounds
($155,000) fighting FIFA’s claim that their underwear label
infringes its trademark, according to the Times.  They told the newspaper they weren’t going to walk away and
surrender to FIFA’s demands just because the league had more
money, the Times reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Canadian Head Shop Raid Yields Allegedly Infringing Merchandise  A chain of tobacco shops in Winnipeg, Ontario, that bills
itself as “ the dopest head shop in the prairies ” was raided by
local and federal police in search of merchandise that infringed
copyrights, the Canada.com news website  reported .  Merchandise seized at “The Joint” included paraphernalia
with images of characters from cartoons and video games,
according to Canada.com.  The seized merchandise represented 75 percent of the shops’
stock, and was in plain view, Canada.com reported.  Appeals Court Sanctions Tilmon’s Widow in Music Copyright Case  A U.S. appeals court sanctioned the widow of a member of a
1970s rhythm and blues singing group for filing a frivolous
appeal in a copyright lawsuit.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Cincinnati said May 1 that a
lower court correctly determined that Janyce H. Tilmon-Jones
lacked standing to file an appeal in a copyright suit involving
the song “ You’re Getting a Little Too Smart ,” written by her
late husband Abrim Tilmon Jr.” She hadn’t shown she was
“strongly affected” by the judgment in the case and also
failed to show that the default judgments against the infringer
were obtained by fraud, the court said.  The court characterized the conduct of the widow and her
counsel as “objectively and patently meritless and a waste of
judicial resources.” The appeal was frivolous and sanctions
were appropriate, the court said.  The appeals court granted the motion for attorney fees and
court costs by the plaintiff in the underlying copyright case,
 Bridgeport Music Inc.  of Southfield,  Michigan .  The case is Bridgeport Music Inc., v. Smith, 12-01523, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Frontier Scientific Employee Didn’t Take Secrets, Court Says  A federal court in Utah found that a former employee of
Frontier Scientific Inc. didn’t steal company secrets.  Prabhu Prasad Mohapatra did plead guilty to one count of
unlawful access to a protected computer. He was sentenced to
time served and required to pay $3,435.25 in restitution.  Frontier Scientific, based in Logan, Utah, makes compounds
used in scientific research and porphyrins, which are organic
compounds that help form substances in the body.  Mohapatra was accused of e-mailing recipes for some of
Frontier Scientific’s products to a relative in  India . The case
was filed in December 2011.  The court said that the evidence the government presented
failed to meet the requirements for a trade secret. Public
source material existed for the alleged trade secrets, the court
said.  The case is U.S. v. Mohapatra, 11-cr-00132, U.S. District
Court, District of  Utah  (Salt Lake City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  