-- Samsung, BlackBerry 10 Devices Approved for U.S. Military
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-03T07:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/samsung-blackberry-10-devices-approved-for-u-s-military.html
The Pentagon cleared  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930) ’s devices for use on its networks, signaling the
start of a battle for military market share among top smartphone
makers.  The Defense Department yesterday approved use of the Suwon,
South Korea-based company’s devices running a secure version of
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  The move gives Samsung, the largest seller of smartphones
for commercial use, the chance to compete with Waterloo,
Ontario-based BlackBerry, the Pentagon’s dominant provider of
mobile devices. Apple Inc. devices may gain a similar security
clearance this month, according to Lieutenant Colonel Damien
Pickart, a Pentagon spokesman.  “This is a significant step toward establishing a multi-
vendor environment that supports a variety of state-of-the-art
devices and operating systems,” Pickart said in a statement
yesterday.  The Pentagon also gave security approval to  BlackBerry (BBRY)  10
smartphones and PlayBook tablets, according to the statement.  The U.S. National Security Agency worked with Samsung to
create “Secure-Enhanced Android,” a version of Google’s
operating system with multiple layers of software and hardware
protection, Tim Wagner, Samsung vice president and general
manager of enterprise, has said.  Knox Security  The system, called Knox, lets employers keep corporate and
military applications and data in a secure place on a smartphone
or tablet, and remotely erase them if necessary. If a worker
leaves the company or loses a device, employers don’t need to
worry about data being lost, Wagner has said.  Samsung, Asia’s largest technology company, said the Galaxy
S4 released last month will be the first smartphone using Knox.  “This approval enables other government agencies and
regulated industries such as health care and financial services
to adopt Samsung Galaxy smartphones and tablets,” Shin Jong Kyun, head of Samsung’s mobile business, said in an e-mail
statement today.  “This is a significant milestone for Samsung as we work to
grow our relationships within government and large corporate
enterprises.”  BlackBerry, Apple  Scott Totzke, BlackBerry’s senior vice president of
security, said in a statement that the new BlackBerry 10
“offers a rich, highly responsive mobile computing experience,
along with BlackBerry’s proven and validated security model.”  While the military has relied on BlackBerrys, which have
consistently received federal certification for protecting
sensitive data, it had announced its intention to open its
networks to Android and  Apple (AAPL)  alternatives.  The Pentagon has more than 600,000 mobile devices,
including 470,000 BlackBerrys, 41,000 Apple products and 8,700
platforms running Google’s Android operating system, according
to a department statement. Many of the Apple and Android
products in use aren’t connected to Defense Department networks
except for testing.  The  military  has said it wants employees to have the
flexibility to use commercial products such as Apple iPads and
iPhones on its systems, including its classified network for the
first time. It plans to create a military mobile applications
store and hire a contractor to build a system that may
eventually handle as many as 8 million devices.  The Defense Information Systems Agency plans to select a
company or group of firms by early summer to develop the
architecture to manage mobile devices and distribute software
applications, according to John Hickey, the agency’s mobility
program manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  