-- SAS Sells 80% of Norway’s Wideroe Unit in Pursuit of Cost Cuts
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-05-03T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/sas-sells-80-of-norway-s-wideroe-unit-in-pursuit-of-cost-cuts.html
SAS Group (SAS)  said it plans to sell 80
percent of its Wideroe Flyveselskap AS unit for 2 billion kroner
($310 million) as the Nordic region’s largest airline seeks to
slash costs and return to profit.  SAS will retain a 20 percent stake in the Norwegian
regional carrier, with the option to transfer full ownership to
buyers  Torghatten ASA (TORG) , Fjord1 AS and Nordland Fylkeskommune in
2016, the Stockholm-based airline said in a statement today. The
carriers will continue to cooperate commercially.  The Scandinavian company is seeking to slash expenses as
low-cost carriers including Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA on short-
haul routes and network operators such as  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group
reduce their own cost bases. The Wideroe deal will reduce SAS’s
financial leverage by as much as 2.3 billion kroner if it sells
out completely and trims the negative effect of amended
reporting standards for pensions to 6.9 billion kroner.  “This divestment is in line with the 4Excellence Next
Generation strategy to build a long-term financially strong
SAS,” Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafsson said. SAS’s
4Excellence savings plan, introduced in November, aims to
deliver 3 billion kronor in savings over the next two years.  Today’s transaction comes one month after SAS sold the
majority of its ground-handling operations to Swissport
International AG and includes Wideroe buying seven Dash Q400
jets that it was leasing from its parent. SAS said it expects a
capital loss of 230 million kroner in the case of a full sale.  Separately, SAS said that a joint-venture agreed in 1995
with  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  on flights between Scandinavia and
 Germany  will end June 1. The airlines will continue to code-
share and customers will not be negatively affected, SAS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  