-- Service Industries in U.S. Expand at Slowest Pace Since July
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-05-03T14:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/service-industries-in-u-s-expand-at-slowest-pace-since-july.html
Service industries in the U.S.
expanded in April at the slowest pace in nine months, adding to
signs that the world’s largest economy is cooling.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
 index  declined to 53.1 last month from 54.4 in March, a report
from the Tempe, Arizona-based group showed today. The  median 
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a decline to 54. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion in the industries that make
up almost 90 percent of the economy.  The report, following the group’s factory index that showed
less growth among manufacturers, indicates federal budget cuts
and higher payroll taxes are filtering through the economy. At
the same time, a rebounding  housing market  remains a source of
strength and is helping keep the expansion from faltering.  “We are starting to see some of the drag from fiscal
tightening,” Robert Dye, chief economist at Comerica Inc. in
 Dallas , said before the report. The figure is “consistent with
an expanding service sector, but not robustly expanding.”  Estimates of the 71 economists in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 52 to 55.1 for the index, which accounts for almost
90 percent of the economy and includes industries from utilities
and retail to health care, housing and finance. Before today,
the gauge averaged 53.6 since the recession ended in June 2009.  Another report today showed employers added more workers in
April than projected. The 165,000 increase in payrolls followed
a revised 138,000 gain in March that was bigger than initially
forecast.  Employment Measure  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s  employment gauge  dropped
to 52 in April, the lowest since November, from 53.3. The
measure of  new orders  were little changed at 54.5 after 54.6. A
gauge of business activity decreased to 55, the lowest since
June, from 56.5. The index of prices paid fell to 51.2 from
55.9.  A measure of order backlogs decreased in April to 51.5 from
54.5 in the prior month.  The ISM’s factory survey earlier this week showed
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, expanded in April at the slowest pace in four months as
across-the-board  federal budget  cuts started to pinch. The gauge
fell to 50.7 from 51.3 the prior month.  Household purchases are cooling, reflecting in part the two
percentage-point increase in the payroll tax that took effect at
the start of this year. Consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, climbed 0.2 percent in March
after a 0.7 percent rise the prior month. The gain was supported
by a jump in outlays for services, amid cooler-than-normal
temperatures, that is unlikely to be repeated.  The Federal Reserve said this week that it will continue
its record monetary policy aimed at boosting growth. The Fed
announced it will keep buying bonds at a pace of $85 billion a
month and is ready to raise or lower that level as economic
conditions evolve.  FOMC Statement  Bond buying will continue “until the outlook for the labor
market has improved substantially,” the Federal Open Market
Committee said in a statement released at the conclusion of a
two-day meeting in  Washington . It also left unchanged its
statement that it plans to hold its target interest rate near
zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the
outlook for inflation doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  At the same time, the housing industry has shown further
signs of healing since the end of the recession that was
triggered by collapse in the mortgage market.  New-home construction climbed to its highest level in
almost five years last month. Starts increased 7 percent to a
1.04 million annual rate, the most since June 2008, from a
revised 968,000 pace in February. Sales of  new homes  rose 1.5
percent to a 417,000 annual pace in March, completing the
strongest quarter since 2008.  Existing Homes  More Americans than forecast signed contracts in March to
buy previously owned homes, the National Association of Realtors
reported earlier this week. The  index  of pending home sales
increased 1.5 percent after a revised 1 percent decline the
prior month.  Low borrowing costs are attracting buyers who are able to
access credit. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage was
3.35 percent last week, the lowest since the week ended Jan. 3,
according to Freddie Mac. Borrowing costs reached 3.31 percent
in November, a record low in data going back to 1972.  Such demand is benefiting homebuilders such as Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)   “With five quarters of generally improving market
conditions in the rearview mirror, I think it’s safe to say that
a sustained recovery in demand for housing is indeed under
way,” Richard Dugas Jr., PulteGroup’s chief executive officer,
said on an April 25 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  