-- Slovenian Bonds Rally After $3.5 Billion Government Debt Sale
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-05-03T13:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/slovenian-bonds-rally-after-3-5-billion-government-debt-sale.html
Slovenia’s bonds gained for a third
day after the government’s $3.5 billion bond sale eased concern
that the Adriatic nation will be forced to ask for a bailout.  The yields on the government’s dollar notes due 2022
tumbled 15 basis points from yesterday to 5.4 percent, the
lowest since March 25, bringing the two-day drop to 32 basis
points. The government yesterday sold $2.5 billion of 10-year
bonds at 6 percent and $1 billion of five-year bonds at 4.95
percent.  Slovenia, mired in its second recession since 2009 amid
 Europe ’s debt crisis, is working to rescue its troubled banks
and avert an international bailout. While the nation’s
“significant economic challenges” are manageable if “decisive
action” is taken, the country must outline its plan, the
European Union’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today.  “There is no stress with refinancing now, so it’s time to
act,”  Jaromir Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Prague ,
wrote in an e-mailed note.  Slovenia’s three biggest banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d.,  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  and Abanka Vipa d.d., are
all state-owned or controlled and make up almost 50 percent of
the financial system. The government’s rescue plan, which should
be presented to the European Commission by May 9, includes a 900
million-euro ($1.2 billion) capital boost and the creation of a
so-called bad bank to cleanse lenders’ balance sheets.  ‘Important Step’  The bond sale is “an important step to create conditions
to carry out targets set out in the government’s program,”
Finance Minister Uros Cufer said today in an e-mailed statement.  The proceeds from the sale “should ease near-term concerns
on the country’s finances as well as concerns about an imminent
bailout being necessary,”  Jens Larsen , chief European economist
at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, and Norbert Aul, European
rates strategist at RBC, wrote today in an e-mailed note.  Still, the need for an international rescue remains a
danger as the recession will stretch into next year because of
weak domestic demand, the European Commission said in its spring
forecasts, published today.  Gross domestic product will contract 2 percent in 2013 and
0.1 percent in 2014 as rising unemployment affects private
consumption, the commission predicted. This year’s budget gap
will widen to 5.3 percent of GDP, narrowing to 4.9 percent in
2014, according to the commission.  Beyond Reach  Slovenia meeting its deficit targets “now seems out of
reach,” and EU authorities may consider giving the nation more
time to bring the shortfall within its 3 percent of GDP limit,
Rehn told a news conference today in Brussels.  The  Finance Ministry  postponed its dollar bond sale April
30, shortly before Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s
credit rating to junk. Moody’s lowered the grade two levels and
gave it a negative outlook, signaling it may further reduce the
ranking.  The  cost  of insuring Slovenian  government bonds  against
non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps fell 3
basis points to 281 today after declining 16 basis points
yesterday, according to London prices. That compares with 113
for  Turkey  and 273 for  Croatia , also rated Ba1 by Moody’s.  Standard & Poor’s (SPY)  and Fitch Ratings both rate Slovenia four
steps higher at A-.  Proceeds from the bond sale will be used to pay for the
recapitalization of the state-owned banks as well as advance
funding for some of the government’s 2014 and 2015 borrowing
needs, S&P said yesterday in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  