-- SocGen Leads Banks Doubling Structured Note Sales as UBS Slumps
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-05-03T08:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/socgen-leads-banks-doubling-structured-note-sales-as-ubs-slumps.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have more than doubled their sales of
structured notes this year, bucking a decline among some of last
year’s biggest issuers.  The three banks raised a total of $3.4 billion from the
securities that package debt with derivatives, up from $1.6
billion in the same period last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The data exclude securities sold in the U.S. and
notes where the principal returned can vary. The lenders are now
among the top six issuers of structured notes outside the U.S.,
replacing  UBS AG (UBSN) , Barclays Plc and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the data
show.  The shift comes as banks respond to new capital rules and
increased scrutiny of structured notes. Some lenders are
shrinking or scaling back their derivatives businesses, both to
bolster capital and avoid stricter requirements governing sales
of the securities.  “Banks have varying appetite for exotic derivatives-based
business given regulatory constraints and caution regarding
investor suitability,” said Annemarie Ganatra, the global head
of medium-term and structured notes at HSBC in  London . Also, “a
number of dealers are going through, or have been through, big
restructurings, which means that structured notes may have
become less of a focus or a less centralized business.”  SocGen,  France ’s second-biggest lender, raised $1.7 billion
from sales of the securities this year compared with $870.9
million in the same period of 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. HSBC boosted sales to $805.1 million from $370.2
million while JPMorgan sold $868 million compared with $344.3
million.  UBS Decline  Zurich-based UBS, which is eliminating 10,000 jobs and most
of its debt-trading businesses, issued $36.5 million of
structured notes this year, a 98 percent drop from the same
period last year, according to Bloomberg data. Hana Dunn, a
spokeswoman for UBS in London, declined to comment on the
issuance.  Switzerland ’s biggest bank is among lenders shifting sales
of structured notes to off-balance-sheet issuing vehicles. Sales
by UBS’s special-purpose vehicles are also down, falling to $316
million from $1 billion in 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Deutsche Bank’s sales of the notes in its own name slumped
72 percent to $421.5 million this year, while the Frankfurt-
based lender’s SPVs issued $1.2 billion, up from $1.1 billion in
the same period of 2012, Bloomberg data show.  Under Scrutiny  European and U.S. regulators are scrutinizing the
securities amid criticism they are opaque and overly complex.
Rabobank Groep is shutting its structured notes business and
cutting jobs on concern new disclosure rules will hurt demand
and increase costs.  Germany ’s DZ Bank AG remains the biggest issuer outside the
U.S. this year. The Frankfurt-based lender sold $8 billion of
structured notes, up from $6.2 billion in the same period in
2012, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America Corp.  is the leading seller in the U.S.,
though issuance fell 25 percent this year to $1.58 billion. New
York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  sold $1.56 billion of structured notes
through April, 25 percent more than the first four months of
last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Matt Card, a spokesman for Bank of America, did not return
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. Lauren Onis, a
spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, Sebastian Howell, a spokesman
for Deutsche Bank in London, Patrick Burton, a spokesman for
JPMorgan, and Jodie Gray, a spokeswoman for Barclays, declined
to comment on the sales figures.  Structured notes package debt with derivatives to offer
customized bets to investors while earning fees and raising
money. Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  