-- Stephen Poloz Named Bank of Canada Head Replacing Carney
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-03T13:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/stephen-poloz-named-bank-of-canada-head-replacing-carney.html
The appointment of Stephen Poloz as
 Canada ’s next central bank head taps his experience leading the
country’s export-financing body as the world’s 11th largest
economy relies on trade and business investment to lead growth.  Poloz takes over the Bank of Canada June 3, replacing  Mark Carney  after he leaves to lead the  Bank of England . The choice,
announced yesterday by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , surprised
economists who had picked Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem as
the most likely candidate. Poloz, 57, has been chief executive
officer of  Export Development Canada , and worked 14 years at the
central bank in roles including head of research.  Policy makers have kept their benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent since 2010 in the longest pause since the 1950s and say
growth over the next years must shift to being led by exports
and company spending from housing and consumers. The central
bank earlier this month slashed its 2013 growth  forecast  to 1.5
percent from 2 percent, the lowest in the Group of 20 outside of
 Europe , according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  “The government is well aware we are in an increasingly
international economy and the fate of the Canadian economy
depends to a great degree on what is happening overseas,” Jamie Price, director of fixed income at Macquarie Private Wealth in
Toronto, said in an interview. “Choosing someone that focused
the last decade plus of their career on business overseas seems
to be an extension of what they have already done.”  Weaker Currency  Canada’s currency weakened after the announcement on
concern that Poloz may adopt an easier monetary policy than
Carney or drop the bank’s language that interest rates may rise.
The nation’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to C$1.0105 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday. The currency traded 0.2 percent higher today at
C$1.0090 at 9:31 a.m. in Toronto.  “What we’re looking for is that the engine of growth on
the demand side gradually shifts into the export side of the
economy,” Poloz told reporters yesterday. “What we watch for
is the resumption of creation of new companies, and that is just
beginning.”  Poloz said his time at EDC has given him experience “with
both banks and Canadian companies day-by-day.”  “It gives us a true anecdotal feel for what is going on in
the Canadian economy, which I consider to be of exceptional
value,” Poloz said.  American Demand  Exports make up about a third of Canada’s economy, and
three-quarters of those sales are to the U.S. The drops in
American demand for goods such as lumber and automobiles have
left Canada’s exports 8.1 percent lower today than they were at
the peak before the last recession.  Bank of Canada  policy makers said in an April 17 decision
that “considerable monetary policy stimulus currently in place
will likely remain appropriate for a period of time, after which
some modest withdrawal will likely be required.” Still, the
Bank of Canada is alone in the Group of Seven signaling that an
increase in rates is possible while central banks in the U.S.,
Europe and  Japan  purchase assets to spur growth.  Poloz “does not own this tightening bias,” said Ed Devlin, the head of Canadian-portfolio management team at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s largest manager of bond funds. “The markets
are wondering if, when, the bank will remove the tightening bias
and so I think that’s another reason the Canadian dollar might
depreciate a little bit and people might think rates might go
just a little bit lower.”  Trade Surplus  Canada yesterday posted its first  trade surplus  in a year
in March, breaking the longest string of deficits in at least 25
years as exporters shipped more energy and mineral products
abroad. The surplus of C$24 million ($24 million) followed a
revised shortfall of C$1.25 billion in February.  “Canada cannot exhibit strong growth when the rest of the
world is slowing down,” said Aubrey Basdeo, head of Canadian
fixed-income at the Toronto unit of BlackRock Inc., the world’s
biggest money manager. “The government wants some new thinking,
not the same old same old.”  Poloz’s appointment, which CIBC World Markets economists
Benjamin Tal and Emanuella Enenajor called a “huge surprise,”
marks the third straight time the senior deputy failed to be
promoted to the governor’s job, following  David Dodge  who moved
from the finance department to take the helm in 2001, and
Carney, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker, in 2008.  ‘Utmost Respect’  “I have the utmost respect for Steve as an economist, and
as a public servant,” Macklem said in a statement e-mailed by
the central bank. “I look forward to working with him as a
colleague on the Bank’s Governing Council as we carry out the
important mandate of the Bank of Canada.”  Investors may be wrong to expect Poloz will bend monetary
policy to benefit exports, said Christopher Ragan, economics
professor at  McGill University  and a former finance department
adviser who did research with Poloz at the bank.  “Steve is first and foremost a macroeconomist who
understands monetary policy and knows that the only instrument
the bank has to control inflation is interest rates,” Ragan
said in a telephone interview. “I see no dove in Stephen
Poloz.”  Poloz told reporters that the bank’s flexible inflation
targeting policy has served Canada well through the financial
crisis. The bank’s six-member governing council works by
consensus and unlike the U.S. Federal Reserve, it doesn’t
publish meeting minutes or vote tallies.  Humble Beginnings  A native of Oshawa, Ontario, east of Toronto, Poloz has a
doctorate and master’s degree in economics from  London ,
Ontario’s Western University as well as a bachelor’s degree in
the same field from Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. He
and his spouse, Valerie, have two children.  “He is a great communicator and that’s a very important
role,” said  Craig Wright , chief economist in Toronto at Royal
Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank by assets. “He can
connect to people and he can convey complex ideas.”  Poloz has said his career in central banking had a humble
beginning. One of his first jobs was to read newspapers to then
Senior Deputy Governor John Crow, who had strained his eyes,
Poloz said in a 2005 interview.  Carney surprised financial markets Nov. 26 by saying he
would leave his job and cut short his seven-year term by 20
months to take over the Bank of England.  The central bank’s  board  of outside directors selects
governors with the approval of the federal cabinet. The job is
for a seven-year renewable term and last year paid a range of
C$431,800 to C$507,900. That’s higher than Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s 2012 salary of C$315,462, a figure that doesn’t
include perks such as the official residence. By comparison,
 Richard Waugh , chief executive officer of  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
Canada’s third-biggest lender, received C$11.1 million of
compensation last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  