-- Swiss Real Estate Market Grew Riskier, UBS Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-03T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/swiss-real-estate-market-grew-riskier-ubs-says.html
Risks to  Switzerland ’s housing market
increased further in the first three months of the year, raising
the question as to whether authorities have taken sufficient
steps to prevent the bursting of a bubble.  The UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index rose to 1.17 points
in the first quarter from 1.11 points in the three months to
December, according to a statement from  UBS AG (UBSN)  today. A reading
above 2 would indicate a bubble.  “The risks in the real estate market have continued
to rise,” Matthias Holzhey and Claudio Saputelli at UBS said in
the statement.  With the central bank easing policy to take pressure off
the franc, Switzerland is in the throes of the biggest rise in
real estate prices in twenty years. The SNB has held its
benchmark  interest rate  at zero since August 2011 and in
September of that year capped the franc at 1.20 per euro to
shield the economy from the crisis in the neighboring euro
region.  High immigration, particularly of skilled workers from
European Union countries, has also kept demand for housing
strong.  In a bid to curtail risk, the government in February
announced banks would have to hold additional capital to guard
against losses on  mortgage loans . The rules, which come into
effect in October, are in addition to new guidelines introduced
in June to discourage banks from handing out loans to clients
who can’t afford them.  Last month, SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine said it
was as yet too early to say whether the capital buffer was
having any effect. Household indebtedness, chiefly due to
mortgages, is also rising at a pace faster than economic growth,
further grounds for concern, Danthine said.  The SNB holds its next quarterly monetary policy review on
June 20, when it will also release its annual financial
stability report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  