-- Syria Opposition Groups Report ‘Large’ Village Massacre
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-03T11:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/syria-opposition-groups-report-large-village-massacre.html
Forces loyal to President Bashar al- Assad swept into a coastal village, killing dozens of people,
Syrian opposition groups said.  “Reports now confirm a large-scale massacre in Baida,”
the  Syrian National Coalition  said in a statement on its
Facebook page. “Assad’s forces were directly involved” in the
violence in the area.  The Coventry, U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights  said it documented 50 deaths in the raid yesterday,
including women and children. Dozens of villagers are missing
and the toll may reach more than 100, it said, citing witnesses.  The Syrian army, backed by Shabiha militiamen, rampaged
through Baida, rounding up and executing villagers before
setting the bodies on fire, the opposition Local Coordination
Committee said on its Facebook page. It also reported shelling,
blocked roads and gunfire. Baida is situated on Syria’s
Mediterranean coast.  Government forces are engaged in offensives across the
country, according to the Observatory, which has detailed
fighting in the central city of Homs, Deir Ez-Zour in an oil-
producing eastern region and Qusayr, near the border with
Lebanon. The two-year long conflict has cost “well over”
70,000 lives, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said
in March.  It wasn’t possible to authenticate reports of the events in
Baida.  Syria ’s state-run SANA news agency said troops killed
“terrorists” as part of efforts to seize weapons.  Prisoner Killings  Both sides in the civil war have made accusations of
massacres. The bodies of at least 65 people, mostly men aged
20-30 year old, were found on the banks of Quweiq River in the
Syrian city of Aleppo, the Observatory said in January. They had
been shot at point-blank range.  Human rights groups including London-based Amnesty
International have accused both sides in Syria of unlawfully
killing prisoners.  Syrian Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi last week survived a
bomb explosion that killed at least six people as his convoy
traveled through Damascus, state television said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  