-- U.K. Services Growth Unexpectedly Accelerates as Momentum Builds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-03T08:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/u-k-services-growth-unexpectedly-accelerates-as-momentum-builds.html
U.K. services  unexpectedly
strengthened in April as new business rose, adding to signs that
Britain’s economic recovery may gain momentum.  A gauge of activity rose to 52.9, the highest in eight
months, from 52.4 in March, Markit Economics and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said today in  London .
Economists had forecast a reading of 52.4, according to the
median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion.  Britain’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
avoiding a  triple-dip recession , and two surveys this week
showed that manufacturing and construction shrank less than
economists forecast in April. While these have added to signs of
a nascent recovery, weak demand in the euro area and a fiscal
squeeze at home may restrain the pace of expansion.  “A broad-based improvement is becoming evident in the U.K.
economy, greatly reducing the likelihood of the  Bank of England 
seeing any need to increase its asset purchases in the immediate
future,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit in
London.  The BOE holds its next policy meeting on May 8-9. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey is for policy makers to
leave their stimulus program on hold at 375 billion pounds ($583
billion).  Foreign Demand  Sales at services companies rose the most in almost a year
as market conditions strengthened, according to the report.
“New products, better weather and increased foreign demand were
all reported to have supported new contract wins,” Markit said.
There was also a “modest” increase in employment.  The pound erased its decline against the dollar after the
report and traded at $1.55347 as of 9:38 a.m. London time, up
0.1 percent from yesterday.  Markit said yesterday that its  construction index  rose to
49.4 in April from 47.2 in March, exceeding economists’
forecasts. A report on May 1 showed that manufacturing barely
shrank last month, with a factory index rising to 49.8 from
48.6.  The weighted index from the three surveys rose to 52.1 in
April from from 51.0 in March, its highest since August. This
suggests that the economic growth in the first quarter persisted
“and may have gained momentum at the start of the second
quarter,” Williamson said.  ECB Policy  The  European Central Bank  cut its  benchmark interest rate 
by a quarter point to a record low of 0.5 percent yesterday. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said at a press conference after the
decision that officials may take the unprecedented step of
charging banks to park excess cash with the ECB overnight and
that another reduction in the main rate is possible.  A report yesterday underscored the weak economic picture in
the euro region, with a manufacturing gauge showing the industry
contracted for the 21st month in April.  In  China , the country’s services industries expanded at a
slower pace last month, adding to the drag on growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy after manufacturing lost
momentum. The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell
to 54.5 from 55.6 in March, the  National Bureau of Statistics 
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a
statement today in Beijing.  U.S.  service industries  probably grew in April at close to
the same pace as in March. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing index slipped to 54 from 54.4, according to
the median estimate of an economist survey.  Also in the U.S., employers probably hired more workers in
April than in the prior month. Payrolls increased by 140,000
workers after an 88,000 gain in March, according to the median
forecast from 90 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 unemployment rate  may have stayed at 7.6 percent, separate data
may show, according to economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  