-- U.S. April ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-05-03T14:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/u-s-april-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S. non-
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  April Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business  NMI at 53.1% Business Activity Index at 55% New Orders Index at
54.5% Employment Index at 52%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in April
for the 40th consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing and
supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 53.1 percent in
April, 1.3 percentage points lower than the 54.4 percent
registered in March. This indicates continued growth at a
slightly slower rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-
Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 55 percent,
which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 56.5 percent
reported in March, reflecting growth for the 45th consecutive
month. The New Orders Index decreased by 0.1 percentage point to
54.5 percent, and the Employment Index decreased 1.3 percentage
points to 52 percent, indicating growth in employment for the
ninth consecutive month. The Prices Index decreased 4.7
percentage points to 51.2 percent, indicating prices increased
at a slower rate in April when compared to March. According to
the NMI™, 14 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in
April. Respondents’ comments remain mostly positive about
business conditions. Cost management and revenue pressures are
areas of concern for many of the respective companies.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 14 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
April -- listed in order -- are:   Transportation & Warehousing;
Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; Construction;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Information; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing;  Wholesale Trade ; Public Administration; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting; and Finance & Insurance. The four industries
reporting contraction in April are: Mining; Educational
Services; Other Services; and Health Care & Social Assistance.
WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  •     “Similar demand as 2012; demand well-controlled by
suppliers. Overall demand trend to become weak.” (Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting) •     “Continued corporate cost
pressures creating greater demand for cost
restructuring/productivity work.” (Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services) •     “Business continues to fluctuate,
making it extremely difficult to forecast. Economic uncertainty
is clearly a factor that is influencing discretionary spending.
Marketing efforts, therefore, are focused mostly on increasing
the spend per visit, getting consumers to stay longer at the
property as the frequency of repeat business trends down.”
(Arts, Entertainment & Recreation) •     “Revenue pressures are
creating challenges on the expense side of the house.” (Finance
& Insurance) •     “Reducing costs in healthcare and higher
education remains of paramount importance.” (Educational
Services) •     “We are seeing no real change for our next fiscal
year -- budgets are still tough with anticipated spend at
previous-year levels.” (Public Administration) •     “Business
appears to be on the up-swing.” (Transportation & Warehousing)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price A/C Parts; Beef (5); Chicken Products
(4); Fuel* (4); Lumber -- Plywood, Spruce and Treated (6);
 Natural Gas  (2); Pharmacy Products (5); Skilled Labor; and
Software Development/Maintenance.  Commodities Down in Price Computer and Peripherals; Copper
Products; #1  Diesel Fuel  (2); #2 Diesel Fuel; Fuel*; and
Gasoline (2).  Commodities in Short Supply Drugs; and Pharmacy Products (4).  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item. *Reported as both up and down in
price.  APRIL 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI In April, the NMI registered 53.1 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 40th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-
manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  NMI HISTORY  Month     NMI  Month     NMI Apr 2013     53.1     Oct 2012     54.8 Mar
2013     54.4     Sep 2012     55.2 Feb 2013     56.0     Aug 2012     54.3 Jan 2013  55.2     Jul 2012     52.9 Dec 2012     55.7     Jun 2012     52.7 Nov 2012  54.8     May 2012     54.1 Average for 12 months - 54.4 High -
56.0 Low - 52.7  Business Activity ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity
Index in April registered 55 percent, 1.5 percentage points
lower than the 56.5 percent registered in March. Twelve
industries reported increased business activity, and four
industries reported decreased activity for the month of April.
Comments from respondents include: “Increased customer base” and
“Improved economic environment.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity
in April -- listed in order -- are:  Accommodation & Food
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Utilities; Retail Trade; Construction; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Wholesale Trade; and Public Administration. The industries
reporting decreased business activity in April are: Educational
Services; Other Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; and
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  New Orders ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in
April for the 45th consecutive month. The index registered 54.5
percent, a decrease of 0.1 percentage point from the 54.6
percent reported in March. Comments from respondents include:
“Implementation of new projects” and “New product placements.”  The 13 industries reporting growth of new orders in April -
- listed in order -- are: Transportation & Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Construction; Retail Trade; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Information; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Utilities;
Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; and Public Administration. The five
industries reporting contraction of new orders in April are:
Mining; Educational Services; Other Services; Health Care &
Social Assistance; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.  Employment Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector
grew in April for the ninth consecutive month. ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Employment Index registered 52 percent, which
reflects a decrease of 1.3 percentage points when compared to
the 53.3 percent registered in March. Ten industries reported
increased employment, and six industries reported decreased
employment. Comments from respondents include: “Increasing work-
force levels” and “Right-sizing the operations to the economy
right now.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in April --
listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Construction; Transportation & Warehousing;
Wholesale Trade; Information; Public Administration;
Accommodation & Food Services; Health Care & Social Assistance;
and Finance & Insurance. The industries reporting a reduction in
employment in April -- listed in order -- are: Mining;
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Utilities; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Arts, Entertainment & Recreation.  Supplier Deliveries The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 51
percent in April, indicating that supplier deliveries were
slower in April for the fourth consecutive month. A reading
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, while a reading
below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.  The five industries reporting slower deliveries in April are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Retail Trade; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Transportation & Warehousing. The three industries
reporting faster supplier deliveries in April are: Mining;
Information; and Finance & Insurance. Ten industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in April compared to March.  Inventories ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in
April for the third consecutive month. The index registered 56
percent, which is 4.5 percentage points higher than the 51.5
percent reported in March. Of the total respondents in April, 26
percent indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure
them. Comments from respondents include: “Overseas shipments
ordered last year are now arriving” and “Increased inventory to
support maintenance activities.”  The 11 industries reporting an increase in inventories in April
-- listed in order -- are:  Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Educational Services; Utilities; Mining; Retail Trade;
Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance;
Construction; and Wholesale Trade. The five industries reporting
decreases in inventories in April are: Other Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Information; Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services; and Public Administration.  Prices Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for
purchased materials and services increased in April for the 43rd
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
April registered 51.2 percent, 4.7 percentage points lower than
the 55.9 percent reported in March. In April, the percentage of
respondents reporting higher prices is 22 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 68 percent,
and 10 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Eleven non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid during the month of April, in the following order:
Mining; Wholesale Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Educational Services; Utilities;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Retail Trade; Public
Administration; Finance & Insurance; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services.  The four industries reporting
a decrease in prices paid during April are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Construction; Management of
Companies & Support Services; and Information.  NOTE: Commodities reported as up in price and down in price are
listed on page 3 of this report.  Backlog of Orders ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders
Index grew in April for the third consecutive month. The index
registered 51.5 percent, which is 3 percentage points lower than
the 54.5 percent that was reported in March. Of the total
respondents in April, 39 percent indicated they do not measure
backlog of orders.  The seven industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
April -- listed in order -- are:  Construction; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Public Administration; and Wholesale Trade.
The five industries reporting a decrease in order backlogs are:
Other Services; Retail Trade; Mining; Finance & Insurance; and
Health Care & Social Assistance. Six industries reported no
change in backlog of orders for the month of April compared to
March.  New Export Orders Orders and requests for services and other
non-manufacturing activities to be provided outside of the
 United States  by domestically based personnel grew in April for
the fourth consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for
April registered 53.5 percent, which is 3 percentage points
lower than the 56.5 percent reported in March. Of the total
respondents in April, 69 percent indicated they either do not
perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work outside
of the United States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export orders in
April -- listed in order -- are:  Construction; Information;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Accommodation & Food
Services; Public Administration; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The four industries reporting a decrease in
export orders in April are: Health Care & Social Assistance;
Other Services; Finance & Insurance; and Wholesale Trade.  Imports The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in April
for the fourth consecutive month. This month’s reading at 58.5
percent is 1 percentage point higher than the 57.5 percent
reported in March. Fifty-seven percent of respondents reported
that they do not use, or do not track the use of, imported
materials.  The eight industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of April -- listed in order -- are: Finance & Insurance;
Public Administration; Retail Trade; Wholesale Trade;
Construction; Information; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Accommodation & Food Services. The two industries
reporting a decrease in imports for the month of April are:
Health Care & Social Assistance; and Transportation &
Warehousing. Eight industries reported no change in imports for
the month of April compared to March.  Inventory Sentiment The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory
Sentiment Index in April registered 60.5 percent, which is 1
percentage point higher than the 59.5 percent reported in March.
This indicates that respondents believe their inventories are
still too high at this time. In April, 27 percent of respondents
said their inventories were too high, 6 percent said their
inventories were too low, and 67 percent said their inventories
were about right.  The eight industries reporting a feeling that their inventories
are too high in April -- listed in order -- are: Mining;
Utilities; Wholesale Trade; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; Public Administration; Retail Trade; and Finance &
Insurance. The three industries reporting that their inventories
are too low in April are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Health Care & Social Assistance; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. Six industries reported no
change in inventory sentiment for the month of April compared to
March.  About this Report The data presented herein is obtained from a
survey of non-manufacturing supply managers based on information
they have collected within their respective organizations. ISM
makes no representation, other than that stated within this
release, regarding the individual company data collection
procedures. Use of the data is in the public domain and should
be compared to all other economic data sources when used in
decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report
On Business® is based on data compiled from purchasing and
supply executives nationwide. Membership of the Non-
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is diversified by NAICS,
based on each industry’s contribution to gross domestic product
(GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses
are divided into the following NAICS code categories:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Utilities;
Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade; Transportation &
Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Educational
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services; Public
Administration; and Other Services (services such as Equipment &
Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering Religious
Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning &
Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care Services,
Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary Parking
Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-
manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent
out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents
the first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY
report on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are
listed in the order of most growth to least growth. For the
industries reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed
in the order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management , the first supply
institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and
serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to enhance the value and performance of
procurement and supply chain management practitioners and their
organizations worldwide.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
May 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday,
June 5, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  