-- Credit Swaps Fall to More Than 5-Year Low in U.S. on Jobs Data
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-03T20:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/u-s-credit-swaps-decline-for-second-day-before-payrolls-data.html
 A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
declined to the lowest level in more than five years as
employment increased more than forecast in April.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.9 basis points to a mid-price of 71.4 basis points at 4:04
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index is closing at the lowest level since Nov. 6, 2007, when it
reached 68.8.  Payrolls expanded by 165,000 workers last month following a
revised 138,000 increase in March that was larger than first
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of 90 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 140,000 gain. The jobless rate fell to 7.5 percent,
the lowest level since December 2008, from 7.6 percent in March.
Improving economic data may ease investor concern that companies
will struggle to repay debt.  “The market had gotten to a spot where expectations were
lower than the survey number,” Jon Duensing, head of corporate
credit at Smith Breeden Associates, said in a telephone
interview from Boulder,  Colorado . “Not only was the headline
number positive but the revisions were higher as well, and
that’s supporting today’s positive price action.”  Credit Floor  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Orders placed with U.S. factories fell 4 percent in March,
the biggest drop since August, following a revised 1.9 percent
gain the prior month that was smaller than previously estimated,
the Commerce Department reported today in Washington. The median
 forecast  of 58 analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted orders
would fall by 2.9 percent.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 6.8 basis points to 351.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt tightened 10.3 basis points to 495.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  “CDX indices have outperformed equities in the last couple
of weeks and look too tight in that perspective,” JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analysts led by  Eric Beinstein  said in a note
yesterday. “Still, it remains true that credit has a floor and
equities don’t have a ceiling, in our view.”  Apple Swaps  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , International Business Machines Corp. and Texas
Instruments Inc. led dollar-denominated bond sales of $43
billion in the busiest week this year for high-grade technology
companies as relative yields narrowed.  Apple kicked off the rush of issuance when it announced on
April 23 that it was planning to raise debt for the first time
in almost two decades to help fund a $100 billion capital reward
for shareholders. Microsoft Corp., the world’s largest software
maker, came to market later that week with a $2.67 billion
offering in euros and dollars. That was followed by a $1 billion
issue from Texas Instruments and a $2.25 billion offering from
IBM, which obtained record-low coupons on its first sale in
three months.  Record Coupons  Five-year credit swaps tied to Apple’s debt eased 0.7 basis
point to 26 basis points as of 3:25 p.m., according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That means it would cost the equivalent of $26,000
annually to protect $10 million of obligations for five years.  The largest U.S. maker of smartphones set a record for the
biggest corporate bond sale ever with its $17 billion six-part
offering on April 30, Bloomberg data show. Orders for the Apple
sale totaled $52 billion, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who asked not to be identified citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly.  “There’s still tremendous demand for spread fixed-income
assets,” Duensing said. “The reported order book behind
Apple’s recent new issuance supports that demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  