-- U.S. Prosecutors Pursuing Libor Convictions, Raman Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-03T19:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/u-s-prosecutors-pursuing-libor-convictions-raman-says.html
U.S. prosecutors are pursuing guilty
pleas, criminal convictions and “significant monetary
penalties” from banks and their employees in the global
investigation into the rigging of benchmark  interest rates , a
senior  Justice Department  official said.  Mythili Raman, the acting head of the department’s criminal
division, said authorities “are not done” with the wide-
ranging probe that has led to resolutions with three
international banks, including the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  in February, and criminal charges against two former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
traders.  “Banks will be held to account through public admissions
of guilt, payment of significant monetary penalties and, as seen
with RBS and UBS, criminal convictions,” Raman said today at a
Washington  conference  sponsored by the Corporate Crime Reporter
newsletter. “Banks will be required to remediate their bad
behavior, individual targets will be charged and meaningful
cooperation from the subject banks will be demanded.”  The Justice Department’s criminal division joined
international regulators and law enforcement agencies in a probe
of more than a dozen banks for their roles in the alleged
rigging of interest rates including the London interbank offered
rate, or Libor.  Rigged Benchmarks  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS and RBS have been fined more than $2.5
billion in the probe. Japanese subsidiaries of UBS and RBS both
pleaded guilty as part of their resolutions. Traders rigged the
benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives, while banks sought
to submit artificially low rates to appear financially healthier
than they were, according to regulators.  The Justice Department’s efforts to secure convictions in
the Libor cases comes amid criticism from U.S. lawmakers of its
performance after the 2008 financial crisis. Members of Congress
seized on Attorney General Eric Holder’s comments at a March
hearing, where he said the economic reach of larger financial
institutions has had “an inhibiting impact” on prosecutions
against them.  Lawmakers including Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a
Massachusetts Democrat, and  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican, cited those comments when they pushed the department
for tougher settlements in cases against banks.  Raman, who became the acting head of the division after the
March 1 departure of  Lanny Breuer , said her division is putting
“a premium on securing cooperation from corporate entities” as
it pursues financial fraud and foreign bribery cases. The three
institutions that have settled their Libor cases are all
cooperating with the Justice Department as part of their
resolutions.  “Meaningful cooperation enables us to hold criminally
accountable to the fullest extent possible the widest possible
range of bad actors, from individuals responsible for the
criminal conduct to other business entities,” Raman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  