-- Huawei-Level 3 Sales Seen Off as Spy Concerns Ripple
-- B y   B r u c e   E i n h o r n   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-05-03T03:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/huawei-level-3-sales-seen-off-as-china-spy-concerns-ripple-tech.html
(Corrects spelling of Shenzhen in second paragraph.)  Huawei Technologies Co. has emerged as
the world’s second-largest maker of networking gear thanks to
growth in  China , Europe and  emerging markets . The U.S. business
is a different story.  Just $1.3 billion of the Shenzhen, southern China-based
company’s $35 billion in 2012 sales came from America. Now, amid
rising congressional concerns about Chinese government-
sanctioned hacking, Huawei may lose one of its most important
stateside customers:  Level 3 Communications Inc. (LVLT) , which runs a
broadband network that helps carry traffic for most telecoms.  Level 3 has bought $200 million in optical networking gear
from Huawei since 2009, according to an estimate by  Erik Suppiger , a JMP Securities LLC analyst. The Broomfield,
Colorado-based carrier is soliciting bids for its next three-
year order, and Huawei isn’t likely to win, said two people who
have spoken with Level 3 about its intentions and weren’t
authorized to discuss them publicly.  “There’s no way Level 3 will possibly select Huawei,”
said Andrew Schmitt, an analyst for Infonetics Research Inc.  Until recently, Level 3 has managed to keep its use of
Huawei gear out of the spotlight, possibly because it only sells
services to other networks. The company has never confirmed its
use of the equipment; the only public evidence of it is an
analyst report written at the time of the Huawei deal in 2009.
Jon Paul McLeary, a Level 3 spokesman, declined to comment.  AT&T, Verizon  In March, President  Barack Obama  signed into law an
appropriations bill that prohibits federal agencies from buying
IT systems from Chinese companies without first getting approval
from the FBI or other federal cyber-espionage investigators.
U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, a Republican from Michigan,
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, on April 8
reiterated that Huawei is a security risk to the U.S.  Citing similar concerns,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  have spurned use of the privately held
company’s network gear for years, and  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s attempted
takeover of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  was held up partly because
SoftBank uses Huawei equipment. At an April 23 meeting at
Huawei’s headquarters, Executive Vice President Eric Xu told
stock analysts the company was “not interested in the U.S.
market anymore.”  Huawei’s effective blacklisting in the U.S. may result in a
backlash against American technology companies in China. The
magazine  China Economy  and Informatization ran a cover story
about the security threats of San Jose, California-based  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s equipment in November, replacing the “S” in
Cisco with a snake, shortly after its sales partnership with
Shenzhen-based equipment maker  ZTE Corp. (763)  ended.  Cisco Slowdown  “The Chinese government may choose to retaliate against
U.S.-based IT vendors by enacting a similar policy for screening
IT system purchases in China,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
the Software Alliance, and nine other industry groups wrote in
an April 4 letter to congressional leaders.  Cisco’s  sales  in China fell 4 percent in its most recent
quarter, to about $500 million. The slowdown was caused in part
by a spending lull during the presidential transition from Hu Jintao to Xi Jinping, according to Jaime Valles, the company’s
new head of Asia Pacific operations.  Cisco may be somewhat insulated from a backlash because of
its long history in China. The company worked closely with the
Chinese government to develop the country’s Internet
infrastructure in the 1990s and continues to teach thousands of
Chinese technicians to use its products.  Infinera, Ciena  Joyce Ding, a teacher at the Institute of Services
Outsourcing in the eastern Chinese city of Suzhou, spent three
weeks last year training at Cisco’s Silicon Valley headquarters.  “Cisco sets the standard for networking,” she said.  China hasn’t been as hospitable to other Huawei competitors
in the $12 billion optical networking business. U.S. providers
 Infinera Corp. (INFN)  and  Ciena Corp. (CIEN)  both pulled out of China in the
past decade.  “I no longer have any interest in selling to China,”
Infinera Chief Executive Officer Tom Fallon said.  Now those U.S. companies are among the favorites to win
back the Level 3 account, said Ray Mota, an ACG Research
analyst. Nevin Reilly, a Ciena spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bruce Einhorn in Hong Kong at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff Muskus at 
 jmuskus@bloomberg.net  