-- UBS Looks at All Investor Input on Knight Vinke Proposal
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-05-03T14:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/ubs-looks-at-all-investor-input-on-knight-vinke-proposal.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is always looking at all
shareholder suggestions, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti 
said, a day after investor  Knight Vinke  Asset Management LLC
called for a spinoff of the lender’s investment bank.  “We’re taking the input and suggestions of every
shareholder always very carefully,” Ermotti, 52, told  Bloomberg
News  in an interview at a conference in  St. Gallen ,  Switzerland 
today. “Yesterday was a good opportunity for all our
shareholders to come to the AGM and voice their opinions.”  Ermotti’s comments come a day after New York-based Knight
Vinke said in an open letter to shareholders before UBS’s annual
general meeting that ownership of the investment bank, which
“nearly destroyed UBS” during the financial crisis, could be
transferred to employees and managers. In 2011, a $2.3 billion
loss from unauthorized trading at the unit led to the exit of
former CEO  Oswald Gruebel , three years after the bank received a
government bailout to ward off a collapse.  UBS shares  rose  0.4 percent to 16.85 Swiss francs at 4:20
p.m. in Zurich. They have gained about 18 percent this year,
trailing Credit Suisse Group AG’s 24 percent increase.  Knight Vinke, led by founder Eric Knight, targets large,
publicly traded companies and seeks to recruit other
institutional investors to press the companies’ management to
change course. In 2007, the firm said that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Europe ’s largest bank, misled investors about a new share plan
payable in 2008 to reward management.  ‘Serious Threat’  The firm wrote in the letter that it questions “the merits
of keeping the investment bank under the same roof as the wealth
management and Swiss banking businesses.”  Investment banking 
“is a very risky business,” which poses “a serious threat.”  No Knight Vinke representative spoke publicly at
yesterday’s shareholder meeting in Zurich and the proposal to
split off the investment bank wasn’t discussed. The firm says it
owns almost 1 percent of UBS shares.  Ermotti announced plans last year to eliminate 10,000 jobs
and exit most debt-trading businesses to concentrate on money
management and boost profitability. UBS this week posted first-
quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Pay Structures  The investment bank posted a 92 percent gain in first-
quarter pretax profit to 977 million francs ($1 billion), UBS
said on April 30. That was more than triple the average
analysts’ estimate of 321 million francs. The unit had a pretax
return on equity of 49.5 percent for the quarter, up from 17
percent a year earlier.  The lender has changed its pay structures, limiting cash
payouts, after almost 37 percent of shareholders voted last year
against its 2011 compensation report. Yesterday, the 2012 report
was approved with 83 percent of the votes.  “Clearly our shareholders understand that we’re fixing
past mistakes in a critical and constructive way, but the firm
also needs to look forward,” Ermotti said today. “We’re
pleased with the recognition of our shareholders for these
efforts.”  Ermotti, who was appointed CEO in November 2011, said later
during a panel at the conference that had UBS introduced its
current pay structure in 2004 or 2005, it would “most likely”
not have needed the bailout as claw-back provisions are linked
to long-term performance.  “The real problem is to make sure that people are paid for
sustainable performance,” Ermotti said. “And you can only
measure sustainability over the next at least three to five
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  