-- Hungary Court Okays Anti-Semitic Protest at Jewish Summit
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-05-03T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/hungary-court-okays-anti-semitic-protest-at-jewish-summit.html
A Hungarian court overturned a police
ban on a planned anti-Semitic protest tomorrow, to coincide with
a meeting of the World Jewish Congress in Budapest.  The court ruled that police failed to ban the protest
within a 48-hour limit and also failed to provide evidence for
why it wants to stop the protest, according to the  ruling  posted
on the Metropolitan Court’s website today.  The president of the radical nationalist Jobbik party,
Gabor Vona, is scheduled to speak at the event to remember “the
victims of Bolshevism and Zionism,” MTI state news service
reported today.  Anti-Semitism has been on the rise in  Hungary , with Jobbik
now the third-biggest party in Parliament. Jobbik lawmaker
Marton Gyongyosi on Nov. 26 called for a list to be drawn up of
Jewish legislators and government members who pose a “national
security risk.” More than 500,000 Hungarians, mostly Jews, were
killed in the Holocaust, according to the Budapest-based
Holocaust Memorial Center.  The WJC holding its meeting in Budapest is a “strong
signal” that Hungary is on a “dangerous track,” President
Ronald S. Lauder said in an article published by Suddeutsche
Zeitung on April 4. The plenary assembly begins on May 5.  Ruling ‘Unacceptable’  The court’s ruling is “unacceptable” and violates the
spirit of the Constitution, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in
a statement today. Orban, who will address the WJC on Sunday,
said he asked the head of the  Supreme Court  to “review what
legal tools are available” to reverse the ruling and ordered
his interior minister to block the protest.  Lauder, in his article, said Orban “panders to the far-
right fringe of Hungarian politics,” an allegation the premier
rejected in a Yedioth Ahronot interview published today.  “We are not anti-Semites,” Orban said, according to the
Israeli newspaper. “Our policy is based on zero tolerance for
antisemitism.”  Jewish groups criticized the government last year for
expanding the reading curriculum for schools to include books by
Jozsef Nyiro, a member of Parliament during World War II and an
ally of Ferenc Szalasi, a former head of the fascist Arrow Cross
party who was executed for  war crimes . Parliament speaker Laszlo Kover, who co-founded the ruling Fidesz party along with Orban,
organized a reburial ceremony for Nyiro last year. The
government has denied seeking to legitimize anti-Semitic views.  Anti-Semitism Fine  In March, the government decorated television journalist
Ferenc Szaniszlo, whose program was fined for anti-Semitic and
anti-Roma messages. The government asked the journalist to
return the award after protests by Israel and the U.S.  Stung by the international criticism, the government
invited members of the International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance to visit in July and sent officials to the U.S. to meet
with Jewish groups. In January, European and Israeli officials
from the Inter-Parliamentary Coalition for Combating Anti-
Semitism met with officials in Budapest.  Orban last month banned a motorcycle protest which had the
slogan “Give Gas” and which was to have coincided with a
Holocaust memorial march in Budapest. Jewish groups had
complained that the protest amounted to a call for genocide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  