-- Hungary’s Yields Fall to Record on Stimulus Bets: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-03T14:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/hungary-s-yields-fall-to-record-on-stimulus-bets-budapest-mover.html
Hungary ’s bond yields fell to a record
and the forint strengthened as the European Union cut its
forecast for the euro area, spurring speculation policy makers
will need to bolster measures to revive economies.  Yields on the government’s 10-year forint notes dropped 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 5.065 percent by 3:50
p.m. in Budapest. The forint appreciated 0.1 percent to 295.71
per euro, extending this week’s gain to 2.2 percent, the biggest
weekly rally in almost 11 months and the best performance among
31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The economy of the euro-area, Hungary’s biggest trading
partner, will shrink more than previously expected in 2013,
while the EU’s eastern member may grow 0.2 percent after
contracting 1.7 percent last year, the European Commission said
today. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi signaled
yesterday that further reductions in rates were possible after
cutting the main rate to a record 0.5 percent.  “The ECB strengthened expectations that central banks will
keep monetary policy loose,” Andras Sovany, a Budapest-based
fixed-income trader at ING Groep NV, wrote in an e-mail today.
“The extra liquidity is finding its place in  emerging
markets .”  The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds against non-payment
fell six basis points today to a three-month low of 278,
according to credit-default swap prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary’s central bank, where former economy minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  took over as president in March, has cut its
benchmark rate in nine consecutive steps of 25 basis points each
to an all-time low of 4.75 percent in April.  Rate Bets  BNP Paribas SA recommended investors buy the forint against
 Poland ’s zloty, saying “aggressive monetary policy easing in
Hungary is already largely priced in” while “major central
banks signal their readiness to increase monetary
accommodation,” according to an e-mailed report by Dina Ahmad,
a London-based strategist at the bank.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on three-month
interest in November fell today to 114 basis points below the
 Budapest interbank offered rate , showing that money-market
investors expect the key rate to drop to at least 3.75 percent.  “The market is starting to price in too much easing from
Matolcsy,” ING’s Sovany said.  Hungary’s budget deficit will widen to 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 3.3 percent in 2014 from 1.9
percent in 2012, breaching the EU’s limit of 3 percent,
according to the EU forecasts published today.  Deficit Plans  A further extension of the EU’s budget procedure against
Hungary may threaten the suspension of some EU development
subsidies needed to help exit recession. Hungary is not making
any contingency plans for such a scenario as the government is
prepared to take further action to keep the deficit under 3
percent if requested by the EU executive, Economy Minister
 Mihaly Varga  told reporters in Budapest today.  “We believe the European Commission is too harsh on
Hungary,” BNP’s Ahmad wrote. “But even if the numbers are
correct, we are still comfortable owning Hungarian assets.”  The forint and Hungary’s stocks extended gains after data
showed that U.S. employment picked up more than forecast in
April and the jobless rate unexpectedly declined to a four-year
low.  The benchmark BUX stock  index  rose 0.7 percent, led by a
1.7 percent advance for OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  