-- Vireol to Raise $124 Million for U.K. Wheat-to-Ethanol Facility
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-05-03T16:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/vireol-to-raise-124-million-for-u-k-wheat-to-ethanol-facility.html
Vireol Ltd. plans to raise about 80
million pounds ($125 million) to invest in building a bioethanol
plant in northeast  England , gaining a foothold in a market that
may be worth as much as 1.5 billion pounds by 2020.  The North Yorkshire-based company seeks to raise the money
by the first quarter, looking at strategic and private-equity
investors, as well as its current retail-investor base, Chief
Executive Officer David Knibbs said in an interview in London.  The U.K. plans to get 10 percent of the energy used in road
transportation from renewables such as bioethanol and biodiesel
by 2020. Vehicles contribute as much as 21 percent to its total
greenhouse gas emissions, according to the government.  “All investors and banks look for a strong lead from
government and at the moment our biofuels target only runs to
2020, compared to 2037 for renewables under the Renewable
Obligation regime,” said Knibbs. “We need more certainty.”  The European Union may  curb  the contribution food crop-
based fuel makes to its 10 percent goal for renewables used in
transportation. Under the plan, only half of the target can be
met using edible crops to reduce the effect on  food production .  Competition will be “fiercer” for the Vireol plant, which
will use wheat, if the EU proposal is implemented, Roberto Rodriguez Labastida, an analyst at London-based researcher
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  Vireol is working with Future Fuels LLP, set up by Future
Capital Ltd., to develop, build and operate the plant in Grimsby
producing as much as 200 million liters (52 million gallons) a
year. Building is due to start next year and operations in 2016.  “Hopefully over the next year the U.K. will start to
introduce E10, which would be 10 percent ethanol blended with
petrol,” the CEO said. “The government and carmakers are all
comfortable that European cars can manage this blend.”  The U.K.’s 10 percent target represents about 3 billion
liters of ethanol and a 1.5 billion pound market, he said.  Future Capital in March bought a U.S. bioethanol plant and
it plans to sell the facility to Future Fuels to bring some of
the equipment to Grimsby. The purchase will lower costs by about
50 million pounds from an original estimate, Knibbs said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  