-- Weatherford Up After Saying Mexico Profits to Grow: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-05-03T20:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/weatherford-up-after-saying-mexico-profits-to-grow-dallas-mover.html
Weatherford International Ltd. (WFT) , the
world’s fourth-largest oilfield services provider, rose after
forecasting increased profits in  Mexico  through the rest of this
year.  Weatherford climbed 7.2 percent to $13.59 at the close in
New York, the most for the Geneva-based company since Dec. 20,
2011.  While work in Mexico’s Chicontepec region is declining and
moving to other areas of the country, Weatherford expects profit
margins to rise through the year, Chief Executive Officer
Bernard Duroc-Danner told analysts and investors today on a
conference call.  “The company did a good job of putting away concerns,”
Byron Pope, an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. said today
in a telephone interview. He rates the shares at “accumulate,”
which means investors should buy the shares, and owns none.  Earnings per share in the second quarter are forecast to be
in the range of 16 and 18 cents, Duroc-Danner said. Excluding
one-time items, the company is  expected  to earn 18 cents,
according to the average of 29 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company cut capital spending guidance to a range
of 8 to 10 percent of total revenue, down from a range of of 8
to 12.  “People definitely want to see them rein in capex,” said
Luke Lemoine, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast in New
Orleans, who rates the shares a buy and owns none.  Excluding charges, Weatherford reported first quarter
earnings of 15 cents, one cent below the average of 30 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The fact that the quarter was reasonably normal, without
a lot of noise, was positive,” Stephen Gengaro, an analyst at
Sterne Agee in New York, said today in a telephone interview.
“They’ve had a lot of challenges.”  Schlumberger Ltd., Halliburton Co. and Baker Hughes Inc.
are the world’s largest oilfield-services providers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  