-- Xinhua Says Yuan Debate Focus Should Be How Level Is Set
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-03T17:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/xinhua-says-yuan-debate-focus-should-be-how-level-is-set.html
The debate over the  yuan ’s exchange
rate should focus on the mechanism by which the currency’s level
is set, not its actual valuation,  China ’s official Xinhua News
Agency wrote in an unsigned commentary yesterday.  The goal should be on “perfecting” the exchange-rate
mechanism to guide the yuan to a “dynamic” equilibrium, not on
the numerical value of the currency, Xinhua writes. Lawmakers
and economists find it “hard to determine” whether the yuan is
over- or undervalued, given that the exchange rate has many
influences, including foreign trade, capital flows and growth
prospects, Xinhua said.  “Losing the real focus of the debate would lead to
unreasonable acts such as the obsession of some U.S. politicians
in pressing for a drastic appreciation of the  renminbi , or
domestic resistance to any appreciation of the Chinese
currency,” Xinhua wrote. “In both cases, there will be a
‘lose-lose’ situation for both nations.”  People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor Yi Gang said during
an International Monetary Fund meeting last month that the
yuan’s trading band will be widened “in the near future.” The
currency is currently allowed to trade 1 percent on either side
of an official fixing. The central bank doubled the band a year
ago from 0.5 percent, the first widening since 2007.  U.S Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said last month that
China is making “some progress” on allowing the yuan to
strengthen and that he is watching the country’s currency
movements “very carefully.” Lew said he has told China’s new
leaders that they need to “expand the band” in which the yuan
trades.  Morgan Stanley boosted its year-end forecast for the yuan
to 6.1 per dollar from 6.3 this week, citing prospects for
trading-band expansion and an increase in market participants.  The yuan rose for a ninth week, advancing 0.2 percent to
6.1556 per dollar to cap the longest stretch of weekly gains
since November. The PBOC cut the daily  fixing  by 0.11 percent to
6.2152 per dollar yesterday after raising it by 0.2 percent May
2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  