-- China’s Yuan Strengthens for Ninth Week on Inflow Speculation
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-05-03T09:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-03/yuan-retreats-from-19-year-high-on-pboc-fixing-growth-concerns.html
China ’s yuan rose for a ninth week,
the longest winning streak since November, on speculation
capital inflows will support the currency.  The People’s Bank of China cut the daily  fixing  by 0.11
percent to 6.2152 per dollar today after raising it by 0.2
percent yesterday. Stocks rose the most in a week today after
valuations on the benchmark index dropped to a four-month low,
while the  Federal Reserve  said May 1 it is prepared to increase
the monthly pace of bond buying above $85 billion to guard
against any slump in growth or employment. Chinese markets were
closed on the first three days of the week for holidays.  “The  yuan  is likely to remain strong as capital inflows
continue,” said Stella Lee, president of Success Wealth
Management Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  The yuan advanced 0.15 percent this week to 6.1556 per
dollar and was little changed today, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.1537
yesterday, the strongest level since the government unified the
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The spot
rate in Shanghai is allowed to diverge a maximum 1 percent from
the daily fixing.  The nation’s financial and capital-account surplus surged
in the first quarter, data showed last week.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, jumped 21 basis
points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 1.64 percent this week. It
fell three basis points today.  Outlook ’Exaggerated’  Growth in China’s services output slowed in April, an
official  Purchasing Managers ’ Index showed today, after reports
this week indicated manufacturing is also losing momentum.  The yuan’s appreciation prospects may have been exaggerated
and there could be “periodic” depreciation in the future,
China Securities Journal reported today, citing analysts
including Tan Yaling, the head of China Forex Investment
Research Institute, a private research body. PBOC’s “more
aggressive” management of the yuan  reference rate  has driven
yuan gains, the newspaper cited Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences researcher  Liu Yuhui  as saying.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.19
percent this week and 0.04 percent today to 6.1549 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards rose 0.22 percent this week and were little
changed today at 6.2240, trading at a 1.1 percent discount to
the spot rate in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  