-- Abbott Spinoff AbbVie Begins Trading to Determine Value
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-10T21:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/abbott-spinoff-abbvie-begins-trading-to-determine-value.html
Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT)  spinoff began
trading on a “when issued” basis, with investors valuing the
new Abbott at $47.9 billion and the new drug company AbbVie Inc.
at $55.3 billion.  The when-issued trading will set stock prices and values
for the two companies when they officially split on Jan 1.
Abbott when-issued shares, which are trading under the ticker
 ABT-W (ABT-W) , began trading at $29.05 and rose 4.3 percent to $30.30 at
4 p.m. New York time. AbbVie when-issued shares, trading under
the ticker  ABBV-W (ABBV-W) , opened at $37 and fell 5.4 percent to $35.  The secondary market for the when-issued shares is in
parallel with regular Abbott stock, which fell less than 1
percent to $65.33. The Dec. 31 closing values of the when-issued
shares will set the opening prices for the split companies when
the break-up is complete and the two different stocks begin
trading on Jan. 2.  Abbott is dividing the Abbott Park, Illinois-based company
because the drug unit and other operations have grown into two
distinct business lines, Chief Executive Officer Miles White has
said. The split will enable investors to better value the two
businesses, he said when the decision was announced last year.
Stock for AbbVie, the drugmaker, will trade under the ticker
ABBV while Abbott will keep its current ticker, ABT.  The company has sought to expand use of the anti-
inflammatory injection Humira, the world’s best-selling medicine
with $7.93 billion in  revenue  last year, with new indications
beyond rheumatoid arthritis, such as ulcerative colitis and
pediatric Crohn’s disease. Abbott also is testing drugs to treat
hepatitis C and has a rheumatoid arthritis pill in development
with Belgian drugmaker Galapagos NV.  Abbott is the world’s biggest manufacturer of drug-coated
stents, including its top product Xience. The new Abbott will
also run the current company’s medical-device, diagnostic
equipment, baby food and generic drug businesses.  In October, the company announced that AbbVie will pay an
annual dividend of $1.60 a share, while Abbott shareholders will
get 56 cents a year. Abbott will have a tax rate of 21.5
percent, while AbbVie’s rate will be 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  