-- Abbott, Casio, Tesco, Best Buy: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-10T12:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/abbott-casio-tesco-best-buy-intellectual-property.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
take up a multibillion-dollar fight between the drug industry
and federal antitrust enforcers, a case that may determine how
quickly low-price generic medicines reach the market.  The justices said Dec. 7 they will use a case involving
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to scrutinize the “pay for delay”
agreements that the Federal Trade Commission says cost drug
buyers $3.5 billion each year. Under those accords, brand-name
drugmakers pay other companies to hold off selling generic
versions. The pharmaceutical industry says the agreements are
legitimate settlements of patent disputes.  Companies have struck more than 100 such deals since 2005.
Medicines made by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  have all been the focus of court cases as the
FTC under Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  seeks to crack down on the
practice.  Three of the four federal appeals courts to rule on the
issue have said the settlements, also known as reverse payments,
are generally permissible. Drug companies and antitrust
enforcers alike urged the Supreme Court to set a nationwide
standard. The court will rule by June.  The FTC, backed by the  Justice Department , is appealing a
ruling that rejected its suit against Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc., now owned by Abbott Labs, and three generic-drug makers
over Androgel, a treatment for low testosterone in men.  The FTC and its allies, including 31 states, say those
infringement claims are often baseless, making the settlements
similarly dubious. The agency says generic-drug makers, at least
in the 1990s and early 2000s, won about 75 percent of the patent
suits that have been litigated to final judgment.  The FTC says it has less concern about settlements that set
a date for generic entry without involving a payment, accords
that the agency says may simply reflect the prospects of success
in the infringement case. A reverse payment, by contrast, “is
most naturally understood as consideration for the generic
manufacturer’s agreement to delay market entry,” the FTC said.  Prices for generics typically are 20 percent to 30 percent
less than the name-brand counterparts, and in some cases are as
much as 90 percent cheaper, according to the FTC.  Drug companies say the settlements enhance competition and
encourage innovation. The Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America, which represents brand-name
drugmakers, told the justices that companies spend an average of
$1.3 billion to create a new drug, counting the cost of failed
products.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  Casio, Motorola Can Seek Sanctions on Patent Owner, Court Rules  Technology companies were given a new weapon to go after
patent owners who file frivolous lawsuits after an appeals court
ordered sanctions against a firm that sued  Casio Computer Co. (6952) 
and  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) ’s Symbol Technologies.  Raylon LLC made unreasonable claims of what its patent for
a ticket-writing machine covered, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit said Dec. 7, ordering a judge to consider
what sanctions to impose. It was clear that “no objectively
reasonable litigant” would make Raylon’s arguments of how to
define the patent, the court said.  The ruling by an appeals court that specializes in patent
law provides a tool for companies that claim they’re bombarded
with lawsuits by patent owners seeking cash even when they know
their patent doesn’t cover the product.  Companies such as Google Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc. have
pressed U.S. courts and Congress to tighten rules on patent
owners who don’t make products. Critics of such limitations,
including phone-chip maker  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , say rules attacking
the serial suers could lower the ability of inventors to obtain
compensation for their research and ideas.  In the Raylon case, the trial judge in Tyler, Texas, said
the ability to obtain sanctions was limited to those types of
nuisance-value suits. In its Dec. 7 decision, the Federal
Circuit said questionable litigation tactics aren’t the only
grounds for a court to sanction patent owners and their lawyers.  “Reasonable minds can differ as to claim construction
positions and losing constructions can nevertheless be
nonfrivolous,” the Federal Circuit wrote. “But, there is a
threshold below which a claim construction is so unreasonable
that no reasonable litigant could believe it would succeed.”
Raylon’s argument, it said, “falls below this threshold.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and U.S. Justice
Department have scheduled a daylong conference Dec. 10 in
Washington to consider whether the economy is hurt by so-called
patent assertion entities -- which use their patents to obtain
royalties rather than to protect products from copies.  The case is Raylon LLC v. Complus Data Innovations Inc.,
2011-1355, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Raylon LLC v. Complus Data
Innovations Co., 09cv355, U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas (Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  German Court Permits Two Different Breweries to Use ‘Duff’ Mark  Two German companies both have the right to use a trademark
associated with cartoon character for their beer, Germany’s
Federal Court of Justice ruled, and  Der Spiegel   reported .  The dispute was over the trademark for  Duff beer , a
 favorite of Homer Simpson , according to Der Spiegel.  Although Duff Beer UG, which has been in operation since
2007, had tried to block a second German brewery from using the
name, the court said both breweries could keep the mark,
according to the newspaper.  Duff Beer UG has also had legal disputes with Twentieth
Century Fox, which has tried to prevent anyone from making an
alcoholic beverage with that name for fear children would be
encouraged to drink it, Der Spiegel reported.  Nike Sued Over ‘Sinister Hare’ Line by ‘Psycho Bunny’ Makers  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the Beaverton, Oregon-based athletic-gear
company, was sued for trademark infringement by a New York
clothing company.  The lawsuit, filed Dec. 7 in federal court in Manhattan,
accuses Nike of infringing “Psycho Bunny” trademarks owned by
God Gold & Moore LLC, which said the name was developed in 2005
and initially used for a collection of handmade neckties.  God Gold & Moore registered the “ Psycho Bunny ” trademarks
in 2010 and uses them for a line of clothing and accessories,
according to court papers. “Psycho Bunny” products are worn by
such celebrities as actor Jim Carrey, singer Joe Jonas and the
New York Yankees’  Alex Rodriguez , the company said.  Nike’s “ Sinister Hare ” products are accused of infringing
the “Psycho Bunny” trademarks. Gold Gold & Moore said in its
pleadings that in addition to using a similar name, the Nike
products feature an image that is “confusingly similar” to the
“Psycho Bunny” image. Both feature a stylized rabbit head
above two stylized crossed bones.  The public is confused by the similar names and logos, God
Gold & Moore said, and is likely to assume falsely that a
connection exists between the companies. Nike is accused of
rejecting the God Gold & Moore demands after being sent cease-
and-desist letters since June.  Nike didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the lawsuit.  Gold Gold & Moore asked the court to bar further
infringement of its trademarks and for an order for the seizure
and destruction of all allegedly infringing “Sinister Hare”
merchandise and promotional material.  Additionally, the company asked for awards of money
damages, attorney fees, litigation costs and profits Nike
derived from the alleged infringement.  The case is God Gold & Moore LLC v. Nike Inc., 1:12-
cv-080907, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Tesco to Pay Aldi to Settle Irish Trademark Infringement Suit  Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s Tesco Ireland unit must pay 150,000 Euros
($194,000) to the German discount supermarket chain Aldi Einkauf
GmbH to settle a trademark suit, Ireland’s Independent newspaper
 reported .  The suit was related to Tesco’s price-advertising campaign
Aldi said mislead customers and made use of the German chain’s
trademarks, according to the Independent.  In the suit Aldi filed in May, the German company said that
the “final straw” in its dispute was the use of its logo in
banners displayed in Tesco stores, according to the newspaper.  Aldi initially sought the aid of Ireland’s National
Consumer Agency and Advertising Standards Authority before it
took the step of filing the infringement suit, the Independent
reported.  UTEP Tells Community College Its ‘Harvester’ Logo Infringes  The University of Texas at El Paso has told a community
college it must change its logo over trademark concerns, the
Eastfield College News  reported .  The “Harvesters” logo for  Eastfield College  looks too
much like the “Miners” logo, the student newspaper reported.  One logo features a man wearing a hat and holding a pickaxe
aloft, while the other features a hat-wearing man in a similar
position holding a scythe, according to the newspaper.  Mesquite, Texas-based Eastfield College has been given
until May 1 to phase out all uses of the logo, and has already
stopped making T-shirts and other promotional material on which
it was featured, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Best Buy Must Pay Additional $5 Million in Trade Secrets Case  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , the consumer electronics retail chain, has
been ordered to pay $27 million in damages in a trade secrets
case.  On November 16 a jury in federal court in Los Angeles
awarded TechForward Inc. $22 million for Best Buy’s
misappropriation of trade secrets related to an electronics buy-
back program.  According to court filings, U.S. District Judge Otis D.
Wright II added $5 million in exemplary damages Dec. 3, saying
he considered the jury’s finding of willful and malicious
misappropriation, and the guidance of the California Uniform
Trade Secrets Act.  TechForward, which sold its assets to San Francisco’s
SquareTrade Inc. earlier this year, filed suit in February 2011,
claiming its “Guaranteed Buyback Plan” was used without its
consent by Best Buy of Richfield, Minnesota. The electronics
retailer announced the allegedly infringing program with a  Super
Bowl commercial  featuring Justin Bieber and Ozzy Osbourne.  The case is TechForward Inc. v. Best Buy, 2:11-cv-01313-
ODW-JEM, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  IP Moves  Foley & Lardner Hires Two IP Litigators from Jones Day  Foley & Lardner LLP added two litigators to its IP practice
group, the Milwaukee-based firm said in a  statement  Friday.  The new hires are Jose L. Patiño and Nicola A. Pisano, both
of whom are joining from Washington’s  Jones Day .  Patiño has represented clients in federal courts, before
the U.S. International Trade Commission and as a special IP
counsel in bankruptcy court.  He has an undergraduate degree from the  University of
California  at Davis and a law degree from Harvard University.  Pisano has litigated patent and trade secrets cases in
federal courts and has represented clients in proceedings before
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  He has an undergraduate degree and a law degree from the
University of Notre Dame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 