-- Abe Poised for Second Turn at Helm as Japan Contracts
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-12-11T02:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/abe-seeks-redemption-in-second-turn-at-helm-as-japan-contracts.html
Shinzo Abe quit as Japan’s prime
minister five years ago, citing an intestinal disorder and
apologizing for being unable to fulfill his duties. Now on the
verge of retaking office, redemption may depend on whether he
can repair an economy that’s deteriorated in the interval.  Abe became the country’s youngest postwar premier in 2006
only to resign a year later. He was tapped in September again to
lead the  Liberal Democratic Party , which is forecast to regain
power in the Dec. 16 parliamentary election after its half-
century domination of Japan’s politics ended in 2009.  Having foundered in a tenure undermined by a pension
scandal and his own illness, Abe now faces a shrinking economy,
diplomatic tensions with  China  and the aftermath of a nuclear
meltdown. With successive prime ministers seeing initial public
support evaporate, he would also need to manage the expectations
of a disillusioned electorate that’s seen five heads of
government since Abe, 58, was last in office.  “The question is can Abe get tough, can he push something
through and not mind making enemies?” said LDP legislator
Katsuei Hirasawa, who was a tutor to Abe more than 40 years ago.
“We will have to see, but what I am hearing from him and those
close to him is, he has learned from his experience.”  Polls show the LDP and its junior coalition partner New
Komeito are heading for a majority in the Diet’s 480-seat lower
house. The coalition may win more than 300 seats, up from the
current 139, while Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s  Democratic
Party  of Japan is likely to win less than 80, down from 230,
according to a Sankei newspaper poll published today. The survey
of 43,273 people gave no margin of error.  ‘Lacked Experience’  A victory would enable Abe to become the first politician
in 64 years to recapture Japan’s premiership. Then-Prime
Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  tapped him as his successor despite
Abe having less than a year of experience in the Cabinet.  “He was extremely young and popular, but looking back he
probably lacked experience,” said Hiroyuki Hosoda, an LDP
lawmaker.  When he took over from Koizumi, Abe inherited an economy in
the midst of its longest expansion in 60 years. In more than
five years in office, Koizumi had forced banks to write off 19
trillion yen ($231 billion at today’s exchange rate) in bad
loans and left with an approval rating above 50 percent.  Now, what has become the world’s third-largest economy --
following China’s ascendance to the No. 2 rank -- has sunk into
a recession as manufacturers such as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  grapple with a strong yen and falling demand from
China. Japan’s currency has strengthened 40 percent against the
dollar since Abe stepped down on Sept. 26, 2007, while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Index has declined by half.  Political Pedigree  Abe’s popularity within the LDP derives in part from his
pedigree -- he is the grandson of Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi
and son of ex-foreign minister Shintaro Abe, a faction boss who
was a contender for the top job before he died. Shinzo Abe grew
up in a house with servants and attended private schools in
 Tokyo . Hirasawa remembers taking his pupil to a university dorm
to show him how the other half lived.  “He went to a school for the rich and they had maids at
home,” Hirasawa said. “Normally speaking, people grow up
experiencing unpleasant things like bullying and fights. I don’t
think he had those experiences.”  After graduating from Seikei University with a degree in
political science in 1977, Abe took a job with  Kobe Steel Ltd. (5406) ,
then became a secretary to his father before being elected to
Shintaro’s constituency in 1993. During the Koizumi
administration, he served as a deputy cabinet secretary and then
chief cabinet secretary.  First Stint  In his first stint as prime minister, Abe focused on
foreign and military policy -- upgrading the defense agency to a
ministry, and unsuccessfully pushing to revise the pacifist
 constitution  to specify Japan’s right to self-defense. He
visited Beijing and  Seoul  to smooth ties frayed by Koizumi’s
annual trips to Tokyo’s Yasukuni shrine, which memorializes
World War II war criminals.  He resisted calls to raise the  sales tax  to cope with
Japan’s record debt, a measure Noda, 55, passed in September,
and failed to address deepening deflation. Abe’s government was
soon derailed by a scandal over missing pension records, the
suicide of one cabinet minister and the resignation of four
others. Ten months after he became leader, his party lost upper
house elections to the DPJ. Abe stepped down two months later.  Historic Loss  Abe’s resignation kicked off a series of abbreviated terms,
with his two LDP successors also quitting after a year in
office. The party later suffered an historic loss in 2009 after
being in power for all but 10 months since 1955.  Noda’s party swept to victory on a platform of political
change, with vows to rein in the power of bureaucrats and expand
support for families in a nation with a shrinking population. A
policy flip-flop on the U.S. military presence in Okinawa
hobbled the DPJ early in its tenure, followed by perceived
slowness to respond to the Fukushima nuclear crisis in 2011 and
scaled-back plans to strengthen social spending.  The revolving-door of leadership failed to end with the
LDP’s 2009 loss, with Noda the DPJ’s third premier.  Japan ’s
fractured electorate has flirted in polls with new parties,
including one formed by Osaka Governor Toru Hashimoto. More than
half of voters support neither major party.  The DPJ will retain a plurality in the upper house of
Parliament after next week’s election, adding to Abe’s
challenges.  Not Smooth  “He will still be stuck with the hung parliament, so I
don’t think things will go smoothly,” said Tomoaki Iwai, a
politics professor at Chuo University in Tokyo.  While Abe has called for strengthening Japan’s hold of
islands at the heart of a dispute with China and boosting
defense spending, his campaign has focused on economic measures
-- including expansive monetary easing to try to end more than a
decade of deflation.  Stocks have jumped in anticipation of greater stimulus,
with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average rising 8.9 percent in the past
month, compared with a 4.1 percent gain for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Bonds have also rallied amid speculation of more
 Bank of Japan (8301)  purchases, with 10-year government-debt yields
falling to a nine-year low of 0.695 percent on Nov. 30.  Abe has lobbied for more fiscal stimulus and said economic
conditions next year will determine whether the sales tax
increase proceeds as planned. Guiding an economic recovery could
go a long way toward erasing doubts associated with his first
time in office.  “It has made him a more experienced and more judicious
politician,” said Koichi Hamada, an emeritus professor of
economics at  Yale University  who has advised Abe. “At the
moment he resigned, he probably felt disappointed he hadn’t
accomplished a lot of things. He learned a hard lesson.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  