-- Lagarde to Explain Shift on Capital Curbs as Brazil Demands More
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/lagarde-to-explain-shift-on-capital-curbs-as-brazil-demands-more.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  will likely outline the lender’s
reversal of its decades-old opposition to  capital controls  on a
five-day tour of Latin American this week, even as  Brazil  says
the new position doesn’t go far enough.  In a Dec. 3 report, the IMF said targeted and temporary
controls can be effective in preventing asset bubbles and
currency rallies. Policy makers in Brazil, the largest economy
in the region and the most aggressive in erecting such barriers,
said the fund still shows a bias against controls, places too
much emphasis on the benefits of capital flows and doesn’t hold
rich nations accountable for fueling sudden liquidity surges.  Still, the IMF’s shift can give cover to countries that
might consider enacting such controls, said Claudio Loser, a
former Western Hemisphere director at the Washington-based fund.  “Latin American countries probably would implement  capital
controls  on their own, but they have felt uncomfortable because
of the view by international authorities that it’s not the right
thing to do,” said Loser, who now runs the Centennial Group
research firm in  Washington . “With this report, some countries
will feel much more comfortable introducing controls.”  Lagarde is visiting  Colombia  and  Chile , which haven’t
enacted capital controls this year even as their currencies rank
among the world’s five strongest against the  U.S. dollar . She
doesn’t plan to stop in Brazil after she visited the country in
2011 as part of her first trip to the region as IMF chief, which
also included stops in Peru and  Mexico .  Regional Summit  While in Bogota today, Lagarde will meet with President
 Juan Manuel Santos  and his economic team. Colombia is one of
three countries, along with Poland and Mexico, that during the
global financial crisis accessed the IMF’s new flexible credit
line for countries with strong policy fundamentals. She heads
tomorrow to Chile, the region’s most-open economy, where she’ll
attend a meeting of Latin American and Caribbean finance
ministers in the coastal city of Vina del Mar.  The IMF’s rethinking may tempt some policy makers in Vina
del Mar into implementing capital controls after butting heads
with the lender on the topic for years, said  John Williamson , a
senior fellow at the Washington-based Peterson Institute for
International Economics. He didn’t specify which countries are
most-likely to enact barriers, though Loser said Colombia and
Chile are prime candidates because of their surging currencies.  “The IMF has got its position right at long last,”
Williamson, a former World Bank economist who used to lecture at
 Rio de Janeiro ’s  Catholic University , said in a phone interview
Dec. 6. “This was a big step for the IMF and shows they are
flexible and amenable to argument.”  Surging Capital  Global capital flows have increased dramatically in the
last decade, from an average of less than 5 percent of global
gross domestic product between 1980 and 1999 to a peak of about
20 percent by 2007, according to the IMF.  While the fund says the free movement of capital across
borders can stimulate growth, in some cases sudden dollar surges
can destabilize economies by leading to boom-and-bust cycles in
asset prices, according to the report.  The IMF recommends capital flow management measures only in
limited situations, when other policy tools such as lowering
interest rates and allowing for some currency appreciation don’t
fully mitigate risks. The report also calls on nations to avoid
discriminating against investors based on residency, and calls
on nations with long-standing controls to loosen restrictions.  ‘Monetary Tsunami’  Paulo Nogueira Batista, who represents Brazil and 10 other
nations at the IMF’s executive board, criticized the report as
soon as it was released. The report, he wrote in an e-mailed
statement, downplays the responsibility of rich nations for
destabilizing surges in capital flows.  His view is shared in Brasilia, where President  Dilma Rousseff  has accused the U.S. and  Europe  of provoking a
“currency war” and “monetary tsunami” by keeping interest
rates at record lows, which encourages yield-seeking investors
to flood  emerging markets  with cash.  Brazil has led  Latin America  in implementing controls as
investors seek to take advantage of a benchmark  interest rate 
that exceeds the U.S. and euro area by more than six percentage
points.  Starting in October 2010 the country tripled a tax on
foreigner purchases of bonds, and also raised levies on offshore
loans and bets against the dollar in the  derivatives market .
Since then the real has dropped 19 percent against the dollar,
while the Chilean peso has appreciated 0.8 percent and
Colombia’s currency has remained unchanged.  Brazil’s usage of capital controls probably doesn’t pass
muster under the IMF’s new guidelines, said Loser.  “The Brazilians tend to be more aggressive and more long
term on capital controls than the IMF would recommend,” he
said.  Chile, Colombia  Felipe Larrain has ruled out capital controls since
becoming Chile’s finance minister in March 2010, saying his
country had mixed results introducing such measures in the
1990s. Investors find ways to circumvent barriers, meaning
assets remain at risk as developed countries and  China  try to
keep their exchange rates artificially weak, he said Oct. 24.  Still, Chile’s central bank doesn’t completely reject their
usage, though it sees them as a measure of last resort, bank
Vice President Manuel Marfan said last year. Colombia also
reserves the right to implement measures, though the cost of
doing so currently outweigh the benefits, central bank chief
Jose Dario Uribe has repeatedly said.  “The text issued by the IMF is very cautious,” European
Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  told reporters Dec.
8 following a meeting of European and Latin American policy
makers in Santiago. “Everyone around the table was in agreement
that what is important are indeed the fundamental policies that
have to do with macroeconomic stability that are relevant in
addressing the impact of capital flows more than any measures
that could only be relevant for very short-term flows.”  Less Pressure  Countries are under less pressure now than they were
previously to deter investment. While Brazil’s economy expanded
7.5 percent in 2010, its fastest pace in two decades, it is
forecast to grow only 1.27 percent this year. Since reaching a
12-year high in July 2011, the real has fallen 26 percent and
the Bovespa stock index’s 3 percent increase this year is  less
than half  the gains of U.S. and European benchmark indexes.  As Brazil’s economy struggles to regain its footing, the
government last week began unwinding several controls, reducing
the maturity of foreign loans subject to a 6 percent tax.  Still, if Europe’s debt crisis stabilizes and the U.S.
resolves its fiscal problems, investors may once again seek
higher returns in emerging markets.  Net private capital inflows into Latin America will decline
by an estimated $1 billion this year from $254 billion in 2011,
according to the  Institute of International Finance . Still,
inflows will expand 8 percent in 2013, according to the
Washington-based baking association.  “I don’t know if it will be discussed 10 percent of the
time or 50 percent of the time, but controls will come up” in
Lagarde’s talks with finance officials, Loser said. “It’s very
relevant in Latin America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  