-- AIG Bailout That Angered Bernanke to End With U.S. Sale
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-11T03:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/aig-bailout-that-angered-bernanke-to-end-with-treasury-sale-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
rescue is coming to an end more than four years after the U.S.
took over the company to save the global economy in a bailout
that fueled resentment against  Wall Street .  The U.S. Treasury Department is selling its last 234.2
million shares of AIG in its sixth  offering  of the insurer’s
stock, the government said in a statement yesterday. Shares
priced at $32.50 apiece, according to two people familiar with
the sale who asked not to be identified because the U.S. didn’t
publicly disclose the price.  Taxpayers owned as much as 92 percent of AIG after saving a
firm that insured 100,000 municipalities,  retirement plans  and
companies and was a counterparty to some of the biggest banks.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said saving AIG
after it was hobbled by mortgage-related bets made him “more
angry” than any other measure the government undertook to
counter the deepest financial crisis since the Great Depression.  “There weren’t a lot of options, let’s face it,” Robert Willumstad, chief executive officer of New York-based AIG when
the firm was rescued, said in an interview last month. “It was
controversial, it was a big risk, but one would argue today that
the government got its money back and a healthy profit.”  AIG has gained 44 percent this year, closing yesterday at
$33.36 a share. Proceeds from the latest sale add to the
government’s profit, which was  $15.1 billion  on the rescue as of
mid-September.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were
picked to manage the offering, the Treasury said.  Asset Sales  CEO  Robert Benmosche , 68, has sold non-U.S. life insurers
to help repay the bailout and divested a consumer lender, while
scaling back derivatives bets since becoming AIG’s leader in
2009. The insurer, once the world’s largest, is now focusing on
 global property-casualty  coverage and life and retirement
products in the U.S.  AIG had  57,000 employees  and about  $550 billion  in assets
as of Dec. 31, compared with 116,000 and more than  $1 trillion 
at the end of 2007. Benmosche, the former CEO of MetLife Inc.
who came out of retirement to run AIG, reached a deal this week
to sell a majority stake in the insurer’s plane-leasing unit.  The rescue began on Sept. 16, 2008, the day after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. The  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York  agreed to provide an $85 billion  credit line ,
to expire within two years, in exchange for an equity stake of
almost 80 percent.  The initial bailout failed to stabilize the company and was
revised at least three times to give AIG more capital and
additional time to repay. In March 2009, the insurer reported a
record loss of more than $60 billion as mortgage-backed
securities slumped. The same day, the Treasury boosted its
support, pushing the rescue to $182.3 billion.  Obama Outraged  Bernanke wasn’t the only leader to fault AIG. Dana Perino,
a spokeswoman for President  George W. Bush ’s White House, called
“despicable” expenses from a conference sponsored by AIG for
independent agents at a California resort after receiving U.S.
aid. President  Barack Obama  said bonus payments to traders at
the money-losing Financial Products unit were an “outrage.”  Then-CEO  Edward Liddy  told Congress in 2009 of threats,
including one that said AIG executives should be “executed with
piano wire around their necks.” AIG stripped its logo from
employee badges and charge cards after staff were harassed.  “It really stuck in the public’s craw that trillions of
dollars of financial support were being provided to the
commanding heights of the American financial system, and those
guys were still paying themselves huge bonuses,” said  Jim Millstein , the former Treasury chief restructuring officer and
now CEO of advisory firm Millstein & Co. “I have real sympathy
with the public in this regard.”  Leaner, Hungry  Benmosche restored the AIG name this year to units,
introduced a new logo and agreed to sponsor New Zealand rugby
teams including the All Blacks. He said after reaching the
plane-unit deal that AIG is now “leaner, more focused and
hungry for tomorrow.”  Republican  Roy Blunt , now a Missouri senator, said aid was
a “backdoor bailout” of banks, as AIG turned over more than
$90 billion since its rescue to  counterparties  on housing bets
such as Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs. Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , elected this year as a Massachusetts senator, said AIG
benefited from a “stealth bailout” that allowed the company to
minimize its taxes based on losses accumulated in prior years.  In all, as much as $12.8 trillion was spent, lent or
committed to bolster financial firms and automakers. Lenders
including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan took rescue funds that were
repaid with interest in 2009. Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. and Lincoln National Corp., the other U.S. insurers to get
bailout funds, repaid the government in 2010.  ‘Without Cost’  “The government set out to prevent the collapse of the
financial system,” Millstein said. “They did it over two
administrations extraordinarily effectively and without cost to
taxpayers.” The U.S. still owns stakes in firms including Ally
Financial Inc. and  General Motors Co. (GM)   The bailouts helped push Congress to pass the Dodd-Frank
law to limit taxpayers’ cost on failing firms. AIG in October
became the first non-bank to say it’s under consideration by
regulators to be labeled a potential risk to the financial
system, a designation that could lead to tighter capital rules.  “AIG exploited a huge gap in the regulatory system” and
its Financial Products unit operated without oversight as it
made derivative bets on subprime loans, Bernanke told lawmakers
in 2009. “This was a hedge fund basically that was attached to
a large and stable insurance company.”  ‘Fed Ready’  Benmosche has said he is preparing to be “Fed ready” at
AIG and is targeting 2013 for reinstating a dividend if the
regulator approves. AIG has posted four straight quarterly
 profits .  AIG has climbed 47 percent since Aug. 7, 2009, the last
trading day before Benmosche took over. That compares with a
total return of 51 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 33 percent for the S&P 500 Insurance Index.  Chubb Corp. CEO John Finnegan, who kept his insurer
profitable through the credit crisis after shunning subprime
mortgage bets, has said bailouts distorted insurance markets.  “Opportunities for financially strong companies to absorb
the business of weakened competitors were initially
compelling,” he said in a 2010  letter . “This is as it should
be in a free market unimpeded by federal intervention. But the
willingness of the federal government to prop up weakened
competitors by artificially injecting capital is troubling.”  Only Option  Rescuing AIG “was something the government should never
have had to do,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
a Sept. 10  statement  “We had no better option at the time to
protect the American economy.”  Before the latest sale, the U.S. had  sold  $44 billion of
AIG shares in five offerings as the insurer bought back $13
billion. AIG will not buy shares in the latest offering, said
Jim Ankner, a spokesman for the company. The  New York  Fed in
August finished selling securities that it acquired in AIG’s
rescue.  U.S. officials should thank AIG for returning to
profitability and paying back the government, Benmosche said,
according to New York Magazine.  “We have done all the right things,” Benmosche said,
according to an  article  published in October. “Somebody should
say, ‘By golly, those AIG people made a promise and they are
living up to a promise!’ We’re left with a major part of the
economy in America; they’re going to make a profit on top of
everything else they’ve got.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  