-- Airbus-Backed SG Biofuels Talking to Energy Companies to Expand
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-12-10T15:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/airbus-backed-sg-biofuels-talking-to-energy-companies-to-expand.html
SG Biofuels Inc., backed by Airbus
SAS, is talking to large energy companies including state oil
producers in  Africa  and  Southeast Asia  over helping to develop
its technology that turns plant material into vehicle fuels.  The company is speaking to potential partners that want to
mix biofuel with diesel or jet fuel as it plans to grow into new
markets, Chief Executive Officer Kirk Haney said in a telephone
interview. It’s also talking to developers with experience in
building and scaling up large agricultural projects, he said.  The San Diego-based company is studying how to extract the
most oil from the inedible jatropha, a plant native to Central
America that can be grown on poor land. Its seeds are crushed to
make oil for biodiesel, jet fuel and specialty chemicals.  The company is already working with Bharat Petroleum Corp.
of  India  to grow 86,000 acres of jatropha and is planting 75,000
acres in Brazil with Airbus, the  Inter-American Development Bank 
and TAM SA, Brazil’s largest airline. It will probably raise
capital from private investors next year to fund growth in areas
including Southeast Asia, China and Africa, Haney said.  “We’d love to find a good partner in Europe to help us
penetrate that market,” he said. SG Biofuels is in the “very
early” stages of speaking to carriers.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  is
among airlines that have shown interest in jatropha, Haney said.  Lufthansa last year became the first carrier in the world
to offer scheduled flights running on biofuel. The airline on
Sept. 19 agreed to work with Algae.Tec Ltd. to build a factory
in  Europe  to turn algae into aviation biofuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  