-- Amgen Agrees to Buy DeCode Genetics for $415 Million
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-12-10T21:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/amgen-agrees-to-buy-decode-genetics-for-415-million.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, agreed to buy the genetic-research
company DeCode Genetics Inc. for $415 million to help it develop
new medicines that target defective DNA.  The all-cash deal will give Amgen access to Reykjavik,
Iceland-based DeCode’s technology used to sequence human
genomes,  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen said today in a
statement. The transaction doesn’t require regulatory approval
and is expected to be completed by the end of the year.  Closely held DeCode emerged from bankruptcy in 2010 and its
owners include private equity firms Polaris Venture Partners and
ARCH Venture Partners LP. DeCode’s research enables it to
identify genetic variants that may be linked to a disease or
disorders, such as cancers or heart disease. Amgen plans to use
the technology to develop treatments targeting those defective
genes.  “This gives us the ability to help use choose the right
targets and walk away from targets that are less attractive,”
said Sean Harper, Amgen’s executive vice president for research
and development, in a telephone interview.  Amgen rose 1.6 percent to $89.74 at the close in  New York .
Shares have gained 40 percent this year.  New Products  Amgen has been looking for new products and acquisitions to
help shore up revenue as its former core anemia business
declines. Earlier this year, the company acquired Micromet Inc.
for $1.16 billion to add an experimental leukemia drug, signed a
development deal with London-based AstraZeneca Plc and boosted
its presence in the cancer market through sales of Xgeva, a bone
drug that reduces fractures.  For more than a decade, DeCode had the capabilities to
identify gene variants in a large population though it was
difficult to use that information to develop drugs. That has
changed in the past several years as the company developed a way
to look within genes to find variations that affect the actual
function of proteins or biological processes, said  Kari Stefansson ,  the company’s chief executive officer who founded
DeCode in 1996.  “This is a magical moment when it comes to the possibility
of utilizing genetics,” Stefansson said in a telephone
interview. “I have been dreaming of a moment when we can have
an impact on health care through genetics.”  Results could be far off,  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with
Cowen & Co., said in an e-mail.  “I know Amgen is hoping that DeCode’s genomic technologies
will help direct and prioritize its early-stage pipeline,”
Schmidt said. “Way too early to know whether things will work
out this way. Maybe we’ll get an answer in 10 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  