-- AMR Open to Funding Bankruptcy Exit With Private Equity
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-11T15:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/amr-open-to-funding-bankruptcy-exit-with-private-equity.html
American Airlines parent AMR Corp.
is open to the possibility of helping pay for its bankruptcy
exit with private equity or other outside funding, Chief
Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said.  AMR is close to completing its reorganization plan and its
evaluation of whether to stay independent or merge with  US
Airways (LCC)  Corp., Horton said yesterday in an interview. He said he
hasn’t concluded that a stand-alone strategy is the best for
American, the third-largest U.S. airline.  Financing, leadership and choosing from options including a
merger and a go-it-alone approach are among the unresolved
questions facing  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR. An ad hoc
bondholder group with more than $1.94 billion in AMR debt has
told American’s pilots that its support for a stand-alone
airline would be conditioned on the naming of a new board.  “The  capital structure  of the new American has yet to be
determined,” along with whether it will need a private-equity
partner, Horton said. “The company is going to have industry-
leading margins, and that will be attractive to a lot of
folks.”  Horton said he expects AMR to exit Chapter 11 soon, without
providing a time frame. AMR has maintained the more than $4
billion in  cash and short-term investments  it had when it filed
for bankruptcy on Nov. 29, 2011.  Bond Rally  Investor optimism about a merger has helped fuel a rally in
AMR debt. The $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 1.5 percent yesterday to 80.19 cents on the
dollar, the highest price this year, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The notes traded at 17.75 cents after AMR’s filing.  A combination of American and Tempe, Arizona-based  US
Airways , the fifth-largest U.S. airline, would surpass United
Continental Holdings Inc. to become the world’s biggest airline
based on passenger traffic.  US Airways began pursuing a merger in January, and in
November laid out its plan to AMR’s unsecured creditors
committee in the bankruptcy. That group reached an accord with
AMR in May in which the airline company agreed to study options
that would include a merger as well as staying independent.  “We have been very carefully evaluating a potential
combination,” said Horton, 51, who succeeded  Gerard Arpey  as
CEO when AMR entered court protection. “We are very confident
the new American is going to be strong. We’re looking carefully
at whether a combination now or on the other side could create
value for our owners.”  Board Mix  No decisions have been made yet on a new  board  for AMR,
said Horton, who declined to comment on whether any steps had
been taken to recruit directors.  “There will come a moment when the governance of the new
company is discussed,” he said. The directors probably would be
a mix of holdovers and new members, as is “customary in a
restructuring.”  That topic was broached last month in a letter to
American’s pilot union by the ad hoc bondholder group, which had
among its members JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Pentwater Capital
Management LP, according to a September court filing. AMR said
in August that the group, later joined by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Barclays Plc, was interested in providing funding for a
restructuring.  Pilot Talks  Ratification of a new contract by the  Allied Pilots
Association  on Dec. 7 allows AMR to complete $1.06 billion in
labor-cost reductions that are central to its restructuring
plan. Creditors now can compare the stand-alone business plan
with the proposed US Airways combination.  The union’s board voted yesterday to accept an invitation
from the creditors committee to join talks on the restructuring
and possible merger under an agreement not to discuss the
negotiations publicly, according to the APA’s website.  “This is another important positive step toward realizing
our end goal of building a stronger American Airlines network by
merging with US Airways within bankruptcy, with the right
management team leading it,” said Dennis Tajer, a union
spokesman.  The US Airline Pilots Association, representing US Airways
pilots, also “has entered into discussions about a potential
merger” between the carriers, President Gary Hummel told
members in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is in re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  