-- Harper Protecting Canada Oil From China May Slow Growth
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-10T17:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/harper-protecting-canada-oil-from-china-may-slow-growth.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
decision to protect Canadian  oil companies  like  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU)  from being controlled by Chinese and other state-owned
enterprises may hinder the country’s ability to attract the
C$650 billion ($658 billion) needed to develop its resources.  After approving bids by  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and Malaysia’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ) , both of Calgary, Harper said last week that
would be the “end of a trend” because state-run companies may
have “larger purposes” that go beyond commercial objectives.  “To be blunt, Canadians have not spent years reducing the
ownership of sectors of the economy by our own governments only
to see them bought and controlled by foreign governments
instead,” Harper told reporters. “When we say that  Canada  is
open for business, we do not mean that Canada is for sale to
foreign governments.”  The risk is there isn’t enough capital to replace what
state-owned companies could have brought, said Walid Hejazi of
the Rotman School of Management at the  University of Toronto .
This could boost costs for Canadian producers while U.S. rivals
are finding new ways to tap reserves and a sluggish world
economy limits resource prices.  The implication for Canada is that “a lot of these
ventures are not going to reach their potential because of a
lack of access to capital,” said Hejazi, a professor of
international competitiveness. “Where is that money going to
come from?”  Expansion Slowed  Statistics Canada  reported last month that expansion of the
world’s 11th largest economy slowed to a 0.6 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, with business investment and exports
falling the fastest since the recession in mid-2009. Canada’s
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has gained just 2.2
percent so far in 2012, trailing the 12.9 percent gain in the
U.S. S&P 500 index. Canadian energy stocks are the second-worst
performing group in the benchmark index.  Natural Resource Minister Joe Oliver said today there is a
“huge amount of capital available” to develop the country’s
oil reserves, while  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  Chief Executive Bruce
March said today in Toronto the takeover rules won’t undermine
access to capital.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis told BNN television
network in an interview that the lack of capital may be
considered one of the exceptional circumstances under which the
Canadian government would allow foreign takeovers of  oil sands 
producers by state-owned enterprises.  ‘Energy Superpower’  Harper first  outlined  his plans to turn the country into an
“energy superpower” six months after winning the 2006
election, during a London speech when he said Canada is a nation
that could reduce the world’s dependence on state-owned oil
supplied by unfriendly governments.  “We believe in the free exchange of energy products based
on competitive market principles, not self-serving monopolistic
political strategies,” Harper said at the time.  That was before the global recession crippled the economies
of Canada’s traditional sources of capital -- the U.S. and
 Europe  -- and left the country increasingly reliant on Asian
money for investment. While the U.S.’s share of Canada’s stock
of foreign direct investment has declined by as much as 16
percentage points since 1999 to 54 percent, the share from  Asia 
has more than doubled to 10.5 percent, government figures show.  Free Economy  Harper last week reiterated his belief that Canada must
continue to run as a “free market economy.”  The government “determined that foreign state control of
oil sands development has reached the point at which further
such foreign state control would not be of net benefit to
Canada,” he said.  Chris Ragan, a former adviser to Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  and economics professor at Montreal’s  McGill
University , said the finality of such a statement was “actually
quite shocking,” given Harper hasn’t articulated exactly how
state-owned companies behave differently than other businesses.  “It’s much more this unspecified emotional discomfort with
having a communist government owning a company that is then
going to own a company here,” Ragan said. “There might be a
sensible economic rationale for this decision, but we never
heard one.”  Target China  The new rules target countries like China that exercise a
lot of influence over state-owned businesses, a government
official said, asking not to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to talk about internal policy discussions. State-
owned companies with less history of government interference
probably won’t be affected as much, the official said.  The guidelines were also designed to give Canada more
leverage in negotiations with China over opening up the world’s
second-largest economy to Canadian goods, the official said.  Foreign direct investment in Canada’s energy and mining
industry is stalling. The country has attracted C$11.4 billion
of capital over the past four quarters, the lowest total in more
than a year, and less than what Canada’s energy sector attracted
in 2008 and 2009, during the global recession.  Cutting Production  Canadian producers are also cutting spending and shutting
wells as they face slumping prices and increased competition
from rising U.S. production. Suncor of Calgary, Canada’s largest
energy firm, will delay construction of its Fort Hills oil sands
project in northern  Alberta  and is evaluating projected costs on
its planned Voyageur bitumen upgrader, Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Williams  said Nov. 1.  To bolster the industry, Harper and Oliver traveled to
China in February, where Harper called for deeper links between
the two countries. Diversifying energy exports to Asia is a
“national priority,” he said.  As Asian investments grow, “they are watching to see
whether we continue to be welcoming,” Oliver said in an
interview on the flight home from that trip to China. “We’ve
told them we are welcoming,” said Oliver, who has said Canada
needs C$650 billion over the next decade to develop its natural
resources.  Harper clarified last week that Canada’s welcome will be
largely confined to minority stakes and joint ventures. The new
 guidelines  will add an extra layer of scrutiny for state-owned
companies seeking takeovers in Canada and rule out further
state-owned controlling investments in the oil sands other than
in “exceptional circumstances.”  State-owned Firms  According to a  report  prepared for the U.S.-China Economic
and Security Review Commission, state-owned enterprises
accounted for about 50 percent of China’s GDP.  Such companies are not restricted to China. State-owned
enterprises in member countries of the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development -- a group of the world’s major
industrialized countries -- employ more than 6 million and have
market values of about $2 trillion, according to  data  from the
Paris-based OECD.  “The oil sands are such a large resource on a global scale
that the government is trying to cap on a cumulative basis how
much of that resource we’re actually giving up to the control of
other countries,” said Chris Feltin, energy analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in Calgary. “It’s a very strategic
resource for Canada.”  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry has become contentious, with opposition
lawmakers calling for a public review of the Cnooc bid and some
members of the governing  Conservative Party  openly opposing it.  Public Unease  Harper has acknowledged the unease among Canadians about
deals such the Cnooc’s transaction. Fifty-eight percent of
Canadians wanted the government to block the Nexen takeover,
according to an online poll of 1,000 people taken Oct. 10 to
Oct. 11 by Angus Reid Public Opinion.  “In the past, our primary priority was superpower America
and now it’s superpower China,” said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based
pollster. “I’m not sure Canadians have really given that a lot
of thought, which creates a challenge for Harper.”  One question that remains unanswered is why Cnooc and
Petronas met those “exceptional” circumstances and how the
government will interpret those new guidelines in the future,
said Dany Assaf, a lawyer at Torys LLP in Toronto who
specializes in foreign investment. The continued lack of clarity
may cast an unnecessary pall over investment if the rules are
deemed more restrictive by investors than the government
intended, he said.  “I don’t think the policy is out of line with the concerns
of Canadians and what foreign governments would expect in a
foreign-investment regime,” Assaf said. “I think the risk is
people will misperceive the strictness of these policies. They
may over-interpret them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  