-- U.S. Stocks Rise With Metals on China; Italy Bond Plunge
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-10T21:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/asian-stocks-oil-advance-on-u-s-china-data-as-euro-weakens.html
 Stocks rose for a fourth day and
metals rallied as economic data in  China  beat estimates and
investors weighed prospects for a U.S. budget deal.  Italy ’s
stocks and bonds slid as the prime minister planned to resign.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased less than 0.1
percent to close at 1,418.55 and the MSCI All-Country World
Index added 0.1 percent, erasing an earlier 0.2 percent drop.
Italy’s FTSE MIB sank the most in a month and the government’s
10-year bond yield had the biggest increase since August. Lead,
nickel, zinc, aluminum and copper rallied at least 1.2 percent.  China’s factory output jumped 10.1 percent in November and
retail sales rose 14.9 percent, reports showed yesterday.
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said that while he lost
support and will resign, he’s confident elections will result in
a “highly responsible, EU-oriented government.” U.S. lawmakers
from both parties are leaving rhetorical room for a split-the-
difference budget agreement to avoid the fiscal cliff.  “China hit that trough and is starting to see an
acceleration of growth,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6
billion as senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust
Co., in Elmira,  New York , said in a phone interview. “As far as
our market goes, I don’t think there’s anything out there right
now. It’s waiting on the politicians.”  Leaders in the U.S. need to agree on a budget to prevent
more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending
cuts from coming into effect next year. U.S. President  Barack
Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met one-on-one yesterday at
the White House. Representatives for the two said in statements
afterward that “the lines of communication remain open.”  Market Leaders  Hewlett-Packard Co., Cisco Systems Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
rose at least 1.7 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU) , while Home Depot Inc. and Verizon
Communications Inc. had the biggest declines. McDonald’s Corp.,
the largest restaurant chain, advanced 1.1 percent after
November sales rose 2.4 percent globally.  American International Group Inc. slid 2.3 percent after
the insurer said superstorm Sandy will cost the company about
$1.3 billion. Priceline.com Inc. retreated 5 percent after the
online travel service was downgraded to hold from buy at
Deutsche Bank AG.  Companies in the  S&P 500  are paying less in interest on
debt than any time in at least a decade, leaving investors more
dependent on economic growth and corporate spending for equity
gains in 2013.  Constituents of the benchmark gauge for American stocks
such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Walt Disney Co. cut interest
expenses to 2.39 percent of sales in the 12 months ended Sept.
30 on average, the lowest level since at least 2002, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Strategas Research Partners.
With borrowing expenses at record lows, executives are finding
it harder to squeeze costs, causing profit margins to contract
for the first time since 2009.  Treasuries  Treasuries pared early gains, with the yield on 10-year
notes down less than one basis point at 1.62 percent. The dollar
weakened against 11 of its 16 major peers, with the  Dollar Index 
slipping 0.1 percent. The euro climbed 0.1 percent to $1.2943,
halting a three-day slump.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.1 percent, erasing an
earlier 0.6 percent loss to close at its highest level since May
2011 as health-care and commodity companies led gains. The FTSE
MIB tumbled 2.2 percent in Milan. UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest
bank, and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, the second-largest, sank more
than 5 percent each.  STMicroelectronics NV climbed 4.4 percent as the European
chipmaker struggling with competition from  Asia  said it will
sell its stake in the ST-Ericsson joint venture as part of a
strategy to make the company more profitable.  Italian Yields  Italy’s 10-year bond yield jumped 29 basis points to 4.82
percent, the biggest increase since Aug. 2. The cost of insuring
Italy’s debt jumped, with credit-default swaps climbing 39 basis
points to 292, the highest since Nov. 19. The yield on  Spain ’s
10-year debt climbed 11 basis points to 5.56 percent.  Prime Minister Monti said investors shouldn’t expect the
imminent demise of his government to lead to a political vacuum
that will fuel market turmoil in Italy. Monti’s predecessor,
 Silvio Berlusconi , announced he will run for the premiership to
roll back Monti’s budget rigor.  German 10-year rates were up one basis point at 1.31
percent. The Markit iTraxx Crossover index of swaps linked to 50
mostly high-yield companies added two basis points to 481.  Industrial metals led gains in the S&P GSCI gauge of raw
materials, while declines in natural gas and agricultural
commodities left the gauge’s little changed. Gold for February
delivery climbed for a third day, gaining 0.5 percent to
$1,714.40 an ounce, amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will announce more bond purchases to spur the  U.S. economy . The
central bank will release its statement on Dec. 12.  Oil, Gas  Oil erased earlier gains, retreating 0.4 percent to $85.56
a barrel, while  Brent crude  advanced 0.4 percent to $107.39 as
OPEC ministers began gathering in Vienna. U.S. natural gas
futures fell 3 percent on forecasts of moderate weather next
week that may limit heating-fuel demand.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.5 percent to a
seven-month high. The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.1
percent, with trading volume 86 percent above the 30-day
average. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies climbed 0.7 percent and  Russia ’s Micex rose 0.4
percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa gauge jumped 1.3 percent. The Egyptian
pound weakened 0.3 percent to an eight-year low as opponents of
President Mohamed Mursi vowed to keep up protests against a
draft constitution.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  