-- Mattel Returns to Judges Who Threw Out Bratz Verdict
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/mattel-returns-to-judges-who-threw-out-bratz-verdict.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT)  is asking the same
appeals court panel that two years ago concluded the Barbie doll
would thrive on competition to now reverse a $310 million jury
verdict won by Bratz doll maker MGA Entertainment Inc.  Mattel is scheduled to present its case today in  Pasadena ,
 California , before the three-judge U.S Court of Appeals panel
that undid Mattel’s earlier trial victory giving the company
almost complete ownership of its rival’s Bratz dolls. The panel
ruled then that the world’s largest toymaker couldn’t claim a
monopoly “over fashion dolls with a bratty look or attitude.”  This time, El Segundo, California-based Mattel no longer
argues, after two trials and more than eight years of
litigation, that MGA infringes its copyright because the first
Bratz sketches were made by a Mattel designer. Mattel now
contends the “jaw-dropping” $137.2 million in legal fees it
was ordered to pay MGA for having to defend the copyright claim
is unjustified.  “Mattel knows of no copyright fee and cost award that was
similarly shifted on a claim that had been successful before one
jury, had resulted in substantial relief from a federal district
judge, and was remanded by a court of appeals before being
unsuccessful before a second jury,” the company said in its
Feb. 27 appeal. “Nor is Mattel aware of any copyright fee and
cost award of similar magnitude.”  Bratty Doll  In 2010, the appeals court panel said that, even if Mattel
were to convince a jury that it owned the original Bratz
sketches made by its former employee,  Carter Bryant , it would
only entitle it to ownership of that particular expression of
the bratty-doll type, not to the idea itself. That decision
overturned a $100 million jury verdict.  “Degas can’t prohibit other artists from painting
ballerinas, and Charlaine Harris can’t stop Stephenie Meyer from
publishing Twilight just because Sookie came first,” the
circuit court’s chief judge, Alex Kozinski, said in that ruling.
“Similarly, MGA was free to look at Bryant’s sketches and say,
‘Good idea! We want to create bratty dolls too.’”  A jury in  Santa Ana , California, last year rejected
Mattel’s claim that MGA stole the idea for Bratz dolls. It also
found Mattel liable for stealing MGA’s trade secrets and awarded
closely held MGA $88.5 million.  U.S. District Judge  David Carter , who reduced that verdict
to $85 million, later added $85 million in punitive damages.  Carter also awarded MGA $2.52 million in fees and costs for
its trade-secret claim, in addition to $105.6 million in lawyer
fees and $31.6 million in costs for Mattel’s copyright claim,
which the judge said “imperiled free expression, competition,
and the only serious competitor Mattel had faced in the fashion
doll market in nearly 50 years.”  Trade Secrets  MGA claimed Mattel employees used fake business cards to
get into the company’s showrooms at toy fairs in  New York ,  Hong
Kong  and Nuremberg,  Germany , and to obtain proprietary
information about its products. Mattel said in its appeal that
the trade-secret claims were filed too late, the alleged secrets
weren’t secrets at all, and the amount of damages wasn’t
supported by evidence.  “Mattel’s quest to overturn the jury verdict on
sufficiency grounds faces a high bar, and here it is
insurmountable,” MGA said in its response to Mattel’s appeal.
“What the district court termed the ‘rich evidentiary record’
easily supports the jury’s finding that Mattel misappropriated
MGA’s trade secrets and the jury’s damages award.”  MGA, based in  Van Nuys , California, said the $310 million
verdict is “but a drop in the bucket” compared to the harm
Mattel caused MGA through “its litigation strategy of
destroying Bratz.”  The case is Mattel Inc. v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
11-56357,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 