-- Australian Dollar Slides as China Trade Data Disappoints
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-12-10T06:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/aussie-dollar-holds-gains-on-china-rebound-signs-kiwi-rises.html
Australia ’s dollar fell from near
the highest level in more than two months after Chinese exports
and imports trailed economists’ forecasts, damping the South
Pacific nation’s trade prospects.  The so-called Aussie snapped gains from last week after the
nation’s home-loan approvals increased less than economists
estimated. Demand for  New Zealand ’s dollar was supported after
data showed the nation’s manufacturing volumes rose. The
currencies touched the highest in three weeks against the euro
after former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  pledged to
topple incumbent leader Mario Monti.  “There was disappointment on the Chinese trade data,” Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .
“We have seen strong data out of  China  in recent sessions, but
with today’s weaker data would put some question marks as to
whether the rebound in the economy is sustainable and if China’s
demand for Australian goods will continue.”  The  Australian dollar  slid to $1.0476 as of 5:02 p.m. in
Sydney, down 0.1 percent from Dec. 7 when it capped a 0.6
percent weekly gain. On Dec. 6, it touched $1.0516, the highest
since Sept. 21. The Aussie rose as high as 81.48 euro cents, the
strongest since Nov. 20, before trading at 81.20, up 0.1 percent
from Dec. 7. It fell 0.2 percent to 86.34 yen.  The  New Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, advanced 0.1
percent to 83.29 U.S. cents and fetched 68.63 yen from 68.68
last week. The currency touched 64.63 euro cents, the highest
since Nov. 13, later trading at 64.54, 0.2 percent above last
week’s close.  Australian  government bonds  fell, with the 10-year yield
rising three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.15
percent.  Trade Data  China’s exports rose 2.9 percent in November from a year
earlier while imports were unchanged, leaving a trade surplus of
$19.6 billion, the customs administration said today in Beijing.
The growth in overseas shipments compares with the 9 percent
median estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports
compare with the median estimate for an increase of 2 percent.  Data released by the statistics bureau yesterday showed
 industrial production  climbed 10.1 percent in November from a
year earlier and  retail sales  growth accelerated to 14.9
percent. Both exceeded the median estimates of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Futures traders increased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed Dec. 7. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
92,229 on Dec. 4. That was the biggest in data going back to
1993 and compared to 76,806 from the previous week.  Net Longs  Gains in the so-called Aussie were limited after  home-loan 
approvals trailed economists’ forecasts. The number of loans
granted to build or buy homes gained 0.1 percent from September,
when it increased a revised 1.1 percent, the statistics bureau
said in Sydney today. The median estimate of economists in
Bloomberg poll was for 3 percent growth.  “Positions for the Aussie have hit a record on the longs,
and that could temper further gains,” said Forecast’s Lee, who
expects the Australian dollar to drop back to parity with its
U.S. peer.  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today that
manufacturing sales excluding inflation, a gauge of the volume
of production, increased 2.6 percent in the third quarter after
a revised 0.5 percent advance in the three months through June.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, an indication of what
traders expect the central bank’s key interest rate will average
during the period, rose 1 1/2 basis points to 2.715 percent.  Monti Resignation  In  Europe , Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  told the head
of state he has lost support in Parliament and intends to
resign, while earlier in the day his predecessor Silvio Berlusconi announced plans for a return to power.  “The announcements out of  Italy  have weighed on the
euro,” said Peter Dragicevich, a currency economist in Sydney
at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “We could see more euro
weakness against the Aussie and kiwi over the coming weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  