-- Taxi Operators Sue NYC Over Making Nissan Official Cab
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-10T18:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/taxi-operators-sue-nyc-over-making-nissan-official-cab.html
New York  City taxi fleet operators
sued the city over rules that make a  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  vehicle
the city’s official cab.  The plaintiffs, who include the Committee for Taxi Safety
and Taxifleet Management LLC, said the city and other defendants
exceeded their powers under law in selecting the “entirely
untested” Nissan NV200 as the only authorized taxi, according
to a complaint dated Nov. 28 in state  Supreme Court  in
Manhattan.  “Taxicab medallion and vehicle owners, who have long been
permitted to choose from among dozens of different vehicles made
by numerous different manufacturers, will have all choices
eliminated and will instead be required to purchase and drive
the NV200 only,” the taxi operators said in the complaint.  According to the complaint, the Nissan NV200 is untested in
city stop-and-go traffic, uses “outdated engineering, design
and technology,” doesn’t employ hybrid or electric power,
wouldn’t be able to withstand years of cab usage and would
require replacement parts manufactured outside the U.S.  “These new rules will improve service to the riding public
without harming the industry, as the plaintiffs allege,” Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the city’s law department,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe the suit lacks
merit.”  Also sued were the New York City Taxi & Limousine
Commission, its commissioner, David Yassky, and Mayor  Michael
Bloomberg , the majority owner of  Bloomberg News ’s parent
company.  The case is Committee for Taxi Safety v. City of New York,
12104315-2012, Supreme Court of the State of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  