-- Bangladesh Fire Safety to Cost Retailers $3 Billion, Group Says
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-12-11T01:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/bangladesh-safety-would-cost-retailers-3-billion-group-says.html
The global garment industry would
have to spend about $3 billion over five years to bring safety
standards at Bangladesh apparel factories to Western standards,
an analysis by a labor-rights group shows.  The analysis, provided to Bloomberg News by the Worker
Rights Consortium, comes after a fire at a factory that made
garments for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) 
killed more than 100 people last month. Upgrading the country’s
approximately 4,500 factories would cost the garment industry
about 10 cents per garment, the group said.  Since the blaze at the Tazreen Design Ltd. factory on Nov.
24, Western companies have faced increased calls from labor-
rights organizations to pay suppliers higher prices so factory
owners can afford safety upgrades. The $3 billion figure, or
$600 million per year, represents about 3 percent of the $19
billion the Bangladesh Manufacturers & Exporters Association
says Western companies spend annually on manufacturing in
Bangladesh.  The  Worker Rights Consortium estimates are based on
discussions with U.S. fire safety experts and on estimates of
local construction costs in  Bangladesh , said Scott Nova, the
Washington-based group’s executive director. Nova said the
figures are “high-end estimates” because the group assumed
that all factories need improvements that include fire exits and
alarms, emergency lighting and training programs.  “We firmly believe factory owners must meet our standards
for suppliers and we recognize the cost of meeting those
standards will be part of the cost of the goods we buy,”  Kevin Gardner, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We know our
customers expect this of us and our suppliers.”  Too Costly  At a 2011 meeting convened to find ways to boost safety at
Bangladesh garment factories, Wal-Mart declined to pay suppliers
more to help them upgrade their manufacturing facilities because
doing so would be too costly.  At the meeting in Dhaka, the Bangladesh capital, retailers
including Gap,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and JC Penney Co. discussed a
contractually enforceable memorandum that would require them to
pay Bangladesh factories prices high enough to cover costs of
safety improvements.  Wal-Mart, which has acknowledged one of its suppliers used
the Tazreen factory in Bangladesh, worked with at least five
suppliers there, documents found in the ruins by a labor-rights
group show. The retailer said the factory near Dhaka,
Bangladesh’s capital, was no longer authorized to produce
merchandise for the company and that it had cut ties with one
supplier that kept using the facility.  Wal-Mart fired Success Apparel, a person with knowledge of
the matter said last week. Success, a New York-based firm with a
more than 20-year relationship with the world’s largest
retailer, said in a statement Dec. 8 that it didn’t know its
clothes were being made at the Tazreen factory.  Foxconn Suicides  The fire at the Tazreen factory is being compared to events
such as the suicides at Foxconn Technology Group, the Taiwan-
based contract manufacturer that makes many of Apple Inc.’s
products. After an outcry, the non-profit Fair Labor Association
audited Foxconn factories in  China , and the supplier vowed to
make improvements.  Fifty percent of the Bangladesh’s garment factories don’t
meet legally required work safety standards and those that have
improved working conditions have done so under pressure from
Western apparel makers, according to Kalpona Akter, executive
director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity, a non-
governmental organization founded by two former garment child
workers to promote safer factories. Bangladesh’s labor law
requires safety measures such as fire extinguishers and easily
accessible exits at factories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in  New York  at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  