-- Banks With $39 Billion of Assets Face Direct ECB Oversight
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-10T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/banks-with-39-billion-of-assets-face-direct-ecb-oversight-1-.html
Banks with more than 30 billion
euros ($39 billion) in assets may face direct oversight by the
 European Central Bank , as the European Union seeks to thrash out
compromises on a single supervisor for euro-area lenders before
a year-end deadline.  Lenders with total assets larger than 20 percent of their
home countries’ economic output, and those with units in at
least three other countries covered by the single supervisory
system, may also be subject to ECB oversight, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  While national regulators would be expected to carry out
day-to-day supervision of “less significant” banks, the ECB
could step in “at any time, on its own initiative,” according
to the document prepared by Cyprus, which holds the EU’s
rotating presidency.  The EU’s finance ministers will meet Dec. 12 in an attempt
to broker compromises on setting up bank supervision at the
Frankfurt-based ECB that would be mandatory for the 17 euro-area
nations and optional for other EU states. ECB oversight is
required before banks can directly tap the currency area’s
firewall fund, a step that EU leaders have said is key for
breaking the link between sovereigns and their banks.  Wolfgang Schaeuble ,  Germany ’s finance minister, has
demanded assurances that the ECB will focus on larger banks and
won’t seek to usurp the role of national regulators in
overseeing smaller lenders.  French Position  Other nations, including  France , are calling for the ECB to
be given the right to intervene at any bank, saying the system
won’t be credible if the ECB lacks far-reaching powers.  More than 40 banks in the euro area have assets of more
than 30 billion euros, according to Bloomberg data. These
lenders range from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  with 2.16 trillion euros in
total assets, to  Credito Emiliano (CE)  SpA in  Italy  with 31.1 billion
euros in assets.  According to the Cypriot proposal, the ECB would directly
oversee at least two banks in each nation that participates in
the single supervisor. It would also play a hands-on supervisory
role at banks that have received aid from the bloc’s firewall
funds.  Larger banks could escape direct ECB supervision if
“justified by particular circumstances” to be defined by
regulators, according to the document.  Fully Assume  Under the plans, the ECB would fully assume its role as
banking supervisor from Jan. 1, 2014. This could be delayed
until later in 2014 if the central bank decides it’s not ready.  Governments are also weighing different ways to change the
voting rules of the European Banking Authority to adapt them to
the single supervisory system. The EBA, based in  London , sets
technical standards that apply across the 27-nation EU, and has
some power to settle disputes between regulators.  The U.K. has said that the ECB’s oversight powers mustn’t
lead to countries that stay outside the system being
marginalized in the EBA.  One option would require some EBA decisions to have support
from a simple majority of nations both inside and outside the
system.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has said
that the country has no intention of signing up for ECB
oversight.  The text also seeks to address the concerns of non-euro
area nations that they would be second-class members of the
supervisory system because legally they can’t be represented on
the ECB’s Governing Council.  Right to Refuse  The text includes guidance that the ECB Governing Council
should meet with representatives of non-euro area nations that
participate in the single supervisor in the event of a
disagreement.  Vitor Constancio, the ECB’s vice president, said last week
that the central bank would be willing to hold such meetings.  The text would also give participating nations from outside
the euro area the right to refuse to apply decisions made by the
ECB Governing Council if these decisions overrule positions
taken by the oversight board. The ECB would then have to decide
if the country should be allowed to stay in the system.  Participating non-euro area nations could also object to a
proposal by the supervisory board, with the Governing Council to
then take a decision on whether it should be applied.  Under the latest proposal, the head of the supervisory
board would be appointed by EU finance ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  