-- Basel Liquidity Rule May Be Watered Down Amid Crisis
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/basel-liquidity-rule-may-be-watered-down-amid-crisis-concerns.html
Global banking regulators will this
week seek to resolve clashes over how far to ease a planned
liquidity rule, amid calls for the standard to be watered down
and delayed because it may thwart economic recovery.  Regulators face an end-of-the-year deadline to revamp the
draft liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, criticized by top
officials such as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
for threatening to choke interbank lending. The  Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision  will try to find a compromise as it meets
in the Swiss city on Dec. 13-14.  “If the LCR doesn’t come together next week into a
consensus standard with credible prospects for EU and U.S.
implementation  -- a very iffy proposition, -- the concept of
global liquidity standards will collapse,” Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics
Inc., said in an e-mail.  While Draghi and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  have
urged  caution  on the LCR, other regulators and central bankers
including Stefan Ingves, the Basel committee’s chairman and
governor of  Sweden ’s Riksbank, claim there is no hard evidence
of damaging side-effects. U.S. and German supervisors also argue
that heavily diluting the LCR, scheduled to become binding in
2015, risks rendering the standard meaningless.  Basel III  The LCR would force  banks  to hold enough easy-to-sell
assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. It’s a key component
of a package of capital and liquidity measures, known as Basel
III, drawn up to avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  The rule sets out a  stress test  that  banks (BNP)  should apply to
their books, assessing whether they would be able to generate
enough cash from asset sales to meet their obligations.  One conundrum facing regulators this week is how far to
expand the list of assets that banks can use to meet the LCR
compared with a 2010 draft, said three people familiar with the
negotiations, who asked not to be identified because the talks
are private.  The negotiations will discuss whether banks should be
allowed to use asset-backed securities as part of their efforts
to meet the standard, two of the people said.  Banks have advocated a wide expansion in the list of
eligible securities, saying that a failure to overhaul the
standard would force them to cut back lending.  Asset Range  “In practice, there are a range of assets that can provide
liquidity,” said Mark Bearman, a director at the Association
for Financial Markets in  Europe , said by e-mail. These include
“equities, high quality securitizations, gold and other
commodities.”  The same applies to other assets that central banks accept
as collateral, Bearman said. AFME represents international
lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , BNP Paribas SA, and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   While there is only limited support on the committee for
including gold or equities in the LCR, views are more evenly
divided on the question of asset-backed securities, two of the
people said.  The 2010 draft version of the LCR largely limits the assets
that banks can use to meet the standard to cash and  government
bonds . It says highly rated corporate debt and covered bonds
could count toward bank’s LCR buffers, with a cap of 40 percent
in most cases.  The Basel group is also weighing whether to delay the rule
past 2015 or start a phased rollout in that year, said one of
the people. The panel could also opt to proceed with the
previous schedule.  Potentially Fatal  While some regulators favor a delay, other authorities are
concerned that such a step could be fatal to the LCR, as it
would give reluctant countries further opportunities to kill the
rule off entirely, said another person familiar with the talks.  A sample of 209 banks assessed by the Basel committee had a
collective shortfall of 1.8 trillion euros ($2.3 trillion) at
the end of 2011 in the assets needed to meet the LCR, according
to figures  published by  the Basel group.  Regulators are set to reduce the severity of the stress
scenario that banks will be pitted against in the LCR, one of
the people familiar with the talks said.  Central banks including the ECB have also warned that the
LCR could make it harder for them to implement their monetary
policies, as banks wouldn’t be able to offer their highest
quality assets as collateral.  The  Bank for International Settlements , which houses the
Basel committee, said on Dec. 9 that while the LCR won’t
“impair central banks’ ability to implement monetary policy,”
they may need to “adjust their operational frameworks to better
fit the new environment.”  On ‘Brink’  “At a minimum, they will need to monitor developments that
materially affect the LCR of the banking system,” the BIS said.  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations including the U.S., U.K.,  Japan , and  China  to co-
ordinate their regulation and supervision of banks.  Global central bank and regulatory chiefs will review the
Basel group’s work on the LCR at a meeting in January.  Failure to reach a consensus on the measure would add to
uncertainty surrounding the implementation of Basel III. U.S.
and EU regulators have already declared they will fail to meet
the international Jan. 1, 2013 deadline to begin phasing in the
measures.  “Basel is, in my view, on the brink,” said Petrou.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  