-- Beating 26% Joblessness Spurs IDC Bond Sale: South Africa Credit
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-10T08:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/beating-26-joblessness-spurs-idc-bond-sale-south-africa-credit.html
The Industrial Development Corp., a
state-owned South African lender, plans to sell bonds to private
investors for the first time in 30 years, raising as much as 12
billion rand ($1.38 billion) for projects to cut unemployment.  The company has raised 3 billion rand in funding by issuing
five-year notes directly to the government’s Unemployment
Insurance Fund that pays annual interest of 5 percent. That
compares with a yield on the government’s 8.25 percent
securities due September 2017 of 5.91 percent.  President  Jacob Zuma  has made his top priority reducing a
25.5 percent  unemployment  rate, the highest of 61 countries
monitored by Bloomberg. The IDC, as it’s known, is loosening its
purse strings to boost investments in projects with the greatest
potential to create jobs by building up a 100 billion-rand
lending pool over the next five years, according to Finance
Director Gert Gouws. That will raise its level of debt to about
40 percent of equity through 2017 from 15 percent.  “The IDC has not been fulfilling its developmental mandate
because it has been too conservative and averse to lend,” Jason Lightfoot, who helps manage the equivalent of $12.6 billion of
fixed-income funds at Cape Town-based Futuregrowth Asset
Management, said by phone Dec. 7. The decision to boost funding
is long overdue and should be accelerated to a debt-to-equity
ratio of 60 percent, he said.  Project Opportunities  The IDC may raise between 10 billion rand and 12 billion
rand through bond sales to private investors within five years,
with the first issuance planned in the fourth quarter of next
year, Gouws said in an e-mailed response to questions Dec. 4.  “The IDC is proactively identifying and funding new
project opportunities,” he said. “The IDC’s funding
requirements will continue to dictate the pace of our
borrowings.”  The company provided a record 13.5 billion rand in
financing to 293 projects in the year through March 2012, a 55
percent increase on the previous financial year. It estimates
the investments helped create or sustain about 45,900 local
jobs.  The lender hasn’t previously needed to raise much debt
because it generated sufficient cash and profit to fund most of
its lending. The company helps entrepreneurs who cannot access
bank finance because they lack adequate security and provides
funding for projects that meet government’s development goals.  Private Placements  The IDC agreed to sell 5 billion rand of 14-year bonds to
fund renewable-energy projects to the state-owned Public
Investment Corp., or PIC, with the first 500 million rand
allocated on Nov. 7. The funds, which will be drawn down as
needed over 24 months, will help the IDC finance 7.6 billion
rand of renewable energy projects. The Pretoria-based PIC
oversees pension funds of government employees with about 1.3
trillion rand in assets.  The IDC may make further private-bond placements with the
PIC, while accessing another 1 billion rand from the
Unemployment Insurance Fund in 2013, Gouws said. It also plans
to secure more funding from banks and development finance
institutions, such as the  European Investment Bank ,  African
Development Bank  and  China Development Bank .  Yields on the government’s five-year notes have dropped
this year by 148 basis points, or 1.48 percentage points, to
5.91 percent as of 10:50 a.m. in Johannesburg. The premium
investors demand to hold the debt rather than similar-maturity
 U.S. Treasuries  narrowed four basis points to 531 from 651 at
the beginning of the year.  ‘Market Funding’  Total debt will probably climb to more than 30 billion rand
by 2017 from 13 billion rand, Gouws said. About 5 billion rand
worth of debt will be raised next year over and above funds
obtained from the PIC and UIF, he said.  “The market would love to have the opportunity to have a
look at the IDC and potentially invest in their bonds,” Simon Howie, who heads South African and frontier-market credit at
Investec Asset Management, which manages the equivalent of $89
billion, said by phone from  Cape Town  on Dec. 7. “It was
disappointing for everyone to see a bond arranged for the IDC
and placed entirely with the PIC. It should be accessing market
funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  