-- Blackstone Said to Seek at Least $2 Billion for Asia Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-12-11T02:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/blackstone-said-to-seek-at-least-2-billion-for-asia-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest
manager of real estate private-equity funds, seeks to raise more
than $2 billion for its first property pool focused on Asia, a
person with knowledge of the effort said.  The exact amount hasn’t been determined, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the information is
private. Tony James, New York-based Blackstone’s president and
chief operating officer, hinted at the company’s plans last week
at a conference sponsored by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We’re now starting an Asian real estate fund,” James
said at the Dec. 5 conference in New York. “These are unique
products, and they’re unique products in an asset class that
investors increasingly want. It’s hard assets.”  Blackstone plans to focus on  Japan ,  China ,  Australia  and
 India , another person with knowledge of its strategy said.  The Asia-Pacific region’s economic growth and decline in
property values have attracted private-equity investors.
Blackstone has said it is seeking commercial buildings in
Australia that require work to maximize value. The firm in 2010
took over management of more than $2 billion of Asian real
estate assets from Bank of America Corp.  Australia, India  While the new pool will be the firm’s first real estate
fund devoted to Asia, Blackstone has been among the biggest
buyers of property in Australia and India, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman told reporters in Hong Kong
on Oct. 26.  “The long-term direction in Asia, for the economies here,
is strongly up,” Schwarzman said.  Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Blackstone, declined
to comment on the company’s fundraising.  In the U.S., Blackstone has been the biggest buyer of
commercial real estate since prices bottomed in 2009.
Blackstone’s real estate unit, which has more than $50 billion
of equity under management, raised a record $13.3 billion
earlier this year for a global opportunity fund. Such pools seek
to buy assets at discounts using borrowed money to boost returns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  