-- BMW Widens Luxury-Car Sales Lead as Mercedes Slips Back
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-12-10T15:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/bmw-widens-luxury-car-sales-lead-as-mercedes-demand-slips.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  widened
its lead in luxury-car sales last month as demand for the X1
compact sport-utility vehicle and 3-Series sedan and wagon
helped it outpace gains by Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz.  BMW-brand deliveries increased 26 percent to 145,452 cars
and SUVs in November, the Munich-based manufacturer said today
in a statement. That compares with growth of 11 percent to
123,600 deliveries at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and 5.7 percent to
120,346 vehicles at Mercedes.  Even with the debt crisis depressing demand in  Europe ,
 Germany ’s luxury-car makers have maintained growth by tapping
the U.S. and  China . BMW, Audi and Mercedes are all targeting
record sales this year, while mass-market competitors in Europe
are bracing for the lowest sales in the region in 17 years.  “Our attractive product portfolio continues to be in
strong demand right across the globe,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s
sales chief, said in a statement. “We are building the vehicles
people desire. This puts our record sales target for 2012 well
within reach and we will once again be the number one premium
car company worldwide.”  Gains for the German luxury brands last month helped push
up sales so far this year. Deliveries through November at the
BMW brand increased 11 percent to 1.39 million vehicles.
Ingolstadt-based Audi reported a 13 percent jump to 1.34
million, while Mercedes advanced 5.1 percent to 1.19 million.  Losing Touch  BMW and Audi have already exceeded last year’s totals,
while Mercedes still needs to sell about 84,000 cars in December
to hit a new record.  “Daimler has to be careful that it doesn’t fall too far
behind,” said  Frank Schwope , a Hanover-based analyst with
NordLB. “The slower growth rates are in part due to an older
lineup and China. The gap is noticeable.”  Mercedes is falling behind chiefly due to a sluggish
performance in China, where Mercedes sales fell 6.6 percent last
month, dragging down growth in the region for the year to 4.2
percent. BMW and Audi have advanced more than 25 percent this
year in China.  To revive growth in the world’s largest car market, Daimler
is combining two separate sales units -- one for imported
vehicles and other for locally made cars -- into a single
entity.  BMW’s sales last month were led by a 37 percent surge in
demand for the X1 SUV, while the new generation 3-Series, which
was introduced earlier this year, climbed 36 percent.  ‘Intense Competition’  Sales of luxury cars are being pushed by incentives as the
brands compete for market share. Audi and Stuttgart-based
Mercedes are keen to close the gap to BMW as they both target
taking the sales lead by the end of the decade.  Mercedes’s sales outlet in Berlin is offering 4,500 euros
in addition to the value of a trade-in vehicle during December.
Auto website MeinAuto.de is promoting deals of as much as 29
percent off a BMW 7-Series sedan and as much as 17 percent off
an Audi A4 sedan.  BMW said in November that “intense competition”
contributed to a decrease in the third-quarter operating profit
margin at its automotive division to 9.6 percent from 11.9
percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  