-- BofA’s Suit Over Taylor Bean Fraud Allowed by Judge to Proceed
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/bofa-s-suit-over-taylor-bean-fraud-can-proceed-judge-says-1-.html
Bank of America Corp.  won a federal
judge’s permission to proceed with some claims against the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. over $1.75 billion in corporate
client losses stemming from a mortgage-fraud scheme at failed
lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Rothstein, in a 73-page opinion
issued yesterday in Washington, said that the bank’s fraud claim
against the FDIC is among those that will proceed to discovery.
The judge also allowed some FDIC counterclaims against Bank of
America to move forward.  Bank of America was trustee of Ocala Funding LLC, an
Orlando-based company, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on July 10 listing assets and debt of more than $1
billion. Ocala Funding, a financing vehicle used and controlled
by  Taylor Bean , issued asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institutions including Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s
biggest bank, and Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, according to court
papers.  Bank of America sued in federal court in Washington in
October 2010 after the FDIC denied the bank’s claims against
 Colonial Bank  and another financial institution in receivership
that bought fake mortgages from Ocala Funding, according to the
complaint.  The bank “alleges that Colonial actively concealed its own
financial condition, as well as the financial condition of TBW
and Ocala, and that these misrepresentations allowed the
fraudulent scheme to continue undetected for at least seven
years,” Rothstein wrote.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, and  David Barr , an FDIC spokesman, 
declined to comment on the ruling.  Fake Assets  From 2002 through August 2009,  Lee Farkas , while he was
chairman of Taylor Bean, directed the sale of more than $1.5
billion in fake mortgage assets to Colonial Bank and
misappropriated more than $1.5 billion from Ocala Funding,
according to court papers.  Farkas is serving a 30-year sentence after being convicted
in April 2011 of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
securities fraud in what prosecutors said was a $3 billion
scheme involving fake mortgage assets.  The case is Bank of America v. FDIC, 10-cv-01681, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 