-- BP Sells Russian Urals Crude; Exxon Lifts Qua Iboe Force Majeure
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-12-10T17:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/bp-sells-russian-urals-crude-exxon-lifts-qua-iboe-force-majeure.html
BP Plc sold a cargo of Russian Urals
crude to Trafigura Beheer BV in northwest  Europe  at a higher
price than the previous trade. OAO Lukoil canceled two export
lots of the grade from the Baltic port of Primorsk, said two
traders with knowledge of the matter.  Exxon Mobil Corp. lifted its force majeure on Qua Iboe
crude loadings from Nigeria,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, a
company official said.  North Sea  There were no bids, offers or deals reported in the  North
Sea  market for the second session, according to a survey of
traders and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window.  Total SA bought Forties lot F1110 for loading Dec. 27 to
Dec. 29 from Mercuria Energy Trading SA at 40 cents a barrel
more than Dated Brent in the last trade on Dec. 6.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Before the session,
Forties loading in 10 to 25 days fell 3 cents to 38 cents more
than Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for January settlement traded at $107.95 barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $106.96 on Dec. 7. The February contract
was at $106.88, a discount of $1.07 to January.  Mediterranean/Urals  Trafigura bought the 100,000 metric ton consignment of
Urals on a delivered basis to Rotterdam, the survey showed. The
shipment traded at a $1.10 a barrel discount to Dated Brent,
compared with a Nov. 30 trade at minus $1.20.  Lukoil,  Russia ’s second-biggest oil company, canceled
shipments of 100,000 tons each for loading Dec. 20 to Dec. 21
and Dec. 24 to Dec. 25, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc canceled an 80,000 ton lot of Urals
for loading Dec. 13 to Dec. 14 from the Black Sea port of
Novorossiysk, the traders said. The Shell consignment was due to
be shipped by Salym Petroleum, its west Siberian venture with
OAO Gazprom Neft, they said.  The Urals differential to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
was unchanged for a third day at a discount of 60 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  West Africa  Exxon removed the force majeure, a legal step that protects
a company from liability when it can’t fulfill a contract for
reasons beyond its control, on Qua Iboe, Paul Arinze, general
manager in charge of public and government affairs, said in a
statement released today in Lagos,  Nigeria ’s commercial capital.  Qua Iboe blend increased 14 cents to $2.72 a barrel more
than Dated Brent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest since March 28.  Chevron Corp. sold 1 million barrels of Angolan Nemba grade
for loading in January to Bharat Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s
second-largest state refiner, said two traders who asked not to
be identified because the information is confidential.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp., India’s third-largest state
refiner, is seeking to buy as much as 1 million barrels of crude
for loading from Jan. 1 to Jan. 20, said two traders who asked
not to be identified because the information is confidential.  The company’s tender closes on Dec. 12 and offers will
remain valid until the following day, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  