-- Branson Says Virgin Atlantic Won’t Disappear After Any Deal
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-10T14:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/branson-says-virgin-atlantic-won-t-disappear-after-any-deal-1-.html
Richard Branson  said his Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. brand is “not going anywhere” after
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  revealed last week that it was in talks
to sell its 49 percent holding in the U.K. carrier.  Reports that Branson is about to give up control of Virgin
Atlantic and comments from International Consolidated Airlines
Group suggesting the brand may disappear are “wishful thinking
and totally misguided,” the billionaire said on his blog.  “Virgin Atlantic is still much cherished,” Branson said on
the Virgin.com website. “It has grown into a wonderful airline
which has punched above its weight for almost three decades. We
intend to carry on doing so for many years to come.”  Talks are under way for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  to acquire
Singapore Air’s Virgin stake, two people familiar with the
matter have said. An agreement could let Virgin form a trans-
Atlantic venture with Delta and SkyTeam alliance partner  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  to serve London’s Heathrow airport.  IAG (IAG)  Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said during a
visit to Seoul that Virgin Atlantic’s name could be erased if
Delta buys the Singapore stake and Air France-KLM buys part of
Branson’s own holding, the Daily Telegraph reported yesterday,
citing an interview. IAG spokeswoman Lorena Monsalves confirmed
the comments.  Branson said on his blog that he’ll pay 1 million pounds
($1.6 million) to employees of IAG’s British Airways unit “if
Virgin Atlantic disappears within, say, five years.”  If that doesn’t happen, he added, BA should pay Virgin
staff the same amount.  Air France-KLM is not participating in any discussions
between Atlanta-based Delta and Singapore Air, spokeswoman
Brigitte Barrand said today in e-mailed message, reiterating
comments from the carrier at an investor day in Paris that’s
closed to reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 