-- Brazil Swap Rates Rise as Mendes Damps Bets for Selic Reduction
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-12-10T19:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-mendes-damps-bets-for-selic-reduction.html
Brazil swap rates rose after a
measure of prices climbed faster than forecast and a central
bank official said the benchmark  interest rate  is at an
“adequate” level, dimming the outlook for a reduction.  Swap rates on contracts due January 2014 rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.05 percent at 4:42 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. Swap rates show traders are betting that policy
makers won’t cut the benchmark rate again before raising it, a
reversal from Dec. 7 when they expected a reduction by July.  The real was little changed at 2.076 per dollar, erasing
losses after Aldo Mendes, a director at the central bank, said
the currency is weaker than models indicate it should be. The
IGP-M index first preview, which is 60 percent weighted in
wholesale prices, rose 0.5 percent in December, exceeding the
median forecast for a 0.34 percent increase among 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There was a strong reversal in food prices that had been
falling,”  Andre Perfeito  , the chief economist at Gradual
Investimentos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “That
spike in inflation suggests the central bank will be more
cautious with changes in the benchmark rates.”  Food prices rose 0.91 percent while agricultural products
increased 0.93 percent, according to the index data released
today.  Policy makers left the target lending rate at a record low
7.25 percent last month, ending 5.25 percentage points of cuts
since August 2011. Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on the
direction of borrowing costs.  The bank  targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  Benchmark Inflation  Brazil’s benchmark annual inflation rate, measured by the
IPCA gauge, has exceeded the midpoint of the central bank’s
target for 27 consecutive months. Annual inflation unexpectedly
quickened to 5.53 percent in November from 5.45 percent the
month before, the statistics agency said Dec. 7.  Inflation will accelerate to 5.58 percent by year-end,
according to a weekly central bank survey of about 100
economists released today. They had forecast year-end inflation
of 5.43 percent the week before. The economists cut their growth
forecast for this year to 1.03 percent from 1.27 percent the
week before.  Brazil  will provide liquidity to the foreign exchange
market as needed as the country typically has a liquidity
shortage at the end of the year, Mendes said today at an event
in  Rio de Janeiro . The country doesn’t target any specific
foreign  exchange rate , he added.  The central bank said Dec. 7 that it is assessing demand
for currency swap contracts and credit lines in dollars.  The real gained 2.9 percent last week, the biggest one-week
advance since January as the government reduced maturity of
foreign loans subject to a 6 percent tax to one year from two
years and exempted exporters from the same level of tax on some
borrowing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  