-- Bullish Teva Bets Hit 7-Month High on Strategy: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-12-11T16:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/bullish-teva-bets-hit-7-month-high-on-strategy-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are the most bullish
since May on  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  as Chief
Executive Officer Jeremy Levin prepares to unveil a growth plan
to reverse a rout that has made the stock among the cheapest
global drugmakers.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy Teva versus puts to
sell reached 1.41 on Dec. 4, the most since May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. American depositary receipts of the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs climbed for a seventh day
yesterday, the longest stretch of advances in seven months. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest  New-York  traded
Israeli companies fell for the first time in three days, led by
 Alon Holdings Blue Square-Israel Ltd. (BSI)   Levin, a former executive at  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , is
scheduled to meet with investors today in New York to present
plans for product line expansion and cost cutting. Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva is looking for new revenue sources as its
bestseller multiple sclerosis treatment Copaxone faces
competition from newer oral drugs.  “There’s certainly optimism about Levin’s ability to
continue to grow the company through business development,”
Kevin Kedra, an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York who
has a buy rating on the shares, said by phone. “There’s concern
about Teva’s reliance on Copaxone but Levin knows that, and a
plan to diversify the business away from Copaxone would be very
good for the stock.”  Strategic Vision  Teva added 0.2 percent to $42.52, the highest since May 8.
Teva’s meeting is scheduled to begin at 12 p.m. New York time.
The Bloomberg Israel-US Index dropped 0.1 percent to 87.44. The
Tel Aviv’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  increased 0.8 percent to
1,244.51. The company’s Israeli shares climbed 0.6 percent to
163.1 shekels, or $42.95.  Levin, a former senior vice president for strategy at
Bristol-Myers, took over Teva in May with a mandate to develop
new drugs through smaller partnerships and deals while moving
the company away from its reliance on growing through
acquisitions. The wide-reaching gathering in New York is Levin’s
first opportunity to present his  strategic vision  in a public
meeting with investors and Wall Street analysts.  Teva lowered its 2013 forecast on Nov. 30, estimating
revenue will be between $19.5 billion and $20.5 billion, and
earnings excluding some costs will be $4.85 to $5.15 a share.
Analysts predicted $20.8 billion and $5.63, respectively, based
on  average estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Teva’s revenue will
probably  increase  0.5 percent in 2013, according to the mean
estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Rearview Mirror’  Levin promised on the same call to deliver $1.5 billion to
$2 billion in cost cuts to boost  shareholder value .  “2013 is already in the rearview mirror,” Jason Gerberry,
an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. who has a buy rating on the
shares, said in a phone interview yesterday from Boston.
“Investors want a look at Teva’s pipeline, getting visibility
at the profit line, and also at cost savings, where they might
re-invest money into new products and programs.”  Teva’s decline from this year’s high of $46.09 has pushed
valuations to 7.9 times estimated earnings, the second-lowest
multiple among the world’s 20 biggest drug companies, which have
an average price-earnings ratio of 13.8. Shares have lagged
peers this year amid speculation the multiple sclerosis medicine
Copaxone may lose market share to new treatments such as
Novartis AG’s Gilenya and Biogen Idec Inc.’s not-yet-approved
pill BG-12.  Volatility Drops  Teva gained 5.4 percent since the company said Jan. 1 that
Levin would succeed Shlomo Yanai as president and chief
executive. The stock’s  30-day volatility  fell to 17.3 from 32.6
at the beginning of the year.  Israel , which has a population of similar size to
 Switzerland ’s, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  Blue Square, Israel’s second-largest food retailer, tumbled
5.9 percent to $2.54, a two-week low. Shares of the Rosh
Ha’Ayin, Israel-based company lost 1.9 percent to 9.81 shekels
in  Tel Aviv , or $2.58.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the maker of technology used to
transfer and store data, rebounded from a five-month low,
climbing 3 percent to $70.39. Shares in Tel Aviv added 2 percent
to 269.20 shekels, or the equivalent of $70.89.  Shares sank 20 percent in the last two weeks on speculation
the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based developer may lose market share
to  Intel Corp .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net ;
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  