-- Burgundy Drinkers Will Pay More as 2012 Production Drops
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/burgundy-drinkers-will-pay-more-as-2012-production-drops.html
Despite losing as much as 40 percent
of their grapes for the 2012 harvest, the vintners and merchants
of Burgundy are smiling.  In Burgundy, whose wines compose only about 3 percent of
 France ’s total production, the wineries sell just about every
drop they make, even in abundant years, though that hasn’t
happened since 2009.  In 2010 quantity fell 40 percent, and in 2011 it was down
15 percent.  This year winter’s frost, combined with mildew and
hail, destroyed more than half the crop in prestigious vineyards
like  Chateau de Pommard .  At the charity wine auction at the  Hospices  de Beaune held
each November in the city of Beaune since 1851, Burgundian
officials, vignerons and negociants described the situation with
a curious mix of regret and bonhomie.  “The damage of up to 50 percent in the Cote de Beaune was
a disaster,” moaned Michel Baldassini, president delege and
acting chairman of the  Bureau Interprofessionnel des Vins de
Bourgogne (BIVB) , who then brightened with the declaration that
“the highlight in 2012, however, is that the reds have
fantastic concentration with silky, powerful tannins.”  Pierre-Henry Gagey, president and chairman of the BIVB, was
positively buoyant, saying: “Prices are always a question of
supply and demand, and Burgundy is selling very well these days.
Prices will definitely be higher for the 2012s, but if we get a
big harvest in 2013, it may dampen the consumers’ shock.”  Strong Dollar  Louis-Fabrice Latour, president and chairman of the
Federation des Negociants-Eleveurs de Grande Bourgogne, joined
the joyful chorus noting that “Burgundy has been recession
proof the last two years.  The U.S., our biggest market, was up
10 percent for 2011, and is our biggest priority right now
because the dollar is getting stronger.”  Exports to  Japan  are up 35 percent in value for 2011, and
it soon could surpass the U.K. as Burgundy’s second largest
market, he said.  Canada  is number three, followed by  China ,
where all the wine goes through  Hong Kong .  Latour also said higher prices were inevitable and warned,
“There just won’t be any burgundies available at under $10 a
bottle.”  Back at the wineries around Beaune, I found a more guarded
degree of optimism, since farmers hate more than anything to
lose crops, especially three years in a row. “In the last 20
years we have tried to educate the vines to grow less grapes but
of better quality,” said Marie-Andree Mugneret, who owns
 Domaine Georges Mugneret-Gibourg  in the Vosne-Romanee region
with her sister Marie-Christine.  Less Wine  “Still, we weren’t expecting to lose nearly half our
production,” she said, pointing to two stacks of aging wine
barrels, which in a good year would nearly touch the ceiling.
“Last year, we made 85 barrels; this year we have only 68.”  Mugneret knows she easily can sell her wines for more
money, and the 2010s will begin appearing in the market next
year. “I am relieved that the higher prices will help blunt the
lower supply,” she said, “but I’m skeptical that Burgundy
prices can just keep rising so much with demand. We may price
ourselves out of the market at some point.”  At Domaine Arnoux Pere et Fils in Chorey-les-Beaune, owner
Pascal Arnoux told me, “the last good year for both volume and
quality was 2009. That was ideal and helped keep prices at a
reasonable level. This year my volume is down 40 percent, but I
think the wines will turn out to be excellent.”  Fruit, Spice  He asked if I wanted to be the first American journalist to
taste the wines out of the barrel, and I was fortunate to sample
most of the 15 wines Arnoux makes.  I found the Aloxe-Corton the
most advanced -- for a wine made from grapes picked less than
two months ago -- and overall the wines had lots of fruit and
spice.  “I like my wines with lots of fruit because we drink
burgundy younger now,” said Arnoux. “Do I know, really, what
these wines will develop into? No, but I’m meeting this
afternoon with my colleagues to discuss the new vintage. I’m
optimistic about the quality.”  In any other luxury industry, the impetus to increase
holdings to boost sales is basic business sense. But in
Burgundy, where simply buying more land, even an adjacent acre,
does not guarantee quality, the pride of maintaining distinctive
excellence is the driving force.  “My sister and I have been asked many times if we are
interested in buying other lots to add to ours, which have been
in our family since 1933,” said Mugneret. “But I don’t want
more and more land or money. Through good and bad times, my
quality of life has no price.”  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater  and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 