-- California Democrats Covet Carbon-Market Funds
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-12-10T23:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/california-democrats-covet-carbon-market-funds.html
If you believe  California  officials,
you might think the state’s long-running economic and budgetary
problems are over, thanks largely to the  flood  of money from
voter-approved increases in already high income and sales taxes.  The Legislative Analyst’s Office is exuberant, releasing a
budget  report  declaring, “The state’s economic recovery, prior
budget cuts and the additional, temporary taxes provided by
Proposition 30 have combined to bring California to a promising
moment: the possible end of a decade of acute state budget
challenges.”  Although the Golden State’s unemployment rate has  fallen  to
10.1 percent from its 12.4 percent peak in 2010, and the housing
market is rebounding in some affluent areas, there are few
reasons to believe the never-ending budget mess will soon be a
memory. Officials in  Sacramento  seem unfamiliar with the saying
from an 1866  New York  court  ruling : “No man’s life, liberty or
property are safe while the Legislature is in session.” As soon
as the California Senate and Assembly reconvene, they will busy
themselves spending the newfound dollars on more programs
championed by Democratic leaders.  “Given the Legislature’s history of quickly spending
surpluses instead of banking them for a rainy day, we find the
idea that there is a ‘strong possibility’ of multiple years of
surpluses to be detached from reality,”  said  the U-T  San Diego 
in an editorial.  Spending Plan  The “Pollyannish” projections extend beyond the impact of
the gusher of new revenue from tax increases. The state has also
counted on another resource to finance its dreamscape of
generous public pensions, high-speed trains to nowhere and
regulatory expansion.  Under a new global-warming law, the state is trying to
reduce its  carbon emissions  to 1990 levels by 2020.  In late November, the California  Air Resources Board  held
its  first  of these auctions, in which businesses such as oil
refineries and utilities bid for credits that allow them to  emit 
greenhouse gases. They must cut back their production or buy
enough credits to cover all their emissions. Statewide emission
caps will drop each year as California pushes businesses to
produce fewer  greenhouse gases  or pay more to buy the declining
number of credits for auction in this newly created government
“marketplace.”  That is the plan anyway. “First cap-and-trade auction a
bust for California budget,” read the  headline  in the Sacramento
Bee. Budget planners expected that the state would receive $1
billion from the sale of credits, but the 2013 credits went for
a low price and there was little demand for 2015 credits. As the
Bee story explained, “The nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s
Office estimates that if trends hold in the February and May
auctions, the state may only raise about $140 million in the
first year.”  It’s unclear what this will  mean  for the state budget over
the long term, given that the price of carbon futures will
fluctuate like the stock market. And whatever one thinks of this
new system, the state’s budget estimates are already going
south, and the cap-and-trade system adds yet another
unpredictable variable to a budget process that is famous for
gimmicks and overly optimistic projections.  In the last legislative session, lawmakers passed bills
detailing spending targets based on their auction expectations.
“They outlined seven goals, ranging from  job creation  to public
health, and required that at least 25 percent of funds benefit
‘disadvantaged’ communities,” the Bee  reported . “At one point
Brown suggested the money be tapped for high-speed rail
construction, but lawmakers tabled that idea for two years.”  Reckless Spending  The cap-and-trade  debacle  is another reminder that
California officials continue to pursue two destructive policies
simultaneously: punishing wealth creation and business owners
through  higher taxes  and additional regulations, while spending
revenue faster than it comes in.  While they count on money from the auctions, California
officials have imposed new costs on businesses, raised utility
rates and put the state’s industrial products at a competitive
disadvantage so that it can set an example for the world on how
to reduce global temperatures. Democratic officials argue that
the new green-energy model will energize the state’s business
climate, but even the Air Resources Board  admits  that the state
will suffer from what it terms jobs “leakage.”  The “leakage” might be a “floodage,” according to Dave
Roberts, who  reports  for the website CalWatchdog. A  study 
sponsored by pro-business groups estimates that the state will
have 262,000 fewer jobs in 2020 because of the climate-change
law. Roberts also cited a Boston Consulting Group finding that
as many as 51,000 jobs might be lost due to refinery closings
alone. California farmers and food processors are concerned that
the rising state-mandated production costs will cause job losses
as low-cost Chinese and Mexican processed-food imports take some
of their business.  The California Chamber of Commerce filed a lawsuit in mid-
November arguing that the cap-and-trade system amounts to an
unconstitutional tax increase imposed by regulatory fiat rather
than by a direct vote by the Legislature. Yet it’s unlikely that
the cap-and-trade system will be ruled a tax per se, given that
the climate-change legislation authorized it under the guise of
market mechanisms. The law’s supporters note, too, that cap-and-
trade isn’t exactly a tax, given that businesses could reduce
their emissions rather than purchase allowances.  Even if the law is declared unconstitutional, the
Democrats, who now have a two-thirds majority in both houses of
the Legislature, can be expected to reaffirm the cap-and-trade
system.  Although there may be some good news in the latest economic
and budget figures for California, a new study by the website
24/7 Wall St. has ranked it as the country’s worst-run state.
Unfortunately, with the newly emboldened Democratic
supermajorities, the chance that this will change anytime soon
is close to zero.  ( Steven Greenhut , a contributor to Bloomberg View, is vice
president of journalism at the Franklin Center for Government
and Public Integrity. He is based in Sacramento, California. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento, California, at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 