-- California Gasoline Climbs After Valero Plant Reports Breakdown
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-12-10T21:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/california-gasoline-climbs-after-valero-plant-reports-breakdown.html
California spot gasoline rose
against futures after  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  reported a compressor
breakdown at the Wilmington refinery near Los Angeles.  The 78,000-barrel-a-day refinery restarted the compressor
after the failure yesterday, a  filing  with federal regulators
shows. Valero said in a separate notice to the  South Coast Air
Quality Management District  that the plant may flare gases
because of a breakdown.  “There was no material impact to production” at the
refinery,  Bill Day , a spokesman at Valero’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles gained
for a third day, rising 3.5 cents to a discount of 4 cents a
gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange at 3:52 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo  refinery  is
shutting a fluid catalytic cracker around Jan. 14 for 54 days of
work and will take down an alkylation unit for 28 days, a person
with knowledge of the schedule said Dec. 7.  The plant is also planning a maintenance turnaround on the
No. 2 crude unit for August, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are scheduled to shut units at
their refineries in Southern California for work next month,
people familiar with operations at the plants said.  Hydrogen Plant  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD)  repaired a broken valve over
the weekend at a plant in Wilmington that supplies hydrogen to
area refineries. The plant was back to normal operations at
about 11:45 p.m. local time Dec. 8, Art George, a spokesman at
the company’s headquarters in Allentown, Pennsylvania, said by
e-mail today.  Refinery customers received hydrogen during the repairs at
reduced rates, George said.  Carbob in  San Francisco  gained 2.5 cents to 15 cents a
gallon below futures, the highest level for the fuel in the Bay
Area since Dec. 4.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles  and San
Francisco were unchanged at discounts of 6.5 cents and 7 cents a
gallon versus Nymex heating oil futures, respectively.  Conventional, 84-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon  gained
0.5 cent to 18 cents a gallon below gasoline futures, Low-sulfur
diesel in Portland also rose by 0.5 cent to 9 cents a gallon
under heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net 0 