-- Cameron Pledges to Set Out U.K. Policy on EU Soon
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-10T15:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/cameron-pledges-to-set-out-u-k-policy-on-eu-soon.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he
will set out his plans to renegotiate the U.K.’s membership of
the European Union soon and that he’ll be arguing for Britain to
stay in.  The prime minister’s team of advisers meets this afternoon
to decide whether he should make a keynote speech on the subject
before or after Christmas. His office has been saying such a
speech is imminent since September.  “This is a tantric approach to policy-making,” Cameron
joked to journalists at a lunch in London today. “It’ll be even
better when it does eventually come.”  Cameron denied that his support for staying in the 27-
member bloc put him on a collision course with many within his
own  Conservative Party . He said he’d aim to renegotiate
membership and then put the results to a referendum.  “I think the settled will of the Conservative Party is
absolutely in tune with the settled will of the country,”
Cameron said. “We know in our heads we need to be part of this
organization because we are a trading nation, but we know in our
hearts we would like the relationship to work better.”  The prime minister said there was a need for “tactical
patience” because of the continued sovereign debt crisis in the
euro area. “Over the coming years there’s going to be a big
opportunity for a fresh settlement,” he said.  Tory Rebellions  Britain’s relationship with the EU has been the subject of
two record-breaking rebellions within the Conservatives during
Cameron’s time in power. On Oct. 31, the premier suffered his
first House of Commons defeat after 53 of his lawmakers defied
him to vote for a real-terms cut in the EU budget, rather than
the freeze he’d said he was seeking.  That was their second-largest revolt. The largest was a
year earlier, when 81 of them voted for a referendum on taking
the U.K. out of the EU.  Cameron denied he’d have to take on his own side over
 Europe .  “I’m not remotely going to confront anybody,” he said.
“There are traditions in every political party in Britain in
having members who want to leave the European Union.”  The prime minister also said agreement on a multi-year EU
budget can be achieved after heads of government failed to get
an accord at a summit last month.  “If the commission and the presidency act on the
instructions that another multi-billion cut needs to be made to
their proposals, we could get to a deal which would be
acceptable to the House of Commons,” he said. “Others need a
deal more than we do.”  Cameron refused to compromise on the annual budget rebate
the U.K. gets from the EU. “Our rebate is forever,” he said.
“Everyone else’s rebate needs to be renegotiated each time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  