-- Can Jindal, Rubio and Ryan Save The Republican Party?
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-12-10T23:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/can-jindal-rubio-and-ryan-save-the-republican-party-.html
“We cannot just be a party that
protects the rich,” said Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  of his
fellow Republicans. “The rich can protect themselves.”  Only a few weeks after an electoral drubbing, three leading
Republicans have settled on very similar accounts of what went
wrong for their party. Jindal, Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida 
and Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  are all talking about
middle-class economic concerns. All three men seem to have
realized that failing to address these concerns was the party’s
biggest mistake, and rectifying that mistake is now its biggest
challenge.  Republicans have been vigorously debating the meaning of
last month’s election. Some argue that it wasn’t a catastrophe
requiring major change, just a setback. For them, the party’s
most urgent task is to refine its techniques for getting out the
vote. Others say that the party needs to support comprehensive
immigration reform to appeal to Hispanics. Still others counsel
the party to be less conservative on moral issues. Some also say
the party went astray by nominating a wealthy moderate,  Mitt Romney , for president.  Economic Message  Jindal, Rubio and Ryan, three of the top potential
Republican candidates for president in 2016, have not explicitly
rejected any of these theories. They may believe some of them,
at least a bit. Rubio, for example, has been trying to change
the party’s approach to immigration. But their statements since
the election have concentrated on strengthening the party’s
economic message -- which is the  true root  of its electoral
problems.  Rubio and Ryan devoted  their   speeches  at the Jack Kemp
Foundation’s annual dinner last week to the topics of upward
mobility and the American dream. Ryan, while praising Romney,
distanced himself from his former running mate’s “47 percent”
gaffe by saying, “We must speak to the aspirations and anxieties
of every American.”  Republicans are good at representing the concerns of
entrepreneurs, he said, but fall short in explaining how they
would strengthen families and communities and help people lift
themselves out of  poverty .  Rubio spoke more specifically about middle-class anxieties.
He called for revamping federal aid policies to make it easier
for people to get an education without taking “the traditional
four-year college route.”  He also touted his bipartisan legislation on college aid:
“Before they take out a student loan, let’s make sure students
and their parents know how long it will take them to complete
their education, what their likelihood of completion is, how
much they can expect to make after graduation, and how much
their monthly payment on the loan is going to be.”  ‘Aspirational Party’  Jindal has been making the same basic case in interviews.
He complained after the election that too many voters associate
Republicans with big business. He told me recently that “we were
the party that opposed the president instead of providing
constructive alternatives.” Although he dislikes the health-care
law President  Barack Obama  is putting in place, he also said,
“Americans are rightly worried about rising health-care costs.”  Even the language the three men are using these days is
similar. “We need to show folks that we are an aspirational
party,” Jindal said. “We need to be the party that represents
the upward mobility,” a party that believes “every single
American has the same American dream, and we want to help them.”  Liberal commentators have pointed out that this rhetoric
hasn’t been matched by much in the way of innovative new
policies. None of these men has proposed that Republicans push
for a larger  child tax credit  with the same passion they bring
to lowering taxes on capital, for example. But they are heading
in the right direction.  Another complaint from some of the liberal reviewers --
that these Republicans still hold a range of views that are
fairly typical of their party -- is beside the point. As Jindal
put it, there’s no need for a second  Democratic Party . He’s
interested in “coming up with smart policy solutions, connecting
that to the aspirations of all voters, and going out there.”  Going out where? Jindal, the next chairman of the
 Republican Governors Association , may have provided a clue when
he said, “Republican governors are going to provide the examples
of leadership.” Watch your backs, Messrs. Rubio and Ryan.  For now, though, any rivalry among this group is between
the lines, and what they have in common is striking. Judging
from some of its rising stars, the  Republican Party  is learning
the right lessons from the election, and learning them pretty
rapidly at that.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 