-- Canada Banking Regulator Releases Basel III Capital Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-12-10T19:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/canada-banking-regulator-releases-basel-iii-capital-rules-1-.html
Canada ’s banking regulator released
final Basel III capital adequacy rules that aim to bring the
country’s lenders into line with new global standards beginning
next year.  The rules would require Canadian banks to hold a minimum
buffer of 7 percent common equity by the first quarter of next
year, the Ottawa-based Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions  said  in a release today. Provisions related to add-
on charges for counterparty risk on over-the-counter derivatives
will be implemented by the first quarter of 2014 in order not to
disadvantage Canadian banks.  Some nations are struggling to meet a Jan. 1, 2013,
deadline for starting to apply the revised Basel rules, which
were drawn up by global regulators to prevent a repeat of the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Countries have six years to phase in the changes.  “The issuing of this guideline is a significant milestone
in meeting international commitments,” Mark Zelmer, Osfi’s
assistant superintendent, said in the statement. “Canadian
banks are well positioned to meet the 2019 Basel common equity
capital requirements at the beginning of 2013.”  In addition to the common equity targets, the bank watchdog
said it expects all banks to hold a minimum 8.5 percent “all-
in” total  Tier 1 capital  and 10.5 percent total capital by
2014.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Canada’s fifth-largest
bank, said last week in a quarterly earnings report its
estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio is 9 percent. Toronto-
Dominion Bank, the nation’s second-largest lender, said its
estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio is 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  