-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 7-Week High on Nexen Takeover
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-10T22:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/canadian-dollar-reaches-7-week-high-on-nexen-takeover.html
The Canadian dollar reached a seven-
week high versus its U.S. peer as the government approved  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   Canada ’s dollar rose for a fifth day against the greenback
after Prime Minister Stephen Harper on Dec. 7 approved Chinese-
controlled Cnooc’s bid while cautioning that future investment
in Canada’s energy sector will only occur under “exceptional”
circumstances and outlining  tighter rules  for takeovers. The
currency gained against the majority of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as better-than-forecast factory data from  China 
signaled stronger demand for Canada’s raw materials.  “Odds are it will be quite positive for the Canadian
dollar,”  Sebastien Galy , senior foreign-exchange strategist for
Societe Generale SA, said of the Nexen deal by phone from New
York. “There’s been some reservation from Asia about capital
flows, and this provides some clarification that there will be
regulation and not protectionism.”  The Canadian dollar, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to 98.63 Canadian
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after earlier
touching 98.62 cents, strongest since Oct. 19. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0139.  Crude-oil futures fell 0.3 percent to $85.68 per barrel in
New York after gaining as much as 1 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  was little changed.  Canadian government bonds rose, with the 10-year benchmark
bond yield falling one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
1.70 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022
was 9 cents higher at C$109.17.  Tight Range  Trading of the Canadian dollar versus its U.S. counterpart
was at the tightest range since Aug. 20, and is likely to be
hemmed in by the prospect of the Nexen deal closing at the end
of the year, Greg Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  “A lot of market participants will hold off on buying the
USD against CAD if they know it’s going to benefit from a whale-
sized flow when the deal closes,” Moore said. “Most of the CAD
benefit is a psychological benefit.”  The Canadian government approved the takeover of Nexen and
simultaneously gave its blessing to the C$5.2 billion ($5.27
billion) offer for Progress Energy Resources Corp. by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd,  Malaysia ’s state-owned energy company.  Deal-Making  There have been 43 acquisitions of Canadian companies in
deals worth more than $3.5 billion since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Canadian dollar has advanced in 56
percent of cases for two weeks following the announcements
versus its U.S. counterpart with an average gain of 0.2 percent.  The biggest advance in the Canadian dollar was a 2 percent
gain after  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)   acquired  Red Back Mining Inc. in
2010. The largest decline was in July 2008 as  Teck Resources
Ltd. (TCK/B)  purchased Fording Canadian Coal Trust.  China’s factory production climbed 10.1 percent in November
while retail sales growth accelerated to 14.9 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 9. Both figures exceeded
analysts’ median estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Canada’s currency has gained 1.5 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.3 percent and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 9.5 percent. New
Zealand’s dollar leads gainers, up 5.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  