-- Venezuelan Bonds Soar on Chavez Cancer Recurrence: Andes Credit
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-12-10T20:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/chavez-cancer-recurrence-signals-rally-to-quicken-andes-credit.html
Venezuelan bonds surged, sending
benchmark yields to a five-year low, as speculation mounted that
President  Hugo Chavez  will be unable to complete his third term
after he acknowledged a recurrence of his cancer.  The yield on the government’s dollar bonds due 2027 plunged
46 basis points, or 0.46 percentage point, to 8.91 percent at
3:04 p.m. in  New York  as traders anticipated a new
administration taking office and courting the investment Chavez
drove away. The bond’s price jumped 3.68 cents to 102.78 cents
on the dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chavez traveled to Cuba for more surgery today after urging
Venezuelans to vote for Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  if he is
unable to remain in office, marking the first time he’s
indicated who he wants to succeed him since falling ill in June
2011. Speculation his health was deteriorating following his re-
election mounted after he spent 12 days in Cuba as part of a 21-
day absence from public view that ended Dec. 7.  “This is different because Chavez has never addressed his
successor before,” Kathryn Rooney Vera, a strategist at
Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami, said in a telephone interview
today. “This is a de facto admission of near term
incapacitation. That he specifically mentioned a chance he might
not be at inauguration day, that told the market this guy isn’t
going to be around for his six-year term.”  Currency Controls  Today’s gains add to a two-week rally that left Venezuelan
bonds up 44.7 percent this year, the second-biggest return in
 emerging markets  after the  Ivory Coast . In his 14 years in
office, Chavez has seized more than 1,000 companies and imposed
currency and price controls as part of what he says is a push to
turn  South America ’s biggest oil producer into a socialist
country. Those moves left Venezuela’s yield premium to U.S.
Treasuries over 1,000 basis points as recently as Oct. 10,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  “There is a clear correlation between the price of
Venezuela’s debt and Chavez’s health,” Jorge Piedrahita, chief
executive officer at Torino Capital LLC, said in a telephone
interview on Dec. 6. “The market believes that a post-Chavez
Venezuela will not be socialist.”  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring Venezuelan bonds
against non-payment fell 40 basis points today to 608 basis
points, the lowest level since September 2008. The contracts pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or cash. Falling prices signal improving investor perceptions of
a borrower’s creditworthiness.  October Vote  The five-year contracts may rally further, driving the cost
down to about 500 basis points, according to Nomura Securities
Co. and Jefferies Group Inc.  “We’ve already had impressive gains to date and I think
once five-year credit-default swaps reach around 500 basis
points then investors will look to start to take profits,”
 Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-income strategy
at Jefferies Group Inc., said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Chavez defeated opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski in October’s vote by more than 10 percentage points,
winning a third six-year term.  Prior to the vote, Chavez told Venezuelans he was “totally
free” of cancer following three operations and six prior trips
to Cuba this year for treatment. Chavez, who has never said what
kind of cancer he has, is due to be inaugurated to his third
term on Jan. 10.  Gubernatorial Elections  “We finished radiation treatment in May, several days
before I registered as a candidate for the elections,” Chavez
said on Dec. 8. “If they had found anything negative, you can
be sure that I would not have stood for re-election.”  Venezuela’s opposition had called for the government to
provide more information about Chavez’s health.  “I hope there is profound reflection in our country about
the need to speak the truth,” Capriles, who will stand for re-
election as governor of Miranda state this month, said yesterday
in comments carried on the Globovision television network.
“Venezuela does not have succession. This is not Cuba nor is it
a monarchy that has a king. Here in Venezuela, when someone
leaves a position, the people get the last word.”  National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello , who spoke on
state television on Dec. 8, said that the South American
country’s military supported Chavez and that the opposition
shouldn’t try to take advantage of Chavez’s health concerns. He
said Chavez’s cancer won’t disrupt gubernatorial elections set
for Dec. 16.  Bolivia, Mongolia  “Even the opposition should be praying that Chavez gets
better,” Cabello said. “He is the guarantee of peace in the
country.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Venezuelan government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
dropped 56 basis points to 7.58 percentage points today,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. Investors demanded an
extra yield of 8.29 percentage points to hold Ecuadorean debt
and 10.33 percentage points to hold Argentine notes today.  Venezuela is a more attractive investment than  Bolivia ,
which sold bonds at 4.9 percent in October, and Mongolia, which
last month sold $1.5 billion of bonds in two tranches at yields
of 4.1 percent and 5.1 percent, Russ Dallen, the head bond
trader at Caracas Capital Markets, said in an interview.  “Venezuela is actually a much better story than any of
those countries because of the oil exports at $100 a barrel,”
he said.  Bolivar’s Plunge  The country has the world’s largest reserves of oil,
totaling about 300 billion barrels, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy, and currently  produces  about
2.8 million barrels a day. Oil traded above $86 a barrel today
in New York and has averaged more than $90 this year.  Speculation Chavez would devalue the bolivar after his re-
election helped spur a 46 percent plunge in the currency in
unregulated trading this year to 16.01 per dollar, according to
 Lechuga Verde , a website that tracks the rate. Venezuelans use
the black market when they can’t get access to dollars at the
official exchange rates of 4.3 and 5.3 per dollar.  “Currency controls have worked very well,” Maduro said
today on state television. “Of course they could be improved,
and they will.”  Chavez’s return to Cuba could delay the devaluation, said
Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard Chartered
Bank.  “With Chavez out of the country indefinitely, and his
health a major worry, we doubt any major economic decisions will
be taken in the near term,” he wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “The timing of a devaluation is likely to be on
hold.”  Chavismo’s Options  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez is too ill to carry out his
duties, the vice president would take over until the beginning
of a new presidential term Jan. 10. If Chavez is unable to
attend the inauguration scheduled on that date, the National
Assembly president would assume power while elections are
arranged within 30 days. If he does take office and then becomes
too ill within the first four years, the vice president takes
over the presidency for 30 days while elections are held.  While “Chavismo,” the political movement led by Chavez,
will seek to stay in power should he not be able to complete his
new term, his party’s economic policy may be more pragmatic,
according to Torino Capital’s Piedrahita.  “The market is going to take it that things are serious
and the time of Chavez leading  Venezuela  may actually be coming
to an end,” Ray Zucaro, who helps manage about $240 million of
emerging-market debt at SW Asset Management LLC in  Newport
Beach ,  California , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“The market’s reaction will be that anything is better than the
current status-quo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  