-- Chile to Solicit Bids for South America’s Largest Solar Farm
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-12-10T17:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/chile-to-solicit-bids-for-south-america-s-largest-solar-farm-1-.html
Chile  will solicit bids next year to
build  South America ’s largest solar farm as the government seeks
to kick-start renewable-energy investment in the Atacama desert.  The government will offer a $20 million grant and a $400
million loan to build the solar farm in northern Chile, which
will have more than 50 megawatts of capacity, Energy Minister
Jorge Bunster said at an event in Santiago today. The European
Union will furnish an $18 million grant.  The government’s willingness to back the solar farm may set
an example for banks, which have been reluctant to offer loans
in the past for similar projects, said Maria Gabriela da Rocha Oliveira, a Sao Paulo-based analyst with Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  “This move may be to get the ball rolling,” Oliveira said
today in a telephone interview. “Private banks and development
banks are saying they’re willing to finance projects without”
long-term contracts to sell electricity.  The solar farm will be the biggest in South America when
complete, Bunster said. The bids will be due in the first half
of 2013.  T-Solar Global SA, a Madrid-based solar-panel provider,
operates two solar farms in  Peru  with 22 megawatts of capacity
each, currently the continent’s largest, according to New Energy
Finance. Chile has three solar farms in operation with combined
capacity of 9 megawatts.  With little cloud cover and the prospects of high
electricity prices through the end of the decade, northern Chile
is attracting other solar developers, Oliveira said.  Companies including  Spain ’s  Acciona SA (ANA)  and the local power
utility  AES Gener SA (AESGENER)  filed for permits this year to develop
solar projects worth more than $9 billion, according to Chile’s
environmental regulator[bn:URL= http://seia.sea.gob.cl/busqueda/buscarProyectoAction.php ]  Servicio de Evaluacion Ambiental.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net ;
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  