-- China’s Wanxiang Wins A123 Auction for $260 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-10T09:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/china-s-wanxiang-wins-a123-auction-for-260-million.html
Wanxiang Group Co.,  China ’s biggest
auto-parts maker, agreed to buy most of electric car battery
maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ)  for $256.6 million, outbidding  Johnson
Controls Inc. (JCI)  in a U.S. bankruptcy auction.  The agreement is for assets including A123’s automotive,
grid and commercial business, though it excludes the Waltham,
Massachusetts-based company’s military contracts, A123 said in a
statement yesterday. The accord is subject to Court approval on
Dec. 11, it said. Johnson Controls said it declined to match
Wanxiang’s offer, though the deal is still subject to review
from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.  Wanxiang is seeking A123’s battery technology, used in
Fisker Automotive Inc.’s Karma sedan, as China pushes its
companies to develop electric vehicles. An earlier accord with
the Chinese company was scrapped in October, when A123 said it
filed for  bankruptcy protection  and agreed to sell its
automotive assets to Johnson Controls.  “The purchase of A123 would automatically vault Wanxiang
to become probably the number one battery maker in China,” said
Shu Sun, a Beijing-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. “Technology-wise, no battery company in China is
likely to match A123’s products in performance and
reliability.”  Military Contracts  A123 supplies electric-car batteries to a dozen customers,
according Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. That’s the
highest number of clients in the industry, though LG Chem Ltd.
and  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s venture with Leaf-maker Nissan Motor Co. have
higher volume sales, Sun said.  Wanxiang Qianchao Co. (000559) , a listed unit of the closely held
parent advanced 1.4 percent to 4.25  yuan  in Shenzhen trading
today, narrowing its loss for the year to 25 percent.  The auction results also pave the way for Hangzhou, China-
based Wanxiang to receive A123’s cathode powder plant in China
and its share of a joint venture with Shanghai Automotive
Industry Corp. called Shanghai Advanced Traction Battery Systems
Co., according to yesterday’s statement.  Navitas Systems, a Woodridge, Illinois-based company, will
buy A123’s  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based government business for
$2.25 million, according to the statement.  A123, the recipient of a $249.1 million federal grant, held
the auction behind closed doors in the Chicago law offices of
 Latham & Watkins . The auction began on Dec. 6 with prospective
bidders including Johnson Controls, Wanxiang,  Siemens AG (SIE)  of
Germany and Tokyo-based NEC Corp.  Court Hearing  The company will seek court approval to sell the assets
from U.S. Bankruptcy judge Kevin Carey at a Dec. 11 hearing in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  Wanxiang, whose businesses range from auto parts to fishery
and beverages, has been pursuing approval from CFIUS, a
multiagency group led by the Treasury Department that reviews
mergers and acquisitions for national-security concerns when a
takeover may give a foreign owner control of a U.S. company.  The sale of A123’s assets is subject to CFIUS review and
approval from the U.S. government, Johnson Controls said in a
statement yesterday.  In its previous agreement announced in August, the Chinese
auto-parts maker agreed to offer as much as $465 million in
financing in exchange for securities convertible into a stake of
as much as 80 percent of A123.  Fisker, A123’s main customer, had been awaiting for the
sale of the company’s  Michigan  plant so it could resume
production of the $103,000 plug-in Karma sedan.  Bankruptcy Filing  A123 filed for  bankruptcy  in October after the Wanxiang
deal was scuttled amid congressional Republicans’ reluctance to
allow the sale of the government-funded company to a Chinese
company.  A123’s automotive business includes facilities in Livonia
and Romulus, Michigan. A123 used $132 million of the grant
toward building the two Michigan factories.  The grid business focuses on energy generation,
transmission and distribution while the commercial division
develops products for industries such as telecommunications,
industrial robotics and power tools, according to court papers.
A123 works with the government on portable power solutions,
unmanned aerial vehicles, pulsed power weapons as well as small
energy cells for remote devices.  A123 listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of $376
million as of Aug. 31 in court documents.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  