-- China Mobile Starts Hong Kong Mobile TV Service to Boost Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-10T09:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/china-mobile-starts-hong-kong-mobile-tv-service-to-boost-sales.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
largest phone company by users, started a mobile television
service today in Hong Kong to generate more  revenue  from
smartphone users.  The service has both free and paid channels that can run on
tablets and smartphones with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system, China
Mobile said in statement. The service also works on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone using a plug-in receiver called a dongle, the Beijing-
based company said.  China Mobile is counting on the shift to high-speed data
networks to boost revenue as its  sales growth  will probably slow
to about 6 percent this year from almost 9 percent in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The new mobile TV
service will increase data traffic on the carrier’s network,
while creating another revenue stream as a media content
distributor, the company said.  “Hong Kong is a very special environment, so a lot of new
services can be tested here,” Sean Lee, chief executive officer
of  China  Mobile’s Hong Kong unit, said at a press conference in
the territory today. “We believe mobile and multimedia
platforms are converging.”  The new service, dubbed UTV, can also run on portable media
players using China Mobile Multimedia Broadcasting software, the
company said.  China Mobile rose 0.5 percent to HK$88.55 at the close in
Hong Kong trading. The stock has advanced 17 percent this year,
compared with a 21 percent gain for Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index.  Free Content  Free programs available with the service include user-
generated content and TVB News, it said in the statement. Paid
packages costing HK$58 ($7.50) a month give users access to
content including MNC International, Mei Ah HD Movie Channel,
Star Chinese Channel, Cartoon Network and Nat Geo Wild, the
company said.  China Mobile began offering fourth-generation wireless
services in Hong Kong in April, before the official rollout
across China. In August, the company said its state-owned parent
will expand a 4G trial to 20,000 base stations in 13 cities in
the second half, from seven cities in the first six months of
the year.  In the first nine months of 2012, data traffic over the
carrier’s wireless networks surged 61 percent from a year
earlier to 626 billion megabytes, China Mobile said in October.
The increase was driven by services including downloads of
videos and e-books, the company said at the time.  China Mobile had 703 million subscribers at the end of
October, including 79.3 million users of high-speed, third-
generation services that give smartphones faster Internet
access.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  