-- Christie Nominates Two More New Jersey Top Court Justices
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-10T19:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/christie-nominates-two-more-new-jersey-top-court-justices.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
nominated two more state  Supreme Court  justices after Democrats
who control the Senate rejected his earlier picks.  The nominations of Superior Court Judge  David Bauman , a
Republican, and Board of Public Utilities President Robert
Hanna, an independent, are a “political compromise,” Christie
told reporters. Their confirmations would mean a court with
three Republican members, two Democrats and two independents,
according to the governor’s office.  “These nominees represent reaching across the aisle on my
part,” Christie, 50, a first-term Republican, said today in
Trenton. “It’s my hope these nominees receive a swift
confirmation process and timely hearings.”  Bauman, 56, who was born in  Japan  and moved to the U.S.
before age three, is the second Asian-American nominated by
Christie to the bench. The first, Phillip Kwon, was rejected on
March 22 after Senate Democrats questioned a $160,000 payment
his family made to settle a U.S. civil lawsuit over cash
deposits from their liquor store.  Democrats in May rejected Christie’s nomination of  Bruce
Harris , citing concern about the nominee’s lack of courtroom
experience and his intent to recuse himself from same-sex
marriage issues. Harris, a finance attorney and Republican mayor
of Chatham, would have been the state’s first openly gay justice
and the third black to serve on the court.  Bench Makeup  Hanna, 54, has been president of New Jersey’s utility
regulatory agency since December 2011 and oversaw power
companies’ response to  Hurricane Sandy  after 2.7 million
customers lost electricity. He is a registered independent who
contributed to Christie’s 2009 election campaign, according to
the governor.  Christie, who faces re-election next year, said he made the
decision to nominate Hanna and Bauman about 10 days ago and
notified them on Dec. 7. Both men were unanimously approved by
the full Senate for their current positions, the governor said.  The governor said he’s discussed the two candidates with
Senate President Stephen Sweeney, and declined to elaborate. He
said he hopes to have confirmation hearings by year-end.
Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat, said in a statement that “at
this point in time, it would be inappropriate for me to
comment” on the nominations.  “I’ve now met all of their stated public requirements,”
Christie said of Democrats. “I don’t really know what more they
could ask for at this point. Their two main concerns expressed
over time have been both partisan balance and diversity. These
two nominees respect both of those concerns.”  Court Rulings  Christie, a former U.S. attorney for  New Jersey , has
criticized the high court for “legislating from the bench” and
forcing governors and lawmakers to raise spending to comply with
its decisions. Examples he has cited include the Abbott v. Burke
school-funding cases and Mount Laurel affordable-housing
rulings.  “The judicial branch has no power to pass statutes,”
Hanna told reporters today. “It has no power to tax or to
appropriate funds. That tremendous power, the power of judicial
review, must be exercised wisely.”  Democrats criticized Christie after he denied reappointment
to  John Wallace , the court’s only black justice, in 2010. That
sparked a standoff that lasted a year and delayed hearings on
Anne Murray Patterson, Christie’s Republican nominee. Christie
and Sweeney later agreed to let Patterson replace Justice
Roberto Rivera Soto, who retired in September.  The bench has two vacancies since the departure of Wallace
and Justice Virginia Long, who stepped down March 1 after
reaching the mandatory retirement age of 70. Two lower court
judges have been serving as temporary justices.  Current members are Chief Justice Stuart Rabner, a
Democrat; Barry Albin, a Democrat; Helen Hoens, a Republican;
 Anne Patterson , a Republican; and Jaynee Lavecchia, who Christie
characterizes as an independent and Democrats say is a
Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  