-- Christie Bids for Second Term, White House Hinge on Sandy
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/christie-bids-for-second-term-white-house-hinge-on-sandy.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
run for a second term and his 2016 presidential ambitions will
be shaped by how well he manages his state’s recovery from
 Hurricane Sandy .  It’s a situation that has beset other politicians. Former
Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco didn’t seek re-election after
facing criticism for how she dealt with  Hurricane Katrina  -- a
storm that also blighted President  George W. Bush ’s legacy.  Bush’s father, President  George H.W. Bush , suffered a sharp
decline in support in Florida after his administration’s slow
response to Hurricane Andrew in 1992. He ultimately won the
state by 2 points -- down from 20 points in 1988 -- only to lose
the presidential race to  Bill Clinton .  Conversely, Clinton and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush
learned lessons from the storm and invested in emergency-
response operations that earned them high marks as managers.
Former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  saw a boost from
helping his state recover from 2005’s Katrina, said W. Martin
Wiseman, director of the John C. Stennis Institute of Government
at Mississippi State University in Starkville.  “As long as Christie looks like he’s driving the train and
not taking anything for granted, he’ll be alright,” Wiseman
said. “Where he could falter is if he says the storm is over
and New Jersey can move on. People’s eyes will glaze over if
he’s seen as just playing to the national Republicans.”  Jersey Shore  Christie, enjoying record approval ratings for his response
to the storm, said on Nov. 26 that he will seek a second term
next year to help repair the state after coastal communities
were ravaged. He said Sandy will cost his state about $36.9
billion -- more than its entire annual budget -- and that
leaving before rebuilding is complete would be wrong.  The governor came in second after Florida Senator Marco Rubio as the Republican’s 2016 frontrunner in a Dec. 6 Public
Policy Polling survey.  Speaking to reporters on Dec. 7 in Trenton, Christie said
he hasn’t yet decided on the main focus of his re-election
campaign. Christie said that while the storm hastened his
decision to announce his candidacy, it hasn’t set his agenda.  “It’s going to take years for us to rebuild from this so I
thought it was important for the people of New Jersey to know
whether or not I wanted to stay on for that task,” he said.
“Whether or not that will be the central focus of my campaign
will be ultimately determined by me, and I haven’t determined
that yet.”  Staying Put  Another term holds the prospect of expanding Christie’s
support outside of New Jersey, amassing political favors he can
cash in on during a run, and bolstering his record, said John Weingart, associate director of the Eagleton Institute of
Politics at  Rutgers University . It also may hold peril if he
loses or a second term is marred by a scandal, Weingart said.  “To the extent that he has national ambitions, that second
term is essential,” Weingart said. Not running would be
perceived as “walking away from a crisis or a fight.”  In October 2011, Christie spurned requests from party and
business leaders to compete for the presidential nomination. He
has said he’s open to a potential 2016 White House bid.  The first Republican elected New Jersey governor in 12
years, Christie defeated incumbent  Jon Corzine  in November 2009
after voters rejected the one-term Democrat’s handling of a
recession that left the state with the highest  unemployment rate 
in three decades.  Keynote Spot  Christie’s calls for smaller government and lower taxes
made him a national Republican figure. He delivered the keynote
address in August at the  Republican National Convention  as the
party officially nominated former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  to challenge President  Barack Obama .  Christie raised money and campaigned for Romney until
Sandy. The Oct. 29 storm killed 38 New Jerseyans, blacked out
2.7 million and leveled beach towns and boardwalks.  In the weeks after the storm, Christie appeared daily for
televised recovery briefings and pledged to work with Democratic
U.S. senators  Frank Lautenberg  and  Robert Menendez  to win
federal aid. The governor also praised Obama’s Sandy response
ahead of Election Day, angering some Republicans who blamed him
in part for the Democratic incumbent’s win.  New Jersey voters haven’t elected a Republican to the  U.S.
Senate  since 1972 and backed Democrats in the last six
presidential contests. Democrats control the state legislature
and hold a 3-2 edge over Republicans among registered voters.  Highest Ever  Christie’s handling of the storm won over Democrats and
independents. He had a 72 percent approval rating in a
Quinnipiac University poll on Nov. 27, a 16 percentage-point
jump from October and its highest ever for a New Jersey
governor. The survey had Christie leading his nearest potential
Democratic challenger, Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , by 18
percentage points.  Christie’s national grade isn’t as positive. Public Policy
Polling’s survey showed that he had the lowest favorability
rating among Republican voters for primary candidates, 49
percent.  “Although his cooperation with President Obama in relation
to Hurricane Sandy doesn’t seem to have hurt him with
Republicans in New Jersey, these numbers suggest it has caused
some irritation with him outside the state,” said  Tom Jensen ,
the poll director in Raleigh, North Carolina.  Four More  If Christie wants to run for president, “it only makes
sense for him to seek this re-election,” said Krista Jenkins,
director of Fairleigh Dickinson University’s PublicMind polling
center in Madison, New Jersey.  “It gives him four more years to try to cultivate a sense
of moderation and being a bipartisan reformer appealing to that
wing of the  Republican Party  and electorate as a whole that
feels as if the right wing of the party has alienated them,”
Jenkins said.  If Christie decided to run for president in the next
election, and won, he would be forced to cut a second term as
governor short.  While presidents Clinton and  Richard Nixon  lost
gubernatorial elections and went on to successful second
political acts, re-election will be a crucible for Christie,
said Craig Shirley, a Ronald Reagan biographer who worked on the
former California governor’s two presidential campaigns.  “It’s better to run for office from office -- or at least
to have been a successful two-term governor,” Shirley said.
“Winning breeds winning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  