-- Clegg Says U.K. Coalition Must Rethink Data Bill
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-12-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/clegg-says-u-k-coalition-must-rethink-data-bill.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
said the U.K. government must reconsider plans to allow police
and intelligence agencies to monitor phone calls and e-mail
traffic, triggering a possible spat with Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Tories.  “The coalition government needs to have a fundamental
rethink about this legislation,” Clegg, who leads the minority
Liberal Democrats in the administration, said in an e-mailed
statement, citing concerns over the scope of the legislation and
possible infringements of civil liberties. “We cannot proceed
with this bill and we have to go back to the drawing board.”  Clegg made his comments in response to the publication in
 London  today of a report by a committee of both Houses of
Parliament on the Draft Communications Data Bill that argued the
proposed powers must be “significantly narrowed” to allow law-
enforcement agencies access only to limited information.  The Liberal Democrat leader’s announcement sets up another
possible clash within a coalition that’s grown increasingly
strained since coming to power in May 2010. The two parties have
been at odds over press regulation, taxation, electoral reform
and relations with the European Union.  Police and intelligence agencies have been seeking powers
to collect information showing the time, location and duration
of a mobile phone call or the existence of an e-mail. Civil-
liberties campaigners have expressed concern that the proposed
powers are too intrusive, with ordinary people at risk of being
spied upon.  ‘Sweeping Powers’  The  Joint Committee on the Draft Communications Bill , which
includes lawmakers from all three main parties, said in its
report that the bill as currently drafted would allow
Conservative Home Secretary Theresa May “sweeping powers to
order the retention of any kind of communications data by any
communications service provider.”  The panel “makes a number of serious criticisms -- not
least on scope; proportionality; cost; checks and balances; and
the need for much wider consultation,” Clegg said. Moves to
give law-enforcement agencies extra tools to fight crime “must
be done in a proportionate way that gets the balance between
security and liberty right.”  The  Home Office  said in a statement distributed before
Clegg’s announcement that it intended to proceed with the plans.  “This legislation is vital to help catch pedophiles,
terrorists and other serious criminals,” the ministry said.
“There can be no delay to this legislation. It is needed by
law-enforcement agencies now.”  ‘Crucial Line’  The chairman of the committee, David Maclean, a
Conservative lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, argued the
proposals went too far.  “The breadth of the draft bill as it stands appears to be
overkill and is much wider than the specific needs identified by
the law-enforcement agencies,” he said in an e-mailed
statement. “There is a fine but crucial line between allowing
our law-enforcement and security agencies access to the
information they need to protect the country and allowing our
citizens to go about their daily business without a fear,
however unjustified, that the state is monitoring their every
move.”  A separate report today by another panel of lawmakers, the
Intelligence and Security Committee, whose members are appointed
by the prime minister and which hears testimony in private, was
more positive about the plan.  “Changing technology means that the agencies are unable to
access all the communications data they need, that the problem
is getting worse, and that action is needed now,” the committee
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The government is making a complete mess of a very
important issue,” the opposition  Labour Party ’s home-affairs
spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , said in an e-mailed statement.
“Given the importance of technology in fighting crime, the home
secretary needs to urgently rethink this legislation and get her
approach right so that the police can do their job in fighting
crime whilst the public have confidence their privacy is well
protected too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 