-- CMBS Beating Bank Bonds as Investors Wager on Property Recovery
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-12-10T17:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/cmbs-beating-bank-bonds-as-investors-wager-on-property-recovery.html
Securities linked to commercial-
property loans are rallying, beating out corporate bonds issued
by lenders as investors wager on a real-estate recovery.  Relative yields on senior bonds tied to skyscrapers,
shopping malls and hotels have narrowed 30 basis points to 145
basis points more than benchmark swap rates since mid-November,
reaching the tightest level since mid-2008, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Spreads on debt from financial companies
declined 6 basis points, or 0.6 percentage point, to 143 basis
points over swaps, JPMorgan analysts said in a Dec. 7 report.  Commercial-mortgage backed securities are benefiting with
 interest rates  forecast to stay close to zero through mid-2015,
pushing investors toward riskier assets and aiding property
owners with loans coming due. Wall Street banks are accelerating
the pace of originations to meet demand from bond buyers,
leading to a lending boom for borrowers across the U.S.  “Improving financing conditions are a clear positive for
the legacy CMBS market,” said the JPMorgan analysts led by Ed Reardon in New York, referring to commercial-mortgage backed
securities sold during the peak of the  property  bubble before
credit markets froze after the September 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. “The increased availability of leverage
will allow more loans to refinance.”  Easier Payoffs  Commercial-mortgage bonds have gained 0.374 percent since
Nov. 14, compared with 0.209 percent for similar bonds from
financial companies, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Lenders issued about $16 billion of bonds tied to
everything from mobile home parks to skyscrapers in the fourth
quarter, a post-crisis record, according to JPMorgan. Sales are
on pace to reach $46 billion in 2012, almost 50 percent more
than last year, the analysts said. JPMorgan forecasts $55
billion in sales in 2013.  Landlords are finding it easier to pay off maturing loans
as sales rise. More than 60 percent of commercial mortgages
contained in bonds paid off on time in November for the third
consecutive month, according to Trepp LLC. Prior to September,
the monthly payoff rate had only surpassed 60 percent twice
since the beginning of 2009, the New York-based commercial-
mortgage data provider said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  