-- Coking Coal Supply May Tighten on Westshore Port Accident
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-12-10T21:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/coking-coal-supply-may-tighten-on-westshore-port-accident-1-.html
Global coking coal supply may
tighten after a berth was damaged at  Westshore Terminals
Investment Corp.’s (WTE)  export operation in  Vancouver .  The port has the capacity to ship about 9 percent of global
metallurgical coal export volumes and was on target to move
about 20 million metric tons of the steelmaking component this
year,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said in a research note today.  A ship crashed into a trestle leading to one of the berths
at the port on Dec. 7, Nick Desmarais, a spokesman for
Westshore, said today in a telephone interview.  Prior to the incident metallurgical coal was starting to
show signs of a rebound as global steel production increased and
as companies from Appalachia to  Australia  cut output to stem
declines, David Gagliano, an analyst at Barclays in New York,
said in the note.  “Obviously accidents are never a positive for those
directly involved,” Gagliano said. “However, strictly from a
supply/demand and pricing perspective, issues that constrain
supplies have the potential to have a positive impact on
underlying prices.”  Westshore is assessing the damage this week and plans to
have a restart target sometime next week, Desmarais said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest coking coal
exporter, last week settled the first-quarter benchmark contract
for the fuel at $165 a metric ton, the lowest since pacts
shifted to quarterly settlements from annual agreements in the
first quarter of 2010, Doyle Trading Consultants LLC, a New
York-based energy research firm that specializes in coal, said
Dec. 6.  With one of the berths down, Westshore’s export capacity
will be reduced by about 830,000 metric tons a month, assuming
it was on target to ship 20 million metric tons, which “we
believe would prove to be a meaningful enough hit to global
supplies, given the timing and current prices” Gagliano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  