-- Corn Falls to Three-Week Low on Slowing U.S. Exports; Soy Drops
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-10T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/corn-falls-to-3-week-low-on-slowing-u-s-exports-soybeans-drop.html
Corn fell to a three-week low on
signs of slowing overseas demand for supplies from the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter. Soybeans rose, erasing an earlier
decline.  Sales of corn for delivery before Aug. 31 totaled 12.23
million metric tons as of Nov. 29, down 46 percent from a year
earlier, U.S. Department of Agriculture  data  show. Premiums paid
for deliveries near  New Orleans  last week fell the most in three
months. Brazil, the No. 3 exporter, shipped a record 3.66
million metric tons to overseas buyers in October, more than
double a year earlier, government data showed Dec. 4.  “Corn is falling because of slowing U.S. exports,” Greg Grow, the director of agribusiness for Archer Financial Services
Inc. in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  “Buyers are
looking to alternative supplies outside the U.S.”  Corn futures for March delivery dropped 1 percent to close
at $7.30 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
reaching $7.2525, the lowest for a most-active contract since
Nov. 16. The grain has fallen 14 percent from a record $8.49 in
August.  Soybean futures for January delivery gained 0.2 percent to
$14.7475 a bushel in  Chicago , the fifth gain in six sessions.
Prices reached a record $17.89 on Sept. 4 as drought reduced
U.S. production.  Rain expected over the next two weeks will improve soil
moisture for developing crops in Brazil,  World Weather Inc.  said
in a report today. In  Argentina , dry weather that is forecast
during the next five days may firm muddy soils to support  farm
equipment  and accelerate planting. Brazil and Argentina are the
two biggest exporters after the U.S.  “Good weather in  South America  has slowed buying
interest,” Grow said. “Brazil is off to a generally good
start, and Argentina farmers should make some progress to finish
up planting.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  