-- D.E Master Blenders CEO Leaving After 1 Year Over Difference
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-12-10T18:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/d-e-master-blenders-ceo-to-leave-after-year-over-difference-1-.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV, (DE)  the
coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp., said Chief
Executive Officer Michiel Herkemij will leave after only 12
months in charge because of a difference of opinion.  Herkemij, a former Heineken NV executive who was hired by
chairman and fellow Dutchman Jan Bennink last year, will depart
at the end of 2012 “by mutual consent,” the Amsterdam-based
maker of Douwe Egberts coffee said today in a statement.  Bennink will take over the 48-year-old’s responsibilities
until a new CEO is appointed, Master Blenders said.  Herkemij and the board “are aligned on strategy, but there
is a difference of opinion regarding the speed of
implementation,” Michiel Quarles van Ufford, a spokesman, said
by phone. The search for a new CEO has yet to begin, he said.  “Losing a CEO, particularly one that hasn’t been there all
that long, is clearly negative,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. “But Jan Bennink is a very
well-respected guy and investors will be reassured.”  Neither Herkemij nor Bennink were available for comment.  Master Blenders has had a difficult time since it was spun
off from Sara Lee in June. In August, its shares plummeted after
the coffee maker said it would restate earnings because of
accounting irregularities in  Brazil . After fourth-quarter
results that analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura described
as “disappointing,” the company in October reported first-
quarter revenue that trailed analyst estimates.  Shares Drop  Speaking in September, Herkemij said product innovation,
missing under Sara Lee’s stewardship, would help the company
close the gap on competitors such as Kraft Foods Inc. and  Nestle
SA (NESN) , whose Nespresso is the biggest single-serve brand in the $45
billion global coffee business. The CEO said at the time that he
aimed to overtake Kraft as the world’s No.2 coffee maker.  Master Blenders has revamped its Senseo system with new
packaging and flavors and has said it plans to expand into new
regions. The company has introduced a new machine called Sarista
that uses whole beans and is aimed at coffee aficionados.  “2012 was a transitional year for DEMB, as we began to
implement our strategy of innovation and premiumization,”
Bennink said in today’s statement. “The fundamentals we have in
place today remain solid and we continue on track to deliver our
objectives” for sales and earnings.  Master Blenders  shares  fell 0.9 percent to 8.74 euros in
Amsterdam today. The announcement was made after markets closed.  Joh. A. Benckiser, the investment firm run by Bart Becht,
raised its  stake  in Master Blenders to 15.05 percent in October.
Kepler’s Cox said it can’t be excluded that Herkemij’s departure
may be linked to JAB “which does have influence on the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Jarvis at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  