-- Dana Gas Completes Restructuring Sukuk Owned by BlackRock
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-12-10T14:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/dana-gas-completes-restructuring-920-million-of-islamic-bonds.html
     Dec. 10 (Bloomberg) -- Dana Gas PJSC, whose bondholders
include  BlackRock Inc (BLK)  and  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) , completed the
restructuring of $920 million of Islamic bonds after agreeing to
pay twice the average yield on  emerging markets  corporate sukuk.  Dana Gas, which missed sukuk payments in October, will pay
bondholders $70 million in cash and split the remaining Shariah-
compliant debt into $425 million of convertible bonds and an
ordinary sukuk of equal value, the United Arab Emirates fuel
producer  said in a statement . The five-year convertible bonds
will pay a profit rate of 7 percent and the ordinary sukuk 9
percent. That compares with 7.5 percent on the existing sukuk.  “It’s positive for the creditors because there is no
reduction in the principle amount and the process was done
relatively quickly,” Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive
officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC in Dubai, said by phone. “The
cost is fair because this is a company that went into forced
restructuring and so it should pay more than the market
average.”  Dana Gas was forced to restructure the debt after political
instability in Egypt and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region, where the
company produces most of its gas, led to payment delays. The
company reported a 27 percent decline in third quarter profit to
$29 million and 12 percent drop in net revenue.  Share Conversion  The average yield on emerging company sukuk dropped to an
all-time low of 3.09 percent on Dec. 7, HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai’s
Corporate U.S. Dollar Sukuk Index shows. The yield on Dana Gas
bonds dropped 197 basis points, or 1.97 percentage points in
November, the biggest monthly decline in more than three years,
to 9.56 percent after the company reached a preliminary deal
with bondholders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dana Gas will enhance the collateral on the new sukuk by
$300 million, including money owed to it for gas produced in
 Egypt  and certain U.A.E. assets, it said. The company will also
have the option to pay down the outstanding securities prior to
their maturity on Oct. 31, 2017.  The convertible sukuk will be exchanged for  shares  at a 50
percent premium to the 75-day volume-weighted average price
starting Dec. 1. The conversion price will not to be lower than
75 fils or higher than 1 dirham, nearly half the old conversion
price of 1.93 dirhams a share.  Majority Support  The potential dilution for shareholders “remains
substantially similar” to the existing terms, according to the
statement. Dana Gas will call a shareholders meeting in the
first quarter of 2013 to approve the revised terms and expects
the transaction to be completed by the second quarter. The ad-
hoc committee of sukuk holders, which included BlackRock and
Ashmore Group, hold a majority of the sukuk and will vote in
favor of the deal, it said.  “The company’s liquidity constraints were caused by well-
known external factors,” and the revised sukuk terms place the
company on track for growth, acting Chief Executive Officer
Rashid Al-Jarwan said in the statement. Dana Gas will explore
the international listing of its upstream assets in due course,
it said.  Deutsche Bank AG, Blackstone Group LP and Latham & Watkins
LLP advised Dana Gas on the restructuring, while Moelis & Co.
and law firm Linklaters LLP represented sukuk-holders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  