-- DBS to Pay S$1.04 Billion for Stake in Marina Bay Tower
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-10T05:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/dbs-agrees-to-pay-s-1-04-billion-for-stake-in-marina-bay-tower.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  agreed to
buy a 30 percent stake in Singapore’s Marina Bay Financial
Centre Tower 3, where the move of its headquarters was completed
in October, for S$1.04 billion ($850 million) in cash.  DBS, Southeast Asia’s biggest lender, will buy the stake
from a joint venture of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1) , it said in a statement today. The two companies
are both controlled by  Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man.  Expansion by banks, including Standard Chartered Plc and
Barclays Plc, are driving office demand in Singapore as the
city-state emerges as Asia’s center of  wealth management .
Singapore’s office rent may see “meaningful recovery” in the
second half of 2014 after a decline this year, according to
broker property Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  The transaction “could serve as a leading example showing
investors are positive on the commercial property sector,”
Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at China
Merchants Securities Co., said by telephone today. “Investors
will generally buy a commercial property when the price is very
attractive or when they think it will be a good investment. For
DBS, I think it’s the latter one.”  Winnie Cheong, a spokeswoman for  Cheung Kong  in Hong Kong,
and Hans Leung, a spokesman for Hutchison Whampoa, didn’t
immediately return calls from  Bloomberg News  seeking comments on
the transaction. Li is 12th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
with a net worth of $27.9 billion.  Financial District  Singapore is building a new financial district on reclaimed
land in the Marina Bay area, adjacent to the Marina Bay Sands
hotel, casino, shopping and conference development. DBS is a so-
called anchor tenant in the building that was completed this
year, with 4,800 of its employees occupying 600,000 square feet
on 18 of the tower’s 46 floors. Other tenants include legal
firms WongPartnership LLP and Clifford Chance LLP.  “This transaction represents a unique opportunity for DBS
to acquire a sizeable stake in its global headquarters and
better manage its occupancy costs in the long term,” DBS said
in the statement. “It also demonstrates DBS’ firm commitment to
its home base as it further entrenches its leadership position
in  Singapore  and the region.”  The Cheung Kong-Hutchison Whampoa venture currently owns
one-third of the tower, which is part of the Marina Bay
Financial Centre development, according to the statement. DBS
has the right to buy the remaining 3.3 percent owned by the
venture for S$115 million.  The remaining two-thirds of Marina Bay Financial Centre
Tower 3 are equally owned by a subsidiary of Hongkong Land
International Holdings Ltd. and a subsidiary of Keppel Land
Properties Pte, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  