-- Denmark Says Cutting Debt Top Priority Amid Recession Bets
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-12-11T10:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/denmark-says-cutting-debt-top-priority-as-recession-bets-spread.html
Denmark ’s government will make debt
reduction a top priority even as the central bank predicts the
economy will contract this year and the International Monetary
Fund urges policy makers to consider direct stimulus.  Denmark’s burst housing bubble has left the economy in a
“depressed state,” according to a Dec. 6 note by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , Denmark’s biggest lender, estimates
 gross domestic product  will shrink 0.5 percent this year, after
a 25 percent slump in house prices since 2007 left consumers
poorer. Yet the government, which is due to publish revised
economic forecasts on Dec. 13, will go ahead with budget cuts,
Economy Minister Margrethe Vestager said.  “The alternative is to push a debt mountain ahead of us to
be paid by us and later generations,” Vestager said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Denmark’s economy barely grew last quarter, while a
contraction in the three months through June was deeper than
previously estimated, the statistics office said last week. Five
bank rescue packages since 2008 may not be enough to prevent the
nation’s housing slump from deepening, Thomas Dorsey, the IMF’s
mission chief to Denmark, said last month.  The government’s commitment to reducing its deficit, which
the European Commission estimates will narrow to 2 percent of
GDP next year from 3.9 percent in 2012, may be at odds with a
growing body of research suggesting austerity measures that
choke growth also end up depleting public finances. Nobel
laureate Paul Krugman has urged  Europe  to focus on growth
instead of debt to make debt-to-GDP ratios more sustainable.  Contracting Europe  The euro-zone economy will contract 0.4 percent on average
this year and grow just 0.1 percent in 2013, the European
Commission said on Nov. 7. Eight of the 17 nations that make up
the bloc will see their economies contract in 2012, while
average euro-zone debt will swell to 94.5 percent of GDP next
year from 92.9 percent, the commission estimates. The bloc sets
a 60 percent debt-to-GDP limit, and a 3 percent deficit cap.  “We may help to improve the EU economy as such, but we’re
primarily doing ourselves a favor” by cutting the deficit,
Vestager said.  Danish Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon said last week
Denmark’s economy is in a “crisis” and acknowledged that the
recovery the government had hoped was underway is “proving
slow” to arrive. Central bank Governor Nils Bernstein, who
unveils his own forecasts this week, said on Dec. 3 Denmark’s
economy will shrink this year, cutting an earlier forecast for
growth.  Record Cuts  Denmark’s employers announced plans to fire 2,237 people
last month, 225 percent more than a year earlier, as a lack of
economic growth leaves its mark on the labor market, Jes Asmussen, chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Copenhagen, said in note to clients. The number of job cuts in
November was the highest since 2009, according to Asmussen.  Vestager’s latest estimates, published in August, foresee
0.9 percent GDP growth this year. Fitch Ratings a month later
called the estimate “optimistic.”  Still, Denmark’s bond yields suggest investors are
undeterred by the nation’s dimming economic prospects. Its
benchmark 10-year note yields about 29 basis points less than
similar maturity German bunds, while the yield on Denmark’s two-
year note was minus 0.189 percent as of 10:46 a.m. local time.  Default Risk  It’s also cheaper to insure against the risk of a default
on Danish debt than on German bonds, using credit derivatives.
Five-year default swaps on Danish government debt traded at 31
basis points today, versus about 34 basis points for German
contracts, according to data available on Bloomberg.  The central bank in Copenhagen has left its deposit rate at
minus 0.2 percent since July to counter a capital influx as
policy makers defend the krone’s peg to the euro.  Though Denmark’s public debt is less than half the euro-
zone average, private debt reached 322 percent of disposable
incomes in 2010, according to Standard & Poor’s. That’s the
highest ratio in the world. Low borrowing costs have helped keep
that debt load sustainable.  “One of the paradoxes we need to relate to in this modern
world is that while our independence is very dear to us, it’s
worth very little unless we use it to act together with
others,” Vestager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  