-- Dodgers Reach Agreement With Greinke, Add Ryu, CBS Sports Says
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/dodgers-reach-agreement-with-greinke-add-ryu-cbs-sports-says.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  and Zack Greinke reached an agreement on a six-year contract worth $147
million, the richest deal in Major League Baseball history for a
right-handed pitcher, CBS Sports reported.  The Dodgers also signed South Korean left-handed pitcher
Ryu Hyun-jin yesterday to a six-year contract. MLB.com reports
that the deal is worth $36 million.  Greinke, the 2009 American League Cy Young Award winner,
was the top pitcher available in free agency, while the Dodgers
last month paid a $25.7 million posting fee for the right to
negotiate with Ryu’s agents.  The duo would join a Dodgers’ starting staff that also
includes  Clayton Kershaw , Chad Billingsley and  Josh Beckett , and
are the latest acquisitions to a franchise under new ownership
that’s added almost $300 million in contracts by trading for
Beckett, first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez , outfielder  Carl Crawford 
and shortstop Hanley Ramirez.  Greinke, 29, had a 15-5 record with a 3.48 earned run
average for the Los Angeles Angels and Milwaukee Brewers in
2012. Over the past two seasons, he’s 31-11 with a 3.63 ERA.  Greinke still needs to pass a physical before the deal
becomes official later today, CBS Sports reported without saying
where it got the information. When completed, Greinke’s contract
would be the second-richest for a pitcher in MLB history behind
CC Sabathia’s seven-year, $161 million deal with the New York
Yankees. The most lucrative contract for a right-handed pitcher
was the $127.5 million that  Matt Cain  received over six seasons
from the  San Francisco Giants .  Ryu, 25, was 98-52 with a 2.80 ERA during seven seasons in
South Korea. He pitched for his country on teams that won a gold
medal at the Beijing Olympics in 2008 and reached the
championship game of the 2009 World Baseball Classic.  “The Dodgers continue to show the commitment to signing
players from Asia and other international areas where baseball
is played at the highest levels,” Dodgers General Manager Ned
Colletti said in a statement. “We are looking forward to
watching Ryu pitch for the franchise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  