-- Euro Rises on German Sentiment; Dollar Drops Before Fed
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-11T22:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/dollar-stays-lower-versus-yen-euro-on-bets-fed-to-add-stimulus.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the dollar after a German report showed investor
confidence jumped this month.  The 17-nation currency rose versus all except two of its 16
major counterparts. The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell the most in a week as
48 of 49 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
 Federal Reserve  will expand its bond buying program at a two-day
meeting starting today. The Swiss franc fell against the euro as
 UBS AG (UBSN)  joined Credit Suisse Group AG in saying it will charge
bank clients for deposits made in the currency.  “There is an expectation that the Fed is going to announce
some additional easing and there is a general risk-on sentiment
after the ZEW survey out of  Germany ,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a
managing director for the foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at
Bank of  New York  Mellon. “Investors for today are willing to
give risk the benefit of the doubt.”  The euro gained 0.5 percent to $1.3005 at 5 p.m. New York
time, rising to the highest since Dec. 6. The common currency
appreciated 0.7 percent to 107.32 yen. The dollar gained 0.2
percent to 82.52 yen.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback versus the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners, fell 0.3 percent to
80.057, the biggest drop since Dec. 3.  Franc Weakens  The franc declined 0.4 percent to 1.2126 per euro after
depreciating to 1.2168 on Dec. 5, the weakest since Sept. 17.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, said it will start
charging financial institutional clients for cash balances held
in francs from Dec. 21. The amounts will be communicated
individually to clients within days the bank said, adding that
“we encourage our customers to keep their Swiss franc balances
as low as possible.”  The franc dropped last week as Credit Suisse was said to
set a negative rate of as much as minus 1 percent on balances
held in the currency.  Canada’s dollar declined against most of its major
counterparts. The seven-day relative strength index for the
currency rose to 74, its third day above the 70 level which
signals an asset’s value may have risen too quickly.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, was little
changed against its U.S. peer at 98.61 cents.  Yen Drops  The yen fell against most its major counterparts as global
equities advanced. The MSCI World Index of stocks rose 0.6
percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7 percent.  Sweden’s krona was the best performing major currency
today, topping the euro. It gained 0.7 percent to 6.6463 per
dollar and advanced 0.2 percent to 8.6437 per euro.  Spain sold a combined 3.89 billion euros of 12- and 18-
month bills, the central bank said. That compared with its
maximum target of 3.5 billion euros. It sold the 12-month
securities at an average yield of 2.556 percent, compared with
2.797 percent on Nov. 20.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of German investor and analyst expectations
climbed to 6.9 this month from minus 15.7 in November.
Economists forecast a gain to minus 11.5, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  “A combination of forces, including the ZEW index” are
boosting the euro, said Audrey Childe-Freeman, head of foreign-
exchange strategy at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in  London . “There’s a
broadly more bearish dollar sentiment on the looming Fed
meeting. I believe that it is just a matter of time before we
test $1.30 again.”  Month View  The euro has gained 1.1 percent during the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The dollar declined 1.4 percent
and the yen slid 5.4 percent.  The dollar fell against most of its major peers before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  begins its last meeting for 2012
today. The central bank will increase accommodation by
announcing $45 billion in monthly Treasury buying in addition to
the existing program of $40 billion a month of mortgage-backed
securities, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. That
will push its balance sheet almost to $4 trillion.  “The market has come to expect Fed dovishness and so
selling dollars before a Fed meeting has been on everyone’s
radar,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “The market is focused what is going
on in the U.S. and fundamentals in  Europe  and certainly in core
Europe it still looks constructive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  