-- E-House Rallies as Economic Recovery Lifts ADRs
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-10T23:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/e-house-rallies-as-economic-recovery-lifts-adrs.html
Chinese equities  rose to the highest
level in a month as industrial output and retail sales data
exceeded economists’ forecasts, adding to signs the recovery in
the world’s second-largest economy is accelerating.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.5 percent to 94.44
yesterday, the highest level since Nov. 6.  AutoNavi Holdings
Ltd. (AMAP)  rebounded from an 11-month low while Youku Tudou Inc.
gained the most since September.  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ) 
surged 30 percent after the real estate company said executives
will buy new shares at a premium.  China  Eastern Airlines Corp.
jumped after agreeing to share codes with Kenya Airways Ltd.  China’s factory production climbed 10.1 percent in November
while retail sales growth accelerated to 14.9 percent, the
National Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 9. Both figures beat
analysts’ median estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Speaking at a
Dec. 9 seminar in Guangzhou, China’s Communist Party chief  Xi
Jinping  said the nation shouldn’t delay economic restructuring,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Chinese  stocks  on
domestic exchanges are poised for a third year of declines.  “The data is encouraging as industrial production came
better than expected and retail sales continued to be firm,
indicating a recovery in the economy,” Khiem Do, a portfolio
manager of  Asia  Pacific Fund at Baring Asset Management (Asia)
Ltd., said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York  yesterday. “We expect more funds to flow back to China as
economic growth stabilizes. Chinese equities will see better
performance in 2013 than this year.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., added 0.9 percent to $38.77 on
its fifth day of gains, the longest stretch of increases since
Oct. 18. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,418.55 as investors watched the latest developments in U.S.
budget talks.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rallied 0.7 percent
to a seven-month high of 10,993.90 yesterday, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares increased 1.1 percent to
2,083.77, the strongest level since Nov. 7, trimming its loss
this year to 5.3 percent.  E-House surged 30 percent to $3.98, the steepest rally
since August 2007. The gain followed a five-week slump in its
American depositary receipts. Trading volume in the shares was
triple the daily average over the past three months.  The Shanghai-based company’s management will purchase as
much as 17.8 million shares, or 15 percent of stock outstanding,
for $3.52 each, E-House said in a statement yesterday. The
executive will pay a 15 percent premium to the stock’s closing
price of $3.06 on Dec. 7. The company said it may use the
proceeds from the sale to repurchase shares at a later date.  Personal Funds  “It shows that management is very positive about its
business and views the stock as undervalued,” Ella Ji, an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who rates the shares
the equivalent of buy, said by phone. “It doesn’t happen very
often that you’re seeing management using their own pocket of
money to basically buy back shares.” Ji maintained a 12-month
price target of $6 for the stock.  The $62.6 million purchase price will come from existing
personal funds of the company’s most senior executives, with a
possible combination of loans, Jessica Barist Cohen, a  New York- 
based spokeswoman for E-House, said in an emailed response to
questions.  International Passengers  China Eastern , the nation’s second-largest airline, jumped
4.4 percent to $18.58, the highest level since Nov. 5.  The Shanghai-based company signed an agreement with  Kenya
Airways (KNAL)  to share codes on daily flights between Nairobi, Bangkok
and  Shanghai , the African carrier said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  China Eastern’s passenger load factor, or the percentage of
seats filled by paying customers, rose 0.9 percent last month
from a year earlier to 78.5 percent, according to data released
yesterday. International passenger traffic jumped 11 percent for
the month, after a decline of 0.7 percent in October.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  climbed 2.2 percent to a
five-week high of $16.10. The ADRs, each representing 10
ordinary shares, traded 0.8 percent above its  Hong Kong  shares,
the widest premium since Nov. 28. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended buying the stock of the nation’s second-largest
mobile-phone carrier yesterday, lifting the rating from neutral.  AutoNavi Surges  AutoNavi, which provides Chinese map content to companies
like Apple Inc. and Sina Corp., surged the most since July 2010,
increasing 10 percent to $10.86. The ADRs tumbled 15 percent in
the previous two days.  The Beijing-based company said it isn’t the client of
auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. referred to by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the legal proceedings
against five China-based auditing firms. AutoNavi isn’t under
any SEC investigation, it said in a Dec. 7 statement.  The SEC accused the Chinese units of the Big Four
accounting firms of blocking a probe into potential fraud by
nine unnamed companies by withholding documents in an
administrative order dated Dec. 3.  Youku Tudou (YOKU) , the owner of the most-popular video website in
China, advanced 5.3 percent to $14.68, the steepest jump since
Sept. 14. The shares of the the Beijing-based company tumbled 18
percent last week.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , a mobile security software developer,
plunged 11 percent to $5.46, the biggest drop since May.  FJE Research, a contributor to the website Seeking Alpha,
 said  yesterday NQ Mobile’s user base has been “inflated more
than tenfold, while the reality has deteriorated badly in recent
months.” The article noted that its author is shorting the
company.  “This article is inaccurate, filled with misleading
arguments and flawed logic,” Kim Titus, a spokesman with NQ
Mobile based in  Dallas , said by e-mail yesterday. The company
will issue a full statement today, he said.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, increased 0.4 percent to 73.85.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  