-- The Supreme Court’s Chance to Make History
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-10T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/the-supreme-court-s-chance-to-make-history.html
The question before the U.S. Supreme
Court is not whether to allow same-sex marriage, but how.  That should be the question, anyway. Last week the court
 agreed to hear  two cases involving the constitutionality of
same-sex marriage.  Theodore Olson , one of the lawyers for
proponents of same-sex marriage,  called  it “perhaps the most
important remaining civil-rights issue of our time.” He is
undoubtedly right about that. What the court must do is find a
way to encourage the movement’s progress without needlessly
antagonizing opponents.  The court will probably hear oral arguments in March in the
two historic cases. One concerns the legality of a provision of
the Defense of Marriage Act, the 1996  federal law  that defines
marriage as “a legal union between one man and one woman.” Under
DOMA, gay couples in states where it is legal for them to marry
can’t claim federal tax breaks or other benefits that straight
married couples receive.  The other case involves  California ’s Proposition 8, which
bans same-sex marriage. Opponents of the 2008 law say it is
flatly unconstitutional, a violation of the  14th Amendment ’s
guarantee of “equal protection of the laws.” In February, a
federal appeals court agreed.  By accepting these two cases, the court has delineated a
choice familiar to civil-rights advocates  for decades , and to
defenders of American ideals of freedom for much longer than
that: what kind of progress to accept.  In the DOMA case, the court could uphold, strike down or
refine the federal government’s right to define marriage. In
effect, the issue would be adjudicated state-by-state. The
California case is more straightforward: Either same-sex
marriage is constitutional or it is not. In all 50 states.  As always, the legal options are slightly more complicated
than that. But the dilemma is simple enough and is nicely
captured by our friend  Andrew Sullivan , who has done more than
perhaps anyone to make the conservative case for same-sex
marriage. “I am worried about two things,”  writes  Sullivan, who
is gay. “I’m worried that we will fail, and I’m worried that we
will succeed.”  After all, if we want to live in a country that allows gay
Americans the same rights as all Americans -- and we do -- then
how can we allow any limits on same-sex marriage? At the same
time, acceptance of same-sex marriage is not something that can
be imposed by judicial fiat.  Gay marriage is fast becoming a reality. The level of
public support for same-sex marriage  continues to rise , and just
last month voters in three states legalized it, bringing the
number to nine plus the  District of Columbia  as of Jan. 1. In
politics and culture, support of same-sex marriage is becoming
commonplace. Thankfully, there is little the  Supreme Court  can
or should do about this.  What’s more, the court’s intervention on major social and
political issues is not always helpful. One of the leading
critiques of Roe v. Wade is that it was a legal short circuit of
the political process; you can believe, as we do, in a woman’s
right to an abortion and also think that the court’s 1973
decision inflamed an already divisive issue. Some proponents of
same-sex marriage  made this argument  in recommending against the
court’s review of the California case.  In the law as in politics, there is an honorable tradition
of dodging the question. It wouldn’t necessarily be horrible if
the court didn’t pronounce next year that same-sex marriage is a
constitutional right. It needn’t even rule on the
constitutionality of DOMA, although the law infringes on what is
traditionally a state right. Whatever the court does, however,
it should be careful not to impede the expansion of rights and
the cause of fairness that help to define America.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 