-- First Six State Health Insurance Markets Approved by U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/health-exchanges-in-six-states-approved-by-u-s-regulator.html
Six U.S. states became the first to
meet Affordable Care Act rules for the creation of marketplaces
by 2014 where local residents can buy medical insurance.  Colorado , Connecticut,  Massachusetts ,  Maryland , Oregon and
Washington, all states with Democratic governors, have made
enough progress building their health-insurance exchanges to
receive conditional approval to begin enrolling members in
October 2013, the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services
said yesterday in a statement. The six represent less than half
of the 14 states that have told the U.S. they will set up the
online exchanges.  A majority of states, most led by Republican governors, may
allow the U.S. to run the markets or choose to provide services
such as consumer assistance in a partnership with the federal
government. Twenty-two governors have already sent notice that
they won’t build their own exchanges. The remaining states have
until Dec. 14 to decide.  “The majority of states will play an active role operating
their exchanges,”  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. health secretary,
said in a  blog  post.  The 2010 health law is expected to extend coverage to about
30 million Americans who would otherwise lack insurance starting
in 2014. Congressional budget projections show that more than
half of those people would buy subsidized plans through the
exchanges and 11 million would become eligible for Medicaid, the
state-run insurance program for the poor.  Medicaid Support  The Medicaid portion of the law is dependent on state
cooperation after the  Supreme Court  ruled June 28 that governors
can opt out of the expansion. Some governors asked Sebelius if
they could expand Medicaid by less than what President  Barack
Obama  wants while still taking advantage of a 90 percent federal
reimbursement for the program’s costs.  The Obama administration responded yesterday, saying states
won’t get full federal support for expansions of Medicaid that
fall short of the level directed by the health law. Medicaid is
the joint U.S.-state medical program for the poor.  “The Obama administration’s refusal to grant states more
flexibility on Medicaid is as disheartening as it is short-
sighted,” Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , the chairman of the
 Republican Governors Association , said in a statement. “The
current Medicaid system is broken, and it is an inefficient
mechanism for expanding coverage.”  The law calls for Medicaid to expand to cover everyone
making as much as 138 percent of the poverty level, or about
$31,809 for a family of four this year. The U.S. will pick up
the full cost of the expansion until 2017, when federal
 reimbursement  begins to decline to 90 percent of the cost.  If the U.S. approves smaller expansions, states will be
reimbursed at the usual federal match rate, which varies from 50
percent to 74 percent this year, depending on the state.  “The enhanced match rate is a rate Congress reserved for
the full expansion,” said Cindy Mann, the U.S. Medicaid
director, in a conference call with reporters. “We are going to
remain true to that intent of Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  