-- Eastern Europe Cold Snap Kills 13 as Snow Blankets Region
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-10T15:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/eastern-europe-cold-snap-kills-13-as-snow-blankets-region.html
Freezing temperatures and heavy
snowfall killed at least 13 people in eastern  Europe  as  Croatia 
endured its worst winter storm since 1955 and Romanians
struggled to vote in parliamentary elections.  Seven people died in the Czech Republic at the weekend amid
temperatures of as low as -20 Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit). Four
people died in Croatia and two in  Serbia  as the Balkan region
saw snowfall of as much as 110 centimeters (43 inches). Heavy
snow in  Romania  hampered voters as Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s
ruling coalition won yesterday’s general election.  “It was the combination of wind, snow and other factors
that contributed to such a cold snap,” Andrej Velkavrh, a
meteorologist at the Slovenian environmental agency, said by
phone. “The low temperatures are set to last until Friday, when
we expect warmer air from the west.”  Eastern Europe was hit by cold Siberian air and above-
normal snowfall at the start of this year, triggering a surge in
demand for natural gas across the region that  Russia ’s  OAO
Gazprom (OGZD)  struggled to meet. Moscow officials deployed 12,000
snow-removal vehicles and more than 7,000 people to keep roads
open and sidewalks cleared last month amid the Russian capital’s
biggest November snowstorm in more than half a century.  Trucks Stranded  Dozens of trucks carrying goods to Europe are stranded on
 Bulgaria ’s border with Serbia as snow blocks roads in the
neighboring Balkan country, Bulgaria’s Interior Ministry said
today on its website.  Serbia banned truck transport during future snowfall “to
avoid unforeseen traffic jams and similar consequences,” the
Transport Ministry said on its website. A tow truck skidded off
a road at the weekend, blocking the main highway between the
capital, Belgrade, and the Hungarian border in the north and
leaving people in their cars overnight in a 10-kilometer line.  Above-average snowfall cut electricity supplies across
Romania, leaving about 90 towns without power amid falling
temperatures, the Bucharest-based Economy Ministry said today in
an e-mailed statement.  In Slovenia, the state-owned agency that operates the
country’s highways and the police blamed each other for the
chaos on one of the country’s highways after trucks slid and
blocked roads, leaving dozens of drivers stranded without food
and water.  Lietuvos Draudimas AB, Lithuania’s largest property and
casualty insurer and part of  RSA Insurance Group (RSA) , said today
that car accidents and related damage was about 25 percent
higher than usual because of the weather conditions. Insurers
registered 345 accidents by 11 a.m. in Vilnius, with damage
averaging 2,500 litai ($934), it said in an e-mailed statement.  Montenegro reported 19 car accidents with nine people hurt
as heavy snow and strong winds battered the smallest of the
former Yugoslav nations, according to the automobile club’s
website. Two trucks plunged off a road in nearby Macedonia with
no injuries reported, according to the Skopje-based Utrinski
Vesnik newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  