-- Hedge Funds May Profit Most From Japan’s Election
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-12-10T22:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/hedge-funds-may-profit-most-from-japan-s-election.html
This may be the election that  Japan 
bears such as J. Kyle Bass have been waiting for.  Hedge-fund managers betting against Japan in recent years,
including Bass of Hayman Capital Management LP, are counting on
a doomsday scenario: a widening trade deficit, a plunge in the
yen and a devastating surge in yields in Japan’s $12 trillion
 bond market . Bass made $500 million from the U.S. housing market
meltdown. Will his team be right about Japan?  Time will tell, of course, but the return of Shinzo Abe’s
Liberal  Democratic Party  after the Dec. 16 election, as polls
suggest, might nudge Japan closer to a winning hand for the
likes of Bass.  No, Japan isn’t the next  Greece , as a few have suggested in
recent years. Japan’s household savings exceed the size of the
government bond market, with more than 90 percent of the
national debt held domestically. That minimizes the risk of a
run on yen assets and offers  Tokyo  a huge cushion that Greece
lacks.  But Abe’s economics will probably put Japan on shakier
footing. Its duel tenets -- aggressive fiscal and monetary
stimulus -- are right out of the playbook the  LDP  honed over
more than a half century of rule before being tossed out of
power in 2009. Only this time Abe plans to push into the kind of
uncharted territory that may unnerve investors and  credit-rating 
companies.  Market Buzz  That isn’t the conventional take at the moment. Markets are
abuzz with expectations that Abe will follow through on his
pledge to rewrite the Bank of Japan’s charter. He would replace
BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa with a monetary yes man and
demand a 3 percent inflation target with the goal of ending
deflation. Abe would reopen the public-works spigot at a time
when Japan should be trimming debt.  In another time and place, this might make sense. But Japan
is in far worse shape today than it was in 2006, when Abe had
his first crack at prime minister. He inherited an economy
experiencing its longest expansion in 60 years thanks to the
reforms of predecessor  Junichiro Koizumi . When Abe stepped down
12 months later, the revival was over.  Why voters would give Abe a second chance is beyond me. His
party amassed the world’s biggest debt among developed nations,
created a huge real estate and stock market bubble and failed to
figure out a way to escape the inertia that followed.  The nation of 127 million people voted the LDP out of
office three years ago, finding it guilty of these sins and
countless others. It turned to the  Democratic Party of Japan  to
plot a new course and give two-party politics a try. Now, voters
seem ready to return to the familiar.  The DPJ hasn’t exactly covered itself in glory: three prime
ministers in three years, another recession under way, and a
clumsy effort to rebuild the northeastern cities and towns
devastated by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami.  But the LDP’s anachronistic ways will be set against a
fast-changing global backdrop. Fiscal and monetary easing are
Band-Aids that treat the symptoms of Japan’s slump, now in its
third decade, not the causes. Deregulating industry, reducing
trade barriers and encouraging innovation outside of a handful
of corporate champions would do more to fuel growth than
building new roads or ordering the  Bank of Japan  to print yen.  Easy Money  Japan needs to instill greater confidence if people are
going to borrow and banks are going to lend. It must figure out
whether easy money even makes sense given the fast-aging
population. Twenty-six percent of Japanese are 65 or older and
won’t be borrowing to buy houses, cars or computers anytime
soon. New economic strategies and levers are badly needed.  Until recently, Japan’s politics were viewed as irrelevant
because so many Japanese companies were world-beaters, churning
out innovative products and huge profits. That’s no longer the
case, and with Panasonic Corp., Sharp Corp. and Sony Corp.
reeling, policy reforms are essential.  What are the odds of that happening? Abe didn’t acquit
himself with anything like distinction the first time. Let’s say
he lasts two years in office this time. That’s 24 months
squandered on the same old ideas that left Japan with the
identical credit rating as  China .  It is also a period in which the few big reforms announced
in recent years may be repealed. Remember all the excitement in
2007 when Koizumi began privatizing  Japan Post , prying the
world’s largest bank by deposits from the gasping hands of
corrupt politicians? It has steadily been undone, and one can
expect the process to gain speed.  Then there was the consumption tax increase sponsored by
current Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to pay down debt. Abe is
hinting it will be scrapped when he assumes power. It also is a
safe bet Abe will shelve Noda’s pledge to phase out nuclear
power by 2040. The process of rolling back reforms almost
guarantees other needed changes won’t happen.  Japanese people have to rank as the world’s most cautious
voters. Many now seek a return to the political party they
became comfortable with during decades of one-party dominance.
Little do they know the real winners could be hedge funds
betting against Japan’s future.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 