-- Egyptian President Gives Army Police Powers Ahead of Vote
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-11T20:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/egyptian-activists-warn-of-violence-amid-rallies-over-charter.html
Egyptian protesters gathered in
the thousands near Mohamed Mursi’s presidential palace to
demand the revocation of a draft constitution, while his
Islamist supporters staged counter-rallies across the country.  Opposition groups say the charter, due to be put before
voters in a Dec. 15 referendum, was drafted by an Islamist-
dominated panel and fails to safeguard rights and freedoms. It’s
demanding the cancellation of the vote. Mursi’s Muslim
Brotherhood, which supports the constitution, mobilized
thousands of supporters in Cairo, Alexandria and other cities
across the country.  Today’s marches risk a repeat of clashes last week between
the rival camps, in which eight people died. Anti-Mursi
demonstrators staging a sit-in in Cairo’s Tahrir Square were
attacked by unidentified people in the early hours of today,
leaving 16 injured by birdshot, the state-run Ahram Gate website
reported, citing a local doctor.  Mursi told the army to help police ensure security, after
weeks of political tensions and street protests sparked by the
president’s Nov. 22 decree expanding his powers and his refusal
to alter the referendum timetable. The unrest threatens to
derail  Egypt ’s efforts to establish a stable democracy after
last year’s uprising against Hosni Mubarak, and revive an
economy that has been largely stalled since then.  Military Role  The military will play a role alongside police “to
preserve security and protect vital state institutions” until
the results of the referendum are announced, the state-run
Middle East News Agency said. This includes the power to arrest
civilians, it said.  The decision by Mursi to give the army policing powers has
been criticized by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.
The U.S. is “deeply concerned” by developments and wants to
see “those who are charged with maintaining security do so in a
manner that respects human rights and freedom of expression,”
State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in
 Washington .  The Republican Guard stepped up security around the palace
before today’s march, state-run Ahram Online reported.
Television footage showed protesters toppling a wall of concrete
blocks erected near the compound. Mahmoud Ghozlan, the Muslim
Brotherhood’s spokesman, told Ahram Gate yesterday that
supporters of the president shouldn’t head there during today’s
rally, which he said will end at 10 p.m.  Mursi Supporters  Mursi supporters gathered in Cairo’s Nasr City neighborhood
after dark, some chanting “yes, yes to the constitution,” and
“the people want God’s law.”  Mohamed Hegazy, a 33-year-old owner of a shipping company,
said he was supporting Mursi’s decisions and the charter in the
interests of restoring stability.  “I have lost so much money since the revolution as every
time we start building a state institution, it gets toppled,”
he said, citing the dissolution of parliament in June. “Every
time investors start to return, they see tensions, disbanding of
state institutions and protests,” which scare them away, he
said.  Mohamed Attia, a 27-year-old engineer, said he was taking
part in the rally to “underline the legitimacy” of the
president. “Short of reaching a consensus on the constitution,
the view of the majority must be adopted,” he said. “The
minority is trying to impose its positions.”  Protest Marches  As marches converged on the palace late today, anti-Mursi
protesters yelled “Revolution,” and “the people want to
topple the regime,” echoing the chants during the uprising that
ousted Mubarak.  Ashraf Sabry, a 27-year-old accountant, said he took part
in the rallies to demand “the rights of the people who died,”
and protest “Mursi’s failure to follow through on any
promises.”  “When Mursi won, we accepted and stayed at home. But now
there are real grievances that made people take to the
streets.” he said. “It took  Hosni Mubarak  30 years to lose
touch with what’s happening around him and how the people oppose
him. After only five months, is Mursi not aware of how things
are moving from bad to worse?”  Mursi’s reversal on Dec. 9 of the decree expanding his
powers failed to defuse the tensions. The government also
suspended a decision to raise sales and income taxes as part of
an economic program set out after negotiations with the
International Monetary Fund, local newspapers reported
yesterday.  IMF Delay  Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said in a phone interview
today that Egypt will ask the IMF board to delay a decision on
the $4.8 billion loan application until January. The board had
been scheduled to discuss it on Dec. 19. The IMF confirmed in an
e-mailed statement today that the request had been made “in
light of the unfolding developments on the ground”  Egypt’s benchmark  stock index  is down almost 8 percent
since Nov. 22. The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float,
extended its decline today and has lost 1 percent over the same
period, as much as it fell in the previous 11 months.  Opposition groups including the Strong Egypt Party, the
Social Democratic Party and the April 6 youth movement have
urged their supporters to vote “No” to the charter. Many
secular and Christian members of the panel that drafted it
withdrew from the body, saying their views were ignored.  The Judges Club said most of its members won’t supervise
the referendum, the head of the association, Ahmed El-Zind, told
reporters in Cairo today. The draft charter falls short on
“human rights and freedoms,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  