-- Eight Ex-Morgan Keegan Fund Directors Sanctioned by SEC
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-12-10T22:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/eight-ex-morgan-keegan-fund-directors-sanctioned-by-sec.html
Eight former directors overseeing
mutual funds for Morgan Keegan & Co. were accused by U.S.
regulators of allowing assets backed by subprime mortgages to be
overvalued as the housing market collapsed in 2007.  The action, filed in administrative court by the Securities
and Exchange Commission today, follows a related $200 million
settlement with Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of  Raymond James 
Financial Inc., last year and sanctions against two employees in
2010. The securities at issue made up the majority of five
funds’ net asset values, in most cases more than 60 percent, the
SEC said.  The eight directors, who were responsible for determining
the fair value of fund securities that lacked readily available
market quotations, delegated valuation tasks to a committee
without providing meaningful guidance on how the assets should
be priced, the SEC said. The directors made no meaningful effort
to learn how the values were being determined and obtained
almost no information explaining why particular values were
assigned to portfolio securities, according to the order.  “Investors rely on board members to establish an accurate
process for valuing their mutual fund investments,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement.
“Otherwise, they are left in the dark about the value of their
investments and handicapped in their ability to make informed
decisions.”  The directors named in the order were J. Kenneth Alderman,
Jack R. Blair, Albert C. Johnson, James Stillman R. McFadden,
Allen B. Morgan Jr., W. Randall Pittman, Mary S. Stone and
Archie W. Willis III.  ‘Emphatically Deny’  Blair, Johnson, McFadden, Pittman, Stone and Willis acted
“diligently and in good faith” and intend to contest the SEC’s
allegations, which they “emphatically deny,” according to a
statement from their attorney, Stephen Crimmins of K&L Gates in
 Washington . An e-mail seeking comment to  Peter Anderson , an
attorney for Alderman and Morgan, wasn’t immediately answered.  Raymond James, based in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , acquired
Morgan Keegan from  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  in April for about
$1.2 billion. The five funds at issue in the SEC’s order are RMK
High Income Fund, RMK Multi-Sector High Income Fund, RMK
Strategic Income Fund, RMK Advantage Income Fund and Morgan
Keegan Select Fund.  Shereen Sarthou, a spokeswoman for Raymond James and Morgan
Keegan, declined to comment.  According to the SEC’s order, the net asset values of the
funds were materially misstated in 2007 from at least March 31
to Aug. 9. As a result, the prices at which one open-end fund
sold, redeemed and repurchased its shares were inaccurate, the
SEC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  