-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Seven-Month High on China Economic Data
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-10T22:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/emerging-stocks-rise-to-seven-month-high-on-china-economic-data.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a fourth day, sending the benchmark index to a seven-month high,
after better-than-estimated Chinese industrial production and
retail sales added to signs the global economy is strengthening.   Cnooc Ltd. (883) , a state-owned Chinese offshore energy
explorer, climbed to the highest level since May after Canada
approved its $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen Inc.  Cia. de
Bebidas das Americas  led gains on the  emerging markets  gauge as
the Brazilian unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV considers a
proposal to convert all shares into voting shares. OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
advanced to a five-month peak in Moscow as metals rose.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.5 percent to
1,029.06 in New York, the highest level since May 2. China’s
factory production and retail sales rose last month at the
fastest pace since March, reports showed yesterday. Electricity
output accelerated in November, according to government data,
while the inflation rate of 2 percent was lower than estimated.  “China is a glimmer of economic optimism,” Mark Luschini,
chief investment strategist Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which manages about $54 billion, said by phone.
“The evidence that’s accumulated only validates the outlook
that China is stabilizing. Now the question is: is it
stabilizing or reaccelerating somewhat?”  Chinese Stocks  China’s stocks gained the most among major emerging markets
as the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.1 percent to a one-
month high, with trading volumes 86 percent above its 30-day
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
gained for a fifth day, rising 0.7 percent. Brazil’s Bovespa
index added 1.3 percent while Turkey’s benchmark stock index
climbed 0.7 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index rose 0.4 percent, a fourth day of
gains. Russia’s central bank unexpectedly raised its overnight
deposit rate and cut the cost of ruble currency swaps to curb
money-market volatility. The ruble strengthened 0.6 percent to
30.72 against the dollar.  The Egyptian pound weakened 0.3 percent to the lowest since
December 2004 as opponents of President Mohamed Mursi vowed to
keep up protests against a draft constitution. South Korea’s won
gained 0.2 percent to the highest level since September 2011.  All 10  industry  groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
rose, led by a 0.9 percent gain in materials companies. The
overall index has risen 12 percent this year, matching the 12
percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed countries. The
emerging-markets gauge trades at 11.9 times estimated profit,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.6, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  China Output  Industrial production in China, the world’s biggest
emerging market, climbed 10.1 percent last month, while retail
sales grew 14.9 percent, the statistics bureau said yesterday.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey had a median estimate of 9.8
percent growth in industrial production and a 14.6 percent
increase in retail sales. Electricity output accelerated in
November, according to government data.  “Good data out of China is adding to signs that the growth
trajectory has stabilized,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets
strategist at Amiya Capital LLP in London, said by phone.
“China is key for global growth.”  Xi Jinping visited the southern province of Guangdong in
his first trip since taking over the Communist Party, drawing
parallels to a 1992 tour by leader  Deng Xiaoping  that spurred
economic opening.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 276 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Fiscal Cliff  President  Barack Obama  said he is ready to make a deal with
Republicans as he promoted his plan to avert the so-called
fiscal cliff at a Michigan factory visit. Obama and House
Speaker  John Boehner  met yesterday at the White House to discuss
the dispute over the U.S. budget, representatives for the two
leaders said. An agreement would help avert the fiscal cliff,
which could result in more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts taking effect next month.  The 21 countries in the MSCI emerging-market index send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S., according to data
compiled by the World Trade Organization.  Monti Resignation  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he lost support in
Parliament and will resign, sparking concern a leadership change
will disrupt efforts to reduce debt. His resignation
announcement comes before a Dec. 13-14 summit of European Union
leaders to debate a road map for the overhaul of the euro area.  Cnooc climbed 1.1 percent to its highest close since May 2
in Hong Kong. Its takeover of Nexen is the largest-ever foreign
acquisition by a Chinese company.  Dongfang Electric Corp. Ltd. (1072)  jumped 10 percent, the most
since April 2010, as China’s electricity production increased
the most since February, government data showed.  Norilsk Nickel advanced 1.5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials slipped 0.2 percent.  OAO RusHydro (INDEXCF) , Russia’s biggest renewable energy producer,
gained 3.4 percent, the most since Nov. 22. Russian Deputy Prime
Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  may attend the company’s board
meeting to control the decision on the extension of an
additional share issue as part of a government plan, Kommersant
newspaper reported today, citing unidentified sources.  Banvit Bandirma Vitaminli Yem Sanayii AS (BANVT) , a Turkish poultry
producer, rose the most since January, as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. recommended buying the stock and raised its price target.  AmBev Rally  AmBev, as Cia. de Bebidas das Americas is known, surged 11
percent to a record. OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
billionaire  Eike Batista ’s oil-producing company, led the
Bovespa higher after a columnist for Brazilian magazine Veja
reported the billionaire is in talks to sell stakes in his units
to Brazil’s National Development Bank.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  added 0.7 percent to a record close
in Seoul. HI Investment & Securities Co. raised its share-price
estimate to 1.8 million won ($1,668) from 1.6 million won,
citing a stronger earnings outlook and declining risks related
to a legal battle with Apple Inc.  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) , Malaysia’s biggest mobile-phone operator
by market value, climbed 3.5 percent in Kuala Lumpur to its
highest close since Nov. 1. Investors should switch to Axiata
from  Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T) , which faces “cost headwinds” and
rising competition in broadband, according to a report by CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  