-- MERS, U.S. Bank Sued by Illinois Man Over Property Records
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-11T00:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/mers-u-s-bank-sued-by-illinois-man-over-real-property-records.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. and lender  U.S. Bank  NA were sued by an  Illinois 
man who claims they have contributed to a statewide degradation
of real property records.  Charles E. Daniels, a homeowner in suburban  Hoffman
Estates , filed a complaint today in state court in Chicago,
seeking an order that would block banks from using MERS in lieu
of publicly recording loan-related documents.  MERS and its co-defendant and corporate parent Merscorp
Holdings Inc. operate a privately-managed database through which
lenders can convey mortgage interests without having to record a
corresponding document with a public recorder’s office, where
MERS may be listed as the lender’s “nominee.”  Daniels said he’s suing on behalf of all other state
residents who have obtained a mortgage from the  US Bancorp (USB)  unit
or any other member of the MERS system since 2002.  “As a result of the creation and maintenance of MERS, the
public recording system is no longer a reliable source for
tracking the chain of title for property,” according to
Daniels’ complaint.  Public Nuisance  The Illinois homeowner accused the Reston, Virginia-based
electronic records company, the Minneapolis-based bank and other
MERS members of creating a public nuisance and of being unjustly
enriched.  His lawyer, Larry D. Drury of Chicago, said in a phone
interview that his client seeks the reconstruction of public
title records by MERS and its constituents.  Jason Lobo, a spokesman for Merscorp, said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  In July, Merscorp settled a suit brought by  Delaware  that
accused it of deceptive practices by agreeing to conduct regular
audits of its records for accuracy and maintaining a database
that would allow homeowners to learn who owns their mortgage,
state Attorney General  Beau Biden  said then.  Daniels claims MERS and its members deceptively created and
filed inaccurate documents with Illinois recorders of deeds.  “The lawsuit is baseless and very similar to many cases
filed against MERS across the country,” Tom Joyce, a U.S.
Bancorp spokesman, said today in a phone interview. “We are
quite confident in the outcome.”  The case is Daniels v. U.S. Bank N.A., 12-ch-43772, Cook
County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  