-- Estonia GDP Grows 3.5% in 3rd Quarter, More Than Seen
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-12-10T07:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/estonia-gdp-grows-3-5-in-3rd-quarter-more-than-seen-1-.html
Estonia ’s  economy  grew 3.5 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, faster than the
preliminary estimate of 3.4 percent, bolstered by construction
and export growth.  Output grew a  seasonally adjusted  1.6 percent from the
previous quarter, compared with an earlier estimate of a 1.7
percent expansion, the statistics office in the capital,
Tallinn, said on its  website  today.  Estonia, the first former Soviet republic to adopt the
euro, has been buffered by robust retail sales, rising corporate
investment and public-sector construction financed by sales of
spare United Nations carbon-emissions quota. The $22 billion
economy may grow 2.5 percent this year and 3.1 percent in 2013
as economies of its main export partners recover from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, the European Commission forecast.  “Construction contributed the most to the economic growth
already for the fourth quarter in succession,” the statistics
office said in a statement. “Fast growth of the value added of
administrative and support service, information and
communication, agriculture and forestry and transport and
storage activities had a substantial impact on economic
growth.”  Household spending advanced 7 percent after a 2 percent
increase in the second quarter, while shipments of goods such as
wireless network gear for Stockholm-based Ericsson AB and wind
generators for Zurich-based  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  rose 5 percent from a year
earlier after a 4 percent increase in the second quarter.  Estonia has no outstanding bonds, so investors speculate on
its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Five-year
Estonian CDS traded at 69 basis points on Dec. 7, eight basis
points from a five-year low of 61 on Nov. 27, according to data
provider CMA. Moody’s Investors Service in July affirmed
Estonia’s A1 rating, the fifth-highest investment grade and one
notch above fellow euro-area member Slovakia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net 
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  