-- EU Lawmakers Threaten to Reject Basel Law Deal Without Bonus Cap
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-12-10T15:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/eu-lawmakers-threaten-to-reject-basel-law-deal-without-bonus-cap.html
European Union lawmakers are
threatening to reject any deal on a bank capital law without a
cap on banker bonuses that exceed fixed pay, days before a
scheduled meeting with EU officials.  The Parliament has rejected proposals from governments that
would have allowed awards of as much as five times a banker’s
basic salary,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European
Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee, said in an
e-mail. The lawmakers are “taking a firm line” on the ban as
part of negotiations on the Capital Requirements Directive,
Bowles said.  “There won’t be any agreement on CRD as a whole, if
there’s no agreement on the bonus cap,”  Othmar Karas , the
lawmaker leading the parliament’s work on the draft law, said in
a statement.  The bonus debate has hampered the EU’s efforts to agree on
the bank capital law, which would implement on overhaul of the
international rulebook for lenders drawn up by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . Legislators are scheduled to
meet with officials from Cyprus, which holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, tomorrow and on Dec. 13 in a last-ditch attempt to
reach a deal by the end of the year.  Bankers are facing a backlash from EU lawmakers determined
to cut variable pay as part of a quest to reshape lenders as
utilities rather than money-making machines. Public outrage and
shareholder rebellions have already led some banks to limit
payouts.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  shareholders rejected that bank’s executive
pay plan earlier this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  former Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond , prior to his resignation over the Libor
interest-rate scandal, also was pressured by investors into
forgoing part of his total compensation.  Basel Committee  The measures, known as Basel III, more than triple the core
capital that lenders must hold compared with the last round of
international rules.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
admitted earlier this month that the bloc would join the U.S. in
failing to meet a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline to begin phasing in the
new Basel rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  