-- EU Sees Nobel Peace Prize as Spur to Overcome Debt Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-12-10T15:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/eu-sees-nobel-peace-prize-as-spur-to-overcome-economic-crisis.html
European Union leaders accepted the
Nobel Peace Prize with a pledge to master the economic crisis
that threatens to set back the six-decade quest for a more
united continent.  Almost 14 years after the euro’s arrival and nine years
after the EU expanded to the ex-communist east of Europe, the
rhetoric reflected the diminished ambitions of a bloc that once
claimed to be a model for how the world should operate.  “The test Europe is currently facing is real,” EU
President Herman  Van Rompuy  said at the Nobel ceremony in Oslo
today. “We answer with our deeds, confident we will succeed. We
are working very hard to overcome the difficulties, to restore
growth and jobs.”  Quoting  Konrad Adenauer ,  Winston Churchill ,  Abraham Lincoln 
and EU founding father Jean Monnet, Van Rompuy said the 27-
nation bloc needs to recommit to its loftier purposes in the
face of recession and 10.7 percent unemployment.  In announcing the prize on Oct. 12, the  Norwegian Nobel
Committee  had just that in mind, calling on Europe’s leaders to
advance the integration that started with six countries pooling
coal and steel production in the aftermath of World War II.  War and Peace  Van Rompuy related family war memories from Belgium and
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  evoked the democratic
revolution in his native Portugal in 1974 as examples of how far
Europe has come.  “We are hit by the worst economic crisis in two
generations, causing great hardship among our people and putting
the political bonds of our union to the test,” Van Rompuy said.
“For some, not only joint decisions, but the very fact of
deciding jointly, may come into doubt.”  Back in Brussels, a week of trials await for joint
decision-making. Finance ministers will tackle divisions over
euro-area  bank supervision  on Dec. 12, followed on Dec. 13 by a
meeting on Greece’s bailout and on Dec. 13-14 by a summit on the
longer-term overhaul of the euro zone.  The ceremony was attended by national leaders including
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, two figures on opposite sides of the debt crisis.
Merkel sat between French President  Francois Hollande  and Polish
Prime Minister Donald Tusk, a symbol both of postwar
reconciliation and of Germany’s centrality in European affairs.  Germany in Focus  Germany’s historic responsibilities figured in a tribute by
the head of the Norwegian Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland,
who recalled the “enormous costs” of stitching the two halves
of the country together after the  Berlin Wall  fell in 1989.  Jagland, a former Norwegian prime minister, spoke of
“canceling debts” of struggling countries -- something Merkel
as the dominant crisis manager has refused to do, at least until
after the next German election in late 2013.  Ironies of Europe’s past and present resonated through the
75-minute ceremony. It was held in the town hall of Oslo,
capital of  Norway , a country that twice voted against joining
the EU. It was noted for the absence of Prime Minister  David Cameron  of Britain, who may call a referendum leading to a U.K.
exit from the bloc.  Besides a chimed rendition of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony,
the EU’s anthem, musical offerings included a part-lament, part
up-tempo appeal to north-south European amity by a group called
 OqueStrada  from Portugal, one of four countries tapping
emergency European financial aid.  European Values  Commission chief Barroso, who drew on Pope  John Paul II  and
Vaclav Havel for inspiration in addition to Monnet, listed
development aid, leadership on  climate change , opposition to the
death penalty and the promotion of human rights and disarmament
as European accomplishments.  Barroso made a foray into day-by-day politics, saying “the
current situation in Syria is a stain on the world’s conscience
and the international community has a moral duty to address
it.”  The EU is the  21st organization  to win the peace prize,
created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and first awarded
in 1901. It beat out 188 people and 42 organizations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  