-- European Stocks Close Little Changed at 18-Month High
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-12-10T17:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-on-chinese-data.html
European stocks  closed little
changed at an 18-month high as China’s industrial output and
retail sales exceeded forecasts, offsetting concern a leadership
change in Italy will disrupt efforts to reduce debt.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, sank 5.2 percent,
leading the benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  to the biggest drop in a
month, as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he will resign. Royal
 Imtech NV (IM)  fell 4.4 percent after a report that the technical-
services company presented false accounts as evidence.
 STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  climbed 4.2 percent after saying it will
leave a joint venture with Ericsson AB.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent to 279.55 at
the close of trading, after earlier declining as much as 0.6
percent. The benchmark gauge has increased to the highest level
since May 31, 2011, as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  unveiled a program to buy the bonds of nations who seek
aid, known as Outright Monetary Transactions.  “After equities got off to a negative start due to the
rising political uncertainty in Europe, we are seeing markets
paring their losses,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist
at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55
billion. “Regardless of the negative news out of Italy,
downside to European equities is limited first and foremost due
to Draghi’s OMT put.”  National benchmark indexes gained in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX and France’s CAC 40 added 0.2
percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  rose 0.1 percent.  Monti Plans  The FTSE MIB slid 2.2 percent as Monti said he will quit
after losing support in Parliament.  Silvio Berlusconi , his
predecessor, announced a return to politics and criticized Monti
for running a “German-centric” program. Monti will try to
corral his coalition for a vote to pass the budget before
handing in his resignation, President Giorgio Napolitano’s
office said on Dec. 8.  Monti’s government of unelected technocrats was installed
as Italy’s borrowing costs jumped to records in November 2011.
His resignation announcement comes before a Dec. 13-14 summit of
European Union leaders to debate a road map for the overhaul of
the euro area, including increased powers to intervene in
national budgets and the establishment of a banking supervisor.  In China,  industrial output  and retail sales exceeded
forecasts last month in signs the economic recovery is
accelerating. Factory production climbed 10.1 percent in
November from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said yesterday, compared with the 9.8 percent median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Retail sales growth accelerated
to 14.9 percent.  Budget Talks  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner 
met yesterday at the White House to discuss the budget. An
agreement would help avert the so-called fiscal cliff, which
could result in more than $600 billion in tax increases and
spending cuts taking effect next month.  UniCredit declined 5.2 percent to 3.46 euros, the biggest
drop in four months, as a  gauge of banks  in the Stoxx 600 slid
0.9 percent. Banca Monte dei Paschi SpA fell 5.9 percent to
19.32 euro cents and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  tumbled 5.2 percent to
1.22 euros in Milan.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s largest carmaker lost 3.5 percent to 3.49
euros, snapping four days of gains.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the
Italian defense contractor, retreated 2.2 percent to 4 euros.  Imtech, the provider of infrastructure for stadiums in this
year’s London Olympics, lost 4.4 percent to 17.25 euros after
gaining for eight straight days. Het Financieele Dagblad
reported that a Dutch appeals court said the company presented
false accounts as evidence in a bonus-payment dispute. Imtech
denied that it committed forgery and said it finds the judgment
“utterly incomprehensible.”  STMicro Surges  STMicroelectronics gained 4.2 percent to 5.21 euros in
Milan. The European chipmaker struggling with weakening demand
and competition from  Asia  will sell its stake in the ST-Ericsson
joint venture by the third quarter of next year as part of a new
strategy to make the company more profitable.  Oriflame Cosmetics SA (ORI) , which sells beauty products through
3 million consultants worldwide, rose 4.2 percent to 196.50
kronor as Danske Bank A/S said it may report profit that will
beat  analyst estimates .  Man Group Plc (EMG)  surged 5 percent to 77.3 pence. Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  is preparing to leave the U.K.
hedge-fund firm and will be replaced by Chief Operating Officer
Manny Roman, said a person with knowledge of the plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  