-- Texas Instruments Forecasts Sales In Line With Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-12-11T21:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/texas-instruments-forecasts-sales-in-line-with-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, gave an updated fourth-quarter sales
forecast that was in line with analysts’ estimates as customers
seek to keep inventory low amid lackluster demand.  Sales will be $2.89 billion to $3.01 billion, the Dallas-
based company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average
projected revenue of $2.95 billion, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. In October, Texas Instruments had said sales would
be $2.83 billion to $3.07 billion.  Texas Instruments is one of the few technology companies
that still issue quarterly updates. The breadth of its customer
list -- ranging from home-appliance makers to manufacturers of
space hardware -- makes its forecasts an indicator of demand
across industries. As they wait to see whether economic
conditions improve, many companies are keeping minimal
stockpiles of unused parts, said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “The supply chain wants to run inventories as lean as
possible before the end of the year,” he said. By market,
“automotive is relatively better, consumer is relatively worse
and communications is somewhere in between.”  Texas Instruments  shares  climbed 4 percent to $31.01 at the
close in  New York , leaving them up 6.5 percent this year.  ‘Weak Demand’  Low inventory levels “reflect economic uncertainty and
relatively weak demand,” Texas Instruments Vice President  Ron Slaymaker  said on a conference call with analysts. “In general
we’re shipping consistent with demand, and inventory levels are
low.”  Any increases in demand will force customers to boost
buying to replenish their stockpiles, Slaymaker said.  The computing, communications and industrial markets
continue to be weak, he said. Consumer markets are mixed, with
television makers cutting back on orders, while game consoles
and e-book readers are seeing higher demand, Slaymaker said.  Earnings this quarter will be 5 cents to 9 cents a share,
including a charge of 21 cents related to a restructuring of the
wireless business, Texas Instruments said yesterday. That’s down
from an earlier company forecast of 23 cents to 31 cents a
share. Analysts had predicted a profit of 6 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the fourth quarter
of 2011, earnings were $298 million, or 25 cents a share, on
sales of $3.42 billion.  Job Cuts  On Nov. 14, the company said it will cut 1,700 jobs to
reduce expenses by about $450 million a year, part of Chief
Executive Officer Richard Templeton’s planned shift away from
digital chips that run mobile phones and tablets. The measures
will result in costs of $325 million, mostly in the current
quarter, Texas Instruments said at the time.  Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple Inc., which together
control about half of the market for smartphones, are
increasingly developing their own chips, narrowing the
opportunity in that business for chipmakers, Texas Instruments
said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  