-- Mexico’s Peso Strengthens as U.S. Budget Talks Buoy Export View
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-11T01:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/mexico-peso-touches-seven-week-high-on-outlook-for-sales-to-u-s-.html
Mexico’s peso touched a seven-week
high as optimism that U.S. leaders are making progress toward a
budget deal that would avert a recession boosted the outlook for
the Latin American country’s exports.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 12.8090 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. It earlier reached 12.7842, the
strongest intraday level since Oct. 18. The currency has rallied
8.8 percent this year, the best performance among the
greenback’s 16 most-traded counterparts.  Mexico’s peso gained the most among major currencies today
after President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met
yesterday in an effort to reach a deal that would avoid spending
cuts and tax increases set to take effect in January.
Representatives for the leaders both issued statements afterward
that “the lines of communication remain open.” Mexico sends
about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  A budget agreement “should lessen the retrenchment in the
 U.S. economy  and reduce uncertainty, which would be good for
risk assets in general,” Kenneth Lam, a Latin America currency
and rates strategist at Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The peso should be a primary
beneficiary due to Mexico’s links to the U.S. and the currency’s
sensitivity to risk sentiment.”  Exports from  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
increased 13 percent in October from the same month a year
earlier, Mexico’s national statistics agency said today.  Peso Debt  Yields on peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 were little
changed at 5.46 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price declined 0.07 centavo to 139.93 centavos
per peso.  Citigroup’s local brokerage known as Accival said today in
an e-mailed statement that yields on longer-term, local-currency
bonds may decline 20 basis points by the end of the year after
new President Enrique Pena Nieto proposed on Dec. 7 a balanced
budget for his first year in office. The proposal will “without
a doubt have a favorable impact on market expectations,” the
brokerage wrote.  Yields on local-currency, fixed-rate bonds maturing in
2042,  Mexico ’s longest-term peso bonds, have declined 72 basis
points in the past six months to 6.55 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield rose three basis points today.  Mexico sold 7 billion pesos of debt maturing in 28 days
that it offered at auction, according to a statement posted on
the central bank’s website. The country also sold 8 billion
pesos of 91-day notes, 9 billion pesos in 182-day securities and
9.5 billion pesos in 336-day debt.  The government also sold at auction 5 billion pesos in
local-currency, fixed-rate bonds maturing in 2031 and the
equivalent of about 3.2 billion pesos in inflation-linked debt
maturing in 2040.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  