-- Ford Says Fixing Recalled 2013 Models Won’t Hurt Finances
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-12-10T21:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ford-says-fixing-recalled-2013-models-won-t-hurt-finances.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , beset by recalls of
two of its best-selling models, said a repair to its 1.6-liter
EcoBoost engine on the Escape sport-utility vehicle and Fusion
sedan won’t have a negative impact on its financial results.  “It will have no material impact,” Raj Nair, the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker’s product development chief,
said today in a phone interview. He declined to give a cost for
the repairs. “It’s covered by what we have in the warranty
reserves.”  Ford said today it found a solution to an overheating issue
that could cause engine fires on 2013 Escape and Fusion models
equipped with the 1.6-liter engine, featuring Ford’s fuel-saving
EcoBoost technology. On Nov. 30, the automaker recalled 73,320
Escape models and about 19,000 Fusions equipped with the engine.
The problem resulted in 13 engine fires, Ford has said.  Ford recalled the Fusion a second time last week to replace
headlights that could become defective. The Escape has been the
subject of four recalls. Nair said repeated recalls can have an
impact on customer satisfaction.  “It’s obviously not a positive impact,” Nair said. “But
we’re committed that if we see issues we’re going to react to
them. That’s our responsibility.”  Loaner Cars  Dealers next week will begin installing software updates in
the cooling system of the 1.6-liter engine on SE and SEL models
of the 2013 Escape and 2013 Fusion, Ford said. About 17,000
owners who have already brought in their cars for repair have
been given free loaner cars, said Said Deep, a Ford spokesman.  The Fusion, Ford’s second best-selling car, has seen U.S.
sales fall 2 percent this year to 221,980. Sales for the Escape,
Ford’s top-selling SUV, have risen 5.3 percent through November
this year to 240,877, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Ford hasn’t found similar problems in other EcoBoost
engines, Nair said. The 1.6-liter engine in the U.S. versions of
the Escape and Fusion has electronic and mechanical controls
governing the cooling system that could get “out of sync” when
the engine overheats, potentially leading to a fire, Nair said.  “We don’t see this issue in our other EcoBoost engines and
we don’t see it in the 1.6 EcoBoost in  Europe  because of its
cooling-system differences,” Nair said. “Clearly, we’ve had an
issue with this engine. So we will use it to go update our
modeling, update our system-design standards and update the way
we test to prevent this in the future.”  Missing Targets  Ford reported last year and this that it has not been
meeting targets to improve quality, one of the cornerstones of
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s turnaround plan for the
automaker. Many of the quality setbacks have been driven by
Ford’s touchscreen dashboard controls and voice-activated phone
and entertainment system, which have been criticized for
performing poorly and distracting drivers. A fuel-saving dual-
clutch transmission also has received customer complaints.  Ford’s namesake brand fell seven spots to second-to-last
place in Consumer Reports’ annual auto-reliability survey in
October. The Ford brand fell to 27th this year in  Westlake
Village , California-based J.D. Power & Associates’ new-car
quality survey, from fifth two years ago.  “We’re making a concerted effort on focusing on quality
and improving quality,” Nair said. “Being on the forefront of
the technologies and offering a high penetration of voice
control and a high penetration of connectivity, is going to have
us at the forefront of customer feedback. You’re not going to
get complaints on voice control if you don’t have voice
control.”  Ford slipped 0.1 percent to $11.47 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 6.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  