-- Franklin Wins California Bet Surpassing Competitors: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/franklin-wins-california-bet-surpassing-competitors-muni-credit.html
Franklin Advisers bet on California
municipal bonds in 2009, when the state was so broke it had to
use IOUs to pay its bills.  The wager by the arm of  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , which
oversees $750 billion of assets, has enabled the company’s
flagship national tax-exempt  fund  to beat 89 percent of its
peers in the past five years. It returned an annual 6.3 percent
on average in the period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With the world’s ninth-biggest economy recovering to the
strongest since 2008 and voters approving tax increases set to
take effect next month, California bonds have outpaced a post-
election rally in the $3.7 trillion muni market. The  extra yield  
investors demand from California issuers over AAAs dropped to
0.53 percentage point last month, the lowest in four years.  “California was unfairly penalized in the market,” said
Paco Rivera, who helps oversee $85 billion of munis for
Franklin, which is based in San Mateo,  California . “They were
going to raise revenues by raising taxes or cut expenses by
cutting services, and that’s exactly what the state is doing.”  Ratings Road  Fitch Ratings last week joined Standard & Poor’s in saying
the tax plan that Governor Jerry Brown championed may bolster
the most-populous state’s credit. Both companies give California
the lowest grade among U.S. states, at A-, six levels below AAA.
Excluding so-called recalibrations, neither has raised the grade
since 2006.  “I hope it means there are upgrades in the future,”
California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a telephone interview.
“Rating agencies typically want to see a multiyear trend and
not just a shorter-term one. This is year three of more balanced
budgeting and more fiscal discipline.”  The state is poised for a budget surplus by 2015, according
to the state Legislative Analyst’s Office, after a decade in
which lawmakers faced cumulative deficits of more than $200
billion.  California debt has earned 10.5 percent in 2012, S&P data
show. It’s poised to beat the broader muni market for the third
straight year.  Helping fuel the gains, Brown has curbed debt sales since
he took office last year. He trimmed new general-obligation
bonds in the last two years to $7.5 billion, from $30.8 billion
the previous two.  Taxes Passed  Voters in the state, which hasn’t had a budget surplus in a
dozen years, approved higher sales and income taxes Nov. 6, the
first statewide increase since 2004. Brown, a 74-year-old
Democrat, sought higher levies to help erase a $16 billion
deficit in the year that began July 1.  “There is a strong likelihood that the state will have
operating surpluses” by 2015 if the economy grows and lawmakers
keep spending under control, Mac Taylor, the state’s independent
fiscal analyst, said in a November report.  Franklin began adding the state’s general obligations in
March 2009 to the  Franklin Federal Tax-Free Income Fund (FAFTX)  and the
 High Yield Tax-Free Income Fund (FHYVX) , Rivera said. By the end of 2010
it was the largest holding in both. Two years earlier it was
second-biggest in the national fund and 44th in the high-yield
portfolio.  Back then, “there were enough bonds to go around, because
no one else had money or conviction on the credit,” Rivera
said.  IOU Year  California in July 2009 began issuing IOUs to pay some
creditors, a step taken only once before since the Great
Depression. The same month, Fitch cut its rating to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade and matching its lowest level
ever.  The yield penalty on California issuers reached almost
three times the current level in 2009, Bloomberg indexes show.  Individual buyers seeking to avoid taxes have helped drive
gains in the past month. They added about $221 million to
California muni funds in the four weeks through Dec. 5, the most
since April, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  “The increase in tax rates makes the tax exemption an even
better value” for California investors, said Dan Solender, who
manages $19 billion of munis at Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey
City, New Jersey.  The state’s improving fiscal situation still faces risks,
with more than $600 billion of federal tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect next month unless Congress
acts.  Should those levies and reductions cause the U.S. economy
to fall back into recession, it would cut about $11 billion from
California tax collections over the next year and a half,
Taylor’s office estimates.  For now, California’s economy is near its strongest since
2008, according to a Comerica Bank index measuring activity
including nonfarm payrolls and building permits.  Yields on 20-year general obligations of issuers nationwide
fell last week to 3.27 percent, the lowest since August 1965,
according to a Bond Buyer  index .  Following is a pending sale:  CALIFORNIA POLLUTION CONTROL FINANCING AUTHORITY plans to
sell about $781 million in revenue bonds as soon as this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Part of the proceeds
will be used to construct a desalination plant and a pipeline in
San Diego County. (Added Dec. 10)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  