-- France to Raise Consumer Gas Prices by 2.4%, Batho Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-10T11:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/france-to-raise-consumer-gas-prices-2-4-on-jan-1-batho-says.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , which has sued the
French government for higher regulated gas prices, will be able
to raise consumer tariffs by 2.4 percent at the start of next
year, according to Energy Minister Delphine Batho.  The increase will take into account new contract terms
between the utility and long-term suppliers, she said today in
Paris. So-called social rates will be extended to 830,000 more
low earners and the system for calculating rates has been
revised.  Today’s decision on tariffs follows a ruling by the
country’s highest court last month that a 2 percent increase in
consumer gas rates on Oct. 1 wasn’t enough to allow French
natural-gas distributors to cover costs.  The legal challenge was the latest by an organization
called Anode, which represents gas distributors and is seeking
to compete with former monopoly supplier GDF Suez. GDF Suez has
mounted separate court cases against the government over
tariffs.  “We have asked GDF Suez to renegotiate its long-term
supply contracts and this has helped us limit the increase,”
Batho said today.  The proportion of supply indexed to spot market prices for
natural gas will be increased to 36 percent in January from 26
percent, she told a press conference.  Annual Framework  A new system for calculating regulated rates will also be
put in place under which the government will determine an
“annual framework” for rates, which will be reviewed monthly,
rather than the current quarterly revisions, she said.  “The idea is that this will be automatic,” Batho said at
the press conference.  Even then, there will be a safeguard in that the government
can “take things back in hand” in the event of exceptional
circumstances, she said.  France ’s highest court, the Conseil d’Etat, ruled last
month there is “serious doubt” about the legality of a 2
percent increase in  gas prices  allowed by the government from
Oct. 1. It gave the state one month to announce new rates. Like
previous rulings, the court referred in its decision to France’s
energy regulator, which for the period in question had ruled
prices should have increased 6.1 percent to allow utilities to
cover their costs of supply.  Legal Challenges  GDF Suez, 35 percent owned by the government, and Anode,
which represents companies including Direct Energie, mounted six
legal challenges to state-set gas prices in the past year. The
Conseil d’Etat has ruled on four cases so far, each time in
favor of the gas companies. It has cited findings by the energy
regulator known as the Commission de Regulation de l’Energie
that state-set rates should have been higher to allow companies
to cover their costs and compete in the market.  GDF Suez said last week the failure by the government to
raise rates enough to cover costs of supply in the second half
of the year had  cost  the utility 185 million euros ($239
million). Its biggest suppliers are  Norway ,  Russia ,  Algeria  and
the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  