-- Lufthansa Cancels Flights as Airport Security Strike
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-12-10T09:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/frankfurt-airport-flights-face-delays-on-security-walkout.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  canceled 90
flights today as a strike by airport security guards in  Germany 
added to disruptions caused by winter weather.  The Ver.di union called for employees of private security
services at airports in Frankfurt, Berlin and Dusseldorf to join
warning strikes from early morning until midday, the labor union
said in e-mailed statements. Ver.di is demanding longer working
contracts and shorter shifts.  The strikes added to cancellations caused by planes being
grounded yesterday, when more than a quarter of the flights
scheduled at Fraport AG’s Frankfurt airport were scrapped
because of snowfall. Lufthansa canceled at least 258 flights,
putting planes out of position for flights today, a spokeswoman
for the airline in  Frankfurt  said.  Temperatures yesterday fell to as low as -20 degrees
Celsius (-4 degrees Fahrenheit) in parts of Germany, according
to the Deutscher Wetterdienst, which had predicted new snowfall
of as much as 20 centimeters (8 inches).  “The reason for the strikes is the monthlong
procrastination tactics” by the security industry association,
the North Rhine-Westphalia branch of the union said. “After
four rounds of negotiations for the 15,000 airport workers,
there is still no real comprehensive solution for a collective
wage agreement.”  Walkouts were staged at a total of 10 airports, including
Karlsruhe/Baden-Baden, Bremen, Hamburg, Hanover, Cologne-Bonn
and Stuttgart. The work stoppage started at 4 a.m. and is
scheduled to last until midday at some sites.  The strike by security staff caused minor delays and two
cancellations at Air Berlin, a spokesman for the carrier said
today by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  