-- Freight Swaps Trade in Yuan as Brokers See Reversal of Slump
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-12-10T14:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/freight-swaps-trade-in-yuan-as-brokers-see-reversal-of-slump-1-.html
The first yuan-denominated freight
swaps traded today, helping brokers of the derivatives as they
seek to reverse a 94 percent slump in the value of transactions
since the market peaked four years ago.  The forward freight agreement for a Supramax vessel, able
to carry cargoes of about 50,000 metric tons, was cleared by the
 Shanghai  Clearing House on the first day the trading was
permitted in  China , according to SSY Futures Ltd., which
brokered the contract. Freight Investor Services Ltd., also a
broker of the swaps, said that a  yuan  transaction it arranged
was the first one registered with the clearinghouse.  A record collapse in shipping costs since 2008 helped the
volume of freight swaps traded to decline by 57 percent over the
period and resulted in a 94 percent slump in the value of
transactions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Asia
accounts for about 20 percent of all FFA trading, a figure that
may expand now that contracts are allowed in the Chinese
currency, Dunn said. There are 15 companies registered with the
clearinghouse, he said.  “Hopefully it will fuel liquidity in the global market
because of local trading in Shanghai,” Duncan Dunn, a senior
director of SSY Futures, said by phone from  London  today.  The value of contracts may fall to $7 billion this year, a
slide of 53 percent from 2011, because of low shipping rates,
Freight Investor Services estimated in September. The market was
worth $125 billion in 2008, Celent, a financial consultant,
estimated in December that year.  The swaps were settled against prices provided by the
Baltic Exchange, a London-based assessor of freight costs. The
People’s Bank of China that regulates the Shanghai Clearing
House gave permission on Dec. 10 for FFA trading in China to
start from today, according to Dunn.  Baltic Exchange  The  Baltic Exchange  “will be doing somersaults” that its
indexes are being used to settle trades, Dunn, a director and
committee member of the bourse said. The Shanghai Shipping
Exchange started rival freight pricing on Nov. 28.  The shipping exchange in Shanghai introduced the indexes of
shipping costs for bulk commodities to China in a challenge to
the Baltic, which assesses more than 50 trade routes.  State-owned  shipping companies  also have permission to
resume FFA trading after some widespread losses following the
shipping market collapse in 2008, Jeremy Penn, Baltic Exchange
chief executive officer, said by phone today.  “We don’t expect it to be a massively, immediately liquid
market but we think it will be built up steadily over time,” he
said.  Local Clients  There’s increasing interest from a local customer base,
Laura Wang, a Shanghai-based broker at SSY Futures, who arranged
the trade, said by e-mail.  There have been 886,735 lots traded this year, a 9.3
percent decline from 977,621 in 2011. The record year was 2.14
million in 2008, according to figures collated by the Baltic
Exchange from brokers worldwide. One lot equals 1,000 tons of
freight or one day’s trading.  The physical market for the shipment of dry-bulk
commodities including iron ore, coal and grains is about 3.94
billion tons,  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest shipbroker, estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  