-- French Business Confidence, Industrial Output Decline
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-12-10T10:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/french-business-sentiment-drops-as-stalled-economy-cuts-demand.html
French business confidence and
industrial production unexpectedly declined as President
Francois Hollande grapples with a  budget deficit  and an economy
that is on the verge of recession.  Sentiment among manufacturing executives fell to 91 in
November from 92 the previous month, suggesting gross domestic
product may fall 0.1 percent this quarter, the Bank of  France 
said today. Industrial output dropped 0.7 percent in October,
leaving it down 3.6 percent from a year earlier, national
statistics office Insee said in a separate release.  The declines show the economy is on the edge of its second
recession in three years as Hollande struggles to cut the
deficit and improve competitiveness. With French car
registrations down about a fifth in November, companies
including  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  are cutting thousands of jobs at a
time when jobless claims are at a 14-year high and climbing.  “Clearly things are not great and the car industry in
particular is a disaster,” said  Dominique Barbet , an economist
at BNP Paribas SA in Paris, who predicts that GDP will decline
this quarter and in the first three months of 2013. “ Consumer
spending  is depressed and as long as the labor market remains
unfavorable, confidence will remain weak.”  Economists forecast that industrial production would rise
0.2 percent in October, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey . Confidence had been projected to
remain at 92 in November, a separate poll showed.  Crisis Concerns  Italian  industrial output  fell 1.1 percent in October from
September, when it dropped 1.3 percent, data today showed.
Reports last week showed industrial production in both the U.K.
and  Germany  unexpectedly declined. Germany’s Federal Statistics
Office said today exports rose 0.3 percent as shipments to
countries outside  Europe  offset weaker demand in the euro area.  Separately, Sentix said its index of European investor
confidence increased for a fourth month in December, rising to
minus 16.8 from minus 18.8 in November. Still, the gauge remains
well below its 10-year average of about 0.3, according to
Bloomberg data.  The euro weakened against the dollar for a fourth day as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s intended resignation and a
delayed Greek bond buyback reignited concern about the debt
crisis. The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2899 as of 11 a.m. in
Paris, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.5 percent.  China Slowdown  Elsewhere,  China’s economy  continued to show signs of
cooling. Exports rose less than forecast in November,
underscoring the need to accelerate a shift toward domestic
demand.  Overseas shipments  increased 2.9 percent from a year
earlier and imports were unchanged, the customs administration
said in Beijing, contrasting with industrial production and
retail sales figures yesterday that exceeded estimates.  In  Japan , government data indicated that the nation has
entered a technical recession, defined as two consecutive
quarters of contraction. Third-quarter  gross domestic product 
shrank at an annual pace of 3.5 percent, a final reading showed.
The government revised down the second-quarter figure to show a
0.1 percent contraction.  For France, cooling global growth is increasing the
challenge of both  deficit reduction  and improving
competitiveness.  Hollande has announced about 27 billion euros ($35 billion)
in tax increases since coming to power earlier this year in a
bid to shrink the deficit to 3 percent of GDP in 2013. Even so,
the government risks missing that goal as growth disappoints,
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Commission have
said.  “The persistent deterioration in external competitiveness
observed over the past 10 years is not likely to be reversed in
the medium term,” the commission said in a report last month.
“French companies are set to continue to lose export market
share.”  The commission predicts the  French economy  will expand 0.1
percent this year and 0.4 percent next as exporters continue to
lose ground to competitors. Hollande expects 0.8 percent growth
in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  