-- Full Monti Won’t Help Italian Voters
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-10T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/full-monti-won-t-help-italian-voters.html
The weekend announcement by Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  that he will resign triggered a rush
to sell off Italian debt and stocks, as investors blanched at
the uncertainty that will follow the departure of “ Super Mario .”  Not surprisingly, many investors and Italian business
leaders say they would like to see Monti run in the elections
that his departure will force, probably in February. That way he
could reclaim his job next year, this time with a mandate from
Italian voters. Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo
has even offered to convert his think tank into a political
party to support a Monti bid.  We’re fans of Monti, too, and are worried about the fate of
the euro area’s largest at-risk economy. Still, he should think
long and hard before running.  Monti was appointed prime minister to clean up after the
government of  Silvio Berlusconi  in November 2011. In the 13
months since, an unelected government has curbed the deficit and
restored stability and predictability to Italy’s government,
almost halving its borrowing costs.  Berlusconi has spent the interim fielding lawsuits that
piled up while he enjoyed immunity as prime minister, including
one that alleges he paid for sex with an underage Moroccan
prostitute, a charge he denies. It was his decision last week to
withdraw support from the government that triggered Monti’s
resignation announcement. That act of spectacular
irresponsibility marked Berlusconi’s return to frontline
politics and fed market fright.  Political Burden  Despite all this, Monti is much less popular inside Italy
than abroad. He is a notoriously dull political speaker and
carries the political burden of unpopular austerity measures. He
might struggle to win as much as 10 percent of the vote,
emerging from an election less influential than he went in.  Alternatively, an inconclusive election might cause  Italy ’s
political parties to call on Monti to serve once again as a
technocrat prime minister. That isn’t the worst possible outcome
from an Italian election, but it isn’t one to root for.  Monti’s unelected government was never designed to remain
in office for long. His appointed premiership was an exception
to democracy, not a replacement for it. Italians are already
growing restless at their lack of a democratic voice in Monti’s
austerity policies, which have deepened recession. Berlusconi’s
anti-German, anti-austerity rhetoric is designed to tap that
frustration, just as the comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo
already has -- witness his 20 percent polling in regional
elections in Sicily.  A better route would be for Monti to run for president,
when the incumbent Giorgio Napolitano steps down after the next
parliamentary elections, as he has promised to do. Italy’s
presidency is not powerful, but it would let Monti influence
events from above the fray and appoint a prime minister of his
choosing, should no party emerge able to form a government.  In the meantime, Monti should use his outsider status to
frame the election as a stark choice for voters. On one side are
populists, such as Berlusconi and Grillo, who promise an end to
austerity and reforms to the labor market and other changes that
Monti began. What Berlusconi and Grillo don’t say -- and what
should be made clear -- is that this backsliding would bring
increased risk of default, bailout and more austerity. On the
other side are parties that feel the public’s pain, but accept
that Italy’s economy must become more competitive and that the
deficit must be restrained.  Reassuring Investors  In Oslo this week for the awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize
to the EU, Monti already seemed to be playing that framing role,
reassuring investors that the end of his government wouldn’t
create a political vacuum and that elections would produce a
“highly responsible” government. You can bet he didn’t have
Berlusconi in mind.  Regrettably, Berlusconi’s move to force early elections has
left at least two vital pieces of legislation unratified. The
most important is the budget: Monti made its passage a condition
for his resignation, and it will probably pass. The second is a
new electoral law, designed to fix flaws that have made it hard
for Italy to create stable governments. This law is probably
dead for now, but Monti, Napolitano and others should continue
to push for its passage.  The risk that Italians elect an unstable or populist
government is real, but even they might find themselves squeezed
into accepting fiscal restraint. The Democrat Party of the Left,
which just held impressive leadership primaries with two
substantive TV debates, tops opinion polls. The party’s leader,
Pier Luigi Bersani, has committed himself to the broad outline
of Monti’s policies. He also says there could be a place for
Monti in his government, although Monti shouldn’t compete for
election himself.  What’s needed now isn’t a heroic bid for votes by Monti,
but an honest and clear election campaign.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 