-- Heating Oil Drops to Four-Month Low as Mild Weather Cuts Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-12-10T20:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/gasoline-gains-on-budget-talks-optimism-stronger-brent-prices.html
Heating oil tumbled to a four-month
low as forecasts for mild temperatures indicated weaker demand
for the home heating fuel.  Futures fell 0.7 percent after Commodity Weather Group LLC
in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted normal or warmer-than-normal
weather in most of the lower-48 states through Dec. 24. The low
in New York on Dec. 15 may be 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 Celsius),
8 higher than the usual reading, according to AccuWeather Inc.
in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “This lack of early season cold is certainly pulling down
the nat gas market, and that’s called attention to the weather,
pulling some long liquidation out of heating oil,”  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, said
in a phone interview. “So blame it on Mother Nature.”  Heating oil for January delivery fell 1.91 cents to $2.8962
a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It’s the lowest
settlement since Aug. 2.  Gasoline for January delivery pared earlier gains to settle
0.07 cent higher at $2.5981 a gallon, after falling 5.9 percent
last week.  Futures advanced as much as 1.6 percent earlier after
President  Barack Obama  met with House Speaker  John Boehner 
yesterday to negotiate a deal to avert more than $600 billion in
automatic spending cuts and tax increases known as the fiscal
cliff. Representatives for the White House and Boehner issued
identical statements after the meeting that “the lines of
communication remain open.”  Fiscal Cliff  “The market expects Congress is going to work something
out to avoid the fiscal cliff,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  The average nationwide cost for  regular gasoline  fell 0.7
cent to a $3.34 a gallon, AAA said today on its website. That’s
the lowest level since July 4. The pump price reached a 2012
high of $3.936 on April 4.  The Energy Department’s weekly report Dec. 12 will probably
show gasoline inventories rose 2 million barrels last week,
according to the median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate inventories probably grew by 1.5 million
barrels.  Gasoline inventories increased 7.86 million barrels and
distillates by 3.03 million barrels the week ended Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  