-- German Exports Unexpectedly Rose on Non-European Trade
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-10T07:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/german-exports-unexpectedly-rose-on-non-european-trade.html
German exports unexpectedly rose in
October as shipments to countries outside  Europe  offset weaker
demand in the euro area.  Exports adjusted for work days and seasonal changes
increased 0.3 percent from September, when they decreased 2.4
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports rose
2.5 percent from September.  While the German economy grew 0.2 percent in the third
quarter, the euro area,  Germany ’s largest export market,
succumbed to recession. Weaker demand from the 17-nation
currency bloc will impact Germany, the Bundesbank said last
week, predicting a contraction in the fourth quarter and
stagnation in the first three months of 2013. Still, business
confidence unexpectedly rose last month and factory orders, an
indicator for future production, jumped 3.9 percent in October.  “The outlook may now be slowly improving with positive
signals for Chinese and American growth, but the Eurozone
recession is likely to continue to weigh on German exports,”
said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
The rise in imports “does suggest resilience in domestic
demand,” he said.  Bundesbank Forecast  The Bundesbank sliced more than 1 percentage point off its
forecast for economic expansion in Germany next year. It cut its
2013 projection to 0.4 percent from the 1.6 percent predicted in
June and said the economy will grow 0.7 percent this year, down
from its previous forecast of 1 percent.  “However, there’s reasonable hope that the phase of
economic weakness won’t last too long and Germany will return to
growth,” the Bundesbank said.  Shipments from Germany to non-EU countries increased 9.9
percent in the third quarter, the statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said last week, with those to the U.S. surging 25.7 percent.
Deliveries to EU member states declined 0.9 percent. Exports to
other euro-area nations fell 3 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, last month posted third-quarter earnings that beat
analyst expectations, helped by growth in the U.S. and  Asia .  “The situation in Germany is not as bad as it seems,”
said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“There might be a slump in the fourth quarter, but I expect the
economy to grow again in the first quarter of next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  