-- Most German Stocks Advance as BASF, Linde Outweigh Italy
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-10T17:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/german-stocks-decline-on-monti-exit-greek-buyback-delay.html
Most  German stocks  advanced as gains
by BASF AG and Linde AG outweighed investor concern over Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’splan to resign and a delay in the
completion of  Greece ’s bond buyback.  BASF contributed the most to the  DAX (DAX)  Index’s gain, rising
0.9 percent. Linde added 0.8 percent.  Curanum AG (BHS)  jumped to its
highest price in almost 10 months after French rival Korian made
a bid for the company.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
 Germany ’s biggest lenders, dropped more than 1 percent.  The DAX advanced 0.2 percent to 7,530.92 at the close in
 Frankfurt , with three shares rising for every two that fell. The
gauge has  rallied 26 percent  from its low on June 5 as European
Central Bank policy makers agreed on an unlimited bond-purchase
program and the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of
quantitative easing. The broader HDAX Index rose 0.1 percent.  “The basic trend is still a year-end rally,”  Robert Halver , head of capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in
Frankfurt, said in a telephone interview. “There is a necessity
for asset managers who were not investing in equities in the
summer to be in the market. Still, the markets are handicapped
by  Italy . There is a big risk that Berlusconi could come back.
We need a clear picture and reform agenda.”  Monti said he will resign after parliament approves the
country’s budget for 2013, while his predecessor, Silvo Berlusconi intends to seek a return to power. Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty will support the government in the budget
vote, according to the party’s general secretary.  Greek Buyback  Greece extended a deadline to spend 10 billion euros ($12.9
billion) buying back sovereign debt until midday tomorrow,
according to the country’s Public Debt Management Agency. The
indebted nation was close to reaching its target in a program
aimed at winning aid from the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union, an official at the Greek Finance Ministry
said yesterday on condition of anonymity.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical maker, climbed 0.9
percent to 70.61 euros, its highest price in more than 20 years.
A gauge of chemical stocks was among the biggest gainers on the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index today.  Linde rose 0.8 percent to 134.70 euros. The industrial
gases company signed an agreement to buy helium from OAO
Gazprom.  Curanum surged 14 percent to 2.49 euros, its highest price
since Feb. 22, after Korian offered to buy the German nursing-
home operator for about 106.3 million euros, or 2.50 euros a
share.  Banks Drop  Deutsche Bank slid 1.1 percent to 34.16 euros and
Commerzbank retreated 1.6 percent to 1.38 euros. A gauge of
banks fell the most on the Stoxx 600.  Deutsche Bank Chairman  Paul Achleitner  will investigate
former employees’ allegations of false accounting,  Der Spiegel 
reported on Dec. 9 without saying where it got the information.  German electricity for delivery in 2013 fell to a record
low as EU emissions permits showed losses, according to broker
data compiled by Bloomberg.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, slipped 1 percent
to 31.21 euros. Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch unit
lowered its recommendation on the shares to underperform, the
equivalent of a sell rating, from neutral.  EON SE, the country’s biggest utility, dropped 0.4 percent
to 13.84 euros, paring earlier losses of as much as 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  