-- Ghana’s Opposition NPP to Contest Vote Results in Court
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-10T10:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ghana-s-opposition-npp-to-contest-vote-results-in-court.html
Ghana ’s main opposition party, whose
leader Nana Akufo-Addo lost the Dec. 7 presidential election,
plans to contest the results in court in the West African
nation.  “We are going to court tomorrow to contest the results, we
are gathering evidence,” Nana Akomea, communications director
for the party, said by phone today. The NPP has found “big
discrepancies in the results from the constituencies and those
announced by the  Electoral Commission .”  Akufo-Addo got 47.7 percent of votes, commission Chairman
Kwadwo Afari-Gyan told reporters yesterday in Accra, the
capital. John Dramani Mahama of the ruling National Democratic
Congress won with 50.7 percent, he said.  NPP supporters gathered at the commission’s office in Accra
yesterday and were pushed back by police on horseback. In a
statement late yesterday, party General-Secretary Kwadwo Owusu
Afriyie urged backers to remain calm.  “I call on all leaders of political parties that
participated in this election to respect the voice of the
people,” Mahama told reporters after the results were
announced. “We must celebrate together as Ghanaians and let’s
refrain from any act that will disturb the peace and order that
this country continues to enjoy.”  Ghana’s cedi gained 0.1 percent to 1.8895 a dollar by 9:53
a.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
country’s $750 million of Eurobonds was little changed from the
Dec. 7 close, trading at 4.97 percent.  The country’s  Supreme Court  has “original jurisdiction in
all election disputes” relating to the presidential ballot,
according to a document on the judiciary’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  