-- Ghana’s Mahama Wins Vote With Opposition Set to Contest
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-10T12:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ghana-s-mahama-wins-presidential-election-with-50-7-.html
Ghanaian leader John Dramani Mahama
won a narrow victory over opposition candidate Nana Akufo-Addo,
whose party vowed to challenge the presidential vote result in
court because it said there were discrepancies in the data.  Mahama of the National Democratic Congress got 50.7 percent
of votes cast on Dec. 7 and 8, while Akufo-Addo of the New
Patriotic Party took 47.7 percent, Electoral Commission Chairman
Kwadwo Afari-Gyan told reporters in Accra, the capital,
yesterday. The commission didn’t provide results from the
parliamentary election held at the same time.  “I call on all leaders of political parties that
participated in this election to respect the voice of the
people,” Mahama told reporters. “We must celebrate together as
Ghanaians and let’s refrain from any act that will disturb the
peace and order that this country continues to enjoy.”  Mahama, 54, who came to office in July following the death
of John Atta Mills, is set to face calls from Ghanaians to
equitably share benefits from oil production that began in 2010
and rising output of gold. The economy expanded at the fastest
pace in  Africa  last year at 14.4 percent. It’s projected to grow
8.2 percent this year and 7.8 percent in 2013.  Contest Results  Voting was extended to a second day on Dec. 8 in more than
400 polling stations after biometric machines machines used to
confirm identities of voters broke down and delays in getting
election materials to centers led to long lines.  “We are going to court tomorrow to contest the results, we
are gathering evidence,” Nana Akomea, communications director
for the NPP, said by phone today. The party has found “big
discrepancies in the results from the constituencies and those
announced by the Electoral Commission.”  The country’s currency, the cedi, was unchanged from Dec.
7, trading at 1.8911 a dollar by 12:42 p.m. in Accra, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on  Ghana ’s $750 million
of Eurobonds eased for a seventh day, declining one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.96 percent.  “A long, drawn-out legal challenge to the election result,
and an increasingly tense political environment, may contribute
to investor nervousness,” Razia Khan, head of Africa research
with Standard Chartered Bank Plc, said in an e-mailed note
today. “With Ghana reliant on portfolio flows to finance its
twin deficits, the Ghana cedi would be vulnerable to any exit by
foreign investors.”  Supreme Court  Supporters of the NPP who gathered at the Electoral
Commission headquarters yesterday were pushed back by police
officers on horseback. NPP Chairman Jake Obetsebi-Lamptey called
on Afari-Gyan’s commission to conduct an audit before releasing
the figures.  Johnson Asiedu Nketia, general secretary of the NDC, told
reporters they have “confidence in the resilience and
truthfulness” of the commission. “If anybody has a problem
with mathematics that should not be visited on the nation.”  Ghana’s Supreme Court has jurisdiction over disputes with
the presidential vote results, according to a document on the
judiciary’s website.  The Coalition of Domestic Election Observers, comprised of
4,500 people, “can confidently assure all political contestants
and the public that the official results announced by the
Electoral Commission accurately reflect the ballots cast by
voters,” it said in a statement to reporters today. All
candidates should accept the results and “respect the will of
the Ghanaian people.”  Deficit Widens  Ghana’s budget deficit widened to 7.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the first nine months of the year from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the country’s central bank.
By the end of the year, the gap may reach 7.5 percent, Khan
said.  During the campaign, Mahama pledged to reduce the deficit
to 5 percent, keep inflation below 10 percent and boost economic
growth to at least 8 percent annually.  The former communications minister and member of Parliament
said he would more than double electricity output to 5,000
megawatts and use oil and natural gas to expand manufacturing
industries.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  pumps crude at the Jubilee field, with
production forecast to reach 90,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day by the end of this year, from last year’s average of 78,200,
according to the company. Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and
Eni SpA are developing more wells, while AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  are expanding their gold mines as
prices for the metal rose 8.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  