-- Gibson Dunn, Shearman & Sterling: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-11T16:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/gibson-dunn-shearman-sterling-business-of-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will take up
the issue of gay marriage for the first time, agreeing to rule
on a  California  ballot measure banning the practice and a
federal law defining marriage as solely an opposite-sex union.  The California dispute will address whether gay marriage is
legal in the most populous U.S. state, home to more than 37
million people. The case also gives the justices a chance to go
much further and tackle the biggest issue: whether the
Constitution guarantees same-sex marriage rights nationwide.  That question is “perhaps the most important remaining
civil rights issue of our time,” said  Theodore Olson , a
 Washington  partner at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, leading the
legal fight against the California measure.  In addition to the California case, the justices said Dec.
7 that they will review the U.S. Defense of Marriage Act, a 1996
law that two federal appeals courts said impermissibly treats
legally married gay couples differently than heterosexual
couples. DOMA, as the measure is known, blocks gays from
claiming the same federal tax breaks and other marriage benefits
that opposite-sex spouses enjoy.  California voters approved Proposition 8, banning gay
marriages, in 2008. The ballot initiative reversed a decision by
the California Supreme Court, which five months earlier had said
the state constitution guaranteed the right to gay marriage.  In challenging the law, Olson joined forces with  David Boies , a partner at Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP and his
opponent from Bush v. Gore, the Supreme Court case that resolved
the 2000 presidential election deadlock. The pair set out to win
a Supreme Court ruling establishing same-sex marriage as a
constitutional right.  Olson said in an interview before the court acted that he
would make California-specific arguments as well as broader
contentions that could establish same-sex marriage rights
nationwide. Marriage, Olson said, is a “fundamental right that
cannot be taken away from citizens on the basis of their sex or
sexual orientation.”  Gay marriage is on hold in California while the litigation
plays out. More than 18,000 same-sex couples were married in the
state before the ballot initiative passed.  Supporters of the law say it promotes traditional marriage
-- and by extension makes it more likely that children will grow
up in a nurturing environment.  “Traditional marriage protects civil society by
encouraging couples to remain together to rear the children they
conceive,” 15 states led by Indiana argued in court papers.
“It creates the norm that potentially procreative sexual
activity should occur in a long-term, cohabitative
relationship.”  The cases the court will review are U.S. v. Windsor,
12-307, and Hollingsworth v. Perry, 12-144.  For more, click here.  News  SEC Accuses Lawyer of Forging Attorney Opinion Letters  The Securities and Exchange Commission said it is suing a
Florida-based securities lawyer for issuing fraudulent attorney
opinion letters that resulted in more than 70 million shares of
microcap stock becoming available for unrestricted trading by
investors.  Guy M. Jean-Pierre, of Pompano Beach, was banned by the
Pink Sheets, now OTC Markets Group, in April 2010 from issuing
attorney opinion letters due to “repeated missing information
and inconsistencies” about the issuers and his lack of due
diligence in his past letters, SEC said Dec. 7 in a statement.  Jean-Pierre has since engaged in a scheme to continue
writing and issuing attorney opinion letters in the name of his
niece by applying her signature without her consent, the SEC
said.  State Department Adviser Koh and Pentagon GC Johnson to Depart  Two high-profile government lawyers announced plans to
leave their posts.  State Department lawyer Harold Hongju Koh is returning to
 Yale Law School  where he was the dean, the Wall Street Journal
reported.  Koh was nominated by President  Barack Obama  in 2009. He was
dean at Yale since 2004. He served as assistant secretary of
state for democracy, human rights and labor from 1998 to 2001
during the Clinton administration.  As the State Department’s legal adviser, he provided
counsel on international law to the secretary of state and
embassies around the world. He headed an office of almost 200
lawyers.  Pentagon General Counsel Jeh Johnson has also announced
plans to leave, the Wall Street Journal said. Johnson is a
former partner at Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP.  Deals  Shearman Advises Bunge on Brazilian Fertilizer Sale to Yara  Shearman & Sterling LLP partner Clare O’Brien led a team
advising  Bunge (BG)  Ltd., on the sale of its Brazilian fertilizer
business for $750 million to  Yara International ASA (YAR) , the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker.  Souza Cescon Barrieu & Flesch Advogados advised Bunge on
Brazilian law matters.  Yara sees annual synergies of at least $25 million from the
cash deal, the Oslo-based company said in a statement Dec. 7.
Bunge has 22 blending units in  Brazil  that produced 4.8 million
metric tons of fertilizers in 2011, Yara said. Bunge had revenue
of $2.65 billion from the business and adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $77 million.  Industry producers are seeking acquisitions as the cost of
raw materials increases and higher food prices spur farmers to
plant more crops, boosting consumption of fertilizers. World
demand is poised to climb 3 percent to a record in the 2011-12
season, driven by “attractive” crop prices, the International
Fertilizer Industry Association said in February.  Bunge, the world’s second-largest oilseed processor, based
in White Plains,  New York , and Yara have agreed to a long-term
fertilizer supply accord, enabling the U.S. company to continue
to provide fertilizer to farmers. Bunge will retain and operate
its fertilizer terminal at the port of Santos.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker & Hostetler Names New Heads of E-Discovery Group  Baker & Hostetler LLP named litigation partners Gilbert
Keteltas and Karin Scholz Jenson national co-heads of its e-
discovery advocacy and management team.  Jenson recently took over leadership of the firm’s Madoff
Discovery Management Team, a subgroup of the E-Discovery
Advocacy and Management Team, which oversees issues arising from
the firm’s role as counsel to the SIPA Trustee for the
liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities,
according to the firm’s publicist.  The Madoff bankruptcy and fraud matter has spawned more
than 1,000 separate pieces of litigation, and generated more
than 28 million documents, the firm said.  Keteltas is a trial lawyer who has directed electronic
discovery on major cases. He is on the faculty of the E-
Discovery Institute at Georgetown Law School.  Moves  Covington & Burling Hires CFTC Lawyer Julian Hammar  A former assistant general counsel at the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, Julian E. Hammar, joined Covington &
Burling LLP’s corporate, securities, and energy regulation
groups as special counsel in Washington.  Hammar will focus on advising clients on the implementation
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act.  During his 13 years at the CFTC, Hammar worked with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to draft regulations required
by the Dodd-Frank Act. Hammar also provided technical
legislative assistance and briefed the Treasury Department and
House and Senate Committee staffs regarding aspects of the
Commodity Exchange Act, the firm said.  Covington & Burling LLP has more than 800 lawyers at nine
offices in the U.S., Europe and  Asia .  International Tax Lawyer Joins DLA Piper in Los Angeles  DLA Piper LLP announced that Patrick Connolly joined the
firm’s tax practice as a partner in the  Los Angeles  office. He
joins the firm from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, where he was a
principal in the international tax services group, the firm
said.  Connolly focuses his practice on complex international tax
matters and transactions for various industries with a strong
emphasis on the technology sector.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices
throughout the Americas, U.K., Continental Europe, Middle East,
Asia and  Australia .  Mintz Levin Hires Corporate & Securities Member in San Diego  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC  hired
former U.S. Marine Corps officer and DLA Piper LLP partner Marty
B. Lorenzo as a member in the corporate and securities practice
in  San Diego , the firm said.  Lorenzo has experience assisting public and private
emerging growth companies in domestic and international
transactions involving private equity and venture capital
financings as well as mergers and acquisitions. He also advises
his international clients on expansion and consolidation
projects, reorganization of assets, and cross-border business
law matters, the firm said.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and  London .  Real Estate Lawyer Joins Herrick Feinstein in New York  Herrick, Feinstein LLP hired real estate lawyer Richard R. Kalikow as a partner in the firm’s New York office. Kalikow
joins Herrick from Diamond McCarthy LLP where he was a partner,
and before that was a partner with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP for 25 years, the firm said.  He has experience representing U.S. and international
clients, including institutional and private investors in
acquisitions, financings, leasing, development, joint ventures,
real estate funds and other real estate-related matters. He also
specializes in representing both lenders and borrowers in
connection with workouts and restructurings.  Herrick, Feinstein has 170 lawyers in three U.S. offices.  Bankruptcy  AMR Creditor Lawyer Said to Warn Pilots of Contract-Failure Risk  The lawyer for  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s unsecured creditors committee
warned American Airlines pilots of the risks of rejecting a
tentative contract that would allow the carrier’s post-
bankruptcy plan to be weighed against a  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
merger, three people familiar with the matter said.  Jack Butler  of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
told members of the  Allied Pilots Association  in meetings in
three cities that pilots would lose a 13.5 percent stake in a
restructured AMR if the deal isn’t approved, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  A successful vote would help the creditors panel evaluate
AMR’s preferred strategy to leave bankruptcy on its own and  US
Airways ’ takeover push. Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR needs a
contract with the pilots, the only union without a new accord,
to determine its future costs.  Since reaching the tentative agreement on Nov. 9, the union
has urged ratification in meetings in eight cities that began
Dec. 1, according to the APA’s website.  The sessions to which Butler was invited included a forum
Dec. 5 near the airline’s headquarters, the APA said in a
message to members on its website.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Video  Sporkin Calls Netflix CEO’s Facebook Post ‘Minor Gaffe’  Thomas Sporkin, a partner at BuckleySandler LLP, talks
about the possibility that  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Chief Executive
Officer  Reed Hastings  may face a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission civil claim over a July Facebook post that coincided
with the stock’s biggest gain in almost six weeks.  Sporkin talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.”  The July 3 post by Hastings said Netflix viewing “exceeded
1 billion hours” of videos in June. The shares rose 6.2 percent
that day.  SEC staff alleges Netflix and its CEO violated rules
governing selective disclosure, according to a company filing
Dec. 6.  To read a related story, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  