-- Gillard’s Labor Slips in Poll Ahead of Australian Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-12-11T03:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/gillard-s-labor-slips-in-poll-ahead-of-australian-election-year.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s popularity fell to a six-month low as opposition
attacks over her work as a union lawyer 20 years ago reversed
her party’s gains ahead of elections next year.  The ruling  Labor party ’s primary vote fell four percentage
points to 32 percent with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
opposition rising three points to 46 percent from a poll two
weeks earlier, according to a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian today. Taking preference votes into account, the
opposition’s lead swelled to 54 percent to 46 percent.  Today’s survey reverses a trend that saw Labor close the
gap in recent months against Abbott’s coalition. Gillard’s bid
to focus attention on her minority government’s economic
credentials, as she strives to return the national budget to
surplus ahead of elections that must be held by November, have
been countered by Abbott’s claims that she may have broken the
law when she was a union lawyer in the 1990s.  “The government is in serious trouble and will probably
get belted at the next election,” said  Nick Economou , a
political analyst at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “No doubt
the attack has re-enforced in voters’ minds the previously
formed belief that she’s not trustworthy.”  The telephone survey of 1,173 people, conducted Dec. 7-9,
had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Abbott fell two points to 28 percent on the question of whether
voters were satisfied with his performance, while Gillard
declined one point to 36 percent.  Carbon Tax  Three months after winning the prime minister’s job in a
back-room party coup against predecessor  Kevin Rudd  in June
2010, Gillard, 51, was forced to cobble together a minority
government after the closest election in seven decades. That led
to accusations from Abbott, 55, that she had compromised her
credibility by reneging on a pledge not to implement a carbon
tax in return for Greens support in parliament.  Gillard’s political upheavals come even as  Australia , which
has gone 21 years without a recession, shows signs of
withstanding the global slowdown.  Unemployment dropped to 5.2 percent in November from a 2
1/2-year high the previous month, data showed last week. The
 Reserve Bank  of Australia has reduced  interest rates  four times
this year to help support consumption and the nation’s housing
market.  ‘Very Clear’  “We’ll have the election next year and I’m very clear
about what that election will be decided on,” Gillard told
reporters in Sydney today. “It’ll be about Australia’s future,
and who’s got the policy muscle to bring the solutions Australia
needs in an uncertain world.”  Gillard signaled Dec. 7 that her 2013 budget surplus goal
relies on the economy continuing to expand. Weaker growth
threatens to curb revenue and derail her commitment to create a
A$44 billion ($46 billion) swing back to surplus.  “I want the Australian people to know that if there is a
change of government next year they can be confident that they
will have a better future,” Abbott told reporters in Sydney
today. “Australians are oppressed by a sense that we are a
great nation being let down by a bad government. There’s a
pervasive lack of confidence in our society.”  Abbott’s Attack  On the question of who would make the better prime
minister, Gillard fell three points to 43 percent and Abbott
rose 1 point to 34 percent in today’s Newspoll.  Abbott used the last parliamentary sitting week of the year
to allege Gillard had failed to answer questions on why she left
law firm Slater & Gordon in the 1990s after establishing for the
Australian Workers Union a fund that was later embezzled.  Australia’s first female leader has countered that Abbott -
- whom she accused of sexism and misogyny in an October speech
in parliament -- was using negative tactics in a campaign to
smear her reputation.  “Gillard’s practice of trying to be divisive through
gender politics to shore up support is failing,” Economou said.
“The only thing giving Labor any chance of winning next year is
the performance of Abbott, who is seen by some as being too
negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  