-- GM’s Opel to Shut Bochum Factory With 3,100 Jobs at Risk
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-12-10T12:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/gm-s-opel-decides-to-close-bochum-vehicle-factory-in-2016.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel division
will stop making cars at its plant in Bochum, Germany, in 2016,
threatening 3,100 jobs, as the U.S. automaker seeks to stem
European losses during a prolonged vehicle-market contraction.  Opel will end auto production at the factory when the
current version of the Zafira minivan is replaced, the unit,
based in the  Frankfurt  suburb of Ruesselsheim, said on its
 website . The carmaker will look to develop component and
distribution operations at Bochum to limit job losses, it said.  The shutdown, the first of a car factory in Germany since
World War II, is part of Detroit-based GM’s efforts to end
losses by 2015 in Europe, where it’s forecasting a loss of as
much as $1.8 billion in 2012 as industrywide sales fall a fifth
consecutive year. The market decline has also prompted  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and Ford Motor Co. to announce car-factory
closings in France,  Belgium  and the U.K.  “This is really the only step that’s open to them,” if
Opel is to become profitable again, Erich Hauser, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse, said by phone. “But at some stage the
European market has to come back, so withdrawing capacity
completely is probably not a good idea. They need to do what
Ford has been doing, and reduce their cost base by moving
capacity to places like  Spain .”  Job Cuts  As of the third quarter of this year, GM’s European
division, which also owns the Vauxhall car brand in the U.K.,
had lost $17.3 billion since 1999. The unit is eliminating 2,600
jobs across the region by the end of this year to reduce
spending by $300 million, and has a target of cutting $500
million more in costs from 2013 through 2015, according to plans
announced in late October.  GM  shares  traded in  Europe  declined less than 0.1 percent
to $25.18 at 1:44 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock in the U.S. has
gained 24 percent this year.  The Bochum plant, in Germany’s industrial Ruhr valley,
built 131,300 Astra cars and Zafiras in 2011, according to
Opel’s website. The workforce at the site totals 4,500
employees, including 3,100 in car assembly, 300 in manufacturing
auto components, 450 in replacement parts and 50 in vehicle
transport, the works council said today.  Labor’s Push  Labor leaders have been trying to persuade Opel to build
the Mokka compact sport-utility vehicle at Bochum, Rainer Einenkel, head of the plant’s works council, said at a press
conference at the factory. Opel’s acting Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Sedran, manufacturing chief Peter Thom and personnel head
Holger Kimmes told employees of the shutdown plan at a meeting
in Bochum today, Einenkel said.  “It was disappointing how they gave us the news,” he
said. “On the one hand, they tell us they don’t need us any
more, but on the other they say that they expect us to keep
working hard and producing excellent cars for the next four
years. That’s unprecedented.”  Germany ’s government expressed “regret” at Opel’s
decision.  “The anger of workers is understandable, since there have
been some decisions by GM in the past that weren’t helpful --
access to certain markets, for example, but also treatment of
employees that was anything but exemplary,” Holger Schlienkamp,
a spokesman at the German Economy Ministry, said today at a
Berlin press conference. “It’s up to Opel to reduce the
negative consequences of the closing and take up its
responsibility for the region.”  Spokesmen at Opel didn’t immediately answer phone calls
seeking comment.  Market Forecast  The  European Automobile Manufacturers Association  lobby
group is predicting the biggest car-market decline in almost two
decades this year, with deliveries forecast to reach the lowest
since 1995. Auto executives don’t expect sales in the region to
recover before 2014 at the earliest, and have been looking at
ways to cut capacity.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, plans to shut an
auto factory in the Paris suburb of Aulnay in 2014 and focus
production of small cars at a nearby plant in Poissy. The
company said in July that its automotive unit had been burning
through 200 million euros ($258 million) in cash monthly as
sales dropped.  Ford (F)  is shutting a Transit van chassis-cab plant in
Southampton,  England , and a stamping plant in Dagenham, on the
outskirts of  London , by mid-2013 and a car and minivan plant in
Genk, Belgium, in late 2014. The Dearborn, Michigan-based
company is forecasting European-division losses totaling $3
billion this year and next, and doesn’t expect a profit in the
region before the middle of this decade.  Fiat SpA (F)  closed a car plant on the Italian island of Sicily
in late 2011. The Turin-based manufacturer, which is forecasting
a loss at its European operations of 700 million euros this
year, said on Dec. 7 that it will cut 1,500 jobs in  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Bochum, Germany, via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  