-- Michigan Right to Work Battle Could Cost Labor Political Clout
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/michigan-right-to-work-battle-could-cost-labor-political-clout.html
Organized labor, which helped re-
elect President  Barack Obama  last month, faces a historic defeat
in Michigan, a cradle of the union movement, where the president
will visit a suburban  Detroit  auto plant today.  As Obama speaks to United Auto Workers members at  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Detroit Diesel, Republicans at the state capital will be
putting the final touches on so-called right-to-work measures
that would prohibit compulsory payment of union dues, the
financial muscle behind labor’s political power.  Michigan is like other industrial states where union clout
has diminished along with its membership, said Marick Masters,
the director of labor studies at Wayne State University in
Detroit. About 17 percent of Michigan’s workforce belonged to
unions in 2011, down from 40 percent in the early 1960s, he
said.  “Unions depend on their money from dues for a variety of
election activities, and the less money they have to do that,
the less influence they have,” Masters said. “The recent
election shows if you want to play the game, it takes money. The
less you have, the less your voice will be heard.”  Labor organizations spent more than $188 million from
January 2011 until October 2012 on federal-level political
races, including contributions and television and radio
advertising, Federal Election Commission data show.  In  Michigan , unions financed most of an unsuccessful $23.4
million campaign to enshrine collective bargaining rights in the
state constitution. Business groups and others spent more than
$35 million opposing it.  Political Disagreement  Some union members disagree with political activities and
wouldn’t pay dues if given the choice, said Terry Bowman, a UAW
member and founder of Union Conservatives, which supports right-
to-work laws.  “There’s a lot of discontent all over Michigan, and not
just in the UAW,” Bowman said.  Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, a Republican who had
sidestepped the right-to-work issue since taking office last
year, led a push for the legislation last week. Obama said he
opposed the legislation in a White House statement issued as
lawmakers voted on the bills.  Michigan would be the 24th state to make paying union dues
voluntary.  Indiana  did the same in February.  In the home state of the UAW and the Big 3 automakers --
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC --
the right-to-work drive spurred hundreds of union backers to
demonstrate at the Capitol in Lansing last week. Larger protests
are planned, said Sara Wallenfang, a spokeswoman for the
Michigan AFL-CIO, based in Lansing.  Governor’s Signature  Lawmakers may send Snyder the bills to sign into law as
early as tomorrow. The legislation would prohibit compulsory
union dues for public and private employees covered by
bargaining units. Existing union contracts wouldn’t be affected,
and police and firefighters would be exempt.  “These bills are a blatant attempt by the richest in
Michigan to silence the voices of working families in our
democracy,”  Wallenfang said.  Labor plays a significant role in U.S. politics. The tally
of union contributions in the presidential race doesn’t reflect
the hundreds of thousands of union members who fanned out across
battleground states like  Ohio  to urge people to vote for Obama
and other Democratic candidates.  The Service Employees International Union and the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees together
spent more than $48 million on direct election activities,
according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-
based group that tracks political spending.  Michigan’s push for right-to-work is a “sad day in
America” and cause for concern, given the state’s historic role
in the labor movement, said Stephen Madarasz, a spokesman for
the Civil Service Employees Association,  New York  state’s
biggest public-worker union.  “We have a great deal of concern about an extremist agenda
to undermine working people in this country,” Madarasz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  