-- Microsoft Seeks to Invalidate Motorola Patent in U.K. Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-12-10T14:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/microsoft-seeks-to-invalidate-motorola-patent-in-u-k-trial.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, asked a U.K. judge to invalidate Motorola
Mobility’s European patent protection for synchronizing message
statuses across multiple devices.  Microsoft sued  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility last
December in a preemptive challenge to a 2002 patent it claims
shouldn’t have been issued because the technology was obvious to
experts in the field at the time, Microsoft’s lawyers said at a
week-long trial scheduled to end today in London.  “We’re grateful for the chance to demonstrate that
Motorola’s claims based on this patent are unfounded,”  David
Howard , a deputy general counsel at Microsoft, said in an e-
mailed statement about the latest salvo in a global dispute.  The companies are locked in legal battles over patents for
smartphone technology and Xbox gaming software in the U.S. and
Germany. Microsoft claims all devices that run on Google’s
Android operating system use its technology and is seeking
royalties from Motorola Mobility. Motorola Mobility, which
 Mountain View , California-based Google acquired in May, says
it’s owed royalties on the Xbox for use of the company’s Wi-Fi
and video-compression technology.  Motorola’s lawyer, Zoe Butler of Powell Gilbert in London,
declined to comment. The company’s press office didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message.  While the patent in the U.K. trial relates to pager
technology from the 1990s, the arguments center on its
application to newer mobile devices and computers.  The case is running parallel to Motorola’s lawsuit against
Microsoft over the same patent in Germany, where the companies
are awaiting a decision from a judge. Google has said it bought
Motorola Mobility in part because of its patents and history of
innovation in mobile phones.  The case is: Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., case no. HC11C04536,  High Court  of London,  Chancery
Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  