-- Tiger Brands Looks Outside South Africa as Local Deals Dry Up
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-12-10T13:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/tiger-brands-looks-outside-south-africa-as-local-deals-dry-up.html
Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS) , South Africa’s
largest food producer by market value, said last week’s
acquisition of Mrs. H.S. Ball’s chutney would be a rare local
deal due to a lack of opportunities in its home market.  Tiger, which said it would buy the chutney brand for 475
million rand ($55 million) from Unilever South Africa, is
restricted by competition rules from buying companies in many
segments due to its large market share, Thushen Govender,
investor relations and business development executive, said in
an interview today. The Johannesburg-based company is the
country’s biggest producer of tomato sauce, mayonnaise, canned
vegetables and baked beans.  “In South Africa there aren’t many acquisition
opportunities out there for us where you can have the ability to
acquire a big brand,” he said. “These sorts of opportunities
are hard to come by.’  Tiger is instead expanding in West Africa and said in July
it will buy Nigeria’s  Dangote Flour Mills Plc (DANGFLOU)  for 31 billion
naira ($200 million). Tiger, which produces brands such as
Jungle Oats and Tastic Rice, wants to ‘‘de-leverage” its
exposure to South African shoppers, Govender said.  Consumer spending in Africa’s biggest economy expanded 1.2
percent in the third quarter while one in four people are
jobless. Confidence among buyers dropped two points to  minus 3 ,
according to an index compiled by  First National Bank (FSR)  and the
Bureau for Economic Research.  “The economic context we are operating in is
recessionary,” Govender said. “We’ve been in this situation
for the past two to three years.”  Tiger Brands last month reported a 5 percent rise in full
year profit to 2.7 billion rand and said weak consumer spending
would continue to weigh on  Africa ’s largest economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  