-- Illinois May Face Downgrade If No Pension Fix, Quinn Says
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-10T17:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/illinois-may-face-downgrade-without-pension-fix-quinn-says-1-.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  said the
battle to control employee pension costs “is our fiscal cliff
and we need to deal with it” or analysts in “green eyeshades”
will lower the state’s credit rating again.  Quinn, 63, said there is “a clear and present danger” of
another downgrade if state lawmakers don’t act in the closing
days of the legislative session in early January to restructure
a pension system saddled with $96 billion in unfunded
liabilities.  “We have a deadline -- it’s called Jan. 9,” Quinn told
reporters today during a breakfast meeting at Bloomberg’s
Chicago bureau. “We have ample time to get this done.”  Illinois has failed to fix its pension issues for current
public employees and retirees as other states have boosted
worker contributions and limited increases meant to account for
inflation. Now the state and Quinn face wrenching choices.  Quinn, who succeeded imprisoned former Governor  Rod Blagojevich  in 2009, received a 25 percent public approval
rating in a recent poll from Public Policy Polling. He dismissed
the assessment, saying he was elected in 2010 with low ratings.  “I’m not in it to get higher approval ratings. I’m in it
to do what’s necessary for a state that had two corrupt
governors in a row,” Quinn said, referring to Blagojevich, a
Democrat, and former Republican Governor George Ryan, who also
is in federal prison after being found guilty of official
corruption. “That’s why I aspire to be an honest governor who
gets the job done in terms of ethics in government, but also
tells the people the truth.”  Weak Rating  Three months ago,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s credit
one level to A, sixth highest, citing retiree costs, and gave it
a negative outlook. Only  California , ranked A-, has a weaker
rating among U.S. states.  The Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit research
group, found that the combined funded ratio of the state’s five
pensions fell to 39 percent as of June 30, from 43.3 percent at
the end of fiscal 2011. No other state’s ratio was below 50
percent in that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Illinois also has about $8 billion in unpaid bills.  An Illinois pension bond maturing in 2033 traded today at
an average yield of 5.12 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the most that investors have demanded to hold
the state’s debt since Nov. 7. The taxable securities carry the
same rating as the state’s other general-obligation bonds.  State lawmakers are scheduled to return to Springfield, the
state capital, on Jan. 2 for the closing week of the legislative
session. Quinn said failure to reach a deal then might harm the
state’s ability to issue bonds and fund public works.  House Plan  A group of House members proposed a plan Dec. 5 that would
increase pension contributions by employees and reduce annual
cost-of-living increases in retirement. It would gradually shift
some costs of teacher and university employee pensions to school
districts and colleges.  It also would delay retirement dates, depending on
employees’ ages and when they started working.  Quinn, without endorsing the plan, called it “very
intriguing” and applauded the effort to limit cost-of-living
allowances. His goal, he said, is to wipe out the system’s
unfunded liability within 30 years.  Soon after the House members announced their proposal, a
coalition of Illinois labor unions said in a statement there
were “significant problems” with it and questioned whether the
changes would be legal. The state constitution prohibits
lawmakers from reducing pension benefits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  