-- Indonesia Seen Raising Deposit Facility Rate as Rupiah Slumps
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 2012-12-10T03:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/indonesia-seen-raising-deposit-facility-rate-as-rupiah-slumps.html
Bank Indonesia may begin raising the
 rate  it pays lenders for overnight deposits as early as this
week to shore up Asia’s worst-performing currency in the past
year, as the largest trade deficit since at least 2008 revives
pressure on the rupiah.  The central bank may increase the deposit facility rate,
also known as the Fasbi, by a quarter of a percentage point to
4.25 percent tomorrow even as it keeps the benchmark reference
rate unchanged, according to United Overseas Bank Ltd. economist
Ho Woei Chen. Bank of America Corp. and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
Southeast Asia’s largest lender, forecast the measure will rise
to 4.75 percent by mid-2013.  The rupiah has dropped more than 6.5 percent against the
dollar in the past year as rising imports and declining exports
led to a widening current-account deficit and a  trade gap  of
$1.5 billion in October. The central bank, which has refrained
from adding to a February reduction in its  key rate , will need
to boost short-term borrowing costs to restrain domestic demand
and support fund inflows, DBS economist Eugene Leow said.  “With the trade balance so wide, it seems likely for Bank
Indonesia to hike soon,” Singapore-based Leow said. “The most
acute period is around now. If the central bank can temper
import growth and ensure sufficient external funding, then
 Indonesia  is well poised to maintain its growth profile next
year.”  The local currency was little changed at 9,655 per dollar
as of 9:50 a.m. in Jakarta, after reaching a three-year low of
9,675 on Dec. 7, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  Record Low  The monetary authority raised the deposit facility rate in
August to 4 percent from 3.75 percent. None of the 18 economists
 surveyed  expect a change in the reference rate from the current
record-low 5.75 percent.  Bank Indonesia may “gradually” increase the deposit
facility rate to help reduce volatility in the currency that may
hurt investor confidence, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
in a Nov. 9 interview in Jakarta. The central bank may begin
raising its benchmark interest rate in the middle of 2013,
according to DBS and UOB analysts.  Indonesia’s October trade deficit may have been the biggest
on record, the statistics bureau said Dec. 3. It was caused by a
surge in imports due to plane and oil purchases, it said.  The country’s  current-account  shortfall this year will be
2.2 percent of its gross domestic product, central bank Governor
Darmin Nasution said last week, a gap that would be the largest
since 1997. Indonesia has recorded a current-account  deficit  for
the past four quarters.  The gap in the current-account balance is already reduced
by capital inflows into local-currency  sovereign bond  holdings,
which increased 19.5 trillion rupiah ($2 billion) in November,
the most since data going back to 2003, according to the Finance
Ministry.  “Bank Indonesia is pressured by the current-account
deficit and the weakening currency, so they have to raise
interest rates,” UOB’s Ho, based in  Singapore , said. “A Fasbi
rate hike will help rupiah sentiment slightly and see investors
put more money into the country to see higher return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  