-- Ingersoll Plans Security Spinoff After Peltz Breakup Push
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-10T16:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ingersoll-rand-said-to-plan-to-sell-1-5-billion-in-assets.html
Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  plans to spin off
its commercial and residential security businesses within the
next year after hedge-fund manager Nelson Peltz pressed for a
breakup to boost shareholder value.  Ingersoll’s strategy, which also includes a stock buyback
and a 31 percent dividend boost, marks the culmination of talks
with Peltz’s Trian Fund Management LP, which disclosed a 7.3
percent stake in May. Peltz had threatened a proxy battle, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The new security company have about $2 billion in yearly
sales, while the existing Ingersoll will generate about $12
billion, retaining climate-control operations with brands such
as Trane and American Standard. The move will let investors
value the different businesses separately, said Chief Executive
Officer Michael W. Lamach, who will stay at Ingersoll.  “In separating out the security business, which really has
very few synergies with the rest of the business, that’s a great
step and likely to allow that business on its own to seek some
potential buyers,” Steven Winoker, a New York-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone interview.
“It’s an industry that continues to consolidate.”  Some heating and air-conditioning companies have an
enterprise value of about 9 times earnings, and strong security
firms have a multiple of about 11 on the same basis, Julian Mitchell, a New York-based  analyst  with Credit Suisse AG, said
in a note to clients. With Ingersoll’s current multiple of 8, a
split may mean the separate businesses “yield a closing of this
valuation discrepancy over time,” he said.  Structure, Management  Ingersoll climbed 2.3 percent to $49.83 at 10:59 a.m. in
New York, and earlier touched $50.03, the highest intraday price
since May 2011. The shares previously gained 60 percent this
year.  Completion of the spinoff will require more work on
structure and management, and those plans will be subject to
board approval, the Swords, Ireland-based company said.  Ingersoll said it would repurchase as much as $2 billion of
existing shares starting in 2013 and plans to complete the
buyback in the first three months of 2014. The company also
raised its  quarterly dividend  to 21 cents a share, payable March
28 to investors holding stock as of March 12.  Peltz suggested in a regulatory filing in August, the same
month he joined  the board , that the maker of air-conditioning
systems, climate-control technologies and security systems be
split into three companies.  Separating the security businesses, with brands such as
Schlage and Kryptonite, will be tax-free for shareholders, the
company said.  Ingersoll moved its headquarters to  Bermuda  from New Jersey
in 2001 and then to Ireland in 2009, in part because of tax
laws.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  