-- Ireland Toughens Rhetoric as it Chases Anglo Irish Bank Accord
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-12-10T11:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ireland-toughens-rhetoric-as-it-chases-anglo-irish-bank-accord.html
Ireland’s government is hardening
its rhetoric to try to seal an accord with the  European Central
Bank  on refinancing the rescue of former Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  As talks with the ECB continue, Energy Minister Pat Rabbitte yesterday said the state won’t make the 3.1 billion
euro ($4 billion) annual instalment due to the lender in March
under its current payment schedule.  “We didn’t pay the promissory note this year and as far as
I am concerned, we are not going to pay it next year,” he said
in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE yesterday.
“It’s as simple as that.”  Ireland nationalized Anglo Irish in 2009, and injected 31
billion euros into the bank and rival Irish Nationwide Building
Society in the form of so-called promissory notes, a form of
IOU. The lenders, which merged last year and renamed as Irish
Bank Resolution Corp., use the notes to access cash from the
country’s central bank, which is due to be paid back over more
than a decade.  The government “has learned that the softy-softly approach
to negotiations was not working,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief
economist at Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers , adding the
administration is taking a “more aggressive stance.” “This is
probably a wise move.”  Rabbitte said he believed an accord with the ECB would be
struck on the issue of refinancing the debt before the next
payment, though the institution was difficult to bring around to
a deal, according to RTE.  More Time  The government is considering injecting as much as 40
billion euros of securities of as long as 40 years into the
bank, according to a person familiar with the talks in
September. That would avoid the Irish state having to raise at
least 3 billion euros a year for the next decade to pay down the
central bank borrowing.  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said while the
state will make good on the Anglo Irish bailout, it needs more
time than it currently has, the  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung 
reported three days ago, citing an interview.  Honohan said it is possible, if complex, to restructure the
notes in a legally watertight way that is not open to criticism
of being a form of monetary financing of a state.  Four days ago, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said in reply to
a question on a possible Irish accord, that while the central
bank can’t do anything that would be viewed as monetary
financing, “other than that there is plenty of goodwill.”  Yields on the country’s benchmark 2020 bond rose 4 basis
points today to 4.62 percent, down from 7.4 percent at the start
of June and from as high as 14 percent in July 2011.  “It should be remembered that Ireland settled the 2012
promissory note payment through a complicated  bond issue  and
repo transaction and so a similarly styled transaction may
ultimately occur again next year,” Owen Callan, a Dublin-based
analyst with  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said in a note, adding “we would
suggest not reading too much” into Rabbitte’s comments.  “The government is under pressure from the electorate to
show they are fighting for the best deal for Ireland in terms of
relief on the cost of rescuing its failed banking system,”
Callan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  