-- Israeli Cyber Whiz Lures Voters After $145 Million Exit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-12-11T16:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/israeli-cyber-whiz-lures-voters-after-145-million-exit.html
Naftali Bennett had just sold the
 software company  he founded for $145 million when  Israel  called
up his reserve commando squad in the summer of 2006 to mount a
search-and-destroy mission in Lebanon.  Bennett, a major in the elite Sayeret Matkal unit, was
frustrated with the “lack of fighting spirit” he found among
fellow officers during the ensuing month of combat, which he
blames for the army’s failure to rout Lebanon’s Iranian-backed
Hezbollah fighters. Now, as head of Israel’s Jewish Home party,
he is trying to kindle pride in Israel’s occupation of the  West
Bank  and snuff out support for Palestinian statehood.  “I want a more Jewish, a more Zionist Israel,” Bennett,
40, said in an interview. Speaking of the demarcation between
Israel and the West Bank territory it captured from Jordan in
the 1967 Six Day War, he says: “I’m Green Line-blind.”  Bennett’s rejection of a two-state solution puts him in
step with a growing number of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s political partners. The U.S., Israel’s biggest
financial supporter, favors a two-state solution, though
officials criticized last month’s  United Nations  vote to
recognize  Palestine  as a non-member observer state.  Netanyahu has accepted the establishment of a Palestinian
state provided it’s demilitarized and Palestinians recognize
Israel as a Jewish state with  Jerusalem  as its capital.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has questioned
Netanyahu’s sincerity about supporting a two-state solution and
refuses to resume talks unless Israel halts all settlement
construction.  ‘Apartheid-Like’  Palestinian Authority spokeswoman Nour Odeh says Bennett is
proposing an “apartheid-like” vision for the West Bank and its
2.5 million Arab residents that’s “neither acceptable nor
realistic.”  Netanyahu is on his way to winning a third term as head of
the ruling Likud party, according to polls six weeks before the
Jan. 22 vote. To stay in power, he’ll have to form a coalition
with smaller parties such as Jewish Home, which could make
Bennett one of his Cabinet members.  Bennett, a former head of the  Yesha Council  that represents
some 350,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank, has breathed new
life into what was previously known as the National Religious
Party by appealing to its hawkish youth, says Avraham Diskin, a
Hebrew University political scientist.  Bennett’s “business success, military record, religious
observance and ability to speak the language of secular people
have made him an effective bridge,” Diskin said.  Joint Slate  Bennett’s party, which agreed to run on a joint slate with
the National Union party, will get 11 seats in the 120-member
Knesset, making it the third-biggest faction, according to a
poll commissioned by Israel Radio and released on Dec. 6. Jewish
Home now has three Knesset seats and the National Union has two.  Netanyahu’s Likud, running on a joint list with the largely
Russian immigrant Yisrael Beitenu party, will probably garner 36
seats, followed by the  Labor Party  with 20. The poll was based
on interviews with 560 likely voters and had a margin of error
of 4.5 percentage points.  The son of American immigrants from  San Francisco , Bennett
sold Cyota Inc. in 2005 to RSA Security Inc., now a unit of
Hopkinton, Maine-based  EMC Corp. (EMC)  He says the company’s Adaptive
Authentication software product is used to prevent fraud in 70
percent of banking transactions in the U.S. and  Canada .  Free Tracts  If Netanyahu wins next month, Bennett said he will push to
bring Israeli housing prices down by selling off chunks of
state-owned land to builders to increase supply. He proposes
offering free tracts in under-developed parts of the Negev and
Galilee regions to soldiers who have completed their enlistment
and want to build homes. Bennett declined to address  press
speculation  that he’ll seek to become housing minister, a
position with influence over future settlement construction.  It was the war with Hezbollah -- considered a terrorist
organization by Israel and the U.S. -- that propelled him into
politics as chief of staff to Netanyahu when he led the
parliamentary opposition.  “I should have been in the Caribbean having a cocktail
with a little umbrella in it, and instead I find myself deep in
Lebanon,” Bennett said in the Dec. 5 interview in the backyard
of his home in Raanana, a  Tel Aviv  suburb. He and his family of
four don’t live in a settlement because, he says, “I see no
difference between there and here.”  ‘Supermarket Peace’  Instead of statehood, Bennett says Israel should offer
Palestinians greater sovereignty in the West Bank, while
encouraging them to live side-by-side in “a supermarket peace”
with the settlers. He calls his plan, which would offer Israeli
citizenship to 48,000 Palestinians in areas he hopes to annex,
an “imperfect” solution that would foster stability.  “We buy in the same stores, work in the same factories,
drive on the same roads,” Bennett said. “We’re not singing
Kumbaya together, but it’s beginning to work on the ground.”  Alternatively, “if we try artificially to impose an
untenable or impossible peace, that will bring the biggest round
of bloodshed we’ve seen,” he said.  For  Peace Now , an Israeli organization that advocates
withdrawal from the West Bank, Bennett’s plan would mean “the
end of Israel as a Jewish democratic state,” said Hagit Ofran,
director of its Settlement Watch project. “It will lead to a
horrible, continuous conflict and eventually to one state with a
Palestinian majority.”  Bennett is critical of Netanyahu for accepting the Egyptian
and U.S.-brokered cease-fire that halted the eight-day conflict
last month in the  Gaza Strip , in which Palestinians fired some
1,600 rockets into Israel and the Israeli  air force  staged 1,100
air strikes. More than 160 Palestinians and six Israelis died.  Instead, Netanyahu should have used ground forces to cut
off southern Gaza from the north and stop the import of missiles
through tunnels dug under the border to  Egypt , he said.  “We need more stamina,” Bennett said. “If you’re going
to shoot, shoot, don’t talk. Don’t hesitate at the last
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  