-- Italian Stocks Plunge, Dragging European Markets Lower
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-10T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/italian-stocks-bonds-plunge-dragging-european-markets-lower.html
Italian stocks and bonds plunged,
dragging European markets lower, after Prime Minister Mario Monti said he would resign after losing the support of former
Premier Silvio Berlusconi.  The benchmark  FTSE MIB index (FTSEMIB)   fell  3.3 percent to 15,178,
eclipsing declines among the major European indexes and dragging
the Euro Stoxx 50 down by 1.1 percent at 11:23 a.m. in Milan.
The yield on the country’s benchmark 10-year bond rose 28 basis
points to 4.81 percent, the biggest one-day gain since Aug. 2.  The declines came after Monti announced Dec. 8 that he
plans to resign as soon as his budget plan is passed by
Parliament. Berlusconi’s People of Liberty said last week it
would no longer back Monti’s year-old government. The PDL, as
the party is known, will allow the budget to be passed and a
vote is due before the end of the year.  “An increase in anti-austerity and anti-reform rhetoric is
to be expected, and this will likely result in an increase of
the  risk premium  associated with Italian assets,” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s London-based strategists Francesco Garzarelli and
Silvia Ardagna wrote in a note to investors yesterday.  Crisis Fallout  Monti’s non-elected government has raised taxes, cut
spending and overhauled the pension system and labor laws in a
bid to tame finances and fend off fallout from the region’s debt
crisis. The country’s 10-year bond yield had fallen about 200
basis points under Monti as he restored investor confidence.  The jump in the 10-year yield pushed the difference with
German bunds up 30 basis points to 352 basis points, the highest
since Nov. 19. Among equities, Italian banks were the hardest
hit with Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, losing 7 percent,
Banco Popolare falling 7.2 percent. UniCredit SpA, the nation’s
biggest lender, lost 6 percent to 3.43 euros.  Berlusconi is already campaigning against the government he
supported since his resignation 13 months ago when  Italy ’s 10-
year yield topped 7 percent. He is calling for lower taxes and
an easing of austerity, a populist message that threatens to
rattle the election campaign.  Monti’s austerity measures have deepened the country’s
recession, which is now in its second year. Unemployment has
risen to a 13-year high of 11 percent and industrial output
slumped 1.1 percent in October, the national statistics
institute said today.  Election Date  With Monti’s resignation likely before year end, elections
could be held as soon as mid-February. Currently the Democratic
Party leads in opinion polls, with about 30 percent support
compared with just 13.8 percent for Berlusconi’s PDL, according
to a Dec. 7 survey by SWG Institute. Still, Berlusconi is
already trying to rebuild his previous alliance with the
Northern League party and his populist message may peel some
voters away from Beppe Grillo, the former comic turned
politician, whose anti-austerity Five Star Movement is polling
at 19.7 percent, according to SWG.  “The political situation in Italy may temper” investor
confidence, Ric Spooner, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney, wrote in e-mailed comments. “The prospect of an
election next year being fought on the issue of fiscal policy
will be unsettling.”  The rattling of the markets comes days before Italy sells
debt. The Treasury auctions 6.5 billion euros of one-year bills
on Dec. 12 followed the next day by the sale of three longer-
maturity securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  