-- Italian Banks Plunge on Monti Resignation Plan: Milan Mover
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-12-10T12:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/italian-banks-plunge-on-monti-resignation-plan-milan-mover.html
Italian banks  slumped, leading a
slide in lenders across  Europe , after an announcement that Prime
Minister Mario Monti will resign pushed up bond yields and
threatened a new front in Europe’s debt crisis.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,  declined  21 cents, or
5.8 percent, to 3.44 euros at 12:54 p.m. in Milan trading, the
biggest drop since September.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  fell 6.6
percent to 1.20 euros. The  European Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  slid
1.7 percent to 159.52.  Monti, who has raised taxes and cut spending to help slash
Italy’s borrowing costs, announced his plan to step down on Dec.
8, hours after former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said
he’ll run in an election next year to overturn Monti’s austerity
measures.  Italy 's banks hold a record amount of government 
debt, according to the latest central bank data, and the  spread  
for 10-year bonds over equivalent German bunds widened the most 
in more than four months today, increasing as much as 39 basis 
points to 362 points.  “Monti’s decision to resign increases uncertainty and
should be short-term market negative,” Giovanni Zanni, director
of European economics at Credit Suisse Securities in  London ,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “Clearly, though, volatility
is of the essence until the elections. The situation is fluid
and should remain so for some time.”  European Impact  Monti is due to attend a European summit on Dec. 13-14,
when the continent’s leaders will debate a road map for the
overhaul of the euro area, including increased powers to
intervene in national budgets.  Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA, Italy’s third-biggest bank,
declined 7 percent to 19 cents.  Banco Popolare SC (BP) , Italy’s
fourth largest, fell 6.9 percent to 1.06 euros.  Monti, 69, said he’ll try to corral his coalition, which
includes Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party, to pass an
austerity budget that includes increases to value-added taxes.  Yields on 10-year Italian bonds surged 33 basis points to
4.86 percent, the highest level in more than two weeks. The
country’s banks held a record amount of the sovereign debt in
October.  Lenders in Italy have borrowed more than 280 billion euros
from the European Central Bank and invested some of it in
government bonds because they offer higher yields. They boosted
their holdings by about 13 billion euros to 340 billion euros in
October, according to a  Bank of Italy report  today, and by about
130 billion euros this year.  Cooperative banks such as Banco Popolare are most affected
by the political tensions because of “their large portfolio of
Italian government bonds and the increasing difficulties on the
funding,” Milan-based broker Fidentiis Equities wrote in an e-
mailed report to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  