-- J.C. Penney Promotions May Drive Sales, Oppenheimer Says
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-12-10T22:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/j-c-penney-adding-promotions-may-drive-sales-oppenheimer-says.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ’s “friends and
family” event this past weekend shows the 110-year-old
department-store company is taking a “more nimble” approach to
promotions after sales declines, according to Oppenheimer & Co.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ,
offered customers 20 percent off everyday and clearance prices
from Dec. 8 through Dec. 10, Brian Nagel, a New York-based
analyst with Oppenheimer, wrote in a note today.  “Recent price events at J.C. Penney, while at odds with
Mr. Johnson’s initial stance on promotions, we believe will
successfully drive better traffic while maintaining the
integrity of new brands in JCP stores,” wrote Nagel, who rates
the shares a buy.  Johnson, the former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  retail chief who joined as
CEO about a year ago, has tweaked the Plano, Texas-based
retailer’s pricing strategy after a previous plan confused
customers by reducing sale events and coupons. J.C. Penney has
more aggressively displayed value to customers and is
discounting items earlier in the quarter, with up to 30 percent
off deals on outerwear this month, Nagel wrote.  “We believe select ‘limited time type promotions’ are
needed to improve conversion,” he wrote.  J.C. Penney’s shares rose 1.7 percent to $18.47 at the
close in New York. The stock has lost 47 percent this year
 through  today, as the retailer has posted sales declines of at
least 20 percent for three straight quarters.  Content Changes  Johnson’s flexibility with the everyday low pricing
strategy is a “step in the right direction,” though it may
mean inventory levels are building and that sales are under
pressure, Matthew Boss, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York, wrote in a note today.  Boss, who has the equivalent of a hold rating on the
shares, projects same-store sales to decline 30 percent in the
fiscal fourth quarter, with negative comparable store sales in
the first half of next year.  “The key will be content changes ahead with 100 shop-in-
shops launched in stores through 2015 and new brands (including
Tourneau, Joe Fresh, and Bodum) announced to date and more to
come,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  