-- J&J’s Zytiga Wins Approval for Early Prostate Cancer Use
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-12-10T21:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/j-j-s-zytiga-wins-approval-for-earlier-use-in-prostate-cancer.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  won U.S. approval
for its prostate cancer pill Zytiga to be used earlier in the
disease, possibly spurring four times as many patients to take
the medicine.  Zytiga can be prescribed before chemotherapy in men whose
prostate cancer has spread to other parts of the body and is
resistant to testosterone-lowering treatments, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said today in a statement. The drug extends
survival when given before chemotherapy and prolongs the time
before patients seek chemotherapy and pain treatments, Michael
Meyers, J&J’s development team leader for Zytiga, said by phone.  The approval may expand use by as much as fourfold, Meyers
said. About 20,000 men in the U.S. have used the drug from  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J since it was cleared in April
2011. The treatment may reach sales of  $1.7 billion  in 2016, the
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “As we move into earlier stages of disease, what we’re
doing is not only prolonging survival, what we are doing is
prolonging the time that men with metastatic castration-
resistant prostate cancer have good quality of life and are able
to maintain their functioning,” Meyers said.  Prostate cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer death
in American men behind  lung cancer . About 241,700 new cases will
be diagnosed this year and almost 28,200 men will die of the
disease, according to the  American Cancer Society .  J&J  rose  less than 1 percent to $70.59 at the close of  New
York  trading.  Tumor Growth  Zytiga decreases the production of testosterone, which
stimulates prostate tumors to grow, the FDA said.  Patients in a clinical study who took Zytiga for its new
use along with a steroid lived a median of 35.3 months, or 5.2
months longer than those who took a sugar pill in combination
with steroids, according to the FDA’s statement. Patients on
Zytiga hadn’t experienced further tumor growth during the study
while those on the sugar pill saw growth after a median of 8.3
months.  Zytiga generated $697 million in sales in the first nine
months of 2012, Joaquin Duato, J&J’s worldwide chairman of the
pharmaceuticals group, said in an Oct. 16 earnings call.
 Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge is approved for a similar use and
could be used with Zytiga and in sequence, Meyers said.  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) ’s Xtandi was cleared in August by the FDA
for patients whose disease has advanced beyond the prostate even
with previous treatments. The San Francisco-based company’s
shares rose 3.1 percent to $55.33.  J&J is studying Zytiga in men with prostate cancer who
haven’t yet received hormonal therapy, Meyers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  