-- Japanese Stock Futures Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-10T23:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/japanese-stock-futures-little-changed-amid-u-s-budget-talks.html
Japanese stock futures were little
changed ahead of a Federal Reserve policy meeting and as
investors await progress on U.S. budget talks. Australian
equities rose.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) 
gained 0.1 percent as UBS AG advised buying the shares in
Japan’s third-biggest banking group by market value. Hagihara
Industries Inc. shares may be active in Tokyo after the textile
maker reported an increase in full-year profit. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, climbed 1.1 percent in
Sydney as metals prices increased.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring this
month closed at 9,535 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,540 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,520 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained
0.3 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.1 percent in
Wellington.  “The market now seems stuck in a trading range until news
from Washington about any progress or deterioration in budget
negotiations is released,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of
markets research at Perpetual Investment, which manages about
$25 billion in Sydney.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 has advanced 10 percent since Nov. 14,
when Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  called an election for Dec.
16, causing the yen to drop on expectations the opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party  will win power and push for more
monetary easing.  Fed Meeting  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today. The S&P 500 gained less than 0.1 percent yesterday as
economic data in China beat estimates and investors weighed
prospects for a U.S. budget deal.  Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting today
that will be followed by updated projections on economic growth,
unemployment, inflation and  interest rates  on Dec. 12. Fed
officials are considering whether to supplement a $40 billion a
month of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury purchases when
their Operation Twist program expires at the end of the month.  U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  met one-on-one at the
weekend at the White House. Representatives for the two said in
statements afterward that “the lines of communication remain
open.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index advanced 16 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 through yesterday as central banks from
Europe, the U.S., Japan and China took steps to support economic
growth. The gauge traded at 14.2 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 Index and 12.6
times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 0.5 percent yesterday in  New
York .  The London Metal Exchange Index of six primary metals
climbed 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  