-- JPMorgan Names Regional Banking Heads for Europe, Asia in Revamp
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-12-10T17:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/jpmorgan-names-raghavan-head-of-banking-for-emea-in-revamp.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  named Viswas Raghavan head of banking for Europe, Middle East and Africa, and
chiefs for Asia and  Latin America  as part of a revamp to improve
coverage of corporate clients.  The lender appointed Alejandro Guevara and Lisandro Miguens
co-heads of banking in Latin America, while Tom DuCharme and
Therese Esperdy will be co-heads of banking in Asia Pacific,
according to a memo confirmed by a spokeswoman in London today.  The executives will oversee investment banking, corporate
banking and treasury services in their regions as the biggest
U.S. bank combines those units into one. New York-based JPMorgan
shook up its top management in July after a $6.2 billion trading
loss in its chief investment office, and earlier this month
named Don McCree to oversee corporate banking with Jeff Urwin,
who heads  investment banking .  “The objective is to broaden the client footprint and have
a more holistic approach to coverage as others step back and
capital-markets activity picks up,” Raghavan, 46, the former
head of global  equity capital markets , said in a phone
interview. “The worst is probably past in Europe, and though it
won’t be smooth sailing, a new balance will be found.”  JPMorgan ranks eighth this year among so-called mandated
arrangers of loans to European companies, up from 12th last year
and the highest since 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company also announced Todd Marin, formerly co-head of
investment banking in Asia Pacific, will become vice chairman of
investment banking for the region, reporting to Urwin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  