-- JPMorgan Promotes Willsey as Investment Bank Shakeup Continues
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-12-10T19:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/jpmorgan-chase-names-willsey-global-chairman-of-capital-markets.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, shuffled management around the world at its
newly combined corporate and investment bank to take advantage
of any rebound in  capital markets .  Kevin Willsey, 49, was elevated from co-head of the
investment bank in  North America  to global chairman of capital
markets, according to an internal memo from the New York-based
bank today. Larry Slaughter, who ran the North American division
with Willsey, will become global chairman of diversified
industries.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, has overhauled
management during a year marred by more than $6.2 billion in
trading losses and as banks struggled with weak revenue. In
July, he also combined treasury services with the corporate and
investment banks to create the new unit. Former investment bank
CEO James “Jes” Staley, 55, relinquished day-to-day management
responsibilities to  Michael Cavanagh  and Daniel Pinto at the
time and was appointed the division’s chairman.  The bank wants “a more holistic approach to coverage as
others step back and capital-markets activity picks up,” Viswas Raghavan, 46, who was promoted to head of banking for Europe,
Middle East and Africa, said in an interview today. “The worst
is probably past in Europe, and though it won’t be smooth
sailing, a new balance will be found.”  New Posts  Raghavan, the former head of global  equity capital markets ,
was among about a half dozen executives in Europe, Asia and
Latin America to also get new jobs today. The changes were
announced by Jeff Urwin, 56, the global head of  investment
banking , and Don McCree, 51, who was named chief executive
officer of global corporate banking earlier this month, in a
memo to employees of the recently combined corporate and
investment bank.  Alejandro Guevara and Lisandro Miguens were named as co-
heads of banking in Latin America. Tom DuCharme and Therese Esperdy will also co-run investment banking in Asia Pacific,
according to a separate memo confirmed by a spokeswoman in
London today.  Eric Stein , 45, who ran the diversified industries group in
investment banking in North America, will become head of
investment banking coverage for the same region, reporting to
Urwin, according to today’s memo. Liz Myers will succeed
Raghavan as global head of equity capital markets, reporting to
Urwin.  Bill Contente, the former co-head of equity capital
markets, is returning to the firm in January after a leave of
absence and will become a vice chairman of equity capital
markets, reporting to Myers, according to the memo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  