-- King Sees Risk of More Currency Management as Imbalances Persist
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/king-sees-risk-of-more-exchange-rate-management-amid-imbalances.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the Group of 20 nations must revive efforts to address
global imbalances or more countries may start using exchange
rates as their key tool for monetary policy.  Since their agreement on stimulus in 2009, “the G-20 has
gone backward since then, and there has been no agreement on the
need for working together to achieve some element of rebalancing
the world economy,” King said in a speech in  New York  late
yesterday. “My concern is that in 2013 we’ll see the growth of
actively managed exchange rates as an alternative to the use of
domestic monetary policy.”  In an overview of the financial crisis and central banks’
responses since 2008, King said the current-account balances
that helped to trigger the global recession still linger, and
his call for more action echoes previous statements made in
recent years. On the global economy, he said it’s “fair to say
a recovery of a durable kind is proving elusive.”  At the event at the  Economic Club of New York , King said
the U.K. may see some better conditions in 2013 and the  squeeze
on consumers  “should diminish” over the course of the year.  “A reasonable central view would mean that we would expect
to see some pick up in lending and investment, we would expect
to see the squeeze on consumer spending ease somewhat,” he
said. “And we would hope that they might find some way of
making the conditions in the euro area more conducive to an
expansion of trade within  Europe .”  U.S. Budget  King, who is due to retire in June, also said he’s
confident that U.S. lawmakers will hammer out a budget deal in
talks aimed at avoiding the so-called fiscal cliff -- the more
than $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take
effect in January if Congress doesn’t act.  “We have great confidence that one way or another the U.S.
will find a way, if not of avoiding going over the cliff, at
least hanging on by the fingertips and not falling down on the
other side,” he said in response to a question from the
audience. “I’m confident in the end you’ll find a way of doing
it.”  Asked about Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who will
succeed him next year, King said Carney will “do a great job.”
King also said he favors transparency of policy makers’
decision-making over giving guidance on the outlook for  interest
rates . The latter is used by Carney in his current position.  “No one knows what the future holds,” King said. “We
don’t believe in the Bank of England we have a crystal ball
which enables us to foretell the future. We simply do not know
what we will be deciding in six, 12 months, two years from
now.”  “What is important I think is to have sufficient
transparency about how we will react to events as they unfold,”
he told the audience at the event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  