-- Kissinger, Geithner Chided, Author Luttwak Warns on China
-- B y   G e o r g e   W a l d e n
-- 2012-12-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/kissinger-geithner-chided-author-luttwak-warns-on-china.html
“It is not easy to really know
China, because China is an ancient civilization.”  So said  Wang Qishan , a recently re-appointed member of the
Standing Committee of the Chinese Communist Party Politburo, in
the U.S. last year. On the other hand, he said “the American
people, they’re very simple.”  This American book suggests otherwise.  Don’t be misled by its abstruse-sounding title, “The Rise
of China Vs. The Logic of Strategy.” Its author, Edward N. Luttwak, is Senior Associate at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies. Strategy can be dry and abstract. In
Luttwak’s hands the subject comes alive, not to say explosive.  The loudest retorts will come from China specialists, where
the conventional view is that, given intelligent U.S. policies,
China can accomplish the “peaceful rise” its leaders promise.
Luttwak isn’t so sure.  Since the 2008 recession, Beijing’s international policies
have hardened, he says, because it sees the U.S. as in decline.  Examples of what he calls “premature assertiveness” are
everywhere, from China’s trade policies to its bullying of
 Vietnam ,  Japan  and the  Philippines  over disputed islands. In
effect, Beijing is making a claim for the entire South China Sea
-- an outrageous power grab, in Luttwak’s eyes.  Which is where his “logic of strategy” comes in. China’s
search for rapid economic and military growth and global
influence are incompatible, because they are bound to provoke
resistance. Already her neighbors are seeking new forms of
collective security designed to contain her. Even Vietnam has
begun developing closer ties with the U.S.  Chinese Autism  “Great state autism” is Luttwak’s phrase for Beijing’s
insensitivity to the effects of its overbearing style. While
other countries can suffer from it too, China’s position as the
world’s most populous nation and isolated historical development
make her especially prone to the disease.  The tributary system that developed 2,000 years ago is
still in her bones. Hence the echoes of “barbarian-handling”
in Beijing’s attitude to inter-state relations.  The chapter on which sinologists are most likely to choke
is entitled “The Strategic Unwisdom of the Ancients.”  Our awe for  China ’s venerable military thinkers, Luttwak
believes, is misplaced. Exquisite as their writings could be,
they didn’t prevent the country’s repeated subjugation by small
numbers of primitive invaders. He cites as an example the much-
quoted “Art of War” by Sun Tsu, compiled during the Warring
States period (475-221 B.C.).  Kissinger’s Book  Henry Kissinger is chided for the claim in his book “On
China” that Mao Zedong was inspired by such writings. On the
contrary, Luttwak retorts, Sun Tsu’s precepts rarely apply
outside the Middle Kingdom, and the Chairman’s military
strategies were frequently unsuccessful.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, a former
student of China, is also accused of succumbing to the country’s
mystique in his pusillanimous policies on currency levels and
technology transfers.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, is
congratulated on her robust line with Beijing. Meanwhile “great
state autism” will prevent China from seeing that she could
become a victim of her own success.  As other states combine to curtail her power, the country
will be weakened at the grand strategic level. The only cure --
a slowing of her rush for global hegemony -- is not one she
seems likely to take.  Military Warning  Luttwak isn’t prophesying war: a China that grows at
anything like current rates would not have to be aggressive to
impose its will. He also cautions the U.S. against over-reliance
on military countermeasures, which could further stimulate
China’s growth and defense spending.  So what do we do? If China persists in disrupting power
balances through over-assertive behavior, the author argues, the
only effective weapon could be to impede her economic growth.  Luttwak’s contribution to the China debate is to be
welcomed. We need informed outsiders to weigh in with their
views, and he has spent years visiting the country and talking
to the Chinese, including the People’s Liberation Army.  Written with his customary panache, his vigorous and highly
readable contribution will challenge congealed thinking.  “The Rise of China Vs. The Logic of Strategy” (320 pages,
$26.95) is published by the Belknap Press, Harvard. To buy the
book in North America, click  here .  (George Walden is a former U.K. diplomat specializing in
Russia and China. He was a Conservative minister and a Member of
Parliament. He is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer of this review:
George Walden in London at  gwashch@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 