-- KKR’s TASC Plans U.K. Push Amid Clouded U.S. Defense Outlook
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-12-10T12:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/kkr-s-tasc-plans-u-k-push-amid-clouded-u-s-defense-outlook.html
TASC, the defense consultancy  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  and General Atlantic LLC acquired from  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC) , is seeking to build its presence in the U.K. with U.S.
prospects largely flat, the company’s chief executive said.  “The U.K. is the natural market to expand,” David H.
Langstaff, CEO of the Chantilly, Virginia-based company said in
an interview, citing ties between U.S. and British defense
procurement.  The U.K. government is restructuring large parts of its
defense management system as it seeks efficiencies to cope with
a decline in spending. On the agenda are the sale of the
organization that maintains military equipment and the possible
hiring of a firm to manage equipment programs.  “These times will need more of what TASC has to offer,”
Langstaff said. Although TASC also works with companies, in the
U.K. it will focus on the government first, he said.  Even as defense spending in the U.K. is contracting,
“certain segments of the market will grow,”  Langstaff said.
TASC hopes to secure contracts in helping the government work
out how to sift through massive amounts of collected
intelligence data and protect sensitive information stored
remotely and accessible via the Internet.  Langstaff would not say what targets he has set for the
U.K. effort.  The overseas initiative comes as TASC has been trying to
build business with customers, such as the U.S. Navy, which it
was unable to work with because of conflict of interest concerns
before Northrop sold the company to the two private equity firms
in 2009.  Doors Opening  “We have been able to win work we could not have won under
Northrop,” Langstaff said.  In the U.S., the company has also been trying to expand
beyond its core intelligence agency and Pentagon customer base,
Langstaff said, and is trying to build up its activities with
civilian government agencies.  Prospects in the U.S. remain clouded by question marks
hanging over government spending plans. U.S. defense spending
faces an additional $500 billion in cuts over 10 years unless
the White House and Congress avert automatic budget reductions,
called sequestration, and tax increases due to take effect in
January. The Pentagon has not said how the cuts would be
apportioned.  “The services industry is at risk of being hit
particularly hard because it is a variable cost,” Langstaff
said, adding that there is little clarity on how cuts will play
out. Some of the impact has already materialized as spending has
been pared in advance of sequestration, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  