-- Krugman, Krauthammer and Their Implied Authors
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-12-10T23:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/krugman-krauthammer-and-their-implied-authors.html
There are real-world authors, and
there are implied authors.  Real-world authors are actual human beings, with their own
distinctive characteristics, on display as they move through the
world. Implied authors are the imaginary people whom authors
create as they put  words on a page . Implied authors have their
own personalities -- their own sensibilities, characters,
emotions, perspectives and concerns.  Implied authors may or may not be like their real-world
counterparts. A novelist may be cruel and vicious to his family
and friends, but in his novels, his implied author may be kind
and gentle. A poet who is a loving wife and mother may produce
poetry whose implied author is venomous and full of rage.  The  University of Chicago  literary critic  Wayne Booth 
initially developed the idea of the implied author, which he
followed with a claim that works of literature consist of
“company we keep,” with potentially major effects on how readers
see the world and perhaps even operate in it.  Booth finds William Butler Yeats to be terrific company. He
singles out the Irish poet’s exuberant  “The Fiddler of Dooney,” 
whom St. Peter will call quickly through heaven’s gate: “And
when the folk there spy me/They will all come up to me/With
‘Here is the fiddler of Dooney!’/And dance like a wave of the
sea.”  As horrible company, Booth invokes Peter Benchley’s “Jaws,”
which begins by preparing readers for a violent encounter
between a woman who has recently “thrashed” with her boyfriend
in “urgent ardor on the cold sand” and the “big fish,” the
shark, moving “silently through the night water,” with eyes that
are “sightless in the back” and “a small, primitive brain.”  Naming Names  In a striking passage, Booth writes that by arousing the
reader with the prospect of violence, and by reveling in the
“bloody adventure, the story at each step molds me into its
shapes, giving me practice, as it were, in wanting certain
outcomes and qualities and ignoring certain others. I become,
for the hours of reading, that kind of desirer.”  All poets and fiction writers have implied authors, and to
get clear on the concept, we have to name a few names. When he
is writing horror novels,  Stephen King ’s implied author can be
overheated, sweaty, gasping, manic, adolescent and often
irresistible; when he steps outside of that genre, he tends to
be contemplative, playful, gentle and elegiac. Robert B. Parker,
author of the Spenser mystery series, has a terrific implied
author. Keenly aware that a man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta
do, he is also full of wit and fun, and compassionate to boot.  Nonfiction writers, including those who write about
politics, have implied authors, as well.  At his best, Washington Post columnist  George Will  is
sharp, witty and appealingly above the fray, but his implied
author can be pretentious, and he sometimes wears his erudition
on his sleeve.  New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman  is a Nobel
winner and a national treasure, and he knows what he is talking
about, but at his worst, his implied author is arrogant and
self-absorbed. Charles Krauthammer of the Post may be a great
guy, but his implied author is struggling with a serious anger-
management problem. Whether or not you agree with him, the New
York Times’s  David Brooks  has a wonderful implied author --
humble, open, appealingly tentative.  The concept extends well beyond writers. Whatever he was
like as a person, Walter Cronkite was spectacularly successful
as a broadcaster because the implied author of his words was
unflappable, trustworthy and wise.  Annie Leibovitz ,  Steven
Spielberg ,  George Lucas ,  Oliver Stone ,  Bruce Springsteen ,  Taylor
Swift  and Lady Gaga certainly have implied authors, and
identifying their characteristics is pretty easy.  Infecting Politics  The concept of the implied author puts a spotlight on a
real problem with current political discussions. Too often, the
implied authors of our political narratives are more than a
little “Jaws“-like, focused on imagined encounters between
innocent swimmers and big fish, moving sightless in the dark,
with their small, primitive brains. Reveling in “bloody
adventure,” they threaten to convert readers into “that kind of
desirer.”  As Booth emphasized, the characteristics of implied authors
tend to be contagious. In particular, contempt and suspicion,
and a fundamental lack of generosity, spread like wildfire. Of
course, it is also true that people are sharply divided by
substantive disagreements. But such disagreements would be more
tractable, and mutual understanding would be more likely, if the
implied authors of our national chronicles were a bit gentler,
and if they took a cue or two from Yeats’s heaven-bound fiddler.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government,” forthcoming in 2013. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 