-- N.J. Gambling Revenue Posts Record Drop on Storm’s Impact
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-12-10T22:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/n-j-gambling-revenue-falls-28-in-nov-on-storm-impact.html
Atlantic City gambling revenue fell
28 percent in November after  Hurricane Sandy  forced casinos in
the New Jersey seaside resort to close for six days.  Casino winnings slid to $176.6 million from $244.9 million
a year earlier, the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement
said today on its  website . Governor Chris Christie ordered the
state’s casinos shuttered from Oct. 28 to Nov. 2.  The results marked the largest single-month decline
recorded in the state, according to John Kempf, an RBC Capital
Markets analyst, and followed October’s 20 percent drop. While
the 12 casinos sustained minor damage, the storm disrupted train
and bus service, and some roads were closed. Fallen trees and
power failures also kept away would-be customers. At least nine
conventions or trade shows were canceled.  “The real issue remains the lost visitation by people who
were severely impacted by the storm,” Kempf said in a report
today. “It is our opinion that it will take a number of months
for volumes to return to normalized levels.”  Gambling revenue declined 13 percent in the three weeks
ended Nov. 30 from a year earlier, according to the state.
Results were down 63 percent for the two weeks that ended Nov.
9, the period that included the storm and its aftermath.  “Based on weekly casino win trends for the past three
weeks, the Atlantic City casino industry is showing signs of
resiliency,” the state said.  2012 Decline  For the year through November, casino revenue declined 7.9
percent to $2.8 billion.  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the largest player in Atlantic
City, saw winnings at its four properties decline 37 percent to
$69.3 million, according to Carlo Santarelli, an analyst at
Deutsche Bank Securities. At Borgata, the city’s top-grossing
property, revenue fell 15 percent to $42.7 million. Borgata is a
joint venture of  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  and  MGM Resorts
International. (MGM)   Caesars chose to market the entire city rather than its
individual properties after the storm, according to Gary Thompson, a company spokesman. “Nice try, Sandy...but we’re
Jersey strong,” read one ad.  Revel Entertainment Group LLC, the newest casino in
Atlantic City, posted November revenue of $6.2 million, down 33
percent from October and the lowest tally since its March
opening, Kempf said.  New Jersey’s senate president, Stephen Sweeney, said last
month he was seeking a detailed financial report on
the closely held Revel, saying the state-supported
property is “burning cash at an alarming rate.” The company
said last month it was seeking raise additional funds.  Caesars rose 4.1 percent to $7.62 at the close in New York.
Boyd gained 1.1 percent to $5.72, while MGM fell 0.2 percent to
$10.91. All three are based in Las Vegas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  