-- Nasdaq Buys 25% Stake in Dutch Derivatives System TOM
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-12-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/nasdaq-buys-25-stake-in-dutch-derivatives-system-tom.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  bought a 25
percent stake in  The Order Machine , a Dutch alternative
securities-trading system focused on stocks and equity
derivatives, as the second-largest U.S. equity market expands in
the region and diversifies its business.  Nasdaq , which is setting up a new derivatives trading
market in London, has an option to buy an additional 25.1
percent for a majority stake in the system, known as TOM, Nasdaq
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said in a telephone
interview today. The price isn’t “material” he said, declining
to elaborate further on the details of the transaction. The
exchange will operate TOM’s market and has an eight-year
contract to provide trading technology.  “We’ve seen tremendous competition in equity trading on
both sides of the Atlantic, so customers have been well
served,” Greifeld said. “Our efforts over the next couple of
years will focus on the areas of derivatives trading and
clearing where we see opportunities.”  The purchase builds on Nasdaq’s plans for a U.K.
derivatives platform, known as NLX. NLX is seeking to grab more
than 10 percent of transactions in the U.K. during its first
year of operation. Amsterdam-based TOM said it has about a 15
percent market share in single  stock options  in the Netherlands,
where it said 75 million contracts changed hands last year. NLX
will remain independently run of TOM.  “Nasdaq has been a technology provider to TOM since it
started,” Hans-Ole Jochumsen, Nasdaq executive vice president,
Global Data Products and Transaction Services Nordics, said in
an interview. “As the only derivatives multilateral trading
facility in  Europe  with a retail focus, TOM has secured
significant market share in single stock options.”  Nasdaq joins other TOM shareholders  BinckBank NV (BINCK) , Optiver,
IMC Group and ABN Amro Clearing Bank.  The purchase is likely to be completed in about three
months, at which point Nasdaq will get a seat on the supervisory
board and TOM will hire one person from Nasdaq to its management
board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  