-- Natural Gas Tumbles to Six-Week Low on Mild December Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-12-10T18:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/natural-gas-tumbles-to-six-week-low-on-mild-december-weather.html
Natural gas futures declined to a
six-week low in New York on forecasts for moderate temperatures
that would curb demand for the heating fuel.  Gas dropped as much as 3.8 percent after Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland , predicted normal or warmer-
than-normal weather in most of the lower-48 states through Dec.
24. The low in New York on Dec. 15 may be 40 degrees Fahrenheit
(4 Celsius), 8 higher than the usual reading, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “The market is under pressure because of the mild  weather
forecasts  and weak seasonal demand,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“It’s starting to look like we’re going to see moderate
temperatures until the end of the year.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 10.6 cents, or 3
percent, to $3.445 per million British thermal units at 1:32
p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices dropped to
$3.415 per million Btu, the lowest intraday price since Oct. 29.
The futures are up 15 percent this year.  January $3.25 puts were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 1.4 cents higher at 3.4 cents on
volume of 1,930 contracts as of 1:47 p.m. Puts accounted for 58
percent of options volume.  Hedge funds  cut bets on U.S. natural gas by the most in
nine months as warmer-than-normal weather curbed heating demand
and left a glut of the fuel in storage.  Money managers reduced net-long positions, or  wagers  on
rising prices, by 36 percent in the week ended Dec. 4, according
to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Dec. 7 Commitments
of Traders report. It was the biggest weekly drop since March.  Weather Implications  “We continue to see intermediate-term risk down to the
$3.25 area in the absence of colder temperatures, said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York, in a note to clients today.  The low temperature in  Chicago  on Dec. 15 may be 30 degrees
Fahrenheit, 7 above normal, according to AccuWeather. About 50
percent of U.S. households use gas for heating, Energy
Department data show.  This year will probably overtake 1998 to become the warmest
on record in the contiguous U.S. states, the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration  said in a monthly climate report.
The first 11 months were the warmest start to any year since the
nation began keeping records in 1895, NOAA’s  Climatic Data
Center  said Dec. 6.  U.S. natural gas  output  in the lower-48 states rose to a
record in September as new wells in the Northeast’s Marcellus
shale formation started producing, the Energy Department said.  Gas Output  Production increased 0.6 percent to 73.05 billion cubic
feet a day, the highest level in data going back to 2005, the
department’s Energy Information Administration said in the
monthly EIA-914 report, released Nov. 30 in  Washington .  The report covers gas gross withdrawals, which include gas
used for repressuring, quantities vented and flared, and non-
hydrocarbon gas removed in treating or processing operations.  U.S. gas inventories fell 73 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Nov. 30 to 3.804 trillion, erasing a year-over-year
surplus for the first time in 2012, according to the Energy
Department.  Supplies were 0.9 percent below year-earlier levels and 4.6
percent above the  five-year average  in the week ended Nov. 30.
The surplus to the average has declined from a six-year high of
61 percent in March, department data show.  LNG Permit  Sempra Energy (SRE)  said today it filed a permit application with
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  to build a liquefied
natural gas export terminal at its existing Cameron LNG site in
 Louisiana . The company began the pre-filing process in April.
Sempra said it may break ground on the project in the fourth
quarter of 2013.  The Cameron terminal is awaiting Energy Department approval
to export to countries with which the U.S. doesn’t have free-
trade agreements. Gas exports would have “net economic
benefits” for the U.S., according to a study commissioned by
the department and released Dec. 5.  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first eight months of the year, department
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  