-- New Zealand Has Kyoto Carbon Access Until 2015, Government Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-12-10T02:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/new-zealand-has-kyoto-carbon-access-until-2015-government-says.html
New Zealand , which renounced a
second round of commitments to the  Kyoto Protocol , can still
take advantage of carbon-market mechanisms under the United
Nations treaty until at least 2015, the government said.  The nation’s polluters will be able to buy UN Certified
Emission Units until a so-called “true-up” period reviewing
current Kyoto commitments ends, a spokesman for Climate Change
Minister Tim Groser said. More than 190 countries in Doha agreed
Dec. 8 to block nations that quit Kyoto’s second phase from
buying the units after existing pledges expire this year.  “New Zealand will continue to have access to Kyoto units
up until the end of the true-up period, which is scheduled for
completion by 2015,” Jonathan Franklin said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The status of other countries outside the
second phase wasn’t clear, he said.  CERs, also known as offsets, represent emissions reductions
made by investments in clean-technology projects in  developing
countries . They can be used to meet limits on greenhouse-gas
discharges.  The restrictions from 2015 may bring forward a market
auction of New Zealand domestic units, known as NZUs, to 2014,
said Nigel Brunel, a carbon trader at OMF, an Auckland-based
broker. Those units have plunged in value as polluters are able
to fulfill their obligations by using cheaper UN offsets.  The NZU  spot  price climbed 1.1 percent to NZ$2.70 today. It
has fallen 72 percent this year.  New Zealand last month chose to align climate efforts with
the largest emitters such as U.S. and  China  by taking its pledge
under the United Nations Convention Framework, after passing
changes to its emissions trading scheme that critics including
the  Green Party  said weakened its obligations.  The nation’s access to Kyoto carbon markets after 2015 will
depend on progress in negotiating the global Climate Change
Agreement and discussions around linking regional carbon
markets, Groser said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  