-- New Falcons Football Stadium Plans Approved by Atlanta Authority
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-12-10T18:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/new-falcons-football-stadium-plans-approved-by-atlanta-authority.html
The financial framework for a $1
billion, retractable-roof stadium for the Atlanta Falcons was
approved by the Georgia World Congress Center Authority.  The agency’s board approved a 24-page, non-binding term
sheet for the stadium, which the National Football League team
and authority have estimated would open for the 2017 season. The
terms will serve as the basis for a future binding agreement
between the two sides.  The stadium would be owned by the authority, a state
agency, and operated by the Falcons under a 30-year agreement,
under the approved plan. The team would have an option to renew
the lease for an additional 15 years, the authority said in a
press release.  Construction and the demolition of the existing Georgia
Dome would be partially paid for with about $300 million
generated by an existing hotel-motel tax in Atlanta and Fulton
County. Additional funding would be the responsibility of the
Falcons and owner Arthur Blank, who has said he plans to sell
personal seat licenses to cover a portion of the costs.  The team will pay about $2.5 million in annual rent to the
authority, the Atlanta Journal Constitution reported. The
Authority said the rent hadn’t yet been determined.  The team and authority will now hire a lead architectural
and design firms for the stadium, the authority said.  Blank, co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , bought the Falcons
for $545 million in February 2002 and has said the team needs a
new stadium to attract big events, such as the NFL’s Super Bowl.
The 20-year-old Georgia Dome hosts the Southeastern Conference
college football championship game each year and will be the
site of the 2013 college basketball Final Four tournament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  