-- Newman Calls FBI Inside-Trading Agent as Last Witness
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/newman-calls-fbi-inside-trading-agent-as-last-witness.html
Lawyers for Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback Fund Manager
 Todd Newman  rested their cases after questioning an FBI agent
who’s been central to the U.S. crackdown on  insider trading .  Chiasson and Newman have been on trial in Manhattan federal
court since Nov. 7, accused of trading on inside information in
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  They’re charged with  securities fraud 
and conspiracy. Prosecutors say the men, who pleaded not guilty,
earned more than $67 million on trades based on illicit tips
provided by analysts who worked for them.  Prosecutors also rested their case yesterday. U.S. District
Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over the trial, told
jurors to return to court today to hear closing arguments from
both sides.  David Makol, a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation securities
fraud agent in New York for more than nine years before being
transferred to  Boston  this year, told jurors yesterday he has
persuaded dozens of people to cooperate with the government.  Makol worked with three men who pleaded guilty to
participating in the insider-trading case and agreed to testify,
he said. They are ex-Diamondback analyst Jesse Tortora, ex-Level
Global Analyst Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis and ex-Neuberger
Berman analyst Sandeep “Sandy” Goyal, he said. Adondakis took
the stand, saying he passed nonpublic information to Chiasson
while Tortora testified he passed inside tips to Newman.  “I was overseeing the entire investigation,” Makol
testified. “Basically what you said, getting someone to
cooperate against other folks.”  Inconsistencies Claimed  Newman’s lawyer, Steve Fishbein, called Makol in an attempt
to show jurors what he alleges are inconsistencies between
Tortora’s trial testimony and Makol’s notes of interviews with
Tortora when he first agreed to cooperate.  Chiasson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , also questioned Makol
yesterday about notes the agent took of statements Adondakis
made to agents and prosecutors about what he told Chiasson and
David Ganek, the co-founder of Level Global.  Makol said he first approached Adondakis in October 2010
when he walked up to the former analyst in  Central Park  and
asked him to cooperate with the government’s investigation into
insider trading at  hedge funds  and insiders at technology
companies.  Suspect Approached  “It was about other friends that were in this circuit that
are exchanging information,” Makol said, describing the alleged
scheme. “It was about this expert network that we are looking
into. We had a massive investigation on. We knew Mr. Tortora
could provide a lot of information.”  A month later he approached Tortora, who had left  Wall
Street  and was living with his mother and stepfather in  Florida ,
he said.  Fishbein, Newman’s lawyer, asked Makol about what kind of
instructions he’d given Tortora when asking him to make
consensually recorded calls with Danny Kuo, a member of the
conspiracy who has since pleaded guilty to insider trading. He
asked the agent if he had instructed the cooperator to use terms
like “big fish” and make Newman the “fall guy” during
recorded calls.  Makol said he never suggested those terms to Tortora and
said agents suggest to cooperators different “scenarios” to
elicit conversation from people they engage in conversation.  “You would never as an FBI agent want to suggest to a
cooperating witness that they blame somebody else for something
that that somebody else didn’t do, right?” Fishbein asked.  ‘Appropriate Situation’  “That is not correct,” Makol replied. “Under FBI policy
we are allowed to create scenarios in which we will prompt
certain responses by certain people, so if one of those -- if it
is an appropriate situation, then you could potentially apply
that.”  Sullivan last week ruled that Michael Steinberg, an SAC
Capital Advisors LP fund manager, and David Ganek, who co-
founded Level Global with Chiasson, are unindicted co-
conspirators in the insider-trading scheme with Newman and
Chiasson.  The ruling allows prosecutors to show jurors e-mails
involving Ganek and Steinberg during closing arguments on the
premise that they were statements that furthered the alleged
insider-trading conspiracy. Steinberg and Ganek haven’t been
charged with a crime.  Yesterday, Weingarten questioned Makol about what Adondakis
first told agents and prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in November 2010. He confronted him
with a memo that Makol’s partner, James Hinkle, made of the
session.  ‘Both Interested’  “Is it not true that Mr. Adondakis said to you and to the
government that ‘Chiasson and Ganek were both interested in the
Dell information when Adondakis told them because the
information came directly from contacts at Dell?’” Weingarten
asked.  “Yes,” Makol said. “Both Chiasson and Ganek were both
interested in the Dell information,” Makol said. “When Mr.
Adondakis told them about the Dell information, they were
interested. The information was coming from someone inside
Dell.”  Weingarten pressed Makol to explain what was meant by the
statement in the FBI memo that said “both Chiasson and Ganek.”  Makol replied, “I recall from that meeting that there was
some confusion about this paragraph because I know coming away
from that meeting that I didn’t write the report, I was certain
that Mr. Adondakis was not saying that he specifically told Mr.
Ganek that the information was coming from someone at Dell, so
it was confusing. Actually, the way I read it, I read it, it
makes sense to me. It’s just the wording could have been worded,
could have been worded differently so it’s more clear.”  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 