-- NFL-Linked Violent Deaths Pressuring League to Improve Education
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/nfl-violent-deaths-show-league-must-improve-focus-on-education.html
The  National Football League  and its
union, which had two players involved in three violent deaths in
a week, may face increased pressure to improve how they help
players with mental-health and substance-abuse issues because of
fan expectations.  “It’s critical that the league and the union get in front
of these issues in a very public way,”  Paul Swangard , managing
director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University
of  Oregon , said in an e-mail. “Fans will want to know: ‘What
are you doing about this?’”  Cowboys defensive tackle Josh Brent was charged with
intoxication manslaughter following a car crash two days ago
that killed his teammate and friend  Jerry Brown . A week earlier,
Kansas City Chiefs linebacker Jovan Belcher shot and killed his
girlfriend before killing himself with a gunshot to his head
outside Arrowhead Stadium.  The deaths have rocked the U.S’s most popular sport at a
time when television ratings for NFL games are at an all-time
high and league revenue has surged to about $9.3 billion.  The NFL and its 32 teams, along with law-enforcement
officials and counselors, educate rookies at an annual symposium
and at other times of the year on issues including guns,
alcohol,  prescription drugs  and other substance abuse, league
spokesman  Brian McCarthy  said in an e-mail.  “We also emphasize personal responsibility and decision-
making,” McCarthy said.  Before yesterday’s game against the Bengals at Paul Brown
Stadium in Cincinnati, Cowboys players bowed their heads and
some covered their hearts during a moment of silence. The
Cowboys won 20-19.  Cowboys’ Grief  “Our team is grieving,” Dallas owner  Jerry Jones  said in
an interview on Fox television. “There’s something more
important than football and this is life, and certainly the lost
life of Jerry.”  Brent is in custody on a $500,000 bond following the
single-car crash at 2:21 a.m. local time two days ago in the
Dallas suburb of Irving,  Texas , police spokesman John Argumaniz
said in a statement.  Brent, 24, was driving at a high speed when the vehicle hit
a curb and flipped at least once, according to police. Brown,
25, was taken to the hospital, where he died, Argumaniz said.  “I will live with this horrific and tragic loss every day
for the rest of my life,” Brent said in a statement released by
his agent, Peter Schaffer.  The NFL Players’ Association reiterated that it has a 24-
hour car service available to all its members.  “That service does get utilized regularly,” George Atallah, a spokesman for the union, said in an e-mail. “That
phone number is on the back of every player’s union card.”  Labor Deal  In addition, the league labor deal struck a year ago
includes programs to help players with substance abuse along
with a 24-hour counseling service for those with mental health
concerns, Atallah said.  The union has resisted attempts by the NFL to suspend
players for two games who are found guilty of a first drunken
driving offense,  NBC Sports  said on its website. The penalty
currently is the loss of two game checks, the report said. An
agreement reached last year to impose a one-game ban and a one-
game fine has yet to be implemented, NBC said.  “I’d be very surprised if the union agreed to more
stringent sanctions,”  Rick Burton , a professor of sports
management at  Syracuse University ’s Falk College of Sport, said
in a phone interview.  Second DUI  Champaign County,  Illinois , Court records show Brent was
sentenced to 60 days in jail, two years of probation, 200 hours
of community service and a fine of about $2,000 for driving
under the influence, speeding and driving without a valid
license in February 2009 near the  University of Illinois , where
he attended college, the Dallas Morning News reported.  “There should be an automatic two-game suspension on the
first DUI,” said CBS Sports analyst Bill Cowher, who guided the
Steelers to victory in the  Super Bowl  after the 2005 season.
“That’s the only way to get the message through. The only
hammer you have is playing time. Fines won’t get it done.”  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  will probably face pressure
to investigate whether collisions that cause concussions were a
factor in Belcher’s actions, Burton and Rosner said.  “I don’t know if there’s a correlation, but that may be
the perception and the NFL should be seen to be examining the
possibility,” Burton said.  ‘Black Eye’  The tragedies of the past week are unlikely to affect the
league’s business over the long term, said Steve Rosner, co-
founder and a partner in  East Rutherford , New Jersey-based 16W
Marketing LLC.  “It’s a black eye on the individuals rather than the
league,” Rosner, whose clients include baseball’s Cal Ripken
Jr., basketball’s Hakeem Olajuwon and football’s Howie Long,
each retired and a member of his sport’s Hall of Fame, said in a
telephone interview. “The NFL is on a very high pedestal and it
would take a lot to knock it down.”  The sport is almost immune to negative publicity, Stephen
McDaniel, who teaches sports and entertainment marketing at the
 University of Maryland , said in an e-mail.  Television ratings and league revenue are at record levels
even after a lockout and scandals involving some its highest-
profile players in recent years.  Quarterback  Michael Vick ’s conviction for dog-fighting;
wide receiver  Plaxico Burress ’s incarceration on a weapons
charge; Pittsburgh quarterback  Ben Roethlisberger ’s four-game
suspension after being accused but not charged with assaulting
two women; a 162-day player lockout, criticism over the use of
replacement referees; or a bounty scandal involving the  New
Orleans Saints  in which the NFL said players received money for
hits that injured opponents.  Even increased penalties won’t be enough to eradicate the
risk of further incidents like the two in the past week, Rosner
said.  “The NFL is being as aggressive as it can to police their
players,” Rosner said. “But sometimes individuals do things
that can’t be legislated for, no matter how scrupulous the
league is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 