-- NFL to Teach Players About Post-Football Franchise Businesses
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-12-10T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/nfl-to-teach-players-about-post-football-franchise-businesses.html
The  National Football League  will
devote four days to teaching players how to run franchise
businesses, with Carolina Panthers Owner Jerry Richardson, who
built an empire of 800 restaurants from one hamburger stand, as
the key speaker.  Richardson, a former Baltimore Colts receiver, built a
Hardees operation into more than 600 restaurants and 200 Quincy
Steak Houses. The seminar in April is the most recent in a
series designed to help players adjust to life after football.
Others have been on broadcasting and the music business.  “There are many parallels to success in business and
football and the opportunity to provide whatever insight I may
have to this select group is appreciated,” Richardson said in a
news release.  The program is also the first that’s open to players’ wives,
who often end up managing franchises while their husbands play,
according to Troy Vincent, NFL vice-president of player
engagement. It grows out of the league’s effort to provide
players with information on how to leverage their NFL careers in
the job market after they retire from football.  “One of the things we’ve been doing as a department is
really trying to identify the career paths and interests of the
body of players,” Vincent said in a telephone interview. “We
want to make sure we have excellent quality, and it’s a tangible
career path.”  Former Cornerback  Vincent, a former cornerback with teams including the
 Philadelphia Eagles , said about 50 players or spouses would
study business plans, real estate, bookkeeping and other topics
during the four days with professors and experienced franchise
owners in lectures and working groups.  The boot camp is scheduled for April 26-29 at the
 University of Michigan ’s  Ross School of Business , named for
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross. It’s being run in conjunction
with the  International Franchise Association , the world’s
largest franchising organization with 825,000 members.  Steve Caldeira, the association’s president, said the
program offers a path to business ownerships for current and
former players.  “Franchising is a proven, structured and very scalable
business model that can result in predictable return on your
initial investment,” he said in the release. “Despite the
recent economic downturn, growth in the franchise sector has
continued to outpace growth in other businesses.”  Richardson, 76, played in 1959-60 for the Colts. He has
been the only owner of the Panthers, whose first season was in
1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 