-- Nordic Mines Jumps on Gold as CEO Seeks Funds: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-12-10T10:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/nordic-mines-jumps-on-gold-as-ceo-seeks-funds-stockholm-mover.html
Nordic Mines AB (NOMI)  rose in Stockholm
after the company found a record amount of gold in a single
month in November and the new chief executive officer said money
from a planned share sale is key to future production.  Nordic Mines  rose  as much as 48 percent, the biggest intra-
day jump since July 4, and was up 27 percent at 3.6 kronor as of
10:36 a.m. in the Swedish capital.  That pared the stock’s
decline this year to 93 percent, valuing the Uppsala, Sweden-
based company at 309 million kronor ($46.2 million.)  Nordic Mines said today its Laiva Finland mine produced 120
kilograms (264 pounds) of gold in November, and that operational
availability improved to 92 percent. Nordic Mines, which began
partial mining in 2011 and full production in February, will
hold an extra shareholders meeting on Dec. 20 to approve a
rights issue to raise 282 million kronor before costs. The funds
are key to the company’s future, CEO Thomas Cederborg said.  “It’s the highest amount since we started,” Cederborg,
who took the helm at company last month, said about the gold
find in a telephone interview. “We’ve had a difficult start, it
took longer than we thought to ramp up production.”  Proceeds from the share sale will be used mainly to
strengthen production at the mine, pay suppliers, and provide
the company with a cash buffer “so we don’t run out of money
again,” Cederborg said.  “We need these resources, it’s very important,” the CEO
said. “The new management team is very focused on accomplishing
this action plan, to strengthen the robustness of the operation
so we can repeat this availability month after month.”  The funds should allow loss-making Nordic Mines to achieve
long-term profitability, it has said.  Cederborg declined to
forecast when that may be, or how much gold the company may
produce next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  