-- North Korea Extends Rocket Launch Window By One Week
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-10T08:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/north-korea-s-rocket-launch-window-opens-as-delay-mulled.html
North Korea  extended the time frame
of this month’s rocket launch by one week due to technical
difficulties as the totalitarian state faced cold weather and
international protests over its plans.  Kim Jong Un’s regime decided to extend the launch period
that began today to Dec. 29 from Dec. 22 after scientists
“found technical deficiency in the first-stage control engine
module,” the official Korean Central News Agency said, citing
an unidentified space administration spokesman. The same agency
yesterday said the launch might be delayed.  A botched test would be an embarrassment for the North
after an April launch failed shortly after liftoff and scuttled
a U.S. food aid deal. The U.S. is deploying ships capable of
intercepting the rocket, while  Japan  has readied its military
and  China , the North’s biggest ally, has said it should keep in
mind regional stability.  “It would be strange for the North Korean media to
announce they’re having problems and delaying the launch if they
could really do it,” John Delury, assistant professor of
international relations at Yonsei University, told Bloomberg
Television. “The fact that the announcement came from the
scientific community and scientists and technicians were said to
have made the call suggests there may indeed be technical
problems and of course could be related to the weather. It’s
extremely cold.”  Solidifying Status  South Korea’s Unification Ministry urged the North to scrap
the launch plan, saying it poses a serious threat to security in
northeast  Asia . The ministry said Dec. 7 that Kim’s regime is
seeking to solidify its status as a nuclear state, and the
rocket launch is aimed at developing the means to deliver
nuclear warheads.  “Another failure would deal a heavy blow to Kim’s
regime,” Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean studies at
 Dongguk University  in Seoul, said yesterday. “He would lose
more than gain, so his best tactic is to keep the threat open
and maximize its bargaining power.”  Japan has yet to confirm any North Korean postponement of
its launch plans, Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said yesterday
in an appearance on Fuji Television. China noted the North’s
decision to delay and hopes “all parties make concerted efforts
to safeguard peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and in
the whole region,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told
reporters in Beijing today.  Flight Path  North Korea has been experiencing unusually cold winter
nationwide this year, deputy director Ri Chol Su of the Central
Meteorological Research Institute said today in a KCNA
statement. Last week capital Pyongyang saw as much as 38
centimeters (15 inches) of snow and temperatures on the
country’s western coast, where the rocket launch site is
located, were as low as negative 17 degrees Celsius (1.4 degrees
Fahrenheit). Temperatures are expected to rise after Dec. 13, Ri
said.  The North expects the rocket’s fuselage to fall about 140
kilometers (87 miles) west of South Korea and its second stage
to drop into waters about 136 kilometers east of the
 Philippines , South Korea’s Transportation Ministry said on Dec.
7, citing launch plans the North submitted to the  International
Maritime Organization  and the  International Civil Aviation
Organization .  Japanese Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto on Dec. 7
ordered his military to intercept and destroy any part of the
rocket that threatened the country, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Osamu Fujimura said today, adding that a threat wasn’t expected.  Presidential Election  North Korea’s plans coincide with South Korea’s Dec. 19
presidential election. Ruling party candidate Park Geun Hye and
opposition nominee Moon Jae In are calling for re-engagement
after five years of deteriorating ties marked by atomic bomb and
missile tests and two clashes in 2010 that killed 50 South
Koreans.  “The issues in terms of the presidential campaign really
are domestic,” Delury said. “They are South Korean issues,
there are economic issues and there’s a lot of discussion of
politics of  South Korea  and political reform.”  Kim has shown no willingness to heed international calls to
halt nuclear weapons development.  North Korea has invested about $480 million to ready its
rocket launch, South Korean Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan told
lawmakers last week. South Korea estimates the launch site to
have cost $400 million, a further $50 million for parts
manufacturing operations near Pyongyang, and $30 million for the
satellite itself, he said.  North Korea’s military arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and
Musudan missiles. The Musudan has a range of more than 3,000
kilometers and can carry a 650-kilogram warhead, according to
South Korea’s defense ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  