-- NYC Base Subway Fare May Rise to $2.50, Board Members Say
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-10T20:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/nyc-base-subway-fare-may-rise-to-2-50-board-members-say.html
New York’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  may raise its base fare for subways and
buses by 25 cents to $2.50 and monthly unlimited passes by $8 to
$112, four board members said.  The figures are part of a plan to raise revenue while
keeping down costs for the heaviest users of the largest U.S.
transit agency and riders with low incomes, Andrew Albert, a
board member, said in an interview. The plan is a hybrid of the
four options presented in October, and no final decisions have
been made, he said.  In addition to increases to the base and monthly unlimited
fares, weekly unlimited passes would rise $1 to $30 and a 7
percent discount on purchases of $10 or more would fall to 5
percent and apply to those as small as $5, said board member
Mitchell Pally. Members Allen Cappelli and John H. Banks III
also confirmed the general outline of the plan, which was
reported today by the  New York  Post and the New York Daily News.  “It’s clear that the concepts of not making the $2.25
sacrosanct, and keeping the increase for monthly and weekly as
small as possible is the goal,” said Pally. It also reflects
riders’ wishes expressed at public hearings in recent weeks,
said Pally, who attended three.  The 22-member board will meet next week to vote on a final
package to increases fares and tolls for subways, buses,
commuter railroads from  Long Island  and northern suburbs, and
river crossings. The increases would take effect in March and
are designed to net an annual $450 million in additional revenue
to help fill projected budget deficits.  Lhota’s Discussions  Kevin Ortiz, a spokesman for the state agency, said the
figures were “premature.” Chairman Joseph Lhota is discussing
alternatives with board members and will make his recommendation
in writing to them later this week or over the weekend, Ortiz
said in an e-mail.  “The MTA will continue to do all they can to keep costs
down, enhance service and adopt a fare/toll structure that has
the least impact on the greatest number of customers,” Ortiz
said.  “This is a fair distribution amongst different sectors to
try to minimize the impact,” Cappelli said.  Agency officials have examined different ways to boost
fares and tolls, some of which included options to increase the
monthly unlimited passes to as much as $125 and leave the
current $2.25 base fare unchanged.  The vote will be part of the board’s approval of the 2013
budget. The agency projects finishing 2012 with a $26 million
cash balance and estimates deficits of $333 million through
2016, according to a financial plan released last month.  The agency, which runs subways, buses, commuter railroads
and some bridges and tunnels, is also working to revive itself
after  Hurricane Sandy . The Oct. 29 storm inflicted the worst
damage to the system of any in its 108-year history.  Officials may borrow as much as $4.8 billion in short-term
notes beginning next year to rebuild infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  