-- Obama Stays Firm on Taxes as He Offers Budget Cooperation
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-12-10T21:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/obama-stays-firm-on-taxes-as-he-offers-budget-cooperation.html
President  Barack Obama  extended an
offer of cooperation rather than confrontation with
congressional Republicans over taxes and the budget in a speech
a day after he met with House Speaker  John Boehner .  As he promoted his plan to avoid more than $600 billion in
automatic tax increases and spending cuts set to begin in
January, Obama said he’s ready to make a deal with Republicans.
Still, he held firm on his proposal to let tax rates rise on top
earners as the first part of any agreement.  “Let’s get it done,” he said before an audience of
workers at a plant owned by  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Detroit Diesel unit in
Redford,  Michigan . “I will work with the Republicans on a plan
for economic growth,  job creation  and reducing our deficits.”  The factory visit was the latest in a series of Obama moves
designed to rally popular support for the White House’s position
in the negotiations and pressure Republicans into compromising
on a deal.  His rhetoric marked a shift from recent statements about
negotiations with congressional Republicans. At a similar outing
Nov. 30 at a toy factory in  Pennsylvania , he accused “a handful
of Republicans” of holding middle-income tax breaks “hostage
simply because they don’t want tax rates on upper-income folks
to go up.”  The change coincides with an acceleration of private
meetings and discussions with the clock ticking down on the
deadline for a deal.  Congressional Talks  In addition to the private White House meeting yesterday
with Boehner, Obama called Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, from Air Force One today to discuss the status
of the budget talks, according to a Senate Democratic aide who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  refused to
characterize the talks between Obama and Boehner, saying it’s in
the “best interests” of both sides not to negotiate in public.
Carney said Republicans still haven’t delivered details about
how they would raise revenue.  “He’s eager to get a deal and he believes a deal is
possible,” Carney said of the president.  Boehner’s spokesman,  Michael Steel , said that discussions
between the speaker’s office and the White House are taking
place without providing further details. Steel said the $2.2
trillion deficit-reduction plan remains the Republican offer on
the table.  Republicans ‘Wait’  “We continue to wait for the president to identify the
spending cuts he’s willing to make as part of the ‘balanced’
approach he promised the American people,” Steel said in a
statement.  Polls show most Americans support Obama’s call to let tax
rates rise for married couples with incomes of more than
$250,000 a year. A Politico/George  Washington  University survey
conducted Dec. 2-6 showed 60 percent support that position.
Three-quarters also backed cutting  government spending  across
the board.  While Obama and the White House’s bargaining team insist on
raising tax rates for the nation’s highest earners, they aren’t
demanding the precise 39.6 percent top rate spelled out in the
president’s budget. In the past few days, Republican
congressional leaders have reiterated their opposition to rate
increases without explicitly ruling them out.  Possible Compromise  It’s possible to chart an arithmetic compromise in the
negotiations aimed at averting automatic tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect Jan. 1. It could contain about
$1.2 trillion in new revenue and $1 trillion in spending cuts,
midway between the two sides’ initial offers.  The top income tax rate could be set at 37 percent or 38
percent, between the current 35 percent and the 39.6 percent
rate that will return in 2013 if Congress does nothing. Both
parties could accept down payments of revenue and spending cuts
in 2013 and overhaul the  tax code  and entitlement programs next
year.  Representative Jim McDermott, a Washington Democrat, said
today that Boehner needs to talk with House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, about what kind of bill can
gain enough Democratic votes to pass.  “Unless that goes on, you’re not going to get a full
package here,” McDermott said at an event in Washington
sponsored by Politico.  U.S. stocks advanced. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  rose
less than 0.1 percent to 1,418.57 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.
Treasury 10-year notes were little changed at 1.62 percent at
3:44 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  Union Battle  Obama also waded into a state political battle between
unions and Republicans in Michigan’s legislature.  His visit to the Detroit suburb comes as state Republicans
put the final touches on legislation that would prohibit
compulsory payment of union dues. The measure, which was passed
by Republicans who control the statehouse on Dec. 6, is
staunchly opposed by labor unions. The final version is expected
to be signed soon by Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican. The
president voiced his opposition to the bill today, telling auto
workers that the legislation had no economic benefit for either
workers or the country.  “What they’re really talking about is to give you the
right to work for less money,” Obama said.  Backing from auto workers and labor unions helped Obama win
the competitive states of Michigan and  Ohio  in last month’s
election and their support is a crucial part of Obama’s strategy
to get his second term agenda through Congress.  Timed to the president’s speech, Daimler today announced a
new investment of $120 million that will create 115 new jobs at
the plant.  “Companies like Daimler know we’re still a smart bet,”
said Obama. “They could have made their investments somewhere
else but they didn’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Redford, Michigan at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  