-- Oil Advances as German Exports Increase; OPEC to Meet in Vienna
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-12-10T13:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/oil-advances-as-china-rebound-accelerates-before-opec-meeting.html
Oil advanced from the lowest close
in three weeks in  New York  after German exports unexpectedly
rose in October and China processed a record volume of crude
last month. OPEC meets this week to discuss its output quota.  Futures climbed as much as 1 percent as exports gained 0.3
percent from September in  Germany , the biggest oil consumer in
the European Union. China’s net crude imports increased to the
highest in six months in November as the volume processed at the
nation’s refineries rose to a record, according to the General
Administration of Customs. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will probably leave its production quota
unchanged when it meets Dec. 12, a Bloomberg survey showed.  “Germany’s export growth was encouraging as expectations
were for a contraction,”  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB
Capital in  London , said by phone. “Germany is the key driver of
the European economy.”  Crude for January delivery rose as much as 85 cents to
$86.78 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.65 at 1:27 p.m. London time. The
contract dropped 33 cents on Dec. 7 to $85.93, the lowest close
since Nov. 15. Prices slid 3.4 percent last week and are down 12
percent this year.  Brent for January settlement climbed as much as $1.52, or
1.4 percent, to $108.54 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude’s premium to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade widened for a second
day to $21.72.  Uptrend Chart  Oil is rebounding in New York after settling for a second
day above technical support along an upward-sloping trend line,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This line, connecting
the lows of June and November, is around $85.60 a barrel today.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  German exports adjusted for work days and seasonal changes
increased from September, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  China  bought 23.25 million metric tons of crude more than
it exported last month, according to figures released on the
website of the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs.
That’s the equivalent of 5.68 million barrels a day, up 3
percent from a year earlier and the most since May, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The country processed a record 41.61 million tons of crude
in November, equivalent to 10.2 million barrels a day,
government figures showed yesterday. China is the world’s
second-biggest crude consumer.  OPEC Supply  OPEC will probably maintain its production quota at 30
million barrels a day of oil, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 18 analysts. “Prices are fine and customers are
happy,”  Saudi Arabia ’s Petroleum Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said in
an interview in Doha on Dec. 7.  The kingdom is the largest producer in the 12-member group,
which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude.  “The Saudis don’t want prices to go up much from here,”
Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy
Consulting and Project Management, said yesterday. “Some
members like  Iran  may want a cut in production, but the oil
price is still healthy so it’s difficult for OPEC members to
claim there’s oversupply.”  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators boosted
their bets oil prices will rise, according to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission. Net-long positions in futures and
options combined were up by 13,434, or 12 percent, to 129,530,
the regulator said its Commitments of Traders report on Dec. 7.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers raised
bullish bets on Brent to the highest in seven weeks.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 111,589 lots in
the week ended Dec. 4, the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders report.
The increase of 3,477 contracts, or 3 percent, brings net-longs
to their highest level since Oct. 16, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  