-- Oil Declines For Fifth Day on Italy Political Turmoil
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-12-10T21:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/oil-rises-first-time-in-five-days-on-china-crude-imports.html
Oil declined for a fifth day in New
York on concern a leadership change in  Italy  will disrupt
efforts to curb Europe’s debt crisis.  Prices fell to a three-week low as Italian Prime Minister
Mario Monti said he will resign, while his predecessor, Silvio
Berlusconi, announced he will run for the premiership to roll
back Monti’s budget tightening. Crude also slid as heating oil
dropped to a four-month low on warmer-than-average weather as
New York reached a high of 61 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius).  “The situation in Italy is weighing on the whole euro zone
and it should have wide-reaching impacts on the economy and oil
demand,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We have 60-
degree weather today here in New York and there is not a lot of
demand for heating oil.”  Crude for January delivery slid 37 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $85.56 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
lowest settlement since Nov. 15. Prices are down 13 percent this
year.  Brent for January settlement rose 31 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to end at $107.33 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  Italian 10-year bond yields jumped today in their first day
of trading since Monti said on Dec. 8 that he planned to resign
afterBerlusconi withdrew support for the government.  EU Leaders  Monti and other EU heads of state and government, who
gathered in Oslo to collect the Nobel Peace Prize, are seeking
to present a united front as the resurgent Berlusconi hits the
campaign trail with his anti-austerity message.  “Monti’s resignation makes people more nervous about
Europe’s debt crisis,” said Michael Lynch, president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts .  Crude followed declines in heating oil. January futures of
the fuel slid 0.7 percent to $2.8962 a gallon, the lowest
settlement since Aug. 2.  New York’s high of 61 degrees was 16 degrees above the
average reading, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
 Pennsylvania .  Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
predicted normal or warmer-than-normal weather in most of the
lower-48 states through Dec. 24.  About 26 percent of households in the Northeast depend on
heating oil for space heating, according to the Energy
Department.  Heating Oil  “We have very warm weather here in the U.S., which is kind
of taking a hit to the heating oil market and weighing on oil,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Crude also dropped as investors watched the latest
developments in American budget talks. President  Barack Obama 
and House Speaker John Boehner met one-on-one yesterday at the
White House, with representatives for the two leaders offering
no details of the negotiations yet issuing identical statements
afterward that “the lines of communication remain open.”  Oil rose as much as 1 percent earlier as  China ’s net crude
imports climbed to a six-month high in November and German
October exports unexpectedly increased.  China bought 23.25 million metric tons of crude more than
it exported last month, according to  figures  released on the
website of the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs
today. That’s the equivalent of 5.68 million barrels a day, up 3
percent from a year earlier and the most since May, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Upward Move  “The petroleum markets are attempting to organize a move
higher around Chinese data that showed stronger November imports
on the start-up of new refinery units, but are meeting with
mixed results,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York, in an e-mail. “The
macroeconomic outlook is uncertain, with the U.S. fiscal cliff
unresolved.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
probably leave its production quota unchanged when it meets Dec.
12, a Bloomberg survey showed. The group will probably maintain
its production quota at 30 million barrels a day of oil,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 18 analysts.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 395,757
contracts as of 3:28 p.m. Volume totaled 494,081 contracts on
Dec. 7, 5.2 percent lower than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.55 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 