-- Olam’s Biggest Holder to Join Temasek in Backing Bond-Sale Plan
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-12-10T17:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/olam-s-biggest-holder-to-join-temasek-in-backing-bond-sale-plan.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) ’s biggest
shareholder said it will participate in a $1.25 billion sale of
bonds and warrants, joining Singapore’s state-owned investment
company in backing the offering.  “As the company’s largest shareholder, we fully support
its proposed rights issue of bonds and warrants,” Kewalram
Singapore Ltd., which owns  20 percent of Olam , said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “We believe that it is in the best
interest of the company, and is an attractive investment
opportunity for all shareholders, as well as being beneficial to
the bondholders. We intend to participate in the proposed rights
issue.”  Olam, the commodity trader that short-seller  Carson Block 
said might fail, said last week it will offer $750 million in
bonds and as much as $500 million in warrants to address any
“lingering doubts” about its liquidity.  Singapore ’s Temasek
Holdings Pte, Olam’s second-largest shareholder, agreed to buy
any rights not taken up by other investors.  Block, a 36-year-old former lawyer, first said on Nov. 19
that he was selling Olam shares short -- borrowing them to
profit by buying them at a lower price later -- and that the
company was at risk of collapse. Olam said it faces no risk of
insolvency and sued the research firm and Block on Nov. 21 in
the Singapore High Court, calling the comments malicious
falsehoods.  Kewalram supports Olam’s strategy, it said. “The
configuration of assets and capabilities that it has built up
will generate enduring value for its stakeholders.”  Share Performance  Olam, the world’s second-biggest rice trader, has slumped
about 15 percent since Block first made his allegations.  Olam will pay a 2 percent underwriting commission to banks
managing the bond sale and the banks agreed to pay 0.85 percent
of the principal amount of the bonds to a Temasek unit for sub-
underwriting. The bonds and warrants are expected to be issued
by late January or early February, it said last week.  Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., HSBC Holdings Plc
and JPMorgan Chase & Co will manage the sale, Olam said in a
statement Dec. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  