-- Honeywell’s Intermec Pressing 2013 Profit Before Payoff
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-10T21:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/honeywell-2013-earnings-forecast-misses-some-estimates.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s $600
million purchase of  Intermec Inc. (IN) , which bolsters mobile-
computing revenue and adds voice and bar-code technologies, may
pay off for investors in 2014 after tempering profit next year.  Honeywell, a maker of flight controls and thermostats, said
today it agreed to buy Intermec for $10 a share in cash. The
transaction, which will make Intermec a part of Honeywell’s
automation and control solutions business, will trim profit by 3
cents or 4 cents a share to a $4.75 to $4.95 a share in 2013,
the company said.  The top of the forecast range, excluding the deal, is
$4.99, surpassing the average analyst estimate of $4.95, while
the midpoint trails that figure, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buying Intermec “is exactly the kind of thing that you
want management to do,” Steven Winoker, a New York-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “You shouldn’t be worried about something that’s
earnings dilutive when it’s value creative.”  Honeywell fell 0.2 percent to $61.86 in  New York . The stock
 previously gained  14 percent this year, outpacing a 13 percent
increase by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Intermec, a provider of radio frequency-identification
products, has 2,200 employees in more than 65 offices worldwide.  Acquisition History  Acquiring it “expands our product offerings and
strengthens our intellectual property portfolio,” strengthening
Honeywell’s position in the automatic identification and data
capture industry, said Roger Fradin, chief of the automation and
controls business.  Honeywell has a demonstrated ability to bolster performance
through acquisitions, Winoker and  Howard Rubel , a New York-based
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a phone interview.
Rubel has a buy rating on Honeywell stock, and Winoker rates it
outperform.  “If you’re going to worry about 3 cents your whole life,
you’re going to spend your time looking at the ground trying to
find those pennies,” Rubel said in a telephone interview. “The
trend is generally in the right direction and given a world
where it’s been hard to do as well as they’ve done, I think
they’ve accomplished a lot.”  Honeywell, which also  predicted  today that sales would grow
as much as 5 percent next year to $39.5 billion, is facing
recessions in  Europe  and lower demand for short-cycle products
in  China . Along with industrial peers General Electric Co. and
 Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , Honeywell had cut forecasts for the year
in October.  “While we’re planning for a continued slow-growth macro
environment in 2013, we will remain flexible and adhere to our
disciplined focus on growth, efficiency and competitiveness,
driving sales and margins higher,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Dave Cote said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  