-- Pacino Is a Mannered Mess in Mamet’s ‘Glengarry’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-12-10T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pacino-is-a-mannered-mess-in-mamet-s-glengarry-review.html
The producers of “Glengarry Glen
Ross” invited critics to see the revival this weekend, following
a preview period of nearly two months in which the star,  Al Pacino , fine-tuned his performance as Shelly “The Machine”
Levene.  The show was considerably better a month ago. I can say
this with some authority because I bought my own ticket and
wrote about the revival on Nov. 13.  To ensure I had the same perspective, producer Jeffrey
Richards was thoughtful enough to provide me with the same
obstructed-view orchestra seat for which I’d earlier paid
$167.75.  But enough about me. This revival of David Mamet’s 1984
Pulitzer Prize-winning drama about Chicago real estate salesmen
makes for a pretty enervating hour and forty-five minutes. That
will surprise fans of Mamet’s blistering excoriation of business
in what was hailed as the successor to  Arthur Miller ’s “Death of
a Salesman.”  I don’t think it’s the play’s fault: “Glengarry” not only
became a successful film (starring Pacino in a different role)
but had a terrific Broadway revival starring  Alan Alda  seven
years ago.  Shelly opens the play begging his new boss for the prime
“leads” that will offer the best chance to close deals on the
sale of Florida land of dubious investment potential. He’s fast
aging out and has been on a losing streak. The boss is more
eager to serve the young gun Ricky Roma (the aptly unctuous
Bobby Cannavale).  How these desperate, amoral men con, insult and backstab
each other and their colleagues forms the gist of the play.
They speak in staccato outbursts and a profusion of obscenities.  Last month I wrote that “the alchemy that makes violent
poetry of these speeches is missing from Sullivan’s production.
Much of ‘Glengarry’ sounds stilted and self-conscious.” That
much is still true.  Worse still is that four weeks later, the heat seems to
have almost entirely escaped from this balloon of a play, and
it’s barely aloft. Pacino’s performance in particular has all
but disappeared into mannerisms -- whispered speeches that
suddenly turn explosive, a preening, cocky walk, the fingers
constantly combing through his thatch of hair.  Richard Schiff, as a salesman with some semblance of a
conscience, and Jeremy Shamos as one of their pigeons, remain
exceptions to the pallidness that otherwise sinks the
enterprise.  Through Jan. 20, 2013, at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theatre,
236 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 