-- Pakistan Offers 3 Million Tax Cheats Amnesty as Revenues Wilt
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2012-12-10T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pakistan-offers-3-million-tax-cheats-amnesty-as-revenues-wilt.html
Three million of  Pakistan ’s richest
income tax evaders will get 90 days to take up a government
amnesty offer after which they will be hounded by inspectors
under the nation’s most ambitious plan to improve its finances.  The cabinet has approved an amnesty proposal targeting 3.1
million people officials identified as having avoided paying
income tax in a country that’s among the 15 lowest  revenue
gathering  nations in the world. Under the plan, each will be
able to pay a one-time 40,000 rupee ($413) penalty on undeclared
income and assets of up to five million rupees, according to
Asrar Raouf, a senior official at Pakistan’s tax collection
body, the  Federal Board of Revenue .  “This is our most drastic step to widen the tax net,”
Raouf said in a Dec. 7 interview at his office in Islamabad.
“We will go after these tax evaders if they don’t respond and
cripple their lives.”  The government says the proposals will help Pakistan repair
its finances after recording the highest budget deficit in two
decades in the fiscal year that ended June as it missed its tax
collection target and international assistance plunged. Critics
including rival politicians and former advisers to the finance
ministry say the primary aim is to protect the illegally stashed
wealth of government supporters.  “This is our effort to bring the hidden wealth into the
tax net,” Farhatullah Babar, spokesman for President Asif Ali Zardari, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The government
is giving this opportunity to tax evaders before launching a
meaningful crackdown.”  Rating Cut  The South Asian nation has to repay about $7.5 billion to
the Washington-based International Monetary Fund by 2015, with
$1.2 billion handed over as of June, Moody’s Investors Service
said in July, when it cut Pakistan’s credit rating deeper into
junk status on falling reserves and political instability.  Only 856,000 people pay income taxes in the country of
about 200 million people. Each tax payer contributes on average
13,673 rupees, according to the revenue board.  To enforce their writ, Raouf and his colleagues are seeking
powers from parliament to block tax evaders’ national identity
cards, which are required for necessities such as opening a bank
account or arranging a cell-phone connection. The amnesty plan
may be presented to lawmakers this week, Raouf said. In another
concession, evaders can pay one percent of their wealth to
legalize unlimited hidden assets and income, he said.  Protecting Friends  The amnesty, Pakistan latest attempt to raise revenue
collections, underscores the government’s failure to seriously
tackle the most important structural flaw in the country’s
economy over its five years in power, said a former adviser to
the finance ministry.  “It shows we have failed to reform our tax collection
machinery,” said Sakib Sherani, now chief executive officer at
Macroeconomic Insights in Islamabad. “You’re telling people
that we can’t catch you, so please come and take this offer.”  Earlier attempts to persuade tax evaders have failed, said
Ashfaque Hasan Khan, who has also advised finance ministry
officials and is currently a professor at the business school of
National University of Sciences & Technology in Islamabad.  “The purpose of these schemes is not to bring people under
the tax net but to protect those people who made illegal money
during the government’s tenure,” Khan said in a Nov. 28
interview in Islamabad. The evaders “know the National
Accountability Bureau will go after them, once they are out of
power.”  The government led by Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party will
seek re-election in parliamentary polls due by May. Then
military ruler General Pervez Musharraf offered an amnesty in
2000 that was taken up by 88,000 people, the Karachi-based
Pakistan Economist reported that year.  ‘Total Fraud’  “This is a total fraud,” said Shafqat Mahmood, secretary
of information for the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, or the Movement
for Justice party, led by former cricket star Imran Khan. “This
is just a way to whiten the black money made through corruption
and it’s just a disaster. It’s against those taxpayers who are
honestly and diligently paying their taxes.”  In a major data mining exercise carried out with the help
of the country’s National Database and Registration Authority,
the tax bureau has identified non-tax paying Pakistanis who
regularly take foreign trips and have houses in upmarket
localities, Raouf said. The majority of the evaders are male and
involved in professions including commodity trading and
retailing.  IMF Plan  The International Monetary Fund said the amnesty will
discourage honest tax payers from continuing to pay up and is a
short-term solution to much deeper problems, such as the chronic
bribing of tax department officials to look the other way.  Some IMF directors urged reconsideration of the tax amnesty
in their Nov. 29 assessment of the country’s economy, advising
Pakistan to consider credible alternative revenue measures,
including a modified General Sales Tax and strengthening the
income tax system. The fund stopped payments from its $11.3
billion loan program in 2010 after Pakistan failed to reform its
tax collection and cut its budget deficit.  Pakistan’s tax revenue as a percentage of gross domestic
product was 10 percent in 2010, smaller than nearby  Nepal ,
before falling to 9.3 percent by June last year, according to
 World Bank data . Only 25 percent of the economy is taxed if the
undocumented sector is taken into account, Sherani said.  ‘Big Hunt’  Hurt by record power blackouts, the army’s fight against
militants in the northwest, and sectarian and ethnic clashes in
the commercial hub of Karachi, the economy will probably expand
3.25 percent this fiscal year, insufficient to achieve
significant improvements in living standards and absorb the
rising labor force, the IMF said in its assessment. The
government is targeting expansion of 4.3 percent.  The nation faces “deep seated structural problems,”
including a fiscal deficit that has contributed to price
pressures, according to the fund.  Former Finance Minister Shaukat Tarin said in 2010 that
Pakistan loses 800 billion rupees a year in tax evasion. The
government is seeking to collect 2.381 trillion rupees in taxes
this fiscal year, not enough to close the budget gap, which is
likely to touch 6.5 percent of GDP against the target of 4.7
percent, the IMF said in its report.  If it achieves a 70 percent success rate, the government
forecasts it will add two million tax payers with the amnesty,
Rauf said. To avoid corruption, tax payers will not need to come
in contact with any tax officials. Instead, they can pay their
taxes at the National Database and Registration Authority, Raouf
said.  “Before going on a big hunt, it’s natural that you need to
give them a last chance. And this is going to be the last one,”
Raouf said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  