-- Pakistan Havens Prevent Insurgents’ Defeat, U.S. Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pakistan-safe-havens-prevent-insurgents-defeat.html
Safe havens in northwest Pakistan
prevent U.S., allied and  Afghanistan  forces from dealing a
“decisive defeat” to insurgents, according to a Pentagon
assessment.  Pakistan-based sanctuary for insurgents such as the Haqqani
network, as well as the financial and operation support
insurgents receive from various sources, keep security volatile
along Afghanistan’s eastern border, the Defense Department said
yesterday in a semi-annual report required by Congress.  The document provides an unclassified snapshot of the war
in Afghanistan as the Obama administration prepares to assess
how many troops will be withdrawn next year of the remaining
66,000 U.S. personnel and how many will remain after most depart
by the end of 2014. The report covers April 1 through September
30.  “The Taliban-led insurgency and its al-Qaeda affiliates
still operate from sanctuaries in  Pakistan ,” according to the
report’s executive summary. “The insurgency’s safe havens in
Pakistan, the limited institutional capacity of the Afghan
government and endemic corruption remain the greatest risks to
long-term stability and sustainable security in Afghanistan.”  The safe havens in Pakistan persist despite improving ties
between Afghanistan and Pakistan as well as better U.S.-Pakistan
relations, a U.S. defense official said yesterday at a Pentagon
news briefing, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
considerations behind the report.  Commando Killed  The continuing threats to allied forces were underscored
over the weekend when a U.S. commando was killed in an operation
that rescued Dilip Joseph, a U.S. doctor who was captured at a
rural medical clinic in eastern Kabul province operated by
 Monitor Star Development , a nonprofit group based in  Colorado
Springs ,  Colorado .  The Pentagon yesterday identified the commando who died as
Petty Officer 1st Class Nicolas D. Checque, 28, of Monroeville,
 Pennsylvania , who was assigned to an East Coast Naval Special
Warfare unit. The unit is known informally as SEAL Team Six, the
commando team that participated in the raid that killed   Osama
bin Laden .  The report issued yesterday cites positive developments,
including transferring responsibilities to Afghans, who have
taken the security lead for 76 percent of the population,
according to the Pentagon.  ‘Blunted’ Offensive  “The coalition and our Afghan partners blunted the
insurgent summer offensive, continued to transition the Afghan
National Security Forces (ANSF) into security lead, pushed
violence out of most populated areas, and coalition member
nations signed several international agreements to support the
long-term stability and security of Afghanistan,” according to
the report’s summary.  Afghan security forces have carried out some independent
operations relying on their own equipment, intelligence and air
support using Russian-made Mi-17 helicopters, the U.S. defense
official said. The Pentagon helped Afghanistan buy the Russian
helicopters.  By the end of September, one Afghan brigade and about 20
kandaks, or battalions, were ranked as being capable of
operating independently with advisers, according to the report.  While relations between Pakistan and the U.S. are
improving, the report said, “tensions remain” one year after a
November 24, 2011, cross-border incident when U.S. forces
accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers.  Insider Attacks  The  International Security Assistance Force  also faced a
rise in so-called insider attacks. The attacks by Afghan
soldiers on coalition forces have “the potential to adversely
affect the coalition’s political landscape,” according to the
Pentagon.  The report highlighted a slight increase in enemy attacks
from April to September compared with the comparable six months
last year because of “a shortened poppy harvest employing low-
level insurgents far less than in past years.” Such enemy
attacks are occurring mostly outside populated areas, the report
found.  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  and other Afghan officials
have increased efforts to identify troops likely to carry out
insider attacks, the U.S. defense official said. While such
incidents have declined in the last few months compared with
earlier in the year, U.S. and allied forces still face the risk
of attacks by Afghan forces, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  