-- Pay for Delay, Dodd-Frank, Broker Bonuses: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-12-10T13:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pay-for-delay-dodd-frank-broker-bonuses-compliance.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
take up a multibillion-dollar fight between the drug industry
and federal antitrust enforcers, a case that may determine how
quickly low-price generic medicines reach the market.  The justices on Dec. 7 said they will use a case involving
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  to scrutinize the “pay for delay”
agreements that the Federal Trade Commission says cost drug
buyers $3.5 billion each year. Under those accords, brand-name
drugmakers pay other companies to hold off selling generic
versions. The pharmaceutical industry says the agreements are
legitimate settlements of patent disputes.  Companies have struck more than 100 such deals since 2005.
Medicines made by  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ,  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  have all been the focus of court cases as the
FTC under Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  seeks to crack down on the
practice.  Three of the four federal appeals courts to rule on the
issue have said the settlements, also known as reverse payments,
are generally permissible. Drug companies and antitrust
enforcers alike urged the Supreme Court to set a nationwide
standard. The court will rule by June.  The FTC, backed by the  Justice Department , is appealing a
ruling that rejected its suit against Solvay Pharmaceuticals
Inc., now owned by Abbott Labs, and three generic-drug makers
over Androgel, a treatment for low testosterone in men.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals, 12-416.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S., U.K. Issue Plan for Dealing With Failing Large Banks  U.S. and U.K. regulators unveiled a plan for dealing with
failing global systemically important banks that will allow them
to fire senior executives as well as force losses on
shareholders to protect taxpayers.  “A resolution strategy for a failed or failing globally
active, systemically important, financial institution should
assign losses to shareholders and unsecured creditors, and hold
management responsible,” according to a paper jointly released
by the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the  Bank of
England  in London today.  Global regulators are working on ways to handle the failure
of large international banks to avoid another crisis like the
one inflamed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in
2008 that led to taxpayer bailouts. BOE Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the joint paper is a “significant step” toward
solving the issue.  The U.S. has been developing its strategy under the Dodd-
Frank legislation passed in 2010, while the U.K. has focused its
efforts under the Banking Act of 2009, according to the paper.
They each focus on dealing with the top of a financial group --
the holding or parent company -- to minimize disruptions to
sound subsidiaries.  The U.K. and U.S. plans -- aimed at ensuring continuity of
banks’ “critical services” and reducing risks to financial
stability -- are based in part on recommendations published by
the Financial Stability Board, while U.K. policies are also
linked to European Union proposals presented in June.  For more, click here.  Dodd-Frank Swap Rules Delayed as U.S. CFTC Eases Transition  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission may delay
some Dodd-Frank Act overseas swaps rules for about six months,
part of a wave of last-minute exemptions and postponements to
ease transition to new regulations.  The derivatives regulator may put off compliance for
overseas-based operations of banks including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for some risk-management rules
that begin to take effect at the end of the month, according to
two people who asked not to be identified because the delay
hasn’t been made public. The agency has already released more
than 40 no-action letters postponing other Dodd-Frank rules, and
officials have signaled that more are coming.  “We have and will continue to grant requests for phased
compliance,” CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a telephone
interview Dec. 6. The delays are designed to “smooth the
transition” to new oversight rules, he said.  Dodd-Frank derivatives rules, originally intended to be in
place in July 2011, have been delayed as the government seeks
feedback on how to bring swaps under its oversight. The
regulations will for the first time lead Wall Street’s largest
banks to register as swap dealers with the CFTC at the end of
the year and will require them to use clearinghouses to settle
interest-rate and credit-default trades by mid-March.  The CFTC’s rulemaking process will face scrutiny this week
from U.S. House lawmakers. A House Financial Services
subcommittee  hearing  on derivatives has been  scheduled  for Dec.
12, and the House Agriculture Committee has planned a hearing
for Dec. 13 on the international scope of the CFTC’s rules.  For more, click here.  SEC Removes Obstacle for Active ETFs by Lifting Derivatives Ban  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission cleared one
obstacle for exchange-traded funds that try to beat benchmarks
by lifting a ban on the funds’ use of derivatives.  Proposed funds will have to meet requirements on managing
risk and disclosure, Norm Champ, director of the division of
investment management, said Dec. 6 in a  speech  at a New York
conference for investment advisers. The agency still won’t
approve new ETFs that use derivatives to amplify returns or
provide the inverse performance of an index.  Active ETFs seek to combine the skill of a manager
selecting investments with the trading flexibility, lower fees
and tax advantages of ETFs, which typically track an index. An
 ETF version  of Bill Gross’s Pimco Total Return Bond Fund, the
world’s largest mutual fund, has grown to $3.8 billion since its
introduction in February, making it one of the 15 biggest bond
ETFs in the U.S.  “It is a step forward,” said Christine Hudacko, a
spokeswoman for  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest ETF provider.  BlackRock, based in New York, and Atlanta-based  Invesco
Ltd. (IVZ)  are among companies with pending requests to introduce
actively managed ETFs.  ETFs hold baskets of securities, commodities or other
assets while trading throughout the day like individual stocks.
Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  The SEC froze approval for new ETFs that make significant
use of derivatives in March 2010, seven months after warning
that some products could confuse individual investors. Champ
said the SEC will continue to review the use of derivatives by
funds.  “Given the complexity and significance of the issues
relating to funds’ use of derivatives, both for the fund
industry and for the protection of investors, we are taking a
deliberate approach in our continuing review,” he said.  For more, click here.  Brokers Must Disclose Bonuses to Clients in Finra Proposal  Brokers who switch firms would be compelled to tell
customers about any recruiting bonuses and other incentives
received under rules proposed by industry regulators to protect
clients from conflicts of interest.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s 20-member
board of governors voted Dec. 6 to put the proposal out for
comment, according to a  memo  from Chairman  Richard Ketchum 
posted on the group’s website. Conflicts may arise if the new
firm’s payments encourage brokers to push products to clients
that aren’t needed or suitable.  The self-regulatory trade group is reviewing conflicts at
14 of the largest U.S. brokerages, focusing on compensation and
recruiting, Finra said in July. Finra didn’t name the firms
whose compensation plans are under review. The new rules won’t
persuade many clients to drop their advisers, said David Sobel,
chairman of the National Association of Independent
Broker/Dealers.  Michelle Ong, a Finra spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the board’s action.  Public disclosure may make brokers seek higher bonuses
since they’ll know what their rivals got, Sobel said. “That’s
going to be bad for small firms that can’t compete with that
kind of bonus money,” he said.  Brokerages typically recruit financial advisers with
“forgivable” loans -- a kind of bonus that must be repaid if a
broker leaves the firm before a specified number of years.  In practice, the rule would apply only to larger brokerages
that can afford to pay new employees up-front bonuses, said a
person with knowledge of Finra’s plan, who asked for anonymity
because the voting wasn’t public.  U.S. Consumer Bureau Signs Data Deal With Justice Department  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the
Department of Justice will share information to streamline
enforcement of fair-lending laws, the two agencies announced.  “The Department of Justice welcomes the new tools and
resources the CFPB can bring to the fight against lending
discrimination,” Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney general
for the department’s civil rights division, said in an e-mailed
statement last week.  Both the consumer bureau, which was created by the Dodd-
Frank law of 2010, and the department have authority to fight
discrimination in lending under the Equal Credit Opportunity
Act. The act bars discrimination in lending on the basis of
race, religion, national origin and other protected categories.  Under the accord, the two agencies will share information
and take steps to keep it confidential, according to the
statement. They will also notify each other of enforcement work
to avoid unnecessary duplication, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  HSBC, Standard Chartered Said to Resolve U.S. Probes Next Week  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  may settle
U.S. charges involving money-laundering violations and dollar-
clearing transactions on behalf of Iranian clients as soon as
this week, two people familiar with the negotiations said.  The agencies involved in the settlements include the  U.S.
Treasury ’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the  Federal
Reserve , the Justice Department and the New York District
Attorney’s office, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because negotiations are still under way.  HSBC announced last month that it had added an $800 million
provision to an existing $700 million reserve to cover the costs
of a potential settlement, and warned investors that the final
payment could “significantly” exceed the $1.5 billion total.  A Senate committee said in July that failures in London-
based HSBC’s money-laundering controls allowed terrorists and
drug cartels access to the U.S. financial system.  Standard Chartered has said it expects to pay about $330
million to settle claims by federal regulators that its money-
clearing operations violated rules related to U.S. sanctions
against Iran. The London-based bank agreed in August to pay $340
million to resolve charges brought by New York’s banking
regulator that it hid the identity of Iranian customers involved
in dollar-clearing transactions.  “As we’ve disclosed, we are cooperating with authorities
in ongoing investigations,” Robert Sherman, a spokesman for
HSBC in New York, said Dec. 7. “The nature of any discussions
is confidential.”  JPMorgan Said to Ask Staff to Help Fund U.K. Tax Settlement  JPMorgan Chase & Co. asked more than 2,000 current and
former employees to contribute to a settlement with the U.K.’s
tax authority over their use of an offshore trust for bonus
payments, according to a person briefed on the situation.  The Financial Times reported Dec. 8 that employees who
participated in the trust were asked to help fund a payment of
at least a few hundred million pounds if they want to settle
with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, the U.K. tax authority.
The bank and workers may pay about 500 million pounds ($802
million) total.  Corporations including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , Amazon.com Inc. and
Google Inc. have come under attack from British lawmakers and
protesters for using complex accounting methods to minimize tax
liabilities in the U.K.  The case involving JPMorgan focuses on a Jersey-based trust
established 20 years ago, according to the FT. Such entities,
typically holding bonus payments that can’t be repatriated
without triggering tax payments, are being closed after they
were targeted in legislation last year, the FT said.  “Our employee trust has always been transparent to HMRC,
and its independent trustee has consistently paid taxes in
accordance with U.K. tax law,” JPMorgan said in an e-mailed
statement.  For more, click here.  SAC Capital Gets Added Scrutiny as U.S. Probes InterMune Trading  SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14 billion hedge fund run by
 Steven A. Cohen , is under mounting scrutiny as the U.S.
investigates its trading in  InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  and  Weight Watchers
International Inc. (WTW) , according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation are looking into the trades, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter wasn’t
public.  News of the probe comes after SAC Capital told clients on
Nov. 28 that it had received a so-called Wells notice from the
SEC related to Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager who
was criminally charged on Nov. 20 for  insider trading  in two
other stocks. The Wells notice, a warning that the SEC is
prepared to sue, cited fraud and control-person liability
related to the unit that employed Martoma, a person familiar
with the matter said at the time.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-
based SAC Capital, said that the firm wasn’t aware of any
investigation involving trades of Weight Watchers or InterMune.
He declined to comment on whether the Wells notice, which the
company received Nov. 28, cited the two companies.  The SEC sends a Wells notice to a company or an individual
after its staff has determined that sufficient wrongdoing has
occurred to warrant civil claims being filed. The notice gives
the recipient a chance to try to dissuade the SEC from taking
action. In some cases, the SEC has decided to refrain from
filing a complaint after sending a Wells notice.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , and  John Nester , a spokesman for the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, declined to comment on
the case.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York
office, declined to comment on the probes.  Cohen hasn’t been charged with a crime in the Martoma case
and hasn’t been sued by the SEC. The agency filed its suit
against Martoma and CR Intrinsic Investors LLC, the SAC Capital
unit where he worked. Martoma’s lawyer,  Charles Stillman , has
said he expects his client to be vindicated.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  BofA, U.S. Bancorp Must Face Claims in Mortgage Trustee Case  Bank of America Corp.  and  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  must face some
claims in a lawsuit brought by a pension fund that claims they
failed in their responsibilities to protect mortgage-bond
investors.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan ruled
Dec. 7 that the Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City
of Chicago can pursue some of its claims. She dismissed other
claims against the banks.  The pension fund sued the banks over their role as trustees
for pools of mortgage loans bundled into securities and sold to
investors, claiming they caused investors to incur millions of
dollars in losses.  The banks disregarded their job of ensuring there were no
missing or defective documents for the mortgages, and that
defective loans were removed from the mortgage pools, the
pension fund said in its complaint.  Forrest said the fund could pursue claims on behalf of
investors in five of the 41 trusts that were at issue in the
complaint.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
ruling. Teri Charest of U.S. Bancorp, based in Minneapolis,
didn’t have an immediate comment on it.  The case is Policemen’s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the
City of Chicago v. Bank of America NA, 12-02865, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Goldman Sachs in Mediation With CIFG to Settle Mortgage Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and CIFG Assurance North America
Inc. retained a mediator as the two companies seek to settle a
lawsuit in New York state court in Manhattan, according to a
filing.  The insurer sued Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme
Court in August 2011, accusing the New York-based investment
bank of making misrepresentations in connection with the
securitization of a portfolio of 6,204 mortgage loans.  The two sides have participated in one mediation session
and have scheduled another for Dec. 19, according to a document
filed in court Dec. 6.  Justice O. Peter Sherwood in May granted Goldman Sachs’s
motion to dismiss three counts in the lawsuit, including one for
fraudulent inducement, while refusing to throw out three claims
for breach of contract. He also granted a motion by Buffalo, New
York-based M&T Bank Corp. to remove it as a defendant  CIFG and Goldman Sachs appealed Sherwood’s decision, and
the judge in July ordered the two sides to engage in mediation,
according to court filings.  CIFG filed another lawsuit against Goldman Sachs in the
same court this week, accusing the bank of fraudulently inducing
the insurer to provide a policy on a credit default swap.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the Dec. 6 filing or the CIFG suit filed last week.
Attorneys for CIFG didn’t immediately return voice-mail messages
and e-mails seeking comment.  CIFG, based in New York, has taken similar actions in the
same court during the past three years, including a $277 million
suit against GreenPoint Mortgage Funding Inc. filed in October
and a $150 million suit against  Bank of America Corp.  filed last
month.  The case is CIFG Assurance North America Inc. v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co., 652286/2011, New York Supreme Court, New York
County (Manhattan).  IBM China Bribe Deal With SEC Awaits Court Nod Two Years Later  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  said in March 2011 it
had settled with U.S. regulators over allegations it bribed
Chinese and South Korean officials to win at least $54 million
in government contracts.  The deal still hasn’t been approved by a federal judge in
Washington. Of 33 foreign bribery settlements with companies
reached by the SEC since 2010, only one other failed to win
judicial sign-off in less than three months.  The cause of the delay isn’t publicly evident. U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon, in a set of unusual moves, has held
off-the-record hearings and phone conferences with the parties.
Even a request for more time to respond to comments Leon made
during a nonpublic hearing on Nov. 15 wasn’t placed on the
record. Only the order granting the request appears on the court
docket.  Neither the SEC nor the company will discuss the matter.  “That’s certainly a long time,” Stephen Crimmins, a
former SEC official now at K&L Gates LLP in Washington, said in
an interview. “It’s possible Judge Leon is weighing the
underlying factual record to see if the proposed settlement is
in the public’s interest.”  The first hint of what’s causing the holdup may come Dec.
10 when the parties are required to submit papers responding to
what Leon said in the Nov. 15 hearing, according to the court’s
docket.  Leon declined to comment through Jenna Gatski, a court
spokeswoman.  IBM’s lawyer, Evan Chesler of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
in New York, and a company spokesman,  Doug Shelton , didn’t
respond to e-mail and telephone messages seeking comment on the
settlement. John Nester, an SEC spokesman, had no immediate
comment.  Since January 2010, the SEC has filed 33 proposed civil
enforcement settlements in federal courts against companies
citing FCPA violations, according to the commission’s website.
Of those, all but five were approved within 30 days.  The case is SEC v. International Business Machines Corp.,
11-cv-00563, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  Ex-IndyMac Executives Found Liable by Jury Over Negligent Loans  Three former IndyMac Bancorp Inc. executives must pay $169
million in damages to federal regulators for making negligent
loans to homebuilders as the real estate market was
deteriorating, a jury decided.  The federal court jury in Los Angeles issued the verdict
against Scott Van Dellen, the former chief executive officer of
IndyMac’s Homebuilder Division; Richard Koon, the unit’s former
chief lending officer; and Kenneth Shellem, the former chief
credit officer. Jurors on Dec. 8 found them liable for
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  The jury awarded the damages to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which brought the lawsuit in 2010.  The FDIC, which took over the failed subprime mortgage
lender in 2008, alleged the men caused $500 million in losses at
the homebuilders unit by continuing to push for growth in loan
production without regard for  credit quality  and despite being
aware a downturn in the real estate market was imminent.  “Mr. Shellem and Mr. Koon used the utmost care in making
loan decisions, and there is no doubt that all of the loans at
issue would have been repaid except for the housing crash,”
Kirby Behre, a lawyer for Shellem and Koon, said in an e-mailed
statement after the verdict.  Robert Corbin, a lawyer for Van Dellen, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office seeking comment on the verdict.  The verdict was reported earlier by the Los Angeles Daily
Journal.  The case is FDIC v. Van Dellen, 10-04915, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Meetings  Fed Board to Hold Open Meeting on Review of Foreign Bank Rules  The Federal Reserve Board said it will have an open board
meeting where governors and staff will discuss in public new
rules for capital and liquidity for foreign bank holding
companies and foreign non-bank companies supervised by the
central bank.  The meeting will be held December 14 at 3 p.m. in
Washington, the central bank said in a  notice  published on its
website.  The Fed said a staff memo on implementing sections 165 and
166 of the Dodd-Frank Act will be made available to the public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  