-- Pentagon Wants to Sell Israel More Satellite-Guided Bombs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-11T00:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pentagon-wants-to-sell-israel-more-satellite-guided-bombs.html
The Pentagon notified Congress it
wants to sell  Israel  as many as 6,900 tail kits used to convert
free-fall bombs into satellite-guided ordnance, including
weapons capable of penetrating hardened targets.  The proposed deal to resupply the Israeli Air Force with
bombs, tail kits, fuses and logistical support would be valued
at as much as $647 million, according to  a statement yesterday 
from the Defense Security Cooperation Agency.  The all-weather satellite-guided Joint Direct Attack
Munition, or JDAM, tail kits are made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  Bombs
delivered this way are among the most precise weapons in the
U.S. and Israeli arsenal. They can be dropped by F-15 and F-16
fighter jets.  The proposed sale includes 1,725 JDAM tail kits with
BLU-109 bombs, which are 2,000-pound, hard-target penetrators.
The BLU-109 is a so-called bunker buster. The bomb is designed
to “defeat an enemy’s most critical and hardened targets,”
such as protected weapons storage sites, and penetrate as much
as six feet of reinforced concrete, according to a U.S.  Air
Force  fact sheet.  The new order in part could be driven by a need to resupply
Israel for the bombs dropped during last month’s strike in Gaza
to stop Hamas rocket attacks, said Jeff White, a military
analyst with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  Underground Targets  “Hamas and the other groups had lots of underground
targets that were attacked,” White said in an e-mail statement.
The additional weapons “could be an effort to give the Israeli
Air Force a capability for more extended or more extensive air
campaigns than before.”  The weapons aren’t “suitable for the really deep
underground facilities,” while good for command posts, aircraft
shelters and air defense facilities, he said.  The move “does not appear intended to transfer any new
capability that Israel could use against the most hardened sites
of  Iran’s nuclear program ,”  Kenneth Katzman , a Middle East
analyst for the non-partisan  Congressional Research Service ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The order, which Congress has 30 days to review before it
automatically goes into effect, includes 3,450 GBU-39 Small
Diameter Bombs, a 250-pound weapon the U.S. Air Force developed
to minimize non-combatant injuries and deaths near a target.  Small-Diameter Bombs  It’s designed to penetrate three feet of reinforced
concrete and can be launched more than 60 nautical miles from a
target, according to a  fact sheet  from Chicago-based Boeing. The
U.S. has sold the weapons to Israel previously.  The small-diameter bombs could be used “in built-up areas
like Gaza and parts of southern Lebanon where Israel’s enemies
mix their forces in with the civilian population,” White said.  Other contractors involved the potential sale include
Arlington, Virginia-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) ,  Raytheon
Co. (RTN) ’s Raytheon Missile Systems of Tucson,  Arizona , and
Cincinnati, Ohio-based KDI Precision Products Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  