-- Petronas to Complete C$5.2 Billion Progress Deal This Week
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-12-10T03:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/petronas-to-complete-c-5-2-billion-progress-deal-this-week-1-.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s
state energy company, plans to complete the C$5.2 billion ($5.3
billion) takeover of  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Dec. 12
after winning Canadian approval for the deal.  Following the acquisition, the companies will make a final
 investment decision  on a proposed liquefied natural gas terminal
in British Columbia in late 2014, according to a  joint statement 
on their websites. The facility may cost $9 billion to $11
billion, with the exports expected in 2018, they said.  Progress Energy  gives Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam
Nasional, known as Petronas, ownership of the second-largest
stakeholder in the Montney shale-gas area of British Columbia
and full control of the three Progress Energy fields in which
Petronas bought a stake last year. A natural gas transmission
pipeline is also planned linking the field to the terminal, the
companies said.  “These components will create thousands of well-paid jobs
during construction of the facility and pipeline, as well as
permanent, ongoing operating jobs throughout our LNG business,”
Shamsul Azhar Abbas, Petronas’ chief executive officer, said in
today’s statement.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government initially
rejected the takeover on grounds that it wasn’t deemed to be to
Canada’s net benefit. Petronas appealed and made “significant”
commitments in areas of governance, transparency, employment and
 capital investment , according to a Dec. 7  statement  by Canada’s
industry ministry.  Cnooc Approval  Harper’s government also approved China-owned Cnooc’s
Ltd.’s $15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  The two takeovers tested
Harper’s ability to balance the need to bolster economic
relations with Asian economies without letting them gain too
much influence over the world’s third-largest pool of proven oil
reserves.  The acquisition will enable Petronas to secure long-term
strategic gas supply and leverage on Progress Energy’s
experience in developing unconventional fuel resources,
according to today’s joint statement.  “Canada has great potential in the global LNG market,”
Michael Culbert, Progress’ chief executive officer said in the
statement. “While the LNG trade is intensely competitive, new
facilities such as our Pacific Northwest LNG Project are vital
to building Canada’s market position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  