-- Philippine Peso Trades Near Four-Year High Before Exports Data
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-12-10T08:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/philippine-peso-trades-near-four-year-high-before-exports-data.html
The Philippine peso traded near the
highest level since March 2008 before a report tomorrow that may
show exports expanded for a second month in October.  Overseas sales  rose 10.5 percent from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The $225 billion economy grew 7.1 percent in the
three months ended September, the fastest pace in two years.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is looking at measures to help deal
with rising inflows, which may include new limits on currency
forwards, Governor  Amando Tetangco  said in an e-mail last week.  “Investors remain positive on the  Philippines  because of
the growth surprise even though there’s some caution on what the
central bank could do to curb inflows,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Singapore .  The peso closed at 40.938 per dollar, compared with 40.933
on Dec. 7, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It reached the high
of 40.840 on Nov. 29. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, was
little changed at 4.40 percent.  Exports climbed 22.8 percent in September, the fastest in
21 months, after contracting 9 percent in August.  Damage to farm output from Storm Bopha, the most
devastating cyclone to hit the Southeast Asian nation this year,
is seen to be manageable and will probably have a minimal impact
on supply and inflation, Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said
yesterday.  The government may boost the volume of debt auctions next
quarter to take advantage of surplus funds in the banking system,
Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said today.  The yield on the 8 percent government bonds due July 2031
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 5.5 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  