-- Pink Turns Somersaults, Cheryl Cole Gets Dark at O2’s Pop Ball
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-12-10T08:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/pink-turns-somersaults-cheryl-cole-gets-dark-at-o2-s-pop-ball.html
Pink turns somersaults suspended
high above the crowd. The boys in One Direction cause multiple
teenage meltdowns. Bruno Mars exudes greeting-card sentiment and
clothing-catalog smiles.  As usual, Capital FM’s annual  Jingle Bell Ball  at  London ’s
 O2  over the weekend brought together some of the world’s biggest
pop stars for a two-day celebration.  There’s been some vibrant pop in 2012. Carly Rae Jepson’s
“Call Me Maybe” was an immaculately catchy flirt. Taylor Swift’s
album “Red” managed to be credible and commercial. From  South
Korea , we got the globe-gobbling monster of  PSY’s  “Gangnam
Style.”  PSY isn’t in attendance at the O2. His hit is shoe-horned
into the show via a skit involving dancers dressed as reindeer.
Jepson’s song is covered by British boy band  Lawson , who follow
it with a disembowelment of Maroon 5’s “Moves Like Jagger.”  Taylor Swift remains backstage, her glories unsung. She’s
supporting her boyfriend Harry Styles, a singer with  One
Direction .  His band comes onstage to a wall of noise more extreme than
 Lou Reed ’s “Metal Machine Music.” Sadly this isn’t the music,
just the sound of 20,000 teenage girls undergoing collective
emotional overload.  The five lads, the oldest of whom is only 20, gambol around
in casual clothes, not a dance routine in sight. They rely on
strong singing and impeccable cuteness.  Austen Romance  The lyrics are carefully  Jane Austen : plenty of romance;
sex implied, discretely out of sight.  “What Makes You Beautiful” is a work of understated
excellence, from the melody to the inclusive lyrics (“You don’t
know you’re beautiful/ That’s what makes you beautiful”).  By contrast,  Bruno Mars’s  “Just The Way You Are” reeks of
insincerity. A cover of  Amy Winehouse ’s cover of the Zutons’
“Valerie” has the soulful presence of a traffic bollard.  JLS’s  dance beats sound like an updated N-Sync.  The
Wanted’s  performance reinforces all the prejudices against boy
bands: inert eye candy singing aural slop.  Cheryl Cole’s set is one dimensional, even with a guest
appearance by will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas for the dark
electro-disco of “3 Words.” She’s far better when reunited with
Girls Aloud, the band with whom she originally found success.  Even so, the vocals are uneven, the group dynamic stilted.
Work will be needed for the U.K. greatest-hits  tour  that starts
in February 2013.  Pink’s Props  There are no such problems from Pink. Stripped of all the
onstage props and paraphernalia of her Funhouse tour, she’s a
revelation.  She starts by belting out “Raise Your Glass” while wading
through the middle of the crowd, hugging fans and posing for
photographs. Her band punches out ballsy rock pop with the
swagger of  Motley Crue  and the discipline of  James Brown .  Pink is dressed in knee high boots and a black leather
jacket, her hair in a blond rocker’s quaff. She hollers feisty
hits like “Try” and “Just Like A Pill” with a voice that could
propel a jumbo jet.  For the finale she straps herself into a harness and
performs “So What” flying and tumbling the length of the arena.  Pink’s “ The Truth About Love ” tour starts in Phoenix,
 Arizona , on Feb. 13, 2013. In the 2013 world of pop, it will be
a must-see.  Rating: **** for Pink, ** for the rest.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 