-- Proposed EU Rules May Thwart New Norway-Europe Power Cables
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-12-10T15:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/proposed-eu-rules-may-thwart-new-norway-europe-power-cables.html
The European Union’s plans to raise
contributions to its infrastructure fund may deter  Norway  from
building electricity cables linking the Nordic country with the
continent, the nation’s power-industry association said.  The European Agency for the Cooperation of Energy
Regulators has  suggested  the bloc’s fund should be boosted by as
much as 16-fold so that transmission system operators would
receive more compensation for costs of hosting cross-border
flows on their networks.  “This would weaken Norway’s incentives for building new
power cables,” Hans Olav Ween, adviser at power industry lobby
group  Energy Norway , said today by e-mail from Oslo.  The EU needs new international links so that countries with
excess solar and wind production can ship their surpluses to
countries where demand is high. Norway, which now contributes  70
million  kroner ($12 million) annually to the EU’s fund, is
considering cross-border power projects that would help export
power surpluses that the country is unable to absorb.  State grid  company  Statnett SF may build a 1,400-megawatt
undersea cable from  Germany  to Norway by 2018 and a 1,400-
megawatt link to the  U.K.  by 2020. Both would enable Norway to
export hydropower output and allow Germany and the U.K. to
offset intermittent production from wind and solar power.
NorthConnect, a partnership of Swedish, British and Norwegian
companies, plans a 1,400-megawatt cable to the U.K. by 2020.  No investment decisions on the cables have yet been taken.
The EU’s Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, known
as ACER, may present its recommendations for legislative action
to the EU Commission by March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  