-- RBC Leads Bay Street Bonus Rise as Wall Street Faces Cuts
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-11T01:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/rbc-leads-bay-street-bonus-rise-as-wall-street-faces-cuts.html
Royal Bank of Canada  and  National
Bank of Canada  led the 7.5 percent surge in bonus awards among
the country’s lenders this year, bucking a global trend of pay
cuts on  Wall Street  and in  London .  Royal Bank,  Canada ’s biggest by assets, and National, the
sixth-largest lender, boosted variable compensation by 11
percent in the year ended Oct. 31, the biggest increases among
the country’s main banks.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  was
the only one among the group to pare its bonus pool, trimming 2
percent from last year’s allocation.  “The Canadian bonuses are not remarkable, but relative to
what their peers are getting in London and the U.S., it’s
great,” Bill Vlaad, president of Toronto-based recruitment firm
Vlaad & Co., said in a telephone interview. “We never saw the
true upside of the glory years in the  bull market , but we’ve
reaped the rewards now by not having the abysmal downside in the
tough years.”  Wall Street workers are facing reduced pay or job losses
this year as revenue growth wanes and shareholders demand higher
returns.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. lender, and
Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest, may shrink average bonuses
for investment bankers and some other employees by as much as 2
percent and 10 percent, respectively, people with direct
knowledge of the matter said last week. Bankers and traders in
 Europe  can expect at least a 15 percent cut in pay as bonus
pools may be reduced by half.  World’s Soundest  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for five
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum ,
collectively set aside C$10.3 billion ($10.4 billion) for
bonuses this year. The country’s lenders posted record profit
for the year, with growth partly lifted by trading and gains
from investment banking.  The pools reflect the amount reserved, not paid out, and
don’t include base salaries and other compensation. Bonuses are
typically awarded this month. Canadian banks set aside C$9.5
billion for bonuses last year, about 7.8 percent above 2010
levels, according to financial statements.  Royal Bank’s variable compensation rose to C$3.65 billion
from C$3.3 billion a year ago. That reversed two years of
declines after 2009, when payouts were C$3.5 billion.  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD) , the second-largest lender, raised incentive
compensation 7.8 percent to C$1.56 billion.  “RBC delivered record earnings and achieved all of our
financial objectives for the year,” said Rina Cortese, a
spokeswoman for the Toronto-based bank. “Our variable
compensation reflects our employees’ contribution to this
success.”  ‘Reasonable Year’  National had the second-highest jump, earmarking C$690
million for variable compensation compared with C$624 million a
year earlier at the Montreal-based bank.  “It’s going to be a reasonable year” for bonuses, Jean Dagenais, a senior vice president at National, said in a
telephone interview. “What we have seen so far is good results
for the industry in Canada, so bonuses should be good
everywhere.”  Bank of Nova Scotia , the third-largest lender, raised
performance-based compensation by 9.4 percent to C$1.48 billion,
the third-highest percentage increase of the group.  Bank of
Montreal , the fourth-biggest bank, increased performance-based
compensation by 5.2 percent to C$1.64 billion.  “I’d say it was a good year,” Bank of Montreal Chief
Executive Officer William Downe, 60, said in an interview. “Our
shareholders did extraordinarily well this year and I think the
compensation is good, reflecting good operating business
performance.”  Deals Slowed  CIBC, the fifth-biggest bank, trimmed performance-based
compensation by 2 percent to C$1.24 billion.  “If you look at the performance of the banking industry up
until the end of the third quarter, you can see slower equity
markets, less volume in the equity markets on the trading side,
less volume on the IPO side and new issue side, slower M&A
activity,”  Richard Nesbitt , 57, who oversees CIBC’s investment-
banking business, said in an interview. “On the wholesale side
of the bank you’ve seen, up to the end of the third quarter, a
slower level of activity.”  Canadian stock sales, including convertible debentures,
have fallen 12 percent to $27.3 billion this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian companies were involved in $200 billion in
announced takeovers this year, up 14 percent from a year
earlier. Two of the largest deals --  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion
takeover of Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and Petroliam Nasional
Bhd’s C$5.2 billion bid for  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  of
Calgary -- won approval from the Canadian government on Dec. 7.
They represent as much as an estimated $150 million of bank
fees.  ‘Cheery Christmas’  Scotiabank led Canada’s six-biggest banks in Toronto
trading today,  climbing  0.7 percent to close at C$55.94. CIBC
rose 0.5 percent, followed by  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  at 0.1 percent.
Royal Bank was almost unchanged, while Toronto-Dominion fell 0.1
percent and National slid 0.3 percent.  In Canada, fixed-income traders and bankers who arrange
bond sales will fare better than investment bankers working on
takeover deals or arranging stock sales, and equity traders,
Vlaad said.  “The fixed-income side of the business is going to have a
very cheery Christmas,” Vlaad, 42, said. Sales and trading
employees “aren’t going to be very happy with this year.”  Still, Canadian bankers are faring better than their global
peers. The bonus pool for bankers in London’s financial
district, known as the City, may fall by one-third to 4.4
billion pounds ($7 billion) in 2012 from a year earlier, the
Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd. said last month.  JPMorgan, Citigroup  In the U.S., almost 20 percent of bank employees won’t get
year-end bonuses, according to Options Group, an executive-
search company that advises banks on pay.  U.S. firms are struggling to earn the returns shareholders
demand amid higher  capital requirements , a proprietary trading
ban and lower deal and trading volumes. Wall Street employees
may see payouts of 10 percent less than last year or increases
of as much as 20 percent, depending on the job, compensation
consultant  Johnson Associates  Inc. said in a Nov. 5 report.  JPMorgan’s bonus pool for its corporate and investment bank
may shrink as much as 2 percent this year, three executives with
direct knowledge of the process said. Citigroup plans to reduce
bonuses by as much as 10 percent, excluding top performers, at
the trading and  investment-banking  division, while trimming 150
more jobs, people with direct knowledge of the decisions said
last month.  ‘Crazy Upsides’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and the investment-bank divisions
of Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Credit Suisse Group AG and
Deutsche Bank AG set aside $37.9 billion for pay in the first
nine months, down 7 percent from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The compensation figures
include money allocated for paying salaries and bonuses as well
as costs from deferred bonuses in previous years coming due.  “Years of conservative financial measures in Canada are
paying off,” Vlaad said. “We didn’t have the crazy upsides in
the early 2000s, but we also are able to save our jobs and keep
manageable bonuses year over year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  