-- Redskins’ Robert Griffin III Is Day-to-Day With Sprained Knee
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-10T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/redskins-robert-griffin-iii-is-day-to-day-with-sprained-knee.html
Quarterback Robert Griffin III has a
mildly sprained knee ligament and his status for the  Washington
Redskins ’ Dec. 16 game against the  Cleveland Browns  is
undetermined, coach  Mike Shanahan  said.  Tests showed that Griffin, the No. 2 selection in this
year’s  National Football League  draft, sustained a Grade 1
sprain of the lateral collateral ligament in his right knee
during yesterday’s 31-28 overtime win against the Baltimore
Ravens, Shanahan said today at a news conference. Knee ligament
sprains are graded according to severity, with Grade 1 the
mildest and Grade 3 the most severe.  “He’s got some mild swelling,” Shanahan said. “We’ll
have to go day-by-day.”  Trailing by eight points, Griffin was scrambling for a
first down with less than two minutes remaining in the fourth
quarter when his leg collided with the Ravens’ Haloti Ngata.  “When I looked at it on film I thought it would be worse
than it was,” Shanahan said.  Griffin was replaced by rookie Kirk Cousins, returned for
four more plays and again left the field before Cousins threw an
11-yard touchdown pass to Pierre Garcon with 29 seconds left in
regulation. Cousins also ran for a two-point conversion to tie
the score, and then led the Redskins to the overtime win.  Washington has won four straight games and is tied with the
 Dallas Cowboys  at 7-6, a game behind the National Football
Conference East Division-leading  New York  Giants (8-5), with
three weeks left in the regular season.  Griffin, whose 748 yards rushing are an NFL rookie
quarterback record, has completed 66 percent of his passes for
2,906 yards, with 18 touchdowns and four interceptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  