-- Redskins’ Robert Griffin III to Have Tests on Injured Right Knee
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/redskins-robert-griffin-iii-to-have-tests-on-injured-right-knee.html
Washington Redskins rookie
quarterback Robert Griffin III will undergo tests today to
determine the extent of a right knee injury that forced him out
of yesterday’s 31-28 overtime win against Baltimore.  Griffin, the second overall pick in this year’s  National
Football League  draft, was hurt in the final two minutes of the
fourth quarter when he collided with the Ravens’ Haloti Ngata as
he scrambled for a first down.  “It was just a freak play,” Griffin said at his postgame
news conference. “It was a pretty painful experience, but
hopefully I’ll be OK.”  Griffin, 22, left for one play, returned for four more and
then was replaced by fellow rookie Kirk Cousins, who threw an
11-yard touchdown pass to Pierre Garcon with 29 seconds left and
then ran for the tying two-point conversion to force overtime.
Griffin passed for 246 yards and a touchdown while rushing for
34 yards on seven carries before leaving.  “I knew I needed to get out at that point,” Griffin said.
“I couldn’t move. If I tried to play the rest of that game I
probably would have hurt myself more.”  The Redskins (7-6) have won four straight games and moved
into playoff contention in large part because of the play of
Griffin, who has completed 66 percent of his passes for 2,906
yards, 18 touchdowns and four interceptions. He’s also set an
NFL rookie quarterback record with 748 rushing yards.  The Redskins next visit the  Cleveland Browns  on Dec. 16.  “I feel pretty good right now about the whole situation,”
Griffin said. “I’m not too nervous, but I’ll definitely be
praying during the MRI.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  