-- Reliance Seeking Up to $1 Billion of ECA-Backed Loan Facilities
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-12-10T06:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/reliance-seeking-up-to-1-billion-of-eca-backed-loan-facilities.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest refining complex, plans two U.S. dollar-
denominated offshore loans of about $500 million each, backed by
export credit agency guarantees, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  has been approached to arrange both
facilities, the person said, asking not to be identified because
the details are private. The first, of $400 million to $500
million, will have a guarantee from Korea Trade Insurance Corp.,
or K-sure, and will mature in about six years, the person said.
The second, also of about $500 million, will be backed by French
export credit agency  Coface SA  and have a tenor of about 13.5-
years, the person said.  “We are in discussions with several export agencies at all
times for financing of our new capex projects,” a Reliance
Industries spokesman, who asked not to be identified in line
with company policy, said today by e-mail. “But we cannot share
any specific details.”  Reliance Industries,  India ’s biggest company by market
value, is accelerating investments to boost output of natural
gas and petrochemicals as it bets local demand will double by as
early as 2017, Chief Financial Officer Alok Agarwal said last
week. The company has signed about $4.3 billion of foreign-
currency denominated loans this year, the most by any local
borrower, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reliance’s  shares  were trading 0.8 percent lower at 827.75
rupees as of 12:25 p.m. in Mumbai. The stock is up 19 percent
year-to-date,  versus a  26 percent increase in the BSE India
Sensitive Index.  HSBC is awaiting final approvals from K-sure and then plans
to arrange a club deal with other lenders to provide the debt,
the person said. The facility will pay a margin around the high
100 basis point area to low 200 basis point area more than the
London interbank offered rate, the person said.  Proceeds from both facilities will be used by Reliance to
purchase equipment relating to its petrochemicals business from
suppliers in Korea and  France . The company has $18.8 billion of
bonds and loans  outstanding,  Bloomberg-compiled data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  