-- Republicans Set Up Group to Examine Party’s Political Shortfalls
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-12-10T22:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/republicans-set-up-group-to-examine-party-s-political-shortfalls.html
The Republican National Committee
has created a group to study how the party can improve its image
and performance following an election where its failure to
defeat President  Barack Obama  spotlighted demographic and
technological shortfalls compared with Democrats.  The Growth and Opportunity Project, announced today by RNC
Chairman Reince Priebus, will focus on these and other areas,
including messaging, fundraising, demographic outreach, the
party’s primary process and the impact of third parties.  Priebus appointed five party leaders to head the group,
including national committee member Henry Barbour of
 Mississippi , who is the nephew of former RNC Chairman Haley Barbour, and Ari Fleischer, White House press secretary under
President George W. Bush.  Rounding out the group’s leaders are Zori Fonalledas of
Puerto Rico and Glenn McCall of South Carolina -- both RNC
members -- and political strategist Sally Bradshaw, a longtime
consultant to former Florida Governor Jeb Bush.  “I look forward to working with these outstanding
Republicans as they conduct rigorous analysis and engage in
important conversations” with activists, donors, elected
officials and others to help the party move forward, Priebus
said in a statement.  Exit polls of voters in the Nov. 6 election showed Obama
dominated Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  among single women,
Hispanics, blacks and younger voters as the president carried
eight of nine states both camps had viewed as the most
competitive. Republicans have also acknowledged Obama’s campaign
utilized superior technological tools for online fundraising and
get-out-the-vote efforts.  Priebus, 40, is seeking a second term as the party’s
chairman at a RNC gathering next month in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, the same city where Democrats held their national
convention in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  