-- Rolling Stones, Papaya King, Vinyl Enliven Gift Books
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-12-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/rolling-stones-papaya-king-vinyl-enliven-gift-books.html
The  Rolling Stones , colorful as
peacocks with cigarettes in hand, walk through gray, hazy St.
James’s Park.  A fresh-faced Marianne Faithfull wearing a tiny miniskirt
and knee socks leans against a tufted banquette in the high-
Victorian Salisbury Arms pub.  You’ll find evocative images like these throughout
“ London: Portrait of a City ” by Reuel Golden (Taschen,
$69.99), a massive visual love letter to the British capital.  We see Tower Bridge under construction in 1893, a traffic
jam as horse-drawn carts and trucks bring produce to  Covent
Garden  in 1930 and a bus stuck in a crater created by the
bombing of the Balham tube station during the Blitz.  The Beatles are here, and  Salman Rushdie , and a bunch of
hacks in the News of the World office in the 1980s. You can
trace the evolution of police officers’ tall hats, Piccadilly
Circus ads and those beloved double-decker buses.  “ New York Nights ” by James T. and Karla L. Murray (Gingko
Press, $65) is a focused look at  New York  storefronts emblazoned
with neon. The color photos are large and beautifully printed;
You’ll feel as though you could walk into Papaya King for a hot
dog or pick up some appetizing at Russ & Daughters.  Brooklyn Cheesecake  Some of the pictures are accompanied by interviews with the
shops’ owners. Junior’s in  Brooklyn  started to serve its famous
cheesecake because the founder was looking for something people
didn’t like to make at home. The Clover Delicatessen stays
closed on Sundays, explains the owner, “because that’s what my
grandfather always did and he wanted us to do the same.”  “ My Ideal Bookshelf ” by Jane Mount and Thessaly La Force
(Little, Brown, $24.99) is for people drawn to perusing their
friends’ libraries.  More than 100 cultural figures were asked to choose a group
of books that have meant the most to them. Mount painted
charming pictures of the selections, spines out on the shelf,
while La Force wrote essays based on interviews with the
participants.  Writer Junot Diaz has all three volumes of “The Lord of
the Rings” as well as “Watership Down.” Barneys New York
creative ambassador Simon Doonan loves that great sex-and-
shopping novel “Scruples” by Judith Krantz. Harvard president
Drew Gilpin Faust reads Faulkner and Emily Dickinson. Actor
 James Franco ’s shelf is so full there are volumes piled on top,
everything from Proust to Hemingway to Raymond Carver.  Collecting Vinyl  “ 101 Essential Rock Records ” by Jeff Gold (Gingko
Press/Kill Your Idols, $39.95) has the best in vinyl.  Gold is a collector, and his book includes big photos of
the front and back covers of albums ranging from the Beatles’s
“Please Please Me” to “Never Mind the Bollocks, Here’s the
Sex Pistols.” A concise write-up accompanies shots of the black
discs themselves.  It may be a sacrilege, but the book will have fans running
to a computer to download gaps in their collection.  “ Star Trek: The Complete Unauthorized History ” (Voyageur,
$40) is more about the phenomenon than the actual franchise.  See  Yoko Ono  waiting to get beamed up at a convention in
2002, as well as all the trading cards and fanzines. Have a
debate about which captain was the most stalwart.  With all five TV series now streaming on Netflix and the
latest movie due in May, this is the perfect gift for the
indomitable Trekker -- and the more casual fan.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer of this story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 