-- Romanian Premier’s Super Majority Risks Hurting Image
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-12-11T18:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/romanian-premier-s-super-majority-risks-hurting-image.html
Romanian Prime Minister Victor Ponta’s newly won super majority in Parliament risks sharpening
his feud with the president, hurting the Balkan country’s image
further, said analysts from  London  to Bucharest.  Ponta’s Social Liberal Union, or USL, won 67 percent of the
588 seats in Parliament, and he said today it will seek to
bolster its two-thirds majority with the aid of the ethnic
Hungarian party.  With a stronger hand in Parliament, similar to Prime
Minister Viktor Orban’s position in neighboring Hungary, Ponta
pledged to change the constitution to diminish presidential
powers after promising to roll back austerity passed by the
previous government aligned with his rival, President Traian Basescu.  “We would view negatively should the new coalition manage
to secure a two-thirds majority as this would give exceptionally
strong power to the new government, accentuating the tensions
with the president,” said  Raffaella Tenconi , a London-based
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Romania earlier this year was engulfed in a power struggle
between Ponta and Basescu that culminated in a 52-day suspension
for the president, followed by an invalidated nationwide
impeachment vote on July 29. Basescu returned to office at the
end of August.  Borrowing Costs  The turmoil boosted borrowing costs and pushed the leu to a
record-low 4.6520 against the euro on Aug. 3. It weakened 0.4
percent last week ahead of the elections, one of the worst-
performing currencies in the region. The leu, which rose as much
0.4 percent yesterday, weakened today to 4.5409 per euro by 7:45
p.m. in Bucharest.  Ponta, who has headed the government since May, said
yesterday he plans to form a Cabinet by year-end and start talks
with the ethnic Hungarian party to build a constitutional
majority. The opposition Right Romania Alliance, which is
aligned with Basescu, received 80 seats and the Hungarian party
got 27 seats, according to the  Electoral Commission .  “Decision-making should be more efficient; conversely, a
government with such a large majority could feel that it has a
free rein to take far-reaching decisions without broader
consultation,” Fitch Ratings director Matteo Napolitano said in
an e-mail to Bloomberg. “The example of neighboring  Hungary  is
relevant, with the additional factor in Romania’s case of poor
relations between the Premier and the President.”  Impeachment Process  In moves reminiscent of steps taken by Orban in Hungary to
solidify power, Ponta’s coalition has already replaced the heads
of Parliament, passed laws limiting the powers of the
Constitutional Court and has tried to ease the impeachment
process, prompting European-wide concerns about the rule of law
in the country, including from German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  “USL’s plans to become a superpower in Parliament are
worrisome because in any democracy you need a balance of power
and with a constitutional majority there is not much the
opposition can do,” said Septimius Parvu, a political analyst
at Bucharest-based Asociatia Pro Democratia. “Under these
circumstance, Basescu will probably face suspension regardless
of whether he nominates Ponta or not.”  The political dispute comes as the country needs a third
agreement with the International Monetary Fund and the European
Union to keep the economy stable.  Debt Crisis  In a rare consensus, Ponta, Basescu and central bank
Governor Mugur Isarescu agree Romania needs a new accord, once
the current 5 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) two-year precautionary
accord ends in March, to act as an anchor against the European
sovereign-debt crisis. The nation has drawn no money from the
facility. Romania also got a 20 billion-euro bailout from the
IMF and the EU in 2009.  Under the constitution, the party that wins more than 50
percent of parliamentary seats is entitled to negotiate the
nomination of prime minister with the president. If no party has
a majority, the president chooses a premier after consulting
with all the parties. Basescu has already called for meetings
with each individual party.  “Given his political enemies’ electoral landslide, the
president may not try to impede Ponta’s return,” Michael
Taylor, a senior analyst at U.K.-based Oxford Analytica wrote in
an e-mailed note. “Romania’s perilous economic position ought
to introduce some common sense into politics, but the elite’s
track record does not encourage optimism.”  Confidence Vote  Once selected, the premier-designate has 10 days to draw up
a governing program and pick his ministers before seeking a
confidence vote in Parliament.  “My greater concern now is the process of the president
selecting a prime minister candidate because the constitution
allows him a fair degree of flexibility and we know that his
relationship with the incumbent prime minister is quite bad,”
said Blaise Antin, who helps manage about $9 billion of
emerging-market debt at TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles, Antin
said by phone yesterday.  The new government will have to finalize the 2013 budget
and then begin discussions on a new loan, said Daniel Hewitt, a
London-based economist at Barclays.  “There seems to be little room in the fiscal accounts to
hike government and minimum wages and lower taxes as per
election promises,” he said. “Furthermore, with a heavy
structural reform agenda ahead, we would worry if the new
government were to concentrate on changing the constitution
rather than fixing structural economic problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  