-- Rothschild Widens Support for Bumi Deal That Rivals Bakries
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-12-10T23:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/rothschild-widens-support-for-bumi-proposal-that-rivals-bakries.html
Nathaniel Rothschild , the financier
seeking to unwind a $3 billion deal with Indonesia’s Bakrie
Group, said investor support for his proposal to  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  has
widened to include the top-five institutional shareholders.  The investors have a “desire to invest new equity capital
into the company, in order to remove completely the Bakries and
their allies from the Bumi Plc shareholder register,”
Rothschild said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. He’s sent a
letter to the board of Bumi outlining his proposal which has
gained commitments totaling $342.5 million from investors
including $75 million of his own funds, the statement shows.  Bumi Plc was founded by Rothschild and the Bakries, a
family-owned palm oil-to-property empire, in a 2010 transaction
that grouped stakes in two Indonesian coal producers. The deal
started to unravel in October last year when Rothschild called
for a “radical cleaning up” of PT Bumi Resources, which is 29
percent owned by Bumi Plc.  The ensuing boardroom infighting that has resulted in
Rothschild and Indra Bakrie resigning in recent months, as well
as investigations in London and  Indonesia  into possible
financial anomalies, have prompted moves by both to unwind the
deal.  The Bakrie Group offered to buy all of Bumi Plc’s assets in
a $1.2 billion proposal to help resolve “irreconcilable
differences” with Rothschild and the other founders, according
to a letter containing the Oct. 10 approach.  Clear Evidence  Abu Dhabi Investment Council, Schroders Investment
Management Limited, Standard Life Investments, Taube Hodson
Stonex LLP, and Artemis Investment Management LLP support
Rothschild’s proposal to restructure the group, according to his
statement. This brings the total backing to 28 percent of the
voting rights of Bumi, according to Rothschild.  Their support “is clear evidence that the proposal
delivers far superior value for the company and its independent
shareholders than does the Bakrie proposal,” Rothschild said.
“My understanding is that the thresholds required by the
Bakries to see their proposal succeed cannot now be reached.”  The Bakries have offered to acquire all of Bumi’s assets;
the 29 percent stake in  Bumi Resources (BUMI)  and 85 percent of PT
Berau Coal Energy.  Their proposal involves the exchange of a 23.8 percent
stake in Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Jakarta-based Bumi
Resources. The group also made a conditional proposal to buy
back the remaining 18.9 percent in Bumi Resources in cash by
Christmas. In addition, it plans to offer $947 million for Bumi
Plc’s 84.7 percent stake in Berau Coal Energy.  Bumi dropped 1.2 percent to close at 272 pence in London
yesterday. The stock has slumped 69 percent this year, valuing
the company at 655 million pounds ($1.1 billion).  Samin Tan  The initial proposal from 41-year-old Rothschild, whose
ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic
 France , was sent to Bumi independent directors in October as he
stepped up a battle for control of the group. He has made
repeated demands for Chairman Samin Tan and Rosan Roeslani, a
director who indirectly controls about 13 percent of Bumi, to
resign.  Separately, Bumi Plc Chief Executive Officer Nalin Rathod
is expected to resign tomorrow,  London ’s Telegraph newspaper
reported, without saying where it got the information. Rathod is
an associate of the Bakries and his departure would follow Indra
Bakrie’s resignation last week, the paper said.  Rothschild Backing  Rothschild, who is being advised by Morgan Stanley, has
also secured support from Hashim Djojohadikusumo, son of
Sumitro, one of the architects of Indonesia’s economic programs
in the late 1960s, and billionaire mining investor Robert Friedland, he said yesterday.  Bumi Plc yesterday confirmed the receipt of a letter from
Rothschild and said it would “provide further information to
shareholders in due course.”  London-listed Bumi announced Sept. 24 an inquiry into
“potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations, Bumi Resources and PT Berau Coal Energy.
London-based law firm Macfarlanes LLP is handling the probe.  The Bakrie Group, an Indonesian family-run empire with
investments from  palm oil  to property, said earlier some
documents used to justify a probe into Bumi Plc were stolen or
accessed by hacking.  Board Meeting  “Some of these documents appear then to have been
‘doctored’ to give a purposely misleading impression of a number
of business transactions at Bumi Resources,” Chris Fong, a
spokesman for the Bakrie Group, said in e-mailed comments.  Bumi Plc’s board will discuss the investigation at a Dec.
12 meeting, two people familiar with the matter said, asking not
to be identified because the information isn’t public.  “Contrary to earlier reports, there has been no ‘whistle-
blower’ from within Bumi Resources, the documents supplied to
the independent directors appear to have originated from a
fabricated source and packaged to give the impression that they
were real, which was not the case,” Fong said.  Lost Confidence  Rothschild quit Bumi Plc’s board in October in a letter to
Chairman Tan, saying he had lost confidence in the board’s
ability. He said it was a “matter of great regret for me that I
was party, with our advisers, to bringing the Bakries to
London.”  Rothschild yesterday described the allegations of doctored
documents and hacking as a “desperate attempt to divert the
inquiry by Samin Tan and the Bakries.”  “If there was any legitimate reason to doubt the
authenticity of the material forming the basis of the
independent inquiry, then no doubt the substance of those
concerns would have been shared with the  law firm  conducting
that inquiry and the inquiry would have ended,” he said in an
e-mailed statement.  The dispute pits Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old
banking dynasty, against one of Indonesia’s most wealthy and
powerful families.  The Bakries said yesterday they plan to submit a report to
U.K. police and other regulatory authorities, according to Fong.
Indonesian police continue to probe the hacking complaints, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  