-- Russia Cuts Ruble Swap Rate in Pivot Toward Easing
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-12-10T14:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/russia-unexpectedly-raises-deposit-rate-cuts-ruble-swap-costs.html
Russia , the largest emerging economy
to raise rates in 2012, took a step toward the first round of
monetary easing in a year after the economy slowed and inflation
stabilized.  Bank Rossii cut the cost to swap foreign currency into
rubles by a quarter point to 6.5 percent, the Moscow-based
central bank said in a  statement  on its website today. The
regulator raised the deposit rate to 4.5 percent from 4.25
percent, effective tomorrow, and left its main lending rates
unchanged, calling the moves “neutral” for monetary policy.  Central bank Chairman  Sergei Ignatiev  is moving to relax
borrowing costs three months after increasing all 21 rates in
his toolkit to fight the fastest inflation this year. Policy
makers said money-market rates are “acceptable for the nearest
future” for the first time since July.  “If anything, it’s probably more easing of monetary policy
than tightening,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow. “Now the effective
rate on the money market is 6.5 percent. When there’s a
liquidity shortage, lowering the rate on swaps is more relevant
to the market than raising deposit rates.”  Three-month borrowing costs may fall 37 basis points, or
0.37 percentage point, in the next three months, the biggest
decline predicted by traders in more than three years, according
to forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That compares
with a jump of as much as 54 basis points forecast on May 17.  Currency Swaps  Policy makers held the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent and
the main short-term repurchase rates at 5.5 percent. The central
bank last cut the rate on currency swaps from 8 percent in June,
and First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev said last month that
the rate may be lowered again to offer liquidity when the ruble
comes under pressure.  “This move won’t have any effect on rates in the nearest
future, but it signals that volatility will decline in the long
term,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist at VTB Capital in
Moscow, said by phone. He correctly forecast the higher deposit
rate, and predicted in a note this morning that Bank Rossii may
cut the swap rate.  The amount of rubles held at the central bank on
correspondent accounts and in deposits, and indicator of the
amount of free cash held by banks, fell to 633 billion rubles
($20.6 billion) today, the central bank said. That’s the lowest
level since Oct. 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank Rossii conducted $3.42 billion and 2.85 billion euros
($3.68 billion) in  swaps  for rubles in November, the central
bank said in a statement today.  Helping Banks  “It’s most likely a weakening of monetary policy, since
there’s more interest in the swaps,” Vladimir Pantyushin, chief
economist at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in Moscow,
said by phone. “We’ll see that from medium-sized and small
banks, which don’t have assets available for the repurchase
market but do have foreign currency.”  The ruble appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar to
changed against the dollar to 30.7385 as of 5:43 p.m. in Moscow
after trading little changed earlier today. Short-term borrowing
costs pared increases, with six-month yields on Russian
 government bonds  dipping from as high as 6.21 percent to 5.96
percent, according to an  index  compiled by the Moscow Exchange.  September Surprise  Russia unexpectedly raised its main rates in September as
inflation breached the 6 percent upper limit of the central
bank’s target range after a poor harvest fanned prices. Policy
makers now want to hold inflation to less than 7 percent this
year, according to Ignatiev, whose third and last term ends next
year.  “There has been a stabilization of price growth in recent
months for a broad range of goods and services,” the central
bank said in the statement. “Growth rates for banking lending
are stabilizing, however given that they remain at fairly
elevated levels, the risks of a significant slowdown in the
economy because of tightening monetary conditions are seen as
insignificant.”  The economy is decelerating as  consumer lending  and real
wages growth slows against the backdrop of a deteriorating
external outlook, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told
reporters today in Moscow. The ministry now projects GDP will
expand 3.6 percent next year, down from a forecast of 3.7
percent in August, he said.  “We expect the trend of slowing growth to be broken in the
middle of next year, as long as there aren’t any major external
shocks in the global economy,” Klepach said. “In that case,
there should be some acceleration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  