-- Russia to Retaliate Against U.S. Rights Sanctions With Visa Ban
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-12-10T13:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/russia-to-retaliate-against-u-s-rights-sanctions-with-visa-ban.html
Russia  plans to retaliate against
U.S. legislation targeting human-rights offenders in Russia by
barring travel by Americans who commit crimes against Russian
citizens or violate their rights.  A draft law submitted today with cross-party support to the
Russian lower house of parliament will also bar investments and
freeze assets in Russia of these individuals, according to a
document published on the Duma’s website.  The U.S. Senate on Dec. 6 approved a bipartisan bill that
imposes a visa ban and asset freeze on officials implicated in
the death of tax attorney Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail and
others guilty of rights violations including torture and murder.  Russia has condemned the legislation and repeatedly warned
it will damage ties between the two countries. Tensions are
already growing after President Vladimir Putin, who faced
unprecedented protests in 2011 and earlier this year, criticized
the administration of his U.S. counterpart  Barack Obama  over its
efforts to promote democracy in Russia and a bid to oust Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  Russia said in June it had barred 11 serving and former
U.S. administration officials for human rights abuses at
facilities including Guantanamo Bay and the Abu Ghraib prison in
 Iraq . The ban on entry to Russia was enacted last year in
retaliation for a U.S. visa ban for 11 Russian officials accused
of playing a role in the death of Magnitsky.  Most Corrupt  Russia ranks as the most corrupt nation among the Group of
20 advanced economies in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index. The jailing
of businessmen such as Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the former
billionaire owner of Yukos Oil Co. arrested in 2003, is a
touchstone for investors concerned about the independence of
Russia’s judiciary.  Magnitsky, an attorney for London-based Hermitage Capital,
alleged a $230 million tax fraud by Russian officials. He died
at age 37 in November 2009 after being beaten to death and
denied medical care during almost a year in pre-trial detention
on fabricated tax evasion charges, according to a Russian
presidential human rights body.  Bill Browder, head of Hermitage Capital, identified 60
Russian officials responsible for Magnitsky’s prosecution and
death and the tax fraud that he uncovered.  Similar legislation may now be approved in a number of
European Union countries including the Netherlands and the U.K.,
Jamison Firestone, co-founder of the law firm Firestone Duncan
and a former colleague of Magnitsky, said in an interview in
London Dec. 3.  The bill is H.R. 6156.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  