-- Russian Third-Quarter GDP Slows on Farming, Construction
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-12-10T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/russian-third-quarter-gdp-slows-on-farming-construction.html
Russia’s economy grew at the slowest
pace since it began recovering at the start of 2010 last quarter
as agricultural output and construction volumes shrank.  Gross domestic product  expanded 2.9 percent in the third
quarter compared with a year earlier, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said today in an e-mailed statement. That was
in line with the initial Nov. 12 estimate, which topped
economist forecasts. GDP expanded 4 percent in the second
quarter and 4.9 percent in the first three months.  Russian policy makers signaled today they were moving
toward easing borrowing costs after inflation stabilized, giving
the central bank more leeway to spur growth. The economy cooled
in the third quarter, with the slowdown extending into October,
Bank Rossii said.  “Industrial production growth and retail sales slowed,”
the central bank said in a statement after its rates meeting
today. Still, indicators of business sentiment, combined with
healthy lending growth and low unemployment are helping keep
production near potential, according to the statement.  Wholesale and retail sales, an indicator of the household
consumption that accounts for about half of  Russia ’s economy,
grew 5.1 percent in the third quarter, slowing from a 6.9
percent pace in the previous three months, the statistics
service said. Agriculture contracted 4.8 percent after drought
damaged the harvest and construction output fell 3.2 percent.  GDP grew 3.9 percent in the first nine months of the year
compared with the same period of 2011. That’s less than the 4.3
percent full-year expansion Russia had in 2010 and 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  