-- Ryanair Offers New Concessions to EU Over Aer Lingus Bid
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-12-10T10:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/ryanair-offers-new-concessions-to-eu-over-aer-lingus-bid-1-.html
Ryanair (RYA)  Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, offered fresh concessions to European
Union antitrust regulators reviewing its 694 million-euro ($896
million) bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   The EU’s antitrust authority in Brussels extended until
Feb. 27 its deadline to rule on the deal, according to a  website
filing  today. It didn’t give details of Ryanair’s offer. The
carrier’s previous offer to allay possible antitrust problems
failed to convince regulators who didn’t send it to rival
airlines for their comments, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Ryanair, which owns  29.8 percent  of Aer Lingus, in June
renewed its pursuit to buy the rest of the smaller competitor to
bolster its Irish operation, five years after the EU blocked an
earlier takeover attempt because it would create a monopoly for
Irish flights. The bid has also drawn opposition from Aer Lingus
management and Irish politicians.  Ryanair last month received formal antitrust objections
from the European Commission, listing the regulator’s
competition concerns with the deal. The antitrust agency said in
August that the takeover could eliminate competition on a large
number of routes because the two airlines are each other’s
closest competitors and few new competitors are likely.  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in
September that the company would consider selling its Aer Lingus
stake if regulators turned down a “revolutionary” package of
concessions. The airline has said it could exit all 46 Dublin
routes that overlap with Aer Lingus and that several rival
carriers are interested in competing at Irish airports.  Ryanair is also facing a full investigation by the U.K.’s
 Competition Commission  of its holding in the smaller carrier
after the national regulator said it may lead to higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 