-- NFL 49ers Suspend Running Back Brandon Jacobs for Rest of Season
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/san-francisco-49ers-suspend-running-back-jacobs-for-rest-of-2012.html
The San Francisco 49ers suspended
little-used running back Brandon Jacobs for their final three
regular-season games without saying why he had been disciplined.  Jacobs, 30, appeared in two games this season and had five
carries for seven yards. The Associated Press reported that
Jacobs recently had complained on social media sites about his
lack of playing time, including one post during the weekend
saying that he was “rotting away” in San Francisco.  Jacobs spent his first seven National Football League
seasons with the New York Giants, rushing for 4,856 yards and
adding 730 yards on receptions. He had 60 touchdowns for the
Giants, 15 of which were scored in the 2008 season.  Coach Jim Harbaugh was asked four questions about Jacobs
during a news conference yesterday, about two hours before the
team announced the suspension, and said he would not comment.  “I’m going to quote the Fifth Amendment,” Harbaugh told
reporters.  Jacobs said on Twitter on Nov. 15 that it was difficult to
work “in a place where you hate your boss so much.” It was
posted the same day Harbaugh, 48, was hospitalized with an
irregular heartbeat. Jacobs later told reporters not to assume
his comments had anything to do with Harbaugh, or with football.  In recent days, Jacobs posted photos on Instagram of
himself playing for the Giants and a picture of the two Super
Bowl championship rings he earned in New York.  “I am on this team rotting away so why would I wanna put
any pics up of anything that say niners,” Jacobs said in an
Instagram post three days ago, the AP reported. “This is by far
the worst year I ever had, I’ll tell you like I told plenty
others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  