-- Scarlett Johansson Gets $40,000 a Week as Maggie the Cat
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-12-10T20:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/scarlett-johansson-gets-40-000-a-week-as-maggie-the-cat.html
Scarlett Johansson is guaranteed a
minimum of $40,000 a week to add a dose of sex and glamour to
the battered Broadway season in “ Cat on a Hot Tin Roof ,”
according to offering papers distributed to investors.  The base weekly pay for Broadway actors is $1,754. The
offering papers illustrate how celebrities are rewarded and
still have an incentive to fill seats.  The Tennessee Williams revival begins previews on Dec. 18.
By then, two new plays and one musical will have made hasty
exits, with “Chaplin” due to close on Jan. 6.  The 28-year-old movie star, playing the seductive and
neglected wife Maggie, can earn more should “Cat” sell. She
won’t match Al Pacino’s $125,000 salary for “ Glengarry Glen
Ross ” unless “Cat” becomes a “Glengarry”-scale hit,
according to “Roof Theatricals L.P.” papers obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Johansson won a Tony Award for her 2010 Broadway debut, a
revival of Arthur Miller’s “A View from the Bridge” directed
by Gregory Mosher, in which she co-starred with Liev Schreiber.  “People really want to see Scarlett Johansson,” said
Annette Niemtzow, a producer on “Leap of Faith” and
“Frost/Nixon” who isn’t involved with “Cat.” “She’s proved
her chops and they want to see how she’ll do in a starring role.
Maggie the cat is one of the great sexual roles.”  Classiest Man  General manager and producer Stuart Thompson -- a
publicity-shy expat Australian whom Johansson called “the
classiest man in show business” during her Tony acceptance
speech -- is mounting the $3.6 million revival with a cast of 18
and five understudies. Weekly sales must average $750,211,
excluding credit card commissions, to repay investors over the
15-week run, according to the partnership’s preliminary
estimates.  The Richard Rodgers Theatre could gross $1.2 million a week
over eight performances, even before accounting for premium
seats in the first 16 rows currently as dear as $240.  (Producers often raise premium prices on hit shows during a
run. Discounted tickets as low as $55 are available for “Cat” in
the rear mezzanine.)  “Glengarry” -- the biggest hit of the flop-filled fall --
grossed $1.2 million over eight performances in the week ended
Dec. 9. Its top ticket price has been as high as $377.  Thompson and Johansson declined to comment through a
production spokesman, Susanne Tighe.  More Cream  In addition to her $40,000 guarantee, Johansson collects
7.5 percent of ticket sales above $530,000 (after deducting for
commissions and averaged over four weeks). Once investors are
paid 10 percent beyond their initial outlay, her take rises to
10 percent of grosses plus 5 percent of profit.  Benjamin Walker, a Juilliard-trained actor who’s portrayed
Andrew Jackson on stage and Abraham Lincoln on film, plays
Maggie’s dissolute husband, Brick. His pay and that of Ciaran
Hinds (Big Daddy) and Debra Monk (Big Mama) aren’t listed.  The offering papers estimate weekly running expenses of
$378,000, plus royalties.  The Williams estate gets 6 percent of box office; theater
owner Nederlander Organization gets 5 percent plus $10,000 a
week; director Rob Ashford earns 3 percent of sales plus a
$65,000 onetime fee plus 2 percent of profits; Thompson’s Wombat
Crossing 3 LLC and his general-management company earn 3 percent
of box office plus a $40,000 fee, plus $6,000 a week, plus 2.5
percent of initial profits and half the investment pool.  The papers don’t disclose whether Thompson gave up any
“adjusted net profit” to other producers listed in publicity
materials for the show.  Good Prospects  Given the success of “View from the Bridge” and a 2008
all-black production of “Cat” starring Terrence Howard, Anika
Noni Rose and James Earl Jones, this production appears to have
a good chance of repaying backers. Their upside is limited by
the royalty pool’s increasing share of grosses and Johansson and
Ashford’s profits paid off the top.  Pacino receives a minimum of $125,000 a week, plus 5 percent
of any profits, according to the operating agreement for the
show obtained from the office of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman through a Freedom of Information Law request.  “Cat” is scheduled to open on Jan. 17.  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 