-- Scene in D.C.: Indian Opera Sneak Peek, Italian Nativity
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-12-10T15:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/scene-in-d-c-indian-opera-sneak-peek-italian-nativity.html
India ’s ambassador to the U.S.
offered a sneak peek at a comic opera set in her country and
sung in French.  Friday night’s dinner at Ambassador Nirupama Rao’s
residence was in honor of “Lalla Roukh,” the 1862 opera by
Felicien David being produced by Opera Lafayette at the Kennedy
Center in Washington and  Lincoln Center  in New York in January.  It’s about a Mughal princess and the poet-singer who
crosses her path.  Ryan Brown, the conductor and artistic director of Opera
Lafayette, an American period ensemble that performs French
works, said “Lalla Roukh” captures the influence of
orientalism in music.  Rao praised the opera for exploring “the mystery that is
our land.” She, like many of her female guests, wore an
elaborate sari.  A traditional Indian kathak dancer entertained the 80
guests before dinner in the reception room, which was decorated
with Hindu icons and artwork from the ambassador’s personal
collection.  Tables were named after historic Indian places. Sitting at
Thanjavur was soprano Marianne Fiset, who has the opera’s lead
role and sang one of its arias for the guests. She also
performed a duet with Nathalie Paulin, who will sing the role of
Mirza, Lalla’s confidante.  Also at Thanjavur were, Allen Shofe, the senior vice
president for corporate affairs of pharmaceutical company
 Emergent BioSolutions Inc. (EBS) , and William Miller, senior vice
president of the  Business Roundtable .  India Flight  Stanley O. Roth, vice president of international government
relations for  Boeing Co. (BA) , soaked up the atmosphere. He said he’s
flying to India this week. Boeing and Emergent were among the
evening’s sponsors.  The dinner consisted of tikkis, chicken biryani and shahi
tukra served with Brio Shiraz.  After the meal, Roth asked Fiset to sign his program. He
said, “I’ve always worked in high-stress jobs,” and likes
opera as “a way to get away.”  Italian Christmas  At Friday night’s holiday party at Villa Firenze, the home
of Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero, his wife, Laura
Denise, showed her Nativity collection.  Secretary of Homeland Security  Janet Napolitano , Democratic
Congressman Elijah Cummings of Maryland and Lazard Freres & Co.
senior managing director Vernon Jordan huddled in the reception
room.  Napolitano caught up with her predecessor,  Michael Chertoff , now the chairman of the Chertoff Group.  Risotto balls, mini pizzas, and walnut and gorgonzola
cheese tarts were passed.  About an hour into the Frank Sinatra background music, two
opera singers sashayed through the crowd belting out Verdi
classics while toasting guests with glasses of Ferrari Maximum
Brut. Afterward Bisogniero announced the ravioli and fettuccini
buffet awaiting his guests in the dining room.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse,
the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and Laurie
Muchnick on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 