-- Serbia Wants No Change to EU Entry Conditions, Grubjesic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-12-10T13:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/serbia-wants-no-change-to-eu-entry-conditions-grubjesic-says.html
Serbia  said it will call on the
European Union to keep membership conditions the same as for
other aspirants and not change the rules because of its strained
relationship with Kosovo.  EU foreign ministers will decide in Brussels today whether
to ask member states to set a date for Serbia to begin entry
talks on Dec. 12. Serbia’s government doesn’t expect a date
before next spring, the office of Deputy Prime Minister in
charge of European integrations Suzana Grubjesic said in an e-
mailed statement today. Grubjesic will attend the meeting.  We will “repeat Serbia’s clear stand that for the sake of
the future of its citizens Serbia wants to be part of the family
of European nations, but that our country must have the same
treatment other countries had in the accession process,”
Grubjesic said in the statement.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , a former aide to the late
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , vowed in October to seek a
compromise with Kosovo and get the start of talks for Serbia to
become the third former Yugoslav republic to join the EU.
Dacic’s Cabinet, dominated by the Socialists, former
nationalists and technocrats, took office in July.  Making an agreement with the breakaway province is vital
for Serbia to advance toward EU entry, which it needs to help
tie its economy deeper to the rest of  Europe  after the civil
wars of the 1990s stunted the region’s transformation from
communism.  Kosovo declared independence in 2008 and has been
recognized by the  United States  and 22 of the EU’s 27 members.
Serbia sees Kosovo as the cultural cradle of their nation and
has vowed never to accept its independence.  “Serbia is aware that chances are slim to get the date for
the start of the talks before spring next year, but we expect
the EU to acknowledge the efforts and progress Serbia has made
in the process of normalizing ties” with  Kosovo , she said in
the statement.  Grubjesic travels to Brussels on a day when Serbia and
Kosovo, its former breakaway province, launch joint border
management and step up customs control of trade under the
guidance of the EU’s police and justice mission in Kosovo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  