-- Singapore Tops HK as Residence for Mobile Rich in Asia
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-12-11T12:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/singapore-tops-hong-kong-as-residence-for-millionaires-in-asia.html
Singapore  topped Hong Kong as the
most desired place in  Asia  for so-called mobile millionaires to
reside, with quality of life cited as the main attraction, a  RBC
Wealth Management (RY)  survey showed.  Almost a third of the millionaires in Asia who live, work
or spend more than half their time outside their countries of
origin prefer Singapore, while 24 percent pick Hong Kong, the
second most popular in the region, RBC and The Economist
Intelligence Unit said in a joint research report yesterday.  Real estate led the list of preferred assets for the
internationally mobile wealthy, according to the survey, which
showed 23 percent of those in Singapore reporting a “high
propensity” for property investment, compared with 7 percent in
 North America . The island’s  home prices  climbed to a record in
the third quarter, prompting the government to restrict home
loans and cap property development. Eduardo Saverin, co-founder
of Facebook Inc., moved to Singapore in 2009, and  Jim Rogers ,
chairman of Rogers Holdings, relocated there in 2007.  “Singapore always has this quality as a safe haven, not
just for your money, but also for your family,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at Barclays Plc in Singapore.  For mobile millionaires who moved to  Singapore , 89 percent
ranked quality of life as important and 83 percent cited the
country’s political stability as important, the survey showed.
Infrastructure and educational opportunity were also given as
reasons to live there.  Most Millionaires  Singapore posted a 14 percent increase in millionaire
households to 188,000 last year, when the Asia-Pacific region
countered a decline in wealth in Western Europe and the U.S.,
according to a  Boston Consulting Group  report published May 31.  The proportion of millionaire homes in the city was 17
percent, the highest in the world, followed by Qatar and  Kuwait ,
according to Boston Consulting Group. Singapore has a population
of 5.3 million, of which about 2 million are foreigners.  “High net worth individuals with global outlooks for their
businesses and families are choosing Singapore to live and
invest in,” Barend Janssens, the Singapore-based head of RBC’s
wealth-management unit for  emerging markets , said in a statement.  The city-state is grappling with the elevated inflation
that comes with years of economic growth and population
expansion on an island smaller than  New York  City, with rising
demand fueling record property and car prices.  Property Boom  In the three months ended Sept. 30, the island’s private
residential property price index rose 0.6 percent to a record
208.2 points, according to government data. In prime districts,
apartment prices gained 0.2 percent, compared with a 1 percent
increase in the suburbs.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore told lenders on Oct. 5
to restrict home-loan maturities “to curb continued upward
pressure on residential property prices,” in an attempt to
avert a housing bubble. The government said in September it
plans to cap the number of homes that can be developed in
suburban projects as it seeks to curb the increasing trend of
so-called shoebox apartments.  The cost of a permit to own a small car for 10 years rose
to an unprecedented S$78,523 ($64,300) on Dec. 5 from S$46,889
at the start of the year. That excludes the cost of buying a car.
The government auctions limited vehicle permits to control
congestion and pollution.  “Only if you’re very young and highly qualified would you
want to rough it out in  Hong Kong  for a few years,” Leong said.
“But once you have kids, the pollution gets to you, the lack of
greenery gets to you, the crowdedness gets to you.”  Doing Business  Hong Kong is the best place to do business, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The city of about 7 million people
secured the top position in an index based on six criteria
including the degree of economic integration and labor costs.
Singapore ranked ninth in the index published in March by
Bloomberg Rankings.  Hong Kong acts as the gateway to  China , the world’s most
populous nation, with free-market policies and low corporate
taxes.  “Hong Kong is a very big financial center in the region
and in recent years has also benefited a lot from China opening
up its markets,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. Hong Kong is “about the
opportunities, especially in the financial world.”  The  World Bank  ranks Singapore and Hong Kong top in its
gauge focused on the ease of doing business. The Washington-
based  Heritage Foundation  has named Hong Kong the world’s freest
economy for 18 successive years.  Price Controls  Singapore has tightened monetary policy this year, while
neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  cut  interest rates ,
spurring gains in the currency even as the government predicts
gross domestic product will rise at the slowest pace in three
years.  Price gains in Singapore have reached 4 percent or more
every month bar one since November 2010, more than double the
1.9 percent average in the past two decades. Inflation is
forecast by the central bank to average more than 4.5 percent
this year.  “A wider range of services has been developed, catering to
high-end needs,” Leong said. “We’ve won the battle as the
destination to live in because we’ve focused on the non-
financial aspects of growth, meaning we’ve invested in greening
Singapore, making it easy for families to live here.”  The increase in foreign workers has also led Singaporeans
to complain that overseas workers deprive locals of jobs, drive
up prices and lead to congestion on public transport. That
helped opposition parties win record support in last year’s
general elections and prompted the ruling People’s  Action Party 
to slow down the intake of foreign workers.  RBC Wealth Management, part of Toronto-based Royal Bank of
Canada, and EIU, a London-based unit of The Economist Group,
surveyed 558 individuals who have at least $1 million of
investable assets through June to October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  