-- Smartphones Help Boost Nitto Denko as TV Demand Slumps
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-12-10T23:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/smartphones-help-boost-nitto-denko-as-tv-demand-slumps.html
Nitto Denko Corp. (6988) , the world’s
largest maker of optical films used in liquid-crystal display
panels, said demand from smartphone manufacturers is helping it
mask a slump in sales to television makers.  Sales increased in November at a similar pace to the 21
percent growth posted in October, President Yukio Nagira said in
an interview at the company’s headquarters in  Osaka , Japan,
yesterday. Precise November data, expected to be the seventh
consecutive increase, will be announced tomorrow.  “The sales flow has been good, thanks to smartphones and
tablet computers,” Nagira, 64, said.  Nitto Denko’s  shares reached  their highest level since June
2011 in  Tokyo  yesterday as manufacturers such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
boosted sales of smartphones, increasing the demand for optical
films that help users input data with fingers into touch panels.
The company, whose customers include  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp Corp., (6753) 
also plans to expand its medical and industrial-tape businesses,
 Nagira said .  “There’s room for Nitto Denko to spur sales on rising
demand for smartphones,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based
analyst at  Iwai Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)  “The company manages to
grow even when the environment isn’t good.”  Nitto Denko rose 0.7 percent to 4,335 yen yesterday,
extending this year’s gain to 57 percent, compared with the
benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ’s 13 percent increase.  Smartphones Demand  The company, which will celebrate its 100-year anniversary
in 2018, produces LCD optical  films  that also help in brighter
and clearer images.  With consumers demanding more features from their phones,
the number of smartphones in use globally crossed 1 billion for
the first time in the third quarter and will double by 2015,
 Strategy Analytics  said in October.  In contrast, global TV demand is expected to remain little
changed in 2013 after shipments of all TV types declined more
than 4 percent this year, according to researcher DisplaySearch.
Japan’s deliveries plunged 77 percent in the second quarter,
according to the researcher.  Sony,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Sharp, Japan’s three-largest
manufacturers of televisions, are all battling slumping demand
and record losses. All three are customers of Nitto Denko,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  