-- Spain’s Weakened Banks Shackle Builders’ Drive for Growth Abroad
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-12-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/spain-s-weakened-banks-shackle-builders-drive-for-growth-abroad.html
Spanish builders find themselves
increasingly dependent on foreign banks as they seek growth
abroad to weather the worst property slump on record.  “We are having more difficulties with access to credit,”
said Susana Monje, chief executive officer of  Grupo Essentium , a
construction firm based near  Madrid  that turned to  Germany ’s 
Deutsche Bank AG for backing to win a contract in  India  this 
year. “There’s a label for Spanish companies and if you have 
that label, then you have it more difficult.”  Spanish builders such as Essentium and  Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA  are paying the price for the frail
state of the country’s banking system as they seek to tap growth
abroad to compensate for a collapsed market at home. While
helping fuel a housing boom before the bubble burst in 2008,
 lenders  have since become reluctant to support the construction
industry’s growth ambitions, instead focusing on reducing
domestic real estate losses and cutting lending risks.  The country is set to receive about 40 billion euros ($52
billion) in bailout funds as soon as tomorrow after earlier this
year sealing an agreement for as much as 100 billion euros of
European aid to stabilize its banking system. Under the terms,
Bankia group and two other nationalized lenders, whose combined
assets amount to almost a fifth of  Spain ’s banking industry,
will have to cut assets by more than 60 percent by 2017.  ‘Significant Barrier’  Lending to Spain’s building industry has already slumped 40
percent from a 2007, according to Bank of Spain data. Loans for
construction as a proportion of gross domestic product dropped
to about 9 percent from 15 percent in that period.  “It’s true that financing conditions have got tougher,”
Jose Manuel Loureda, general director of international business
at  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , a construction company based in
Madrid, said in a telephone interview. “It has become a
significant barrier to overcome.”  Spanish bad loans may increase further as the economy
continues to shrink in 2013, the Bank of Spain said on Nov. 5.
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s largest lenders, were downgraded two levels to BBB and
BBB-, respectively, by  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 16. The firm
also cut the ratings of nine other banks and placed six on
credit watch negative.  Tougher Competition  Builders are also struggling to regain investor confidence
in their balance sheets. ACS has been forced to disclose more
financial information to win foreign orders than in the past,
spokesman Juan Jose Diaz said. Spain’s biggest construction
company started to “bid pretty much anywhere” as customers
grew more cautious and competition toughened, he said.  While Essentium’s infrastructure construction unit in July
won a 30-month contract worth 26 million euros to build a 67-
kilometer (42-mile) section of railroad in the Indian state of
 Uttar Pradesh , it had to first line up a counter-guarantee from
Deutsche Bank after the contractor declined to accept its
backing from a Spanish lender, said Monje.  “We have only encountered this situation once, it’s not
wide-spread and we hope this doesn’t get any worse,” she said.
“The issue of guarantees is one of the most decisive factors
for Spanish companies to be successful when expanding abroad. We
could attack the market much more for railroad projects if we
had more support in terms of guarantees.”  ‘Negative News’  Spain is relying on the ability of its companies to build
their businesses abroad, with the economy mired in its second
recession since 2009 and more than a quarter of the working
population unemployed. GDP may drop 1.5 percent this year and
next, before increasing 0.5 percent in 2014, a Bloomberg News
survey shows. By comparison, the euro-area economy is seen
returning to growth next year, a separate survey shows.  Sacyr, whose international business accounts for about 40
percent of revenue, up from 36 percent a year ago, is seeking to
further expand abroad after winning contracts in countries
including Panama and  Angola  in the third quarter, said Loureda.  At Essentium, Monje said the lack of funding at home has
forced the builder to “find resources where we didn’t look
before,” such as consortiums with local partners.  “All the negative news on Spain is having a negative
impact on Spanish companies,” she said. “The construction
sector needs to reinvent itself or die.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  