-- Square Debuts Mobile Gift Cards in Challenge to PayPal
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-12-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/square-debuts-mobile-gift-cards-in-challenge-to-paypal.html
Square Inc., the mobile-payments
startup founded by Jack Dorsey, is giving small merchants the
ability to sell gift cards to shoppers on the go, stepping up
competition with  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal business.  A new version of the  Square Wallet  app, which works with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad as well as devices running Google
Inc.’s software, lets users buy and redeem gift certificates in
amounts from $10 to $1,000. Square enables retailers to accept
payments with a device that plugs into a smartphone or tablet.  Gift cards are Square’s latest effort to convince customers
to choose its fledgling service over  PayPal Here , a mobile card
reader that also works with smartphones and tablets. Square’s
gift certificates may help the company gain share in the market
for mobile payments, which Juniper Research estimates may top
$170 billion in transactions by 2015, up from about $60 billion
last year.  “These are mostly empowering merchants that haven’t had
gift card programs,” Keith Rabois, Square’s chief operating
officer, said in an interview yesterday. Any retailer that uses
Square can offer gift cards through the application, with no
additional setup required, he said.  Recipients of Square’s cards can integrate them into
Apple’s  Passbook  app, which stores loyalty gift cards, digital
tickets to movies, concerts and sporting events in one place.
That makes it more likely that owners of Apple’s iPhone and iPad
will try Square’s service.  Plastic Outdated  “It’s clear that in 2012, the idea of a piece of plastic
to redeem digital money is outdated,” Anuj Nayar, a spokesman
for PayPal, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Gift
certificates live in PayPal’s  digital wallet  and can be spent
wherever you can use PayPal, not just from a mobile device.”  Square, based in  San Francisco , is processing about $10
billion in transactions on an annualized basis, about the same
volume PayPal said in July that it anticipated for this year.  Both the Square and PayPal gadgets work with credit cards
from  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)   Square’s push into gift cards follows other efforts this
year to make its service more appealing to retailers.  The company in August revamped its transaction fees to
offer merchants more flexibility, including an option for some
businesses to forgo standard rates of 2.75 percent per credit-
card swipe by instead paying $275 a month. PayPal’s fee is 2.7
percent.  Square also announced plans to process transactions in
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  stores, an agreement that included a $25 million
investment from the retailer and added the coffee chain’s chief
executive officer,  Howard Schultz , to the startup’s board.  With increasing sales and customers, Square plans to move
into bigger offices next year as the company expands its
workforce to 1,000, more than double the current size. Square’s
reader is used by about 2 million merchants and is available at
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Apple outlets.  Dorsey, a co-founder of Twitter Inc., started Square in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  