-- Standard Chartered Pays $327 Million on U.S.-Iran Transfers
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-12-10T17:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/standard-chartered-pays-327-million-in-u-s-iran-transfers-case.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s
second-largest bank by market value, agreed to pay $327 million
of fines, in line with the bank’s forecast, after regulators
alleged it violated U.S. sanctions with Iran.  After paying a $340 million settlement in August to New
York’s Department of Financial Services, the London-based
company told investors on Dec. 6 it expected to pay about $330
million on Dec. 6 to resolve other investigations.  The bank will pay $100 million to the Federal Reserve and
$227 million to the U.S. Department of Justice and the District
Attorney for New York County. The settlement includes a $132
million fine to the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control, according to a statement from the Federal
Reserve today.  “The orders address unsafe and unsound practices related
to inadequate and incomplete responses to examiner inquiries as
well as insufficient oversight of its compliance program for
U.S. economic sanctions, Bank Secrecy Act, and anti-money-
laundering requirements,” the Fed said in the statement.  Standard Chartered in August was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of Financial Services,
of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of
federal laws, keeping false records and handling lucrative wire
transfers for Iranian clients. The bank sent them through its
New York unit in so-called U-turn transactions with client names
omitted to hide their provenance, Lawsky said. The bank settled
the probe on Aug. 14, a day before it was due to defend itself
to the regulator.  Draws Line  Today’s announcement “draws a line under the situation,”
said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital Ltd.
with a buy rating on the stock. “The company has continued to
perform over the period.”  Standard Chartered rose 12 pence, or 0.8 percent, to
1,497.5 pence in  London , valuing the lender at 36.1 billion
pounds ($58 billion). The bank has risen 6.3 percent this year.  The company will pay the sum in the second half of this
year, it said today in a statement. “In the more than five
years since the events giving rise to today’s settlements, the
bank has completed a comprehensive review and upgrade of its
compliance systems and procedures,” it said.  Standard Chartered entered into a deferred prosecution
agreement with the U.S. Justice Department whereby it will
forfeit $227 million of funds tied to the illegal transactions,
according to court records filed in the federal court in
 Washington .  One Count  As part of that agreement, the U.S. charged the bank with
one count conspiring to violate the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act. That charge will be dismissed after two
years if Standard Chartered abides by the terms of the
agreement, according to court papers.  “When banks dodge U.S. sanctions laws, they imperil our
financial system and our national security,” U.S. Attorney
Ronald Machen said in an e-mailed statement. “Today’s agreement
holds Standard Chartered Bank accountable for intentionally
manipulating transactions to remove references to  Iran , Sudan,
and other sanctioned entities, and then further concealing these
transactions through misrepresentations to U.S. regulators.”  The New York settlement amount was the largest ever paid to
an individual regulator as part of a money-laundering accord. In
June, ING Groep NV agreed to pay $619 million to settle similar
allegations. That sum was split evenly between the federal
government and the Manhattan district attorney’s office.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said on Nov. 5 it’s likely to face
criminal charges from U.S. anti-money-laundering probes and the
cost of a settlement may “significantly” exceed the $1.5
billion the bank has set aside.  HSBC has been in talks with U.S. regulators over
allegations it laundered funds of sanctioned nations including
Iran and  Sudan . The probes prompted Standard & Poor’s to
question whether the lender,  Europe ’s largest by market value,
is too big to be managed effectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  