-- STMicroelectronics Plans to Exit Chip Venture With Ericsson
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-12-10T15:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/stmicroelectronics-to-exit-ericsson-venture-in-strategy-shift.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  will sell its
stake in the unprofitable wireless-chip venture with Ericsson AB
by the third quarter of next year to remove a drag on
profitability at  Europe ’s biggest semiconductor manufacturer.  Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  is discussing options
for an exit from ST-Ericsson with the Swedish co-owner, Geneva-
based STMicroelectronics said today. Ericsson continues to
believe that the technology it contributed to the venture,
formed in 2009, has “strategic value” for the wireless
industry, the Stockholm-based company said separately.  Bozotti, refocusing STMicroelectronics’s business amid
weakening demand and competition from  Asia , is pushing to put
chips in cars, video-game consoles and fitness machines as key
mobile-phone customers  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry maker  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  struggle with a sales slump that has cut revenue
at ST-Ericsson and led to losses for the venture’s parents.  “It makes sense for Ericsson to leave ST-Ericsson too,”
said  Janardan Menon , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in
 London . “Leading-edge modem technology is available outside of
the venture.”  Operating Expenses  STMicroelectronics, working on cutting net operating
expenses to a quarterly $600 million to $650 million by the
beginning of 2014 -- compared with $900 million on average so
far this year -- forecast its operating margins will grow to 10
percent “rapidly.” The company expects to improve its net cash
position upon exit and will aim to maintain its dividend policy
through the transition period, Bozotti said in an interview.  Shares of STMicroelectronics jumped as much as 8.8 percent
and traded 4.2 percent higher at 5.21 euros as of 4:26 p.m. in
Paris. The stock’s market value had shrunk by about 60 percent
since Bozotti took over as CEO in March 2005 to 4.6 billion
euros ($5.9 billion) as of Dec. 7.  Ericsson rose 1.6 percent to 65.85 kronor in  Stockholm . The
world’s biggest maker of wireless-networking equipment this year
completed the sale of its stake in handset venture Sony Ericsson
Mobile Communications to Sony Corp.  STMicroelectronics and Ericsson together injected $1.8
billion in cash and some wireless technologies into the venture
in 2009. The Swedish company said its share of operating losses
from ST-Ericsson totaled 9.5 billion kronor ($1.4 billion) as of
end of September. ST-Ericsson had $39 million in  cash  as of
Sept. 29 and net debt of $1.35 billion.  ST-Ericsson Losses  Ola Rembe, an Ericsson spokesman, said the company would
“intensify the conversation” around finding a long-term
solution for the venture.  ST-Ericsson’s net loss will be $900 million this year and
$550 million in 2013, according to estimates by Sebastien Sztabowicz, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. ST-Ericsson
reported a net loss of $841 million in 2011 and continued to be
unprofitable during the first nine months of this year.  “We’ve all experienced unprecedented macroeconomic cycles
in this market,” Bozotti said. “There’s been a major change in
the dynamics of the wireless market and in our former major
customers -- this is specific to our company, and the major
reason that’s led us to take the difficult decision we are
announcing today.”  STMicroelectronics had considered splitting itself by
separating its analog and digital businesses, though the project
didn’t win the full support of the board, people familiar with
the situation said last month.  Job Cuts  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising STMicroelectronics on its
strategy.  To stem losses, STMicroelectronics has so far moved to
restructure ST-Ericsson. The unit announced plans in April to
eliminate 1,700 jobs and transfer some product development to
STMicroelectronics to trim costs.  European semiconductor makers have struggled to cope with
the swings in prices and demand. They are losing market share to
Asian and U.S. competitors, which have switched to so-called
fabless models, dispensing with factories in favor of
outsourcing to foundries such as those of  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330)  The model allows chipmakers to adjust designs
and production more quickly without the overhead of running
their own plants.  “The market situation will remain weak this quarter and
the next,” Bozotti said in the interview. “We expect
improvement starting in the second quarter of 2013 on the
macroeconomic level, and we’re betting on a wave of new products
and customers for a recovery.”  State Shareholders  STMicroelectronics’s full-year  sales  will probably shrink
12 percent to $8.48 billion on average, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Bozotti declined to say today how the company’s new
strategy and an exit from ST-Ericsson would affect jobs. The CEO
said in October he will cut costs at STMicroelectronics by $150
million a year by the end of 2013, in a move that may affect as
many as 500 positions.  The chipmaker, which is 27.5 percent owned by the French
and Italian governments, may face political hurdles as it moves
forward with job cuts. In  France , Socialist President  Francois Hollande  and Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  have pushed
back against companies scaling down, with  ArcelorMittal (MT)  as the
latest example. Montebourg in October hosted STMicroelectronics
Chairman  Didier Lombard  at Bercy, France, to discuss strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  