-- Strauss-Kahn Settles Maid’s Suit on Confidential Terms
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/strauss-kahn-settles-maid-s-suit-ending-new-york-legal-saga-1-.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and the maid
who accused him of trying to rape her agreed to settle her
lawsuit, resolving a legal saga that ended his term as head of
the  International Monetary Fund  and derailed a potential French
presidential bid.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Douglas McKeon in the
Bronx yesterday said the two sides have reached an agreement to
end the suit, which accused the former IMF head of “violent and
deplorable acts” during an encounter at the Sofitel in midtown
 Manhattan .  The suit was filed in August 2011, about three months after
Strauss-Kahn was arrested and charged with attempting to rape
the maid, Nafissatou Diallo, and two weeks before the criminal
charges were dropped by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.  Terms of the settlement are confidential, McKeon said
during a hearing yesterday attended by Diallo, her lawyers and
attorneys for Strauss-Kahn, who wasn’t present. The agreement,
which was negotiated after “rather extensive discussions” with
the two sides throughout the year, also resolved a suit by
Diallo against the New York Post over a story that said she was
a prostitute, McKeon said.  Le Monde  The French daily Le Monde, citing unidentified people close
to the former IMF chief, reported on Nov. 30 that Strauss-Kahn
might pay $6 million to settle the suit, borrowing $3 million
from his wife,  Anne Sinclair , and the rest from a bank. Strauss-
Kahn and Sinclair, the editor of the French version of the
 Huffington Post , separated this year.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers denied the “fantastical and
erroneous” information in Le Monde, and called the report
“flatly false.” Diallo’s attorneys declined to comment on the
newspaper’s story.  Diallo thanked “everyone all over the world” during a
brief press conference on the steps of the courthouse after
yesterday’s hearing. Her attorney,  Kenneth Thompson , called
his client “strong and courageous.”  “With this resolution, she can now move on with her
life,” he said. Thompson finished his remarks without answering
reporters’ questions about the amount of the settlement and led
Diallo to a waiting black Lincoln Town Car, which took her away
from the courthouse.  Airport Arrest  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was pulled off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  on May 14, 2011, arrested
and charged with trying to rape Diallo, a 33-year-old maid from
 Guinea . He resigned as managing director of the IMF four days
later.  “We are pleased to have arrived at a resolution of this
matter,” Strauss-Kahn’s attorneys, William Taylor III and Amit
Mehta, said in a statement. “We are grateful to Judge McKeon,
whose patience and forbearance allowed this agreement to be
formulated.”  Strauss-Kahn became managing director of the IMF in
November 2007 after Segolene Royal beat him to become the
Socialist Party’s presidential candidate. He was French finance
minister from 1997 to 1999. Strauss-Kahn, who holds a doctoral
degree in economics from the  University of Paris , worked as a
corporate lawyer from 1993 to 1997.  ‘Mental Anguish’  Before his arrest, polls showed Strauss-Kahn as the
Socialist Party politician best placed to defeat then-president
 Nicolas Sarkozy . Eventual Socialist nominee  Francois Hollande 
defeated Sarkozy in May this year.  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn seeking unspecified monetary
damages for physical and psychological harm, damage to her
reputation and career, and mental anguish, alleging assault,
battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress and false
imprisonment.  About two weeks after she sued, Vance dropped criminal
charges against Strauss-Kahn, concluding that Diallo had lied
about events surrounding the alleged attack. Strauss-Kahn said
during a television interview after the charges were dropped
that the encounter was consensual, while calling it a “moral
failing.”  McKeon in May denied a motion by Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers to
dismiss the lawsuit on the grounds that he enjoyed diplomatic
immunity. Strauss-Kahn subsequently filed a counterclaim against
the maid seeking more than $1 million in damages.  Carlton Affair  Prosecutors in Lille in northern  France  in October dropped
an inquiry into allegations that Strauss-Kahn and other men
raped a prostitute in  Washington  in December 2010 after the
woman wrote to authorities to say she wouldn’t file a criminal
complaint.  The inquiry was an offshoot of the so-called Carlton
affair, an investigation into claims about a prostitution ring
linked to a hotel by the same name in Lille. Strauss-Kahn was
charged with procurement in that case and has appealed -- along
with others accused in the matter -- to end the investigation.  An appeals court in Douai is scheduled to announce on Dec.
19 whether the probe should be dropped, curtailed or continued.  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  