-- Suntory Weighs Takeover of Whiskey-Maker Beam, Official Says
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-12-10T09:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/suntory-considers-offer-for-whiskey-maker-beam-official-says.html
Suntory Holdings Ltd., the closely
held Japanese whiskey and beer maker, is exploring the
possibility of making an offer for the U.S. distiller  Beam Inc. (BEAM) ,
according to an official of the Osaka-based company.  Suntory has held talks with  Diageo Plc (DGE)  about a potential
joint offer, though the two aren’t currently in discussions and
the Japanese company can make a bid by itself, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  Buying the Deerfield, Illinois-based maker of Jim Beam,
Maker’s Mark and Canadian Club liquor would help Suntory boost
overseas growth to offset a shrinking home population. Suntory
won’t make an offer at the current price as it is too expensive,
said the person. Beam  stock  has gained 17 percent this year.  “Speculation around Beam is not new, but had calmed down,
and this reignites the debate,” David Belaunde, an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, said in a note to clients. “While we would not
rule out any scenario, we believe regulatory hurdles and other
priorities may well limit the role that Diageo, specifically,
might be willing to play in the near term.”  Suntory hasn’t approached Beam nor has it made a bid for
the U.S. company, the person said. Suntory spokeswoman Naoko Tsuda declined to comment on whether they are considering the
deal. Calls to Beam’s media office weren’t answered outside
regular hours. Gilbert Ghostine, Diageo’s president for the
Asia-Pacific region, declined to comment.  Overseas Beverages  Diageo held talks with Suntory about buying Beam for more
than $10 billion, the Sunday Telegraph said yesterday, citing
unidentified U.K. financial-industry sources. There are no plans
to restart negotiations between the two, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Beam shares closed 1.5 percent higher
at $59.73 on Dec. 7 in New York. Diageo rose 0.3 percent to
1,883.5 pence as of 9 a.m. in  London .  Suntory has focused overseas acquisitions on non-alcoholic
beverages over the past five years, while its Japanese
competitor  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  has spent more than $12 billion to
expand its alcholic business outside Japan in the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Suntory bought French drinkmaker Orangina Schweppes Group
in 2009 for an undisclosed sum and paid 600 million euros ($774
million) in 2009 for New Zealand’s Frucor Beverages Group Ltd.  The beverage maker entered  China ’s beer market in 1984 and
later bought wine importer ASC Fine Wines Holding Ltd. This
year, its China unit formed a 50-50 venture with Tsingtao
Brewery Co., without disclosing the amount being invested.  Beam agreed in September to expand its  Japan  distribution
alliance with Suntory starting next year, adding Jim Beam and
Maker’s Mark, the company’s leading bourbon. Suntory already
distributes Beam’s Canadian Club whisky, Laphroaig scotch and
Sauza tequila.  Suntory had 225 billion yen ($2.73 billion) of cash and
savings as of the end of June, according to a company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  