-- Syrian Rebels Clash With Forces Near Assad’s Office
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-12-10T12:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/syrian-rebels-clash-with-forces-near-assad-s-office.html
Syrian rebels and forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad clashed in Damascus, with some
exchanges less than a mile from the presidential office amid an
intensification of the 20-month civil conflict, an opposition
group said.  Sporadic gunfire and explosions were heard in Salhiyeh, a
neighborhood close to the president’s office, the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mail today.
Fighting was also reported throughout the city, the Observatory
said.  Assad “is no longer the president of  Syria , he is the
governor of Damascus,” Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a professor of
political science at the Emirates University in Al Ain, said in
a telephone interview. The president is “holding on to his last
territory in downtown Damascus.”  The conflict in Syria has entered its final stages, and the
U.S. and  Russia  are in talks on a transition of power in the
Levant state, Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi said
in Doha yesterday, according to Al Jazeera television. The anti-
Assad uprising has killed more than 40,000 since it began in
March 2011, the Observatory said.  Assad’s military has lost control of barracks, heavy
weapons, oilfields and roads across the country. Fighters
struggling to topple the government in Damascus have control of
mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the northeastern
outskirts of the capital to the southwest of the city.  ‘Getting Worse’  “Despite the fact that opposition forces have managed to
penetrate the defenses, it won’t be easy to topple Assad,”
Abdulla said. “He will fight to the last bullet and hold
Damascus for ransom for last-minute negotiations.”  The situation “is bad and getting worse,” United Nations
Special Envoy on Syria Lakhdar Brahimi said yesterday in Geneva,
where he held talks with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov.  Numair Ghanem, the Syrian ambassador to  Algeria , is seeking
political asylum in  France , making him the most senior
government official to defect since August, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing activists. An unidentified Syrian
government official denied the defection.  The fall of Syrian regime is “imminent,” and the people
will only accept change of government, Qatari Prime Minister
Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  