-- U.K. Hiring Index Rises to 19-Month High in November, KPMG Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-k-hiring-index-rises-to-19-month-high-in-november-kpmg-says.html
A U.K. index of full-time  hiring 
rose to a 19-month high in November in a sign of “cautious
optimism,” KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and Employment
Confederation said.  The gauge of permanent job placements reported by
employment consultancies rose to 56 from 55 in October, the
groups said in an e-mailed report in  London  today. Readings
above 50 indicate an increase in hiring. A measure of hiring of
temporary workers climbed to the highest since March 2011, while
full-time job vacancies rose at their fastest pace in 19 months.  “The negative outlook has been replaced by cautious
optimism as employers gradually gain confidence,” Bernard
Brown, KPMG’s head of business services, said in the report.
However, “recovery is by no means certain and we need a few
more months like this to suggest that emerging trends are
translating into a sustained period of growth in employment.”  Britain’s economy is showing signs of cooling after
 emerging from recession  in the third quarter with the strongest
growth since 2007.  A separate report today showed Britons’  confidence  about
keeping their jobs fell to its lowest level in four months in
November, Lloyds Bank said. An index of  job security  dropped 5
points from October to minus 18, the lowest since July, the unit
of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said.  Bus operators including Arriva Plc, FirstGroup Plc,
National Express Group Plc and Stagecoach Group Plc will today
announce plans to give the unemployed free travel during January
to help them in their search for work.  More than 800,000 people will be eligible for the offer.
“Good bus services play a huge role in boosting economic growth
by helping people to access employment and training
opportunities,” transport minister Norman Baker said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  