-- U.K. Stocks Erase Drop as Man Group Rallies
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-12-10T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-k-stocks-erase-drop-as-man-group-rallies.html
U.K. stocks  erased their drop in the
final two hours of trading, leaving the benchmark  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index
little changed, as  Man Group Plc (EMG)  rebounded, offsetting concern
over Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s decision to quit.  Man Group gained 5 percent as the hedge-fund manager said
the chief executive officer will leave February next year.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. declined 2.4 percent after
offering to buy the remaining stake in Camrose Resources Ltd.
 Greggs Plc (GRG)  fell 2.9 percent after saying Chief Executive Officer
Ken McMeikan will leave the company.  The FTSE 100 rose 7.23 points, or 0.1 percent, to 5,921.63
at the close in London, erasing an earlier decline of as much as
0.4 percent. The equity benchmark has  rallied more than 13
percent  from its lowest level this year on June 1 as the
 European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying plan
and the  Federal Reserve  began a third round of asset purchases.
The broader FTSE All-Share Index also gained 0.1 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.5 percent.  “The news this weekend over Monti is a clear negative,”
said Valentijn van Nieuwenhuijzen, head of strategy at ING
Investment Management in the Hague, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The question is if over the next couple
of weeks we get confirmation that public support remains for a
relatively stable government.”  In Italy, Monti told President Giorgio Napolitano that he
will resign as soon as Parliament approves the country’s budget.
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty will back the government in the
vote, according to the party’s general secretary. The 76-year-
old former prime minister announced on Dec. 8 that he will
contest the premiership in elections due as early as February
next year.  Chinese Industry  In China, reports from the statistics bureau showed
 industrial production  climbed 10.1 percent last month, while
retail sales jumped 14.9 percent. Economists had predicted
growth of 9.8 percent and 14.6 percent, respectively, according
to the  median forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg.  Even so, a separate release showed that  exports  expanded at
a slower pace than projected, rising 2.9 percent in November
from a year earlier.  Man Group jumped 5 percent to 77.3 pence after the biggest
publicly traded hedge fund manager said Chief Operating Officer
Manny Roman will replace  Peter Clarke  as CEO on Feb. 28. The
stock has tumbled 39 percent this year.  Smith & Nephew  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  rose 1.9 percent to 678.5 pence, the
biggest gain on the FTSE 100, as Investec Plc raised Europe’s
biggest maker of artificial hips and knees to buy from hold.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  rose 0.8 percent to 1,497.5 pence
after the lender agreed to pay U.S. regulators $327 million to
settle claims that its transactions with Iranian clients
violated U.S. sanctions. Britain’s second-largest bank told
investors on Dec. 6 it expected to pay about $330 million.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  surged 16 percent to 41.8 pence,
rallying for a  fifth straight day . The U.K. tour operator has
risen 55 percent since its  credit rating  was cut at Fitch
Ratings Ltd. on Dec. 4. Last week, Morgan Stanley and Credit
Suisse Group AG recommended investors buy the stock.  ENRC fell 2.4 percent to 276.2 pence as it bid $550 million
for the 49.5 percent of Camrose Resources that it doesn’t
already own. The mining company has interests in copper and
cobalt licenses in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Greggs dropped 2.9 percent to 472.5 pence, its biggest
decline in two months. The U.K.’s largest chain of bakers said
McMeikan will join Brakes Group as CEO. Greggs said McMeikan
will remain in his job until the company finds a replacement.  WPP, Bumi  WPP Plc (WPP)  retreated 1.1 percent to 860 pence. Deutsche Bank
AG lowered its recommendation on the world’s biggest advertising
company to hold from buy, saying that sales will grow at a
slower pace in 2013 than the company has forecast.  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  slipped 1.2 percent to 272 pence as the Bakrie
Group said that some documents used to justify an investigation
into the coal producer were stolen or accessed by hacking. Bumi,
which was founded by the Bakrie family and  Nathaniel Rothschild 
two years ago, began a probe on Sept. 24 into “potential
financial and other irregularities” at the company’s Indonesian
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  