-- U.K. to Set Out Plans to Legalize Same-Sex Marriages
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-12-10T16:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-k-to-set-out-plans-to-legalize-same-sex-marriages.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
government will set out plans tomorrow to allow churches to
conduct same-sex marriages.  Cameron acknowledged today that there are divisions within
his Conservative Party over the issue. Most church groups oppose
his aim of allowing gay marriages, as opposed to civil
partnerships, which were introduced under the previous Labour
government.  “This is a matter for Parliament,” Cameron told a
journalists’ lunch in  London . “We just have to be grown up and
accept that, in a modern political party, sometimes you will
have issues of conscience where people will vote in different
ways.”  Cameron said that allowing churches to conduct the
ceremonies would make it easier to protect those that don’t from
challenges under anti-discrimination laws.  “I would never introduce a bill that encroaches on
religious freedom,” Culture Secretary Maria Miller, who’s
responsible for steering the legislation through Parliament,
told lawmakers today. She told members of Parliament she would
give details of the bill in a statement in the House of Commons
tomorrow.  The government opened a public consultation on same-sex
marriage on March 15 that attracted 280,000 responses, a record
for any such consultation. Conservative lawmaker David Burrowes
told Miller that if the views of those opposing a change in the
definition of marriage were ignored, “the consultation might be
in danger of being seen as a sham.”  Anglican Opposition  The Church of England said Dec. 7 that Cameron will require
an “overwhelming mandate” to justify going ahead with the
plan, given the government has never made it a key policy
objective.  “We believe that redefining marriage to include same-sex
relationships will entail a dilution in the meaning of marriage
for everyone by excluding the fundamental complementarity of men
and women from the social and legal definition of marriage,” it
said in a statement.  Conservative lawmakers have raised concerns that places of
worship that decide not to hold same-sex marriages could be
challenged in court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  