-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Decrease; Brown-Forman Issues Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-12-10T21:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-little-changed-as-monti-plans-exit.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell to the lowest level in more than a month as optimism
over the fiscal cliff and Chinese data offset concern that
political turmoil may intensify Europe’s debt crisis.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.5
basis points to a mid-price of 95.7 basis points at 4:50 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index
closed at 94 basis points Oct. 22.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  met
one-on-one yesterday at the White House, with representatives
for the two leaders issuing statements afterward that “the
lines of communication remain open.”  China ’s factory output and
retail sales exceeded estimates in November, reports showed
yesterday. Signs that the recovery is gaining strength may ease
investor concern that the global economy will falter, impairing
corporate balance sheets and hindering companies’ ability to
repay debt.  “We had strong retail sales and industrial production,
both of which seem to sit with the view that government stimulus
policies are working” in China,  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The big picture is optimism over the
fiscal cliff. The question is when will politicians close ranks,
hold hands and come to an agreement.”  ‘Bare Minimum’  Obama told workers today in Michigan he won’t compromise on
higher rates for the wealthiest Americans, and that extending
middle-class tax cuts is the “bare minimum” lawmakers should
do. China’s industrial output climbed 10.1 percent in November
from a year earlier and retail sales growth accelerated to 14.9
percent, the country’s statistics bureau said yesterday.  The index rose as much as 0.4 basis point earlier, as
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said he lost support in the
Parliament and will resign. His predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi ,
announced he will run for the premiership to roll back Monti’s
budget rigor. Monti said at a press conference in Oslo today
that investors “shouldn’t fear any decision-making void.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Jack Daniel’s  Brown-Forman Corp. (BF/A) , the maker of Jack Daniel’s whiskey and
Finlandia vodka, sold $750 million of bonds in a three-part
offering to help fund its special stock dividend. The company
issued equal $250 million portions of 1 percent bonds due in
January 2018, 2.25 percent debt maturing in 2023 and securities
maturing in 2043 with a 3.75 percent coupon, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Moody’s Investors Service rated the bonds
A1.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 5.8 basis points to 480.9 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The average relative yield for investment-grade bonds is
trading 9 basis points wider than the average cost to protect
the debt with credit-default swaps, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
strategists led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in a Dec. 7 note to
clients.  Nexen Acquisition  Moody’s trailing 12-month global speculative-grade default
rate declined to 2.7 percent in November from 3.1 percent in
October, according to a report dated today. The company now
expects the rate to end 2012 at 2.7 percent, “well below” the
average of 4.8 percent since 1983, Moody’s said.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)  fell 29.3 basis points to 77.3 basis points as of 3:30 p.m.
in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  approved  Cnooc
Ltd (883) ’.s $15.1 billion takeover of Nexen on Dec. 7, clearing a key
hurdle for closing the acquisition of the Calgary-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  