-- U.S. Cites Syrian Rebel Al-Nusra Front as Terrorist Group
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-12-10T19:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-s-cites-syrian-rebel-al-nusra-front-as-terrorist-group.html
The U.S. is adding the Syrian rebel
group al-Nusra Front to its global terrorist list as an alias of
al-Qaeda in  Iraq , according to a State Department notice being
published tomorrow in the Federal Register.  The department acted before Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s planned departure for a meeting of the Friends of the
Syrian People, being held Dec. 12 in Marrakesh,  Morocco . The
U.S. is seeking to isolate radical elements in  Syria  while
supporting the main opposition forces against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  “We will have more to say about this tomorrow and the
coming days,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
at a briefing today in  Washington . “What I would say is that, I
think you know, we’ve had concerns that al-Nusra is little more
than a front for al-Qaeda in Iraq.”  The al-Nusra Front, which also goes by the name Jabhet al-
Nusra, claimed responsibility for suicide and car bombings
against government targets in Syria. Members of the radical
Islamist group have been described as among the most effective
fighters in the uprising.  Rebels and fighters from al-Nusra overcame three brigades
of Syrian troops and a command center of the 111th regiment west
of Aleppo yesterday, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights  said on its Facebook page.  U.S. officials have expressed concern that the conflict is
a magnet for jihadist fighters and that they might obtain access
to chemical weapons and gain power in a post-Assad Syria. The
U.S. has been unwilling to provide weapons to the rebels, in
part citing concerns arms might go to the extremists.  40,000 Killed  Nuland said the Assad regime has created an environment
through its violence “that extremists can now try to exploit.”  The 20-month conflict, sparked by protests across the Arab
world that led to the fall of leaders in Tunisia,  Egypt  and
 Libya , has claimed at least 40,000 lives, according to the
Observatory.  The State Department notice said Clinton found “there is
sufficient factual basis” to conclude al-Nusra is an alias of
al-Qaeda in Iraq, which was declared a “specially designated
global terrorist” entity in 2004. The Sunni militant group
killed civilians and U.S. forces in Iraq.  The fighting has increasingly split Syria along sectarian
lines, with a Sunni Muslim-led opposition confronting a
government whose top officials, including Assad, are drawn from
the minority Alawite sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam.  Fundamentalist Islamic fighters are a growing presence in
the Syrian opposition, increasing their influence as Western
nations have failed to intervene militarily in the uprising
against the Syria government, according to a report Oct. 11 by
the  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  