-- Failing Banks’ Shareholders to Take Losses in U.S.-U.K. Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-12-10T16:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/u-s-u-k-issue-blueprint-for-dealing-with-failing-large-banks.html
U.S. and U.K. regulators unveiled a
plan for dealing with failing global banks that will allow them
to fire senior executives as well as force losses on
shareholders to protect taxpayers.  “A resolution strategy for a failed or failing globally
active, systemically important, financial institution should
assign losses to shareholders and unsecured creditors, and hold
management responsible,” according to a paper jointly released
by the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the  Bank of
England  in  London  today.  Global regulators are working on ways to handle the failure
of large international banks to avoid another crisis like the
one inflamed by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in
2008 that led to taxpayer bailouts. BOE Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  said the joint paper is a “significant step” toward
solving the issue.  The U.S. has been developing its strategy under the Dodd-
Frank legislation passed in 2010, while the U.K. has
concentrated its efforts under the Banking Act of 2009,
according to the paper. They each focus on dealing with the top
of a financial group --the holding or parent company -- to
minimize disruptions to sound subsidiaries.  The U.K. and U.S. plans -- aimed at ensuring continuity of
banks’ “critical services” and reducing risks to financial
stability -- are based in part on recommendations published by
the Financial Stability Board, while U.K. policies are also
linked to European Union proposals presented in June.  Creditors’ Losses  Both the Bank of England and the FDIC foresee that a wide
range of unsecured creditors could face losses during a bank’s
failure. Unsecured senior bondholders and uninsured depositors
are among those who could take a financial hit, according to the
paper. In the U.K., funds allocated to a national guarantee
program for  bank deposits  could also be used to stabilize
failing banks, the document says.  “The U.K. authorities are prepared in principal to stand
back and let you execute a resolution” of the biggest U.S.-
based banks “without stepping in and interfering,” Tucker told
U.S. banking regulators at a forum today at the FDIC in
 Washington . “This is a journey that involves trust,” he said,
and the example of the U.S.-U.K. relationship must serve to
encourage other jurisdictions to follow.  While the regulators will co-ordinate their actions, there
are differences in their methods, according to the paper.  Different Approaches  In the U.S., the holding company would be made bankrupt and
losses assigned to shareholders and unsecured creditors, with
soundly operating units transferred to a new entity. The U.K.
plan involves either the writedown or conversion of securities
held by creditors at the top of the group to return the entire
firm to solvency.  Both regulators are continuing to work to ensure that
“their respective resolution strategies will be fully
operational,” they said.  Nobody will be let “off the hook” during a big-bank
failure, which could create “a potential transformation of
market discipline,” Tucker said. “Bondholders and other
creditors will scrutinize the risks that banks are taking to a
much greater degree than in the past.”  Existing banking giants have “far too many entities,
thousands of entities,” Tucker said, and need to be simplified.  Paul Volcker , former U.S. Federal Reserve chairman, asked
FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  whether the U.S. would similarly
step back to let U.K. regulators handle dissolving a
systemically important firm that reached onto U.S. soil.
Gruenberg said he wouldn’t “presume to answer that.”  Gruenberg had previously outlined the approach his agency
would take when using its Dodd-Frank authority to safely shut
down a big  bank holding company  if bankruptcy won’t work. In
May, he said foreign subsidiaries would be allowed to continue
operations while the parent companies are being revamped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  