-- UN Probes Reports South Sudan Army Killed 13 People in Jonglei
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-12-10T13:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/un-probes-reports-south-sudan-army-killed-13-people-in-jonglei.html
United Nations and local government
officials said they’re investigating reports that South Sudan’s
army killed 13 people in a remote area of Jonglei state’s Pibor
county.  Pibor county commissioner Joshua Konyi said by phone that
he’s waiting for the lone survivor of the last week’s attack to
recover from injuries so he can answer questions. UN officials
are also looking into the incident, said Liam McDowell, a
spokesman for the  UN Mission in South Sudan . Army spokesman Col.
Kella Kueth denied in a phone interview that the attack took
place.  “We are aware of the reports and we are working to
establish the facts,” McDowell said today by phone from the
capital, Juba.  The violence in Jonglei, an eastern state bordering
 Ethiopia  where Total SA has a stake in an oil exploration
concession, has marred South Sudan’s year-old independence from
the north. Ethnic clashes in the state last year killed at least
1,600 people, according to the UN.  The government started a disarmament campaign in March
after the clashes between the Lou Nuer and Murle ethnic groups.
Amnesty International, Medecines Sans Frontiers and  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  have released reports documenting
abuses by government soldiers including rapes and beatings,
mainly in Pibor county, homeland to the Murle.  Militia Members  Army officials said that those killed last week in Pibor
were members of a rebel militia led by David Yau Yau, a former
theology student and candidate for governor, Konyi said by phone
from Pibor town, the county capital.  Jonglei governor Kuol Manyang said he’d also received
reports of the killings by the government military, known as the
Sudan People’s Liberation Army.  “If it happened, it is unfortunate and I believe the SPLA
will investigate,” he said by phone from the state capital,
Bor. “If that is what happened, definitely someone should be
held accountable.”  More than 180 members of Yau Yau’s militia, led by
commander Daug Kubrin, rejoined the army last week, McDowell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  