-- Turkey Third-Quarter GDP Slows to Lowest Level Since 2009
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-12-10T08:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/turkey-third-quarter-gdp-slows-to-lowest-level-since-2009.html
Turkey’s economic growth eased to
the  slowest pace  since 2009 in the third quarter, challenging
the government’s year-end growth target and reinforcing
expectations that the central bank will cut  interest rates .  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, advanced 1.6 percent on an annual basis after climbing
a revised 3 percent in the second quarter and a revised 3.4
percent in the first. The third-quarter expansion was less than
the median estimate of 2.5 percent by 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Second-quarter growth was revised from 2.9 percent, the
state statistics office in Ankara said on its website today.
Turkey expanded 8.5 percent last year, the third-fastest-growing
Group of 20 economy behind  China  and  Argentina . The government
forecasts full-year growth of 3.2 percent.  Turkish policy makers are trying to engineer a soft landing
as the European Union, its largest trading partner, is expected
to contract 0.5 percent in 2012, according to the  European
Central Bank . Turkish bank lending last year helped fuel a
current-account deficit that reached 10 percent of GDP and drove
the currency down more than 15 percent.  Central bank Governor Erdem Basci tightened monetary policy
in October in an attempt to cool the economy and rein in bank
lending. He introduced a dual interest-rate policy that allows
him to vary rates on a daily basis between a benchmark rate of
5.75 percent and a higher rate of 9 percent. The corridor gives
the bank the flexibility to manage the goals of bolstering
growth, bringing down inflation and stabilizing the currency.  Successful Landing  The central bank implemented a “successful soft landing,”
Inanc Sozer, an economist at Odea bank, said in an e-mailed
statement before the figures were released. “This is the first
time both domestic and external demand is expected to grow
thanks to rebalancing in the economy on the back of the central
bank’s incentives and policies.”  The Turkish economy will expand 3 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimate of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Morgan Stanley predicts  Turkey  will be the fastest-
growing economy in the central eastern  Europe , Middle East and
Africa region in 2013, with 4 percent expansion.  Inflation eased to 6.4 percent in November, the lowest
level in 14 months. This prompted Morgan Stanley to cut its
end-2012 inflation forecast to 6.3 percent.  Policy Easing  “We now expect the year-on-year rate to ease to sub-6
percent in the second quarter of 2013,” Morgan Stanley Research
said in a Dec. 7 note. “We now expect easing in both the policy
and the lower end of the overnight interest rate corridor to
take place as early as December, and we have penciled in further
cuts in the first quarter 2013.”  The central bank has dropped the top end of its interest-
rate corridor by  250 basis points  since September to 9 percent
and kept bank borrowing costs near the bottom of the range in
recent weeks, without reducing the 5.75 percent benchmark. Its
overnight borrowing rate, the bottom of the corridor, is 5
percent.  “We think the central bank rightfully considers itself
successful in managing a fairly complex situation,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the CEEMEA region at Morgan Stanley,
said in a separate note.  Turkey’s economy grew  0.2 percent  on a quarterly basis,
according to seasonally and working day-adjusted figures
released today. That compared with a revised 0.1 percent
quarter-on-quarter contraction in the first quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  