-- Turkey Industrial Output Falls to Lowest Level Since 2009
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-12-10T08:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/turkey-industrial-output-falls-to-lowest-level-since-2009.html
Turkish  industrial production  fell
to the lowest level in more than three years in October as
mining and manufacturing output plummeted, adding further
pressure on policy makers to lower interest rates.  Annual production contracted 5.7 percent, after expanding
6.2 percent in September, the statistics agency in Ankara said
on its website today. Output was expected to decline 2.5
percent, according to the median forecast of 10 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Production fell 0.9 percent from the previous
month after adjustments for seasonality and working days.  Turkey ’s economy expanded an annual 1.6 percent in the
third quarter, the  slowest pace  since 2009, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened and the central bank tightened monetary policy
to stem a lending boom that contributed to the world’s second-
largest current-account deficit last year. The slowing growth
has prompted the central bank, led by Governor Erdem Basci, to
reverse course to spur lending and help offset the effects of
export weakness.  October output “is likely to have been depressed by the
Bayram holiday that fell at the end of that month,”  Inan Demir ,
chief economist at Finansbank AS said in an e-mailed note before
the figure was released, referring to the Muslim holiday of Eid
Al Adha holiday. The low figure “also reflects payback to the
very strong September reading, which in turn was boosted by
another Bayram holiday in August. So, the bottom line is, we are
not inclined to read too much into the weakness in October
industrial production, and we think it will most likely prove
temporary.”  Confidence Drops  The mining sub-index fell 10.8 percent, while the
manufacturing component slipped 2.4 percent, the statistics
agency said.  Industrial confidence fell for a seventh straight month in
November, while capacity usage matched an eight-month low.
Inflation eased to 6.4 percent in November from 7.8 percent the
month earlier. That rate, the lowest in 14 months, provided the
central bank with more room to reduce borrowing costs.  The central bank has lowered the top end of its so-called
interest-rate corridor and kept bank borrowing costs near the
bottom of the range in recent weeks, without reducing the 5.75
percent benchmark repo rate.  The current-account deficit, which was almost 10 percent of
GDP in 2011, will ease to 6.6 percent in 2012 and widen to 6.9
percent in 2013, Morgan Stanley said in a Dec. 7 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  