-- Vancouver Firm to Build HK$2.7 Billion Opera House
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-12-10T08:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/vancouver-firm-to-build-hk-2-7-billion-opera-house.html
Vancouver-based Bing Thom Architects
and local firm Ronald Lu have beaten out rival studios headed by
 Norman Foster  and  Moshe Safdie  to build a HK$2.7 billion ($348
million) Chinese opera house in Hong Kong.  Known as the Xiqu Centre, it’s scheduled for completion in
2016 and will be the first of 17 cultural and entertainment
venues at the HK$23.5 billion  West Kowloon Cultural District  to
open. The preliminary design features a spherical theater that
appears to float above an atrium. The exterior covering of the
structure appears to undulate as if it were a theater curtain.  “We wanted to use contemporary architecture to display a
very traditional art form,” Thom said at a West Kowloon
Cultural District Authority press conference today.  The authority also announced a short list of six firms
vying to build M+,  Hong Kong ’s future museum for modern and
contemporary Asian art.  Herzog & de Meuron from  Switzerland  with TFP Farrells of
 London , Snohetta AS of Norway,  Renzo Piano  of  Italy , Japan’s
Toyo Ito & Associates, Architects and Benoy Ltd., Shigeru Ban
and Thomas Chow Architects, and Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue
Nishizawa/SANAA were shortlisted.  Star Architects  “This is one of the most amazing architectural competition
lists in a long time,” said Lars Nittve, executive director of
M+. “Some are old hands at building museums, others come with
other types of experience.”  Also known as the Museum of Visual Culture, M+ will house
20th- and 21st-century art, design, architecture, video and
sound installations.  M+ is intended to be Hong Kong’s answer to the  Centre
Pompidou  in Paris or the  Guggenheim in Bilbao , and will address
the longstanding complaint that Hong Kong remains something of a
cultural desert.  The museum will anchor the government-backed, 40-hectare
(98.8 acres) project that will include 23 hectares of green
space built on reclaimed land across from  Hong Kong island .  After more than a decade of delays, West Kowloon finally
started moving forward in March 2011 when a master plan by
 Foster + Partners  was chosen.  M+ has received about HK$6 billion from the government, of
which HK$4 billion is for construction and another HK$1.7
billion to build an art collection and cover costs such as
storage.  Planned exhibition space will total around 17,000 square
meters, more than twice that of Tate Modern, in part because
much Chinese contemporary art is “space hungry,” Nittve said
in August.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour, in Hong Kong, at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 