-- Virgin Atlantic Names Aer Lingus as Short-Route Partner
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/virgin-atlantic-names-aer-lingus-as-short-route-partner.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. chose
 Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  to operate U.K. routes feeding its long-
haul services, the carrier’s first domestic flights, to help
replace traffic lost when British Airways bought partner BMI.  Using aircraft carrying the U.K. airline’s brand, Dublin-
based Aer Lingus will run a combined 24 flights a day linking
Manchester,  England , and two cities in  Scotland  with London
Heathrow airport, Virgin Atlantic said today in a statement.  British Airways, a unit of International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, completed the purchase of unprofitable BMI
from Deutsche Lufthansa AG in April and dismantled it. Crawley,
England-based Virgin, controlled by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , is taking over some Heathrow takeoff and landing slots
that its main competitor gave up to win antitrust approval for
the BMI deal, and the flights will be Virgin’s first short-haul
services under its own badge, it said.  Virgin Atlantic currently serves 34 intercontinental routes
from its Heathrow base, and BMI, which also had its main hub at
the airport, provided some transfer passengers under a code-
share agreement. Virgin plans to lease four Airbus SAS narrow-
body A320 planes and crews from Aer Lingus and expects to carry
almost 1 million passengers a year on the short-haul services,
it said.  Starting Fare  Manchester-Heathrow flights are scheduled to begin in March
while the routes out of Edinburgh and Aberdeen will start in
April, Virgin said. Tickets for the Scottish connections will go
on sale Dec. 19 with a starting round-trip price of 99 pounds
($158). The carrier is targeting business travelers with early-
morning domestic flights, it said.  “This is a robust business model that will protect
competition to and from Heathrow for the long term,” Chief
Executive Officer Steve Ridgway said in the statement. “Virgin
Atlantic has successfully fought  British Airways (IAG)  all over the
world and has offered passengers a compelling alternative.”  The average fare between Glasgow and Heathrow has increased
34 percent since BMI dropped flights and left the route to
British Airways, Virgin Atlantic said. An assessment by the
European Union antitrust  regulator  found that competition out of
London’s Gatwick and City airports “did not seem to constrain
the ability of IAG to increase its prices significantly on the
Heathrow-Glasgow route, even for economy restricted fares.”  British Airways “offers highly competitive fares to
Scotland,” Laura Goodes, a spokeswoman at London-based IAG,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “There are many
factors that determine fare levels,” such as fuel prices and
airport charges, “as well as the competitive landscape.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  