-- Wage Earners to Investors Pay More No Matter U.S. Budget
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-12-10T16:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/wage-earners-to-investors-pay-more-no-matter-u-s-budget.html
Budget deal or not, taxes are going
up -- at least for high earners.  As Republicans and Democrats joust over income tax rates,
one certainty will be two new levies, a 3.8 percent surtax on
investment income and a 0.9 percent additional tax on wages.
Both were enacted in the 2010 health-care law, and President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election sealed their start on Jan. 1. That
certainty is driving changes in the fiscal behavior of top-
earning Americans, such as selling gains in investments.  “It’s going to be costly to many of our clients that are
high income,” said Mark Nash, a tax partner in New York-based
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ private company services practice,
referring to the investment income surtax. “It’s a tax that
nobody’s talking about deferring. It’s not in the fiscal cliff
discussions.”  The so-called fiscal cliff is the metaphor Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  used to refer to more than $600 billion
in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect in January
if Congress doesn’t act. The new taxes in the health law are
separate and apply to individuals making more than $200,000 a
year and married couples earning at least $250,000.  Together, the added tax on wages and the investment income
surtax will raise an estimated  $318 billion  over the next 10
years, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.  “These taxes hit right in the gut,” said Michael J. Grace, a tax attorney and managing director at Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McCloy in  Washington . “This really could change
people’s behaviors.”  4.1 Million Households  An estimated 4.1 million U.S. households, or 2.4 percent,
will be affected by one or both of the new taxes in 2013,
according to the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington. The thresholds
aren’t indexed for inflation so the percentage of people subject
to them almost doubles by 2022.  A married couple with $300,000 in salary and $100,000 in
investment income would pay the 3.8 percent tax on the unearned
income, costing them $3,800, according to an example from the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The couple
also would pay the 0.9 percent tax on $50,000 of their wages,
for a combined tax increase of $4,250.  43.4 Percent  The taxes effectively may push the top marginal rate to as
much as 43.4 percent next year for top earners if tax cuts
enacted during  George W. Bush ’s presidency expire as scheduled.
The investment tax captures a broad array of income including
from  capital gains , dividends, interest, rents, royalties and
so-called passive activities. An exception is profits from
active business, which aren’t affected by the new investment
income tax. That is leading people to find ways to classify what
they’re doing as active business income.  To accomplish this, clients who own a business and have
been letting their employees run it while collecting  income 
should participate more and keep track of their time, said
Grace, who previously worked for the  Internal Revenue Service 
and authored regulations on passive activities.  “Let’s make sure that we get those hours up above 500,”
he said. “If it’s 501 hours then all the income from the year
will be active and not subject to the 3.8 percent tax.”  Taxpayers also should review any investments they’ve
grouped together for tax purposes if there’s a mix of active and
passive activities, said Mitchell Drossman, national director of
wealth planning strategies at U.S. Trust, a unit of  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp . That’s because the
rules allow people a chance to regroup them, which may reduce
the amount of income subject to the tax, Drossman said.  Carried Interest  The regulations make clear that gains from  hedge funds  and
private equity funds -- including the share of profits known as
carried interest -- will be subject to the investment tax, said
Jim Cofer, a partner in the tax group at Seward & Kissel LLP.
The rules clarified that investing in offshore funds isn’t a way
to avoid it, he said. When income is distributed from passive
foreign investment companies, it’s subject to the tax, he said.  Investors with interests in offshore funds may elect to
receive income from these companies at the same time they report
gains for income-tax purposes, according to the regulations.
“That’s not a taxpayer-friendly election, but it may save you a
headache,” Cofer said of forgoing tax-deferred benefits.  Rental Income  Rental income will be subject to the 3.8 percent tax unless
it’s received in the course of a trade or business in which the
taxpayer is actively involved, such as a real estate company,
said Nash of PwC. That means investors may have to use similar
tax planning techniques for those properties as they would with
partnerships and document their hours, he said.  “The casual rental of one or two properties is not going
to get you there,” Nash said. “They are consciously trying to
capture most rental income within the tax.”  The  regulations  clarified some misconceptions about how the
3.8 percent tax applies to home sales, said Tim Steffen,
director of financial planning at  Robert W. Baird  & Co. in
 Milwaukee .  The tax applies only to the extent the income would
have been included after exclusions, such as $500,000 allowed
for married couples selling a primary residence.  Profits from sales of second homes will be affected by the
levy, he said.  Certain Trusts  The investment tax also applies to certain types of trusts
at the top tax bracket for such entities. In 2012 that threshold
is $11,650, or lower than the earnings level that qualifies
individuals and couples. That means there may be more incentive
next year to distribute some gains in trusts to beneficiaries if
they make less than the $200,000- or $250,000-a-year thresholds,
Steffen said.  Taxpayers with so-called charitable remainder trusts should
consider realizing long-term gains before Jan. 1 to minimize the
effect of the tax, said Drossman of U.S. Trust. These trusts
distribute income to charities as well as non-charitable
beneficiaries such as family members. While the regulations
specify that money transferred by the trust to charities isn’t
subject to the 3.8 percent tax, gains passed to others can be,
he said.  “There’s an opportunity here,” Drossman said. “Sell
appreciated assets in these trusts even if you’re going to buy
them right back.”  Expense Offset  Taxpayers also should keep close track next year of
expenses including state and local taxes paid or penalties for
an early withdrawal of a certificate of deposit, Drossman said.
Those costs can offset investment income subject to the tax.  High earners should be aware that employers must start
withholding for the other tax in the health care law -- the 0.9
percent  additional tax on wages  -- as soon as workers earn
$200,000 in a year.  “They’re going to withhold as soon as you hit the $200,000
threshold on the presumption that your spouse will push you over
the $250,000, even if your spouse doesn’t work,” said Steffen
of Robert W. Baird. “Basically, the government gets an
interest-free loan as a result.”  Married taxpayers who make less than $200,000 a year and
with their spouse earn more than $250,000 may have to plan for
additional taxes owed because their employers won’t
automatically withhold extra, he said. Such taxpayers whose
combined incomes exceed the threshold should make estimated tax
payments or request additional income tax withholding using form
W-4, according to the IRS.  Those who usually make  estimated tax  payments during the
year may need to account for the two taxes as soon as the first
quarter of 2013, said Cofer of Seward & Kissel. “Keep it in the
front of your mind early in the year,” he said.  The regulations are proposals and open to public comment by
March 5. Still, they represent the agency’s view and taxpayers
can rely on them to prepare as the taxes will start applying
Jan. 1, according to the IRS.  “The reality is beginning to set in,” said PwC’s Nash.
“It’s going to take effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  