-- Wells Fargo Adds Freddie Mac’s Reiter for Loan Research
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-10T18:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/wells-fargo-adds-freddie-mac-s-reiter-for-loan-research.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, hired Greg Reiter from Freddie Mac to run
residential mortgage research at its securities unit.  Reiter, 49, will be based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and
lead a team responsible for producing research, strategy and
investment ideas for customers, according to a statement today
from the San Francisco-based firm. He replaces Glenn Schultz,
who was head of residential mortgage research before leaving the
bank, according to Shelley Beason, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 59, is adding
resources and building out the investment-banking operation in a
bid to challenge competitors such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Bank of America Corp. Wells Fargo has added research analysts
and purchased hedge fund-services firm Merlin Securities LLC.  At Freddie Mac, Reiter developed strategies for mortgage-
backed securities and also expanded efforts to reach new
investors and dealers, according to the statement.  Reiter reports to Marielle Jan de Beur, head of structured-
products research at Wells Fargo Securities, the investment-
banking and capital-markets division. Diane Schumaker-Krieg is
the global head of research and economics, reporting to
securities head John Shrewsberry.  Reiter previously worked for Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and
UBS AG, where he was ranked No. 1 by Institutional Investor in
agency structured products and agency adjustable-rate mortgage
research, according to the statement. He also managed a
portfolio of mortgage-backed bonds at the  World Bank .  Reiter has a bachelor’s degree in economics and a master’s
degree in business administration from the University of
California, Berkeley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  