-- Where Will You Be in 2030, America?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-10T14:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/where-will-you-be-in-2030-america-.html
Uncertainty over how the U.S. will
evolve over the next two decades makes its behavior a top “game-
changer” of the international order. So say the authors of
 “Global Trends 2030: Alternative Worlds,”  the latest quadrennial
future-gazing exercise by the National Intelligence Council.  The difficulty of predicting how a politically polarized
U.S. will respond to the stiff domestic tests it faces is just
one of six game-changers in this best guess by the intelligence
community about the near-term world. These variables are playing
out in a world inexorably shaped by four “megatrends”:
individual empowerment driven by technology, health-care
advances and a growing middle class; the rise of a multipolar
order shaped increasingly by networks and coalitions; shifting
demographics, including accelerated urbanization; and an
intensifying struggle for food, water and energy.  It’s easy to ridicule this sort of big-picture exercise.
Why no mention of  Venezuela , where a change of leadership could
end its growing friendship with  Iran  and bankrolling of Cuba and
other market-unfriendly regimes? Why is the prospect of Korean
reunification or a North Korean collapse given short shrift?
Why, for that matter, is North Korea, which has detonated two
nuclear devices, called a nuclear “aspirant”?  Moreover, the “alternative worlds” that the report uses to
sketch out scenarios for the future feel familiar and don’t
offer much range -- a sign of prudence, or a lack of
imagination?  Complex Challenges  That said, the report usefully brings into focus the
complexity of the challenges facing policy makers. For example,
two of the report’s most important megatrends are dangerously
intertwined: rising urbanization and increased stress on
supplies of food, water and energy.  The authors predict that 60 percent of the world’s 8.3
billion people will live in cities in 2030, up from 50 percent
today. This will require an immense amount of home and office
construction and infrastructure creation, perhaps as much as has
been created by mankind in all history.  While urbanization will spur economic growth and the rise
of middle classes across the globe, demand for “food, water, and
energy will grow by approximately 35, 40, and 50 percent
respectively,” the report predicts.  The world can start to plan for these twin demands now. New
technologies, such as hydraulic fracturing for natural gas, and
alternative energy sources, along with conservation and smarter
building techniques, can ameliorate energy shortages. Food and
water, ever codependent -- 70 percent of human water use goes to
agriculture -- will be trickier, especially if production of
crops for biofuels increases.  Developing nations and their donors would do well to
concentrate on so-called precision farming and micro-irrigation.
Currently, most farming wastes about 60 percent of freshwater
involved; underground drip irrigation can reduce waste to less
than 10 percent. Less-expensive, traditional smart practices
such as zero-till farming are also shamefully underused.  And, sorry agricultural Luddites, the report makes a strong
case for increased development and use of genetically modified
crops. Countries that compete for the same fresh-water sources -
-  China , India and  Pakistan  with the Indus;  Egypt  and its
upriver Nile neighbors -- should firm up water-sharing
agreements before the population crunch hits.  One way in which this Global Trends report differs from its
predecessors is with its focus on how American foreign policy,
and political and societal change within the U.S., will affect
global trends. Under every scenario, American pre-eminence gives
way to a first-among-equals status.  Losing Influence  China’s and India’s economies are likely to continue to
grow at a pace double that of the U.S.’s boom in the first half
of the 20th century, and an aging  Europe  will continue to lose
influence. U.S. standing will increasingly rely on soft power
and the strength of its open economic and political systems.  Bloomberg View feels that the keys to maintaining this
advantage will be more spending on research and technology by
the government and corporations, rejuvenating our educational
system, and expanding immigration policies for both skilled and
unskilled workers.  Indeed, the report presciently holds that global worker
mobility will be a huge driver of economic growth, eluding
countries with closed-door policies and repressive governments.
Countries with freer trade will also come out better, another
reason for the U.S. to push forward on the Trans-Pacific
Partnership and other trade deals.  Less presciently, the report anticipates a drop in U.S.
military spending -- from 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
to potentially as little as 1.6 percent to 2.6 percent. This
seems unlikely, given the need to counter Chinese military and
political sway in Asia and to confront a growing number of
small-state and nonstate threats.  Nonetheless, the authors are correct that the U.S. will be
less able to afford unilateral military and security action and
will be more dependent on international alliances and forging
stronger relationships with  India  and other rising states. Also
vital are keeping the dollar in place as the world’s reserve
currency and maintaining the role of first responder and
balanced arbiter in international crises.  The one thing the world cannot afford, the authors insist,
is a U.S. withdrawal from global leadership or its economic
collapse. No matter the results of the “fiscal cliff”
negotiations, much rides on the U.S. getting its finances into a
sustainable position. Increasingly for the U.S., leading the
world will require taking care of business at home.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 