-- Wine Advocate’s Robert Parker Stepping Down as Editor
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-12-10T19:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/wine-advocate-s-parker-taking-on-investors-retiring-as-editor.html
The Wine Advocate founder  Robert Parker , whose 100-point rating system has served as an industry
benchmark for decades, will step down as editor-in-chief of the
newsletter after taking on three investors from  Singapore .  Parker, 65, will remain chief executive officer and
chairman of the Wine Advocate’s board, he said in a note to
subscribers yesterday. Lisa Perrotti-Brown, who lives in
Singapore, will take over as editor and a new office will be
opened in the country, Parker said.  The Monkton, Maryland-based company also is looking at the
possibility of selling advertising that’s not related to wines,
Parker said in an e-mail. The ads would only appear on a
bulletin board on the company’s website, not within  the
publication  itself, said Parker, who declined to discuss the
financial terms of the deal.  The investment, which came from three “highly qualified
business and technology people” who also were longtime
subscribers, will let the Wine Advocate take advantage of newer
technology and applications, Parker said. The company also plans
to offer wine-education conferences around the world. The move
follows a partnership in 2001 with Wine Technologies, which
helped the company expand online.  ‘Welcome Catalyst’  “Back in 1978, when the publication was a simple 8-10 page
rough-hewn document, my vision and goal was to create a body of
wine knowledge that exceeded anything the world had ever seen,”
Parker said. “I never dreamed that the Internet and the
technology revolution would be such a welcome catalyst to
expedite achieving my goals.”  Even as the publication expands online, there’s no plan to
become an Internet-only newsletter, Parker said in his e-mail
message. That contradicted a Wall Street Journal story, which
said the Wine Advocate may phase out its print version by the
end of 2013.  “There is no plan to phase out the Wine Advocate print
edition,” Parker said. “We will make available a PDF version
of the print edition for those who wish to view it
electronically.”  Parker started the Wine Advocate,  billed  as a “consumer’s
guide” to wine, because he saw a lack of reliable information
on quality. The publication now has more than 50,000
subscribers, and Parker’s ratings are widely used by wine
retailers to promote their wares. Over the years, he has taken
on additional reviewers, including Perrotti-Brown, who
previously  worked  as a wine buyer for a Japanese importer.  In his note to subscribers, Parker said he plans to keep
reviewing wines for the publication.  “I will continue to comprehensively cover  Bordeaux , the
Rhone, retrospectives on California vintages, and profiles of
under $25 wine bargains from our finest importers,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  