-- World Duty Free Makes Best Bid for Spanish Duty-Free Stores
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-12-10T20:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/world-duty-free-makes-best-bid-for-spanish-duty-free-stores.html
State-owned Spanish airport operator
Aeropuertos Espanoles y Navegacion Aerea said World Duty Free
Group Espana made the best bid to manage duty-free shops at 20
airports including Madrid and  Barcelona .  The airport operator, known as Aena, said in a statement
today that World Duty Free Espana offered 887.6 million euros
($1.15 billion) in income from 2013 through Oct. 31, 2020, to
manage the second set of the 80 duty-free shops included in its
network of 26 airports such as the Barcelona-El Prat airport.  World Duty Free earlier today presented the best bid for
the first set, which includes the Madrid-Barajas airport,
offering 753.2 million euros. Sociedad de Distribucion Comercial
Aeroportuaria de Canarias, or Canariensis, was chosen for the
third group, covering the  Canary Islands , after offering 323.5
million euros, Madrid-based Aena said. Aena’s board will analyze
all bids at a Dec. 18 meeting.  Aena is outsourcing the management of the outlets to
encourage competition as the government seeks to boost its value
after canceling tenders earlier this year to sell management
contracts for the Madrid and Barcelona airports. Aena aims to
increase duty free shops’ sales to 700 million euros a year from
535 million euros last year.  The seven participants in the tender for the three batches
were SIGMA, Canariensis, World Duty Free Group Espana SA, Dufry
Islas Canarias SL, Dufry Hispanosuiza SL, Areas SA and Gebr.
Heinemann SE & Co.  The operator manages or has stakes in 47 airports in  Spain 
and had 1.68 billion euros of short-term debt at the end of
2011, according to its  annual report . Last month, Aena had to
reduce the size of loans it is seeking as borrowers’ demand for
longer-term debt wanes in the  recession-affected  country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Kraus at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  