-- Xi Travels to China’s Guangdong Echoing Deng Visit in 1992
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-10T10:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/xi-travels-to-china-s-guangdong-echoing-deng-xiaoping-1992-visit.html
Xi Jinping visited  Guangdong
province  in his first trip since taking over as head of  China ’s
Communist Party, drawing parallels to a 1992 tour by paramount
leader  Deng Xiaoping  that spurred economic opening.  The visit included stopping Dec. 8 at a statue of Deng
built in the city of Shenzhen to commemorate the late leader’s
visit two decades earlier, according to footage broadcast by
 Phoenix Television . Xi was shown telling members of his
entourage, which Phoenix said included retired officials who had
accompanied Deng on his trip, that China’s reforms were correct
and must continue.  Xi, 59, who succeeded  Hu Jintao  as the Communist Party’s
general secretary last month, confronts economic growth this
year forecast to be the lowest since 1999. The trip may signal
that his tenure will follow that of Deng, whose 1992 visit to
Guangdong was credited with helping rekindle China’s push to
overhaul its economy after growth plummeted following the 1989
Tiananmen Square crackdown.  “Now is the time to remind people that only by continuing
the Deng-style reform can China continue to cross the river by
touching on the next stone,” said Huang Jing, a political
science professor at the  National University  of Singapore, in
reference to a phrase Deng made famous at the outset of his push
to open  China’s economy  starting in 1978.  Deng, who oversaw China’s economic rise after Mao Zedong’s
death in 1976, championed the idea of testing policies locally
and adopting them more broadly if they succeeded.  Deep Water  “Now they are already in the middle of the river, where
the water is deep and runs fast,” Huang said. “They will fall
in the river and drown unless they find the next stepping stone
fast, and they know that.”  Speaking at a seminar in  Guangzhou  yesterday, Xi said China
shouldn’t delay economic restructuring and shouldn’t shy away
from unfavorable factors at home and abroad, the official Xinhua
News Agency said today, in the first state media reporting on
his trip.  Xi shook hands with several people after visiting Deng’s
statue and answered questions from  Hong Kong  journalists in the
crowd, the  South China Morning Post  reported. Xi drew applause
when he opened the window from his van and waved to the crowd as
he left, the newspaper reported.  His visit to Guangdong sets him apart from previous leaders
such as Hu and  Jiang Zemin , whose first official trips were to
Communist Party “revolutionary meccas in former inland
guerrilla bases,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor
of history at the  Chinese University  of Hong Kong.  Speak Freely  In keeping with that informal style, Xi told participants
at the Guangzhou seminar that he hadn’t asked to see their
speeches beforehand and they should speak freely “based on
facts,” Xinhua reported.  Nowhere has Deng’s philosophy been more evident than in
Guangdong. Xi’s father, the province’s governor in the late
1970s and early 1980s, implemented Deng’s reforms by setting up
special economic zones such as Shenzhen, which transformed from
a fishing village into one of China’s wealthiest cities. China
posted three decades of export-driven growth as Deng’s policies
expanded up and down the coast.  Guangdong, home to factories assembling products including
Apple Inc. iPhones, had gross domestic product of 5.32 trillion
 yuan  ($853.9 billion) last year, according to China’s National
Bureau of Statistics, on par with  Indonesia ’s. It has the
country’s biggest provincial economy and is the most populous
province in the world’s most populous country.  Xi’s father, who died in 2002, spent much of his retirement
in Shenzhen, and his extended family, including Xi Jinping, was
 photographed  there in 2000.  During his so-called southern  tour , centered around
Shenzhen, Deng voiced support for Guangdong’s special economic
zones and continued economic reform. The Chinese word for tour,
“xun,” was used to describe the travels of emperors in China’s
imperial past.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  