-- TXU Bond Plunge Reaps $450 Million Windfall: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-12-10T18:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/txu-bond-plunge-reaps-450-million-windfall-corporate-finance.html
KKR & Co.’s Energy Future Holdings
Corp., struggling to avoid default, is enjoying a $450 million
windfall at the expense of bondholders.  Energy Future, formerly called TXU Corp. and taken private
by KKR, TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners five
years ago in the largest leveraged buyout, exchanged $1.15
billion of new notes last week for old ones with a face value of
$1.6 billion. The move came after the old securities tumbled
when the firm said in an Oct. 30 regulatory filing that it may
be liable for $23 billion of taxable income if it cuts ties to
units that default.  The disclosure “allowed them to get a better” deal on the
exchange,  Andy DeVries , an analyst at independent bond research
firm CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview. The
filing probably was intended to rattle bondholders and cut the
value of the outstanding debt before the swap, he said.  The assertion that Energy Future timed its tax disclosure
to knock down bond prices to buy them back on more favorable
terms “is patently false,”  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for
Energy Future Holdings, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Financial Flexibility’  “The Oct. 30 tax disclosure is wholly unrelated to the
debt exchange” and the swap “gives financial flexibility in
the short and long term,” he said. “We have been and always
will be in compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission laws.”  The Dallas-based company has posted seven consecutive
quarterly  losses  and will face a “material restructuring” in
the next 12 months, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Its
 long-term borrowings  soared to $37.4 billion as of Sept. 30 from
$10.6 billion before the LBO. Meantime, natural gas prices have
fallen about 74 percent from their 2008 peak. The price of
electricity in the Texas market is linked to natural gas costs.  When Energy Future was taken private for $43.2 billion, it
was profiting from low power-generation fuel costs and rising
natural gas prices. The company, under former Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer C. John Wilder, earned $2.6 billion in 2006
after rebounding from a failed international expansion that left
it on the verge of bankruptcy four years earlier.  Sagging Fortunes  With its fortunes again sagging, Energy Future has been
trying to extend maturities through debt exchanges, borrowed to
pay off intercompany loans and made efforts to shield profitable
assets from potential creditor claims in the event of a
restructuring. Fitch Ratings said it’s likely the company may
remove provisions in its bond indentures that would further
protect those assets.  Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs, didn’t
return telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment on Energy
Future’s finances. Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG with Owen
Blicksilver Public Relations Inc., declined to comment.  Energy Future disclosed in October, along with a $407
million  third-quarter loss , that it had a $19 billion excess
loss account and $4 billion deferred intercompany gain that are
reflected in the tax basis of the stock it holds of Energy
Future Competitive Holdings and may be triggered as taxable
income if those shares are sold.  Bonds Plummet  The announcement caused its bonds to plummet, with the
market value of the old debt involved in the swap falling to
$991 million from $1.1 billion, according to CreditSights. Its
5.55 percent notes due 2014, which traded at 83 cents on the
dollar before the quarterly filing, fell as low as 50 cents in
November before rebounding to 88 three hours after the exchange
deal was made public, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The bonds increased to 88.5 cents to yield 12.4 percent on
Dec. 7, Trace data show.  “We think there is a better chance the disclosure was
meant to drive down the price of EFH bonds so management can
commence an exchange offer,” DeVries wrote in a Nov. 4 report.  The new bonds allow Energy Future to pay interest with
extra debt instead of cash. That may improve the company’s near-
term finances as it works to shield an 80 percent stake in its
profitable Oncor Electric Delivery Co., which is regulated and
distributes power to homes and businesses, from a potential
restructuring of other units that generate and sell power in
competitive markets.  Exchange Premium  Energy Future issued the new bonds through its Energy
Future Intermediate Holding Co. and EFIH Finance units, which
sit between the parent and Oncor in the firm’s capital
structure.  The securities, which are due in 2018 and pay 12.25 percent
interest with extra debt, were exchanged at a 16 percent premium
to the market value of existing debt held at the parent level,
according to CreditSights.  Had it conducted the swap six weeks ago, before the market
value of the securities plunged to as low as $700 million in the
days following the tax disclosure, Energy Future would have had
to spend $1.27 billion to give creditors the same premium.  The new bonds were exchanged for $234 million of 5.55
percent debt due November 2014; $510 million of 6.5 percent
notes due in 2024; about $453 million of its 6.55 percent
securities due in 2034; $94 million of 10.875 percent debentures
due 2017; and $313 million of 11.25 percent bonds due 2017.  Energy Future expanded on the tax liability in a Nov. 6
filing known as a “8-K” in response to investors’ questions.  ‘Internal Restructurings’  “The excess loss account and deferred intercompany gain
described in the Energy Future Holdings form 10-Q were created
in connection with financing transactions and internal
restructurings that involved Texas Competitive Electric Holdings
and its assets but not Energy Future Intermediate Holding or
Oncor Holdings,” Energy Future said in the filing.  The debt exchange is part of a move to improve the finances
at the portion of the firm linked to Oncor while distancing
those assets from units such as Texas Competitive Electric
Holdings Co., where Moody’s said a default is “highly likely”
to occur in the next 12 months.  After cutting legal and financial ties, “you can then look
at Energy Future Holdings and Energy Future Intermediate Holding
pretty much as a standalone entity,” Shalini Mahajan, an
analyst at Fitch, who doesn’t expect the tax implications to be
triggered, said in a telephone interview. “We don’t think Oncor
gets pulled in, in any kind of bankruptcy proceedings.”  Buying Time  Energy Future also benefits from the ability to pay
interest on the new bonds with additional debt, giving the
company more time to improve its balance sheet, Mahajan said.
The so-called payment-in-kind feature may save $360 million in
interest costs over three years, helping boost liquidity to a
level adequate until 2016, she wrote in a Dec. 5 report.  Moody’s changed its rating outlook on the electricity
provider to “developing” from “negative” after the exchange,
saying in a Dec. 5 report that “the probability of a default
occurring simultaneously across the Energy Future Holdings
family, excluding Oncor, is diverging.”  The parent company is rated Caa3 by Moody’s and CCC at
Fitch, levels that denote bonds with high default risk. S&P
changed Energy Future’s rating to SD from CCC on Dec. 6,
characterizing the exchange offer as a “selective default.”  Losses have been tempered by Energy Future’s stake in
Oncor, whose rate of return on investment is set by regulators.
The unit reported net income of $321 million for the first nine
months of 2012 and paid a $100 million dividend to Energy
Future, the size of which is regulated, up from $64 million in
2011. The parent said in its Oct. 30 filing that it expected to
receive a distribution of about $47 million from Oncor that day.  Gas Plunge  “Lenders accepting the exchange might be looking to the
value, if any, of being closer to the asset that provides
essentially all cash flow” that Energy Future uses to meet
obligations, Terry Pratt, an analyst at S&P in New York, said in
a Dec. 6 report.  Natural gas futures cost $3.55 per million British thermal
units last week, down from $6.88 on Oct. 11, 2007, the day KKR
and TPG took Energy Future private. Prices have plunged from a
peak of $13.58 in July 2008 as the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression sapped demand and as expanded drilling in
the gas-rich Marcellus shale in the eastern U.S. created a
supply glut.  “Natural gas prices are never going to get where they need
them to get to be able to make that capital structure work,”
Peter Thornton, an analyst at high-yield researcher KDP
Investment Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview.  A decision by Energy Future to put Energy Future
Competitive Holdings and its Texas Competitive Electric Holdings
unit into bankruptcy protection would raise the question of
whether those units’ creditors, “if they’re going to get zero
or are otherwise severely impaired, will they have a claim on
that Oncor equity value, because of the tax liability or the
intercompany loan or some other link to the parent?,” Thornton
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net 
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  