-- ThyssenKrupp Stops Dividend After $4.7 Billion Writedown
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-12-11T16:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-10/thyssenkrupp-cancels-dividend-after-4-7-billion-asset-writedown.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, canceled its dividend after posting a second
straight annual loss, following a 3.6 billion-euro ($4.7
billion) writedown of its Americas unit.  The net loss widened to 4.7 billion euros in the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30 from 1.29 billion euros the previous year,
the Essen-based company said yesterday in a  statement .  ThyssenKrupp jumped the most in three months in  Frankfurt 
trading today after Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger 
said the sale of Steel Americas is “fully on track” to be
completed before the end of the current fiscal year. There are
“more than five bidders” interested in one or both of the
plants in Alabama and Rio de Janeiro state, Chief Financial
Officer Guido Kerkhoff said.  Impairment charges were “lower than we had expected,”
Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt,
said in a note. “The new book value of Steel Americas (3.9
billion euros) signals that the transaction outcome could be
broadly in line with our 3.5 billion-euro assumption.”  The company said it won’t pay a dividend for the first time
since it was formed in the 1999 merger of Thyssen and Krupp. The
steelmaker paid a dividend of 45 euro cents a share for the
prior year.  Waning Demand  ThyssenKrupp is selling its Steel Americas and Inoxum units
as it cuts the number of business units to five from eight while
expanding non-steel operations. Waning demand from the auto and
construction industries has pushed down steel prices and
squeezed producers’ profit margins.  “We have a very solid financial basis,” Hiesinger said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television, ruling out a capital
increase or any additional asset sales.  ThyssenKrupp said last week it ousted three top executives
following the ill-fated expansion in the Americas and corruption
allegations. Olaf Berlien, Edwin Eichler and Juergen Claassen
will leave at the end of the year, according to the company,
which said yesterday the supervisory board had agreed to the
changes.  “With the changes on the executive board, the supervisory
board has sent out a clear signal for a fresh start,” Hiesinger
said in the statement. The new executive board will have four to
five members.  The shares jumped 5.6 percent, the most since Sept. 14, to
17.18 euros. The stock is down 7 percent this year.  In Line  Earnings before interest and tax excluding one-time items
and results from Inoxum fell 77 percent to 399 million euros,
the company said. The average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg was for 397.1 million euros. Sales from continuing
operations fell 6 percent to 40.1 billion euros.  ThyssenKrupp projected adjusted Ebit of about 1 billion
euros for the current fiscal year on sales of around 40 billion
euros for continuing operations, which excludes Steel Americas.
The company said cost cuts will improve Ebit by 2 billion euros
in the next three years. Kerkhoff didn’t rule out compulsory
redundancies.  Net debt rose to 5.8 billion euros from 3.6 billion euros a
year earlier. The company said it has 6.7 billion euros of cash,
cash equivalents and undrawn credit facilities, and its
financing is “secure.”  ThyssenKrupp said Nov. 19 it asked bidders to submit
binding offers for its U.S. and Brazilian plants. Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by
output, offered about $3 billion to buy the two plants in the
Americas, two people familiar with the matter said last month.  Book Value  “In connection with the classification of Steel Americas
as a discontinued operation, a writedown to fair value” was
necessary, ThyssenKrupp said. The book value now is 3.9 billion
euros, Kerkhoff said.  Steel Americas’ adjusted loss before interest and tax
narrowed to 1.01 billion euros, said Kilian Roetzer, a company
spokesman. A year earlier, ThyssenKrupp posted a loss of 1.07
billion euros and took a 2.1 billion-euro writedown on the unit.  The sale of the Inoxum stainless steel unit to  Finland ’s
 Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V)  will be completed before the end of 2012 and
result in a “significant” reduction in debt, according to the
steelmaker.  ThyssenKrupp’s equity decreased by 56 percent from a year
earlier to 4.5 billion euros, according to the company’s annual
report. At the same time, the equity ratio fell to 11.8 percent
from 23.8 percent.  Other European steel companies have also reported mounting
pressure on profit from the slump in demand and lower prices.
 Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s second-largest steelmaker, cut its
earnings forecast on Nov. 5, while Luxembourg-based
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest producer, posted its lowest
quarterly profit in almost three years on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy 
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  