-- Abbott Vows to Cut Australia Company Tax if Opposition Wins Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-08-07T01:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/abbott-vows-to-cut-australia-company-tax-if-opposition-wins-poll.html
Australian opposition leader Tony Abbott, whose coalition has a slight lead in opinion polls ahead
of the Sept. 7 election, vowed to trim company taxes by 1.5
percentage points in his first major campaign promise.  “Reduced company tax will result in more economic
activity,” Abbott told reporters in Adelaide today, announcing
the rate would be lowered to 28.5 percent on July 1, 2015,
should his Liberal-National coalition win government. “It will
be good for jobs, it will be good for prosperity, and ultimately
will be good for government revenue.”  The announcement comes as Abbott, 55, who trails as
preferred prime minister even as the coalition holds an
advantage in polls, seeks to transform his image into that of a
leader with a policy platform for the nation. The ability of the
opposition and the Labor government of incumbent Prime Minister
Kevin Rudd, 55, to lure votes with spending promises is hampered
by a slowdown in economic growth and government revenue.  “It’s the sort of policy you’d expect from the coalition,
which is traditionally seen as representing big business,” said
Paul Strangio, a senior lecturer in politics at Monash
University in  Melbourne , who expects a coalition victory. “One
of the intriguing dynamics of this campaign is that the
government coffers are so tight, so funding promises is
tricky.”  Paid Leave  Lowering the rate would partly offset the cost to companies
of the coalition’s plan for paid parental leave, Abbott said,
adding it would shave A$5 billion ($4.5 billion) off the forward
budget estimates. The opposition would announce budget savings
before the election, Shadow Treasurer Joe Hockey said at today’s
announcement.  Abbott’s proposed parental leave program, which would let
new mothers take up to half a year in paid leave, would be
funded by a 1.5 percent levy on companies with taxable income of
A$5 million a year or more.  “It’s kind of funny they’re putting up company tax and
putting it down as well to pay for the rolled-gold paid parental
leave scheme,” Finance Minister Penny Wong said in a Channel 7
interview today.  Rudd received a boost yesterday when  Australia ’s central
bank cut its benchmark rate to a record low 2.5 percent in a
nation where about 90 percent of mortgagees have variable-rate
loans. The central bank is seeking to boost non-mining sectors
that struggled with an elevated currency, underscored by  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s plan to close its local plants, resulting in 1,200
job losses.  Lower Forecasts  Rudd has announced plans to scrap the world’s highest
carbon price and changed Labor’s rules for selecting its leader
since defeating former prime minister Julia Gillard in a June 26
leadership ballot. He needs to boost Labor’s reputation as
economic managers after the government backed away from a pledge
in December to return the budget to surplus in the last
financial year.  Treasurer Chris Bowen last week lowered the government’s
growth forecast and predicted the jobless rate will rise to an
11-year high by July. The nation’s mining investment expansion
is predicted to wane as demand from nations including  China 
slows.  A 2016-17 surplus projection was cut to A$4 billion from
the A$6.6 billion seen in May, documents released by Bowen on
Aug. 1 showed. The 2014-15 deficit is now expected at A$24
billion while the 2015-16 shortfall is forecast at A$4.7
billion, from a balance flagged in the May 14 budget handed down
by Bowen’s predecessor Wayne Swan.  To raise receipts, the government will increase tobacco
taxes by A$5.3 billion; save A$1.8 billion by tightening tax
breaks for business car use; target A$827 million of unpaid tax
and pension savings; and charge banks a fee for deposit
insurance.  Abbott’s pledge to cut the company tax rate comes after
previous promises to scrap Labor’s emissions trading program and
a 30 percent tax on coal and iron-ore company profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  