-- Thai Move to 4G Mobile May Lure Overseas Bidders: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-08-08T03:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/thai-move-to-4g-mobile-may-lure-overseas-bidders-southeast-asia.html
Thailand  needs to make more bandwidth
available to lure overseas bidders when it auctions licenses to
run fourth-generation mobile-phone networks in 2014, the head of
the country’s second-biggest operator said.  The regulator could include unused frequency bands that are
scheduled to be returned to a state-owned utility in 2018 to
make the contest more attractive, said Jon Eddy Abdullah, chief
executive officer of  Total Access Telecommunications (DTAC)  Pcl, which
is 43 percent owned by  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and controls the spectrum.  Faster 4G networks would help operators meet surging demand
for mobile data in Thailand, where the use of social-media
platforms such as Facebook already outstrips that of South Korea
and  Japan . Thai operators began providing 3G services in May
after eight years of delays caused by legal battles and
regulatory wrangling.  “If you want a more successful auction, if you want to
potentially get more money, you have to make it attractive,”
Eddy Abdullah said in an interview in Bangkok. “If you want
potential foreign buyers, you have to make it more attractive.”  Thailand raised 41.6 billion baht ($1.3 billion) when it
awarded 3G licenses to Total Access, bigger rival  Advanced Info
Service (ADVANC)  Pcl and  True Corp. (TRUE)  Pcl in 2012. The country was one of
the last in  Southeast Asia  to offer widespread 3G services. No
international companies took part, and the roll out was delayed
until the Thai bidders were cleared of allegations they colluded
to keep prices low.  ‘Perfect Timing’  The National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission
plans to auction 1,800-megahertz and 900-megahertz spectrum by
September next year, Commissioner Suthiphon Thaveechaiyagarn
said in an interview. It expects to grant licenses in late 2014
and companies will begin 4G services early the following year,
he said. The regulator hasn’t decided how many licenses will be
awarded.  “Next year will be the perfect timing for the 4G
auction,” Suthiphon said. “It should give more time for
operators to prepare themselves to join the bid and allow the
technology, which is quite costly now, to become cheaper.”  The three biggest Thai mobile companies have already
pledged to invest a combined 119 billion baht in their 3G
networks.  The regulator plans to auction at least 42.5 megahertz of
frequency and further 25 megahertz could be made available if
Total Access and state-owned CAT Telecom Pcl agree to give up
their right to the surplus bandwidth, Suthiphon said.  ‘Highly Attractive’  “Technically, there is no way that frequency will be used
before the end of the concession in 2018,” Total Access’s Eddy
Abdullah said. That spectrum sits between two other bands that
will be included in the auction, and it makes more sense to
combine them, he said.  “Put it all together and then you have 50 megahertz of
1,800 spectrum, which is highly attractive for domestic and
international companies, and now you have auction,” he said.  Urging the regulator to include the unused spectrum to
attract international bidders may save Total Access money.  “We are quite vocal, let’s try to auction it off for the
treasury’s benefit, the tax-payer benefit,” Eddy Abdullah said.
“We are stuck in concession until 2018. We don’t solve our
concession issue. What if I have to pay three-to-four times more
for spectrum by 2018? That’s why we recommend to auction it.”  Total Access shares  rose as much as 1.3 percent to 121.5
baht in Bangkok today, poised for their highest close in almost
two weeks. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  gained 1.1 percent.  Social Networks  Even without access to widespread 3G networks, the number
of Thais using Facebook has risen to about 26 percent of the
population, Kasikorn Securities Co. said in a June research
note, exceeding penetration levels in  South Korea  and Japan.  “The improved network coverage and more affordable devices
should further support data usage growth,” it said.  The three biggest Thai companies all said they plan to bid
for 4G licenses, which will reduce costs by ending the need to
share revenue with state-owned utilities.  True is already running 4G trials using it existing
frequencies, and Advanced Info has started a limited 4G trial in
central Bangkok.  “Thai people have a strong demand for data usage,”
Advanced Info Chief Executive Officer Wichian Mektrakarn said in
an interview on Aug. 1. “4G will meet demand from heavy data
users or any public services that require a high quality and
reliable network, like telemedicine.”  About 12.7 million of Advanced Info’s 37 million customers
were using data services as of the end of March, it said.
 Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  has a 21 percent stake in
Advanced Info, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shin
Corp. (INTUCH) , which is controlled by Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte
and its affiliates, owns 40 percent.  SingTel, Temasek  True “is confident it will win the bidding” President
Suphachai Chearavanont said at a media briefing on Aug. 1.
True’s existing concession to use the 1,800 megahertz frequency
expires next month, potentially affecting 17 million phone
users. The regulator will issue a regulation this month to
ensure the continuity of service for True’s customers until new
spectrum is auctioned, said Suthiphon, the commissioner.  When True’s 2,100 megahertz 4G network started it May, it
covered densely populated areas including Bangkok’s central
business districts, and may be expanded to 15 provinces this
year including Chon Buri, Prachuap Khiri Khan,  Chiang Mai ,
Phuket, Surat Thani and Ayutthaya. True plans to increase the
number of 4G base stations to 2,000 by year-end.  The 4G auction is a bigger challenge for the regulator
because it involves frequencies governed by concessions and
unused spectrum, Eddy Abdullah said.  “I know it’s difficult,” he said. “I know there is no
legal precedent. I know it’s a challenge. But we just want
everyone to sit down and consider. That would be really
interesting. International players would love it and it will be
good auction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  