-- Thai Stocks Biggest Losers in Asia as Protests Spur Swings
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-08-08T10:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/thai-stocks-biggest-losers-in-asia-as-protests-spur-volatility.html
Thailand ’s  stocks  are falling at the
fastest pace in  Asia  as an amnesty bill for political protesters
spurs demonstrations in the streets of Bangkok and threatens to
delay the nation’s biggest-ever infrastructure spending plan.  The SET Index, which rose 328 percent from October 2008 to
this year’s high on May 21, has since dropped 13 percent through
yesterday as shares of  Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB)  and billionaire
Dhanin Chearavanont’s  CP All Pcl (CPALL)  tumbled. Stock  swings  in
Thailand have almost tripled in the past six months while
trading volumes fell 52 percent, the most among 45 emerging and
developed markets.  Police closed roads around parliament this week on concern
as many as 5,000 people may join rallies against the ruling Pheu
Thai party’s bill, which would exonerate protesters jailed after
the nation’s military coup in 2006. Debate over the legislation
may delay approval of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s $64
billion plan to build high-speed trains and highways across
Thailand, where government spending accounts for about 24
percent of the economy.  “Political tension and economic slowdown will be the main
risks to the Thai market,” Petcharat Powattanasatien, the head
of equity investment at Bangkok-based Kasikorn Asset Management
Co., the nation’s biggest private money manager with $27 billion
of assets, said in a July 31 phone interview. “Any delay in the
government’s spending on new infrastructure projects will have a
negative impact.”  Volatility Jumps  Thailand’s  SET index (SET)  rose 1.2 percent to 1,447.16 today
after better-than-estimated Chinese trade data eased concern
that the biggest emerging economy is slowing.  The gauge’s 30-day historical volatility jumped 180 percent
to 25.2 as of Aug. 6 from 9 at the end of January. That compares
with a 33 percent drop for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and a
16 percent increase for the Shanghai Composite Index in  China ,
the biggest emerging market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thirty-day average volume in the $390 billion equity market,
the 11th-biggest in Asia, declined to about 9.8 billion shares
from 21 billion in January, which was within 5 percent of a
record high. Volume fell to 4.7 billion shares on Aug. 5, the
lowest since Nov. 21.  The last time  trading  in Thailand slowed this much, in
November 2010, the SET index dropped about 4 percent during the
next 12 months. That compares with a 3.7 percent gain in the  S&P
500 , the data show.  Relative Value  The SET gauge has more than quadrupled since November 2008
as bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve spurred demand for
riskier assets in  emerging markets . The Thai economy rebounded
from a 7 percent contraction in the first quarter of 2009 to
post an average expansion of 4.9 percent during the following
three years. Growing consumer demand in the nation of 67 million
people boosted  car sales  to an all-time high in March and lifted
earnings at SET index companies to a record.  The Thai stock measure will probably climb about 15 percent
this year as  earnings  growth lures foreign investors, said
Korawut Leenabanchong, the chief investment officer at UOB Asset
Management (Thailand), which oversees about $6.4 billion.
Profits in the SET will probably climb 28 percent in the next 12
months, versus 14 percent for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The SET Index is valued at 12.5 times analyst earnings
estimates for the next 12 months. That compares with a multiple
of 18 for the Philippine equity gauge, 16 in  Malaysia  and 14 for
 Indonesia . The MSCI emerging markets index is  trading  at a
multiple of 9.9.  Fed Concern  “Thai stocks have been overpunished,” said Korawut, whose
Thai Value Focus Equity-Dividend Fund has returned 16 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The
overall fundamentals of the Thai market remain strong.”  Equities have rebounded after past periods of political
tension. While the SET Index lost as much as 13 percent in four
months after Thai military leaders sent tanks to block Bangkok’s
Government House and said they’d seized control of the capital
on Sept. 19, 2006, the gauge recouped its losses by May 2007.  The SET index’s decline from its 19-year high on May 21,
the day before Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
congressional testimony that the central bank could reduce
stimulus if the economy improves, is the largest among equity
gauges in 18 Asian nations tracked by Bloomberg. Foreign
investors sold a net $2.7 billion of Thai shares since the end
of March,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘First Cracks’  “Trading should slow and volatility will remain high in
the second half with investors’ lingering concern about the U.S.
Fed’s monetary policy,” Charamporn Jotikasthira, president of
the Stock Exchange of Thailand, said in an interview in Bangkok
on July 23. The “economy will also face risk from economic
slowdown as exports and domestic consumption are still weak.”  Manufacturing  production  declined 3.5 percent in June from
a year earlier and  exports  dropped 3.4 percent, according to
government data released on July 26. The Thai Retailers
Association cut its 2013 forecast for retail and wholesale
revenue growth to 9 percent from 12 percent on July 25. The
nation’s gross domestic product expanded 5.3 percent in the
first quarter.  “We are starting to see the first cracks around the
edges” for the economy,  Mark Matthews , the Singapore-based head
of Asia research at Bank Julius Baer & Co., said in an Aug. 6 e-mail.  Thaksin Ouster  The amnesty bill, proposed by ruling party lawmaker
Worachai Hema, would exonerate protesters involved in
demonstrations stretching from the coup in 2006 until May 10,
2011. The legislation is designed to help innocent people in
prison as a result of political conflict, Worachai said on Aug.
5, according to a comment posted on the party’s  website .  Former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , now an opposition
leader who faces murder charges for authorizing soldiers to use
weapons during political unrest in 2010, has rallied supporters
to protest the legislation.  The bill will undermine the country’s judiciary by freeing
people who were convicted of serious criminal acts, and may lead
to a pardon for Yingluck’s brother  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was
removed from power during the 2006 coup, Abhisit  told  a rally in
Bangkok on Aug. 5.  Demonstrations by Thaksin’s supporters and opponents since
2006 have led to an airport seizure, business center blockages
and arson attacks in Bangkok.  Trading Slump  Thaksin has lived overseas since 2008, when he fled a jail
sentence stemming from charges filed by an army-appointed body.
His party won two general elections since the coup even as two
prime ministers he endorsed were removed by the constitutional
court. Thailand has had nine military coups and more than 20
prime ministers since 1946.  “There is a bit of nerves ahead of the amnesty bill in the
next parliament session as this might cause more protests,”
Andrew Yates, the head of international equities at Asia Plus
Securities Pcl, the country’s second-biggest stock brokerage by
market value, said by phone on Aug. 2.  Trading volumes  have
dropped to levels normally seen around holiday periods, he said.  A draft bill to approve 2 trillion baht ($64 billion) of
spending over seven years is stuck in parliament. The
legislation would lead to construction of high-speed trains,
railway tracks and superhighways as part of the Yingluck
administration’s attempt to reduce energy consumption and
transportation costs.  Forecast Cut  At the same time, about 350 billion baht earmarked for
water management projects in the second half has been held up by
a court order for the assessment of their impact on health and
the environment.  The delays may weigh on the economy and heighten concern
among foreign investors, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong
told reporters in Bangkok on July 24. Credit Suisse Group AG cut
its 2013 economic expansion forecast for Thailand to 4 percent
from 4.7 percent on Aug. 5, citing investment delays and weaker-than-estimated exports.  Investors should reduce Thai equity holdings and increase
cash because of the political outlook, according to  Maybank Kim
Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl (MBKET) , the nation’s largest stock
brokerage. Downside risk and volatility in stocks may increase
this month amid street protests, the Bangkok-based firm said.  “Political tension may prolong and pressure the stock
market even though no major violence is expected,” Sukit Udomsirikul, the head of research at Maybank Kim Eng, said by
phone on Aug. 5. “Investors should wait and see until the
political situation has been settled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson51@bloomberg.net  