-- Airsynergy in Talks to Market Quieter, Cheaper Shrouded Turbines
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-08-07T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/airsynergy-in-talks-to-market-quieter-cheaper-shrouded-turbines.html
Irish developer Airsynergy will bring
a wind turbine encased in a shroud to market this year that it
says is cheaper, more powerful and quieter than other products.  Airsynergy, based in County Longford, is in “serious”
discussions with six companies in nations including the U.S.,
U.K., Ireland and  China  and in  South America , Adrian Kelly,
business development director for the company, said yesterday.
It has already partnered with U.S.-based Aris Energy LLC to
develop and sell its products in as many as 32 states, he said.  “Before the end of the year we intend to get our second
license deal,” Kelly said in London. The company is looking to
license its technology to large industrial companies and
utilities that can distribute and install its systems.  The turbine, which features a circular shroud that
increases the velocity of wind, is the first of its kind to come
to market, said Jim Smyth, chief executive officer. It’s capable
of producing twice the annual power of a conventional turbine,
halving the cost of generation and making it more economical for
sites that aren’t currently viable, he said. It’s also smaller
and quieter than other turbines.  The company has a 5-kilowatt turbine that it plans to
scale-up to 1-megawatt and bring to market in 2014 to 2015. The
large models will produce power at about $45 to $50 a megawatt-hour, Smyth said.  Airsynergy’s products start paying for themselves after
three to five years, Kelly said. Onshore wind energy costs about
$82.60 a megawatt-hour and coal-fired power about $78, according
to Bloomberg estimates.  Installing renewable energy systems can help homes and
businesses to trim their bills by reducing dependence on
volatile fossil-fuel prices. Countries including  the U.K.  offer
premium payments for on-site low-carbon generation.  Alongside the domestic turbine, Airsynergy is working on a
wind-powered streetlight that can be attached to existing poles,
Smyth said. It hopes to bring this product to market before
year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  