-- Aldar Quarterly Profit Jumps on Boost From Sorouh Merger
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   D a l i a   F a h h m y
-- 2013-08-07T09:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/aldar-profit-jumps-after-property-developer-s-merger-with-sorouh.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , Abu Dhabi’s
biggest developer, said second-quarter profit tripled as falling
costs and a gain from its takeover of Sorouh Real Estate Co. in
June made up for plummeting revenue.  Net income  climbed to 1.25 billion dirhams ($340 million),
or 23 fils a share, from 418 million dirhams, or 9 fils, a year
earlier, the Abu Dhabi-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue dropped to 1.26 billion dirhams from 4.63 billion
dirhams a year earlier.  Aldar completed the acquisition of Sorouh on June 30,
creating a developer with $13 billion in assets. The company has
about 14 billion dirhams of debt, of which about 12 billion
comes due by the end of next year, Chief Financial Officer Greg Fewer said today on a conference call. Aldar is in talks to
refinance a $1.2 billion bond that matures in May 2014, he said.  “The merger of the two companies is already delivering
significant benefits,” Aldar Chairman Abubaker Seddiq Al Khoori
said in the statement. “This includes a strengthened financial
position as shareholders equity has almost doubled, gearing has
more than halved and the business has a more balanced and
diversified portfolio.”  Abu Dhabi ’s government backed the combination of the two
developers, which are both part of the state’s drive to
diversify its oil-based economy through office and leisure
projects. Aldar received more than $9.8 billion in bailouts from
the government in 2011.  Lower Costs  Aldar reported a one-time gain of 2.6 billion dirhams from
the merger in the second quarter. The figure reflects the
difference between the shares issued to acquire Sorouh and the
value of its assets, the CFO said. The long-term benefits of the
takeover will start to show in the third quarter, when Sorouh’s
recurring revenue is integrated with Aldar’s, he said.  Aldar will continue with its plan of reducing the debt-to-recurring revenue ratio “in the next couple of years,”
bringing down total borrowings to between 4 billion dirhams and
5 billion dirhams, Fewer said.  “We’re actively engaged with the banks and have been for
some time on the optimal financing structure of these debts,”
Fewer said. “The banking community is strongly endorsing this
story of a stronger merged entity.”  Costs fell to 776 million dirhams from 3.87 billion dirhams
a year earlier, according to the statement. The company also
booked provisions of 1.08 billion dirhams in the period compared
with no provisions a year earlier.  Raha Beach  Aldar released the results while markets were closed for a
public holiday. First-half revenue fell to 2.89 billion dirhams
from 8.22 billion dirhams as the number of homes delivered
dropped to 479 from 1,058 the year earlier. Aldar said the
decline was due the high number of home completions at its
largest Raha Beach development in the previous period. Recurring
revenue from investment properties, hotels and schools rose 10
percent during the period.  The company plans to deliver about 7,400 housing units by
the end of 2014 at developments including Gate Towers and Al
Rayanna. Details about the delivery pipeline beyond 2015 will be
made public once the company announces new development projects,
Fewer said.  “In the coming months we’re going to be announcing a
series of projects and developments that will fill,” the second
half of 2015 and 2016, Fewer said.  Aldar has more than doubled in Abu Dhabi trading this year,
giving the company a market value of 22.6 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  