-- Alex Rodriguez Files Appeal Against Doping Ban With Arbitrator
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-08T04:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/alex-rodriguez-files-appeal-against-doping-ban-with-arbitrator.html
Alex Rodriguez ’s appeal of a 211-game
doping suspension was officially filed with an independent
arbitrator by the Major League Baseball Players’ Union.  “The MLBPA filed the grievance today,” union spokesman
 Greg Bouris  said last night in an e-mail.  New York Yankees third baseman Rodriguez, 38, was suspended
without pay through the 2014 season on Aug. 5. MLB Commissioner
Bud Selig accused Rodriguez of using testosterone and human
growth hormone over “multiple years” and of trying to
“obstruct and frustrate” baseball’s investigation of
performance-enhancing substances supplied from a now-shuttered
clinic in Miami.  Rodriguez is allowed to play during the appeal. He joined
the Yankees for the first time this season on Aug. 5 after hip
surgery in January.  “I don’t think any of us thought it was going to be any
different,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters. “It’s
part of the process that was negotiated between MLB and the
players’ association and you let it play out. I expect him to
play a lot. We need him to help us.”  Rodriguez flied out twice, struck out, singled, walked and
grounded out in a 6-5 loss to the  Chicago White Sox  in 12
innings last night. He returned to third base and batted third
for the Yankees.  New York opened a 4-0 lead through four innings at U.S
Cellular Field. Chicago tied it in the ninth and New York took
the lead again in the 12th on a Robinson Cano home run.  Alejandro De Aza’s triple in the bottom of the inning
scored Tyler Flowers and Alexei Ramirez to secure the win for
the White Sox (43-69).  The Yankees (57-56) are in fourth place in the  American
League East , 11 1/2 games behind the  Boston Red Sox , who beat
the Houston Astros 7-5 last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dex McLuskey at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net  