-- AngloGold Posts Loss and Suspends Dividend as Bullion Drops
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-07T13:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/anglogold-reports-loss-and-suspends-dividend-as-bullion-tumbles.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-largest producer of the metal, posted a loss in the second
quarter and suspended its dividend after bullion suffered a
record three-month drop. Its shares slid to a 12-year low.  The adjusted headline loss, excluding one-time items, was
$135 million in the quarter, from a profit of $113 million in
the previous three months, the Johannesburg-based company said
today in a statement. The shares dropped as much as 6.5 percent
and traded 5 percent lower at 115.89 rand by 2:43 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the lowest intraday level since April 2001.  AngloGold, with 21 operations in 10 countries, is cutting
jobs, capital expenditure, exploration and slowing production at
higher-cost mines as it adjusts to a gold price down 24 percent
this year. The company, which plans to begin mining gold at two
low-cost mines in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and  Australia 
this year, suspended its dividend to conserve cash.  “There are going to be two more tough quarters in 2013 as
we make these changes, but going into 2014 we will see the full
benefit of the two new projects and the cost savings and capex
savings come through,” Chief Executive Officer Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan said today on a call with reporters.  Trim Costs  AngloGold plans to trim its all-in costs to $1,200 an ounce
this year and $1,000 in 2014, said Venkatakrishnan, known as
Venkat. AngloGold’s break-even costs were $1,634 an ounce in the
first quarter, in part due to investment in its two new mines,
according to  David Davis  of SBG Securities Ltd. in Johannesburg.  Gold slid 0.2 percent to $1,280.73 an ounce today and
averaged $1,633 in the first quarter and $1,417 in the second.  AngloGold suspended its dividend, taking a “sensible and
cautious approach” given the drop in prices and pressures on
the company, Venkatakrishnan said in a separate interview.  “What you don’t want to do is keep borrowing from the
banks while paying a dividend,” he said. The CEO said he is
“optimistic” that cash flows will improve, while declining to
comment on future dividends as they are decided by the board.
The company will review its dividend at the end of this year.  The company will cut about 800 workers from the 2,000 in
its corporate offices around the world and reduce its
exploration budget 60 percent, it said. Corporate costs will
fall by half next year from their 2012 levels.  Exploration Budget  “We are not saying we are ready to move on job cuts at any
of the mines,” Venkatakrishnan said. “It’s a function of where
the mine plans end up and what we see in terms of productivity
improvements in the various regions. Any job cuts would be done
after very careful consideration.”  The sale of the Navachab mine in  Namibia  is “progressing
well,” he said, without elaborating. The CEO said he’s studying
selling other higher-cost mines, while declining to name them.  “The market obviously for sale of assets is not very
conducive from a seller’s point of view,” he said. If sales are
not completed, the company will mine operations’ ore stockpiles.  AngloGold produced 935,000 ounces of gold in the second
quarter, in line with the forecast published July 15, and 4
percent more than in the first three months of the year.  Production will total from 4 million to 4.1 million ounces
this year, down from a previous forecast of 4.1 million ounces
to 4.4 million ounces, the company said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  