-- Hannover Re Profit Rises 29 Percent, Beating Estimates
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2013-08-07T06:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/hannover-re-profit-rises-29-percent-beating-estimates.html
Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer, said second-quarter profit rose 29 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, helped by higher investment income.  Net income advanced to 186.3 million euros ($247.9 million)
from 144 million euros a year ago, the Hanover, Germany-based
company said in a  statement  today. That compared with a 173.4
million-euro average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Hannover Re , led by Chief Executive Officer  Ulrich Wallin ,
confirmed its full-year profit forecast of about 800 million
euros after floods in Germany, Austria and the  Czech Republic 
resulted in net claims of 136.9 million euros. The reinsurer
said in June that its costs for the floods probably won’t exceed
its budget for major disaster claims.  Net investment income rose 24 percent to 334.3 million
euros in the quarter from a year earlier, Hannover Re said.  Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, yesterday missed
analyst estimates with a 35 percent decline in second-quarter
profit, as claims from natural disasters rose. The Munich-based
company said it expects costs of about 230 million euros from
the June floods in central Europe. It kept its full-year
earnings target of “close to” 3 billion euros.  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers such as  Allianz SE (ALV) 
and  Axa SA (CS)  shoulder risks in return for a share of premiums,
face challenges from low interest rates and an abundant supply
of capital. Even with the recent European flooding, catastrophe
claims remain below average, weighing on demand for reinsurance
coverage.  While flooding in May and June was “by far” the most
expensive natural catastrophe in the first half, resulting in
insured losses of more than 3 billion euros, the industry’s
total insured losses in the period of about $13 billion remained
below the 10-year average of $22 billion, according to  estimates 
by Munich Re published last month.  Hannover Re shares decreased 4.1 percent this year, lagging
behind the 17 percent gain for the Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index. German insurer  Talanx AG (TLX) , which sold shares in
an initial public offering last year, owns 50.2 percent of
Hannover Re.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  