-- AOL to Buy Adap.tv for $405 Million to Expand in Video
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-07T20:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/aol-to-buy-adap-tv-for-405-million-to-expand-in-video.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  agreed to buy the video-advertising startup Adap.tv for $405 million, marking its
biggest acquisition since Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong 
led the spinoff of the company from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in 2009.  AOL announced the cash-and-stock deal as it posted second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates, lifted by gains in
advertising sales. The stock rose 1.4 percent to $36.69 at the
close in New York. The shares have  gained  24 percent this year,
outpacing the 21 percent gain of the Standard & Poor’s 
Midcap 400 Index.  The acquisition reflects a different strategy than AOL’s
$315 million purchase in 2011 of the  Huffington Post , which was
part of Armstrong’s effort to transform the once struggling
dial-up provider into an advertising-based publisher. Adap.tv,
in contrast, will help AOL grab the ad dollars spent on
television as Internet video draws more viewers, he said.  “This is about the TV business,” Armstrong said in an
interview. Traditional television will increasingly delivered
over the Internet, giving companies like AOL a chance to
capitalize on the shift, he said.  Adap.tv  is a third-party ad technology that matches
advertisers and video publishers through an exchange. The  San
Mateo , California-based company has benefited from the growth of
online video as well as software-driven advertising, which the
industry calls programmatic buying. Last year, the startup ran
over 26,000 ad campaigns across 9,500 websites.  YuMe IPO  Even as that market grows, startups face challenges in
trying to reach the initial public offering stage, potentially
coaxing more of them into acquisitions. Adap.tv competitor  YuMe
Inc. (YUME)  debuted on the New York Stock Exchange today after  lowering 
its offering price.  The rates for video advertising have held up better than
for online ads in general, said  Amir Ashkenazi , CEO of Adap.tv.  “Video is a very different ecosystem,” he said in an
interview. “It’s extremely supply constrained.”  Separately, Armstrong is looking to slim down AOL’s Patch
division, which provides hyperlocal news to towns and
neighborhoods across the country. Some of AOL’s poorer
performing Patch sites may have to be closed or put together
with outside partners, Armstrong said. He aims for the division
to start  turning a profit  by the end of the year. The company
currently has around 900 Patch sites.  AOL’s profit for the quarter, excluding items such as
restructuring costs and equity-based compensation expenses, came
to 46 cents a share. That compared with the 43-cent average of
predictions compiled by Bloomberg. Advertising revenue,
including display, search and network, rose 6.9 percent to
$361.2 million. Total sales gained 1.9 percent to $541.3
million, falling short of the $544.5 million average estimate.  Adap.tv’s purchase price includes about $322 million in
cash and $83 million in AOL common stock, subject to certain
adjustments. The company will operate independently as part of
AOL’s video organization, led by Ran Harnevo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  