-- Hapag-Lloyd Posts Quarterly Profit on Spending Cuts, Fuel
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-08-07T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/hapag-lloyd-posts-quarterly-profit-on-spending-cuts-fuel.html
Hapag-Lloyd AG cut costs amid falling
fuel prices to deliver a profit in the second-quarter as
 Europe ’s  fourth-largest container-shipping  line reiterated its
forecast of positive full-year operating earnings.  Group profit was 20.9 million euros ($27.8 million),
compared to a loss of 7.3 million euros a year earlier, while
the average price for fuel, or bunker, showed a “slight” drop
of 10 percent to $622 a metric ton, the Hamburg-based company
said in a statement.  The world’s biggest container lines, which also include
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S’s Maersk Line and Mediterranean Shipping
Co, have been trying to push up freight rates. The industry has
yet to recover from a downturn, now in its fifth year, as growth
in global trade remains subdued and an overcapacity of vessels
persists.  “The intense competition in the second quarter meant that,
unlike last year, it was almost impossible to implement
announced rate increases in the market,” Hapag-Lloyd said.  The average freight rate fell about 6 percent to $1,499 per
standard container, or TEU, in the quarter. Revenue fell 4.9
percent to 1.71 billion euros, while transport volume gained 2.3
percent to about 1.39 million TEU.  Hapag-Lloyd, which invested 463.6 million euro in the first
six months, mostly in ships and containers, has  announced
further price increases  in recent days, including on the
Transatlantic trade route between Europe and the U.S.  Small Increases  “While we managed to implement small rate increases at the
start of July, it is still not enough,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Behrendt said in the statement.  Hapag-Lloyd said it continues to target a operating profit
this year.  “Equity of 3.1 billion euros and an equity ratio of about
44 percent clearly illustrate that Hapag-Lloyd’s financial
structure remains sound,‘‘ it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  