-- Apple Patent Case Against Google’s Motorola Revived
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-08-07T21:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/apple-patent-case-against-google-s-motorola-mobility-revived.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won an appeals court
ruling that lets it argue anew that  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola
Mobility infringed its patents for touchscreen technology.  The appeals court ordered the U.S. International Trade
Commission in  Washington  to consider whether Motorola Mobility
infringed one patent, and to review whether an aspect of a
second patent was valid. The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit, which posted the opinion on its website today,
upheld invalidity findings on other aspects of that patent.  The case focused on what an Apple lawyer told the court was
a key invention that “drove the iPhone phenomenon.” The
dispute is over transparent screens that can sense multiple
touches in different locations, enabling users to operate a
mobile phone by touching or swiping its screen.  Motorola Mobility persuaded the agency to rule that one of
the patents was invalid and the other wasn’t infringed. The case
targeted Motorola Mobility’s Droid, Droid 2, Droid X, Cliq,
Backflip, Devour and Charm phones, as well as the Xoom tablet.
 Mountain View , California-based Google bought Motorola Mobility
after the commission issued its decision.  “Today’s decision paves the way for the ITC to find that
Apple’s remaining claims are invalid and that our products don’t
infringe,” said William Moss, a spokesman for Motorola
Mobility. “Meanwhile, we’ll stay focused on delivering great
new phones that people love.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  Panel Split  On the patent that was originally found not infringed,
Circuit Judge Kimberly Moore, writing for the majority, said the
commission erred in its interpretation of a key phrase of the
patent.  The three-judge panel split on the validity of the other
patents. Moore said there was “substantial evidence” to
support the commission’s finding that many aspects of the Apple
multitouch patent were similar to an earlier patent issued in
2008. Not enough analysis was done to determine if a different
element of the patent was an obvious variation of a Sony Corp.
paper for a product called  SmartSkin , she wrote.  The commission should have considered the fact that Apple
was praised for its multitouch screen when the iPhone was
introduced in 2007. The agency also failed to address Apple’s
evidence of copying, Moore wrote.  Circuit Judge Jimmie Reyna said he would have upheld all of
the multitouch patent, saying it “marks true innovation.”  “The asserted patent in this case is an invention that has
propelled not just technology, but also dramatically altered how
humans across the globe interact and communicate,” he wrote.  Motorola Mobility had a case against Cupertino, California-based Apple that it lost at the trade agency in April. That case
is on appeal before the Federal Circuit.  The case is Apple Inc. v. ITC, 12-1338, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In
the Matter of Mobile Devices and Related Software, 337-750, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 