-- Hard Cider Treated Like Beer Becomes Endeavor of Senators: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-08-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/hard-cider-treated-like-beer-becomes-endeavor-of-senators-taxes.html
A good hard cider has a bit of a kick
-- and sometimes a  tax bite  as well.  Cider is taxed at different rates depending on its alcohol
and carbon dioxide content, which vary from year-to-year based
on weather and small changes in production techniques.  Cider makers are trying to change that. With the help of a
few key lawmakers, they are pushing to have the federal excise
tax on cider structured more like the tax on beer, which is a
steady 22 cents per gallon, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, is leading
the effort in the Senate and Representative Earl Blumenauer, a
Democrat from  Oregon , introduced a bill in the House. Both
lawmakers are members of their chambers’ tax-writing committees,
potentially in a position to advance the bills.  “Cider is starting to gain traction as an alternative to
beer,” said Amy Stinson, corporate legal director for the U.S.
and company secretary at  Vermont  Hard Cider Co. in Middlebury,
Vermont. The tax structure “makes it very hard for new cider
makers to get into this growing market in America.”  Sales of domestically produced cider more than tripled in
2012 from 2007, climbing to $601.5 million, according to
IBISWorld, a market research company. For 2012, cider
represented 3.6 percent of the wineries industry, an increase
from 1.8 percent in 2007, IBISWorld reported.  The industry’s revival is part of a long recovery from
Prohibition, which shut down cider production -- and a dominant
drink in America -- in 1919. The industry, dominated by small
producers, was slow to recover once Prohibition was repealed,
said Schilling Cider Co., a cider maker in  Seattle , in a brief
history on its website.  Alcohol Scale  One reality remains: The alcohol content of cider is
subject to small changes in growing conditions, which determine
sugar content in apples, as well as to differences in production
techniques.  That can make a big difference in taxes. When the alcohol
content is less than 7 percent, the tax is the same as on beer,
or 22 cents per gallon for large producers. Small producers
receive a discount and pay 17 cents per gallon.  When the alcohol content exceeds 7 percent, cider is taxed
as wine, based on a sliding scale that goes as high as $1.07 per
gallon for producers making more than 100,000 gallons a year,
reported the U.S. Association of Cider Makers, a coalition
created by producers in 2013.  Fizz adds to the tax bill. Cider with more than 0.39
percent carbon dioxide is taxed as champagne, bringing the total
tax burden to as much as $3.40 per gallon, the cider makers
association said.  Clear Intention?  That tax rate is about 15 times higher than what Congress
“clearly intended” in setting tax rules for wine and related
beverages, Blumenauer said in a news release.  Blumenauer introduced the Cider Industry Deserves Equal
Regulation Act with Republican Representative Chris Collins from
New York on Aug. 2, to equalize the tax and extend the rules to
pear cider, also known as perry. Their bill would amend tax code
Section 5041 to redefine hard cider.  Schumer in March endorsed a similar approach. In both his
plan and Blumenauer’s bill, the amount of alcohol by volume that
cider can contain -- and still be labeled and taxed as cider --
would increase to 8.5 percent.  As members of the House  Ways and Means  and Senate Finance
committees, the lawmakers are in position to press their agenda,
although Capitol Hill jockeying over comprehensive tax reform
has clouded prospects for special-interest tax bills.  As challenging as adverse growing conditions can be, they
illustrate one appeal of cider production. Apples eaten by hand
need to look good, for most consumers. Apples that have been
damaged by frost or are otherwise unappealing to the eye are
fine for cider, Schumer’s office said.  New York ranks second in the nation, behind  Washington , in
apple production, according to the Department of Agriculture.
The legislation would benefit more than 20 cider producers that
popped up in the state as the industry expands, Schumer said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  