-- Asian Stocks Post Biggest Decline in More Than Six Weeks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-08-07T13:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/asian-stocks-decline-as-trade-data-spurs-tapering-concern.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index posting its biggest drop since June 20, as
Japanese shares led declines across the region after the yen
gained for a fourth day and metals prices slid.  Pioneer Corp. (6773)  sank 8.7 percent in  Tokyo  after the maker of
car stereos lowered its full-year profit forecast. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company, dropped 2 percent in
Sydney as copper futures declined. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
decreased 2 percent to 133.01 at 10:03 p.m. in Tokyo as more
than five shares dropped for every one that climbed.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled the most in almost
two months at the close in Tokyo as the yen touched a six-week
high against the dollar. The  U.S. trade deficit  narrowed more
than forecast in June, the Commerce Department said yesterday,
driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower as investors
weighed whether the stronger data would encourage the Fed to
start reducing its monthly bond purchases.  “Markets are entering a period of uncertainty,” said  Yoji Takeda , Hong Kong-based head of Asian equities at RBC Investment
(Asia) Ltd., which oversees $1.5 billion. “There’s a policy
vacuum in Japan and the government isn’t going to come up with
new policies until parliament resumes sessions in September.
While the possible tapering of U.S. stimulus has been more or
less priced in, people tend to be a little bit cautious until it
happens.”  The  Bank of Japan  will maintain its asset-purchasing
program at a two-day meeting that started today, according to
all 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Topix index  dropped 3.2 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi index and Taiwan’s Taiex index both slipped 1.5 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.9 percent, its biggest
decline since July 3. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.6
percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index decreased 1.5 percent. The
city’s benchmark gauge has fallen 4.7 percent this year, the
biggest decline among 24 developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.7 percent, while
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index gained 0.2 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.3 percent last
month, its first such gain since April, after China pledged to
do more to support a transition from an export-based economy to
domestic demand.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , who has been
among the strongest proponents of record monetary easing, said
yesterday he “would clearly not rule” out a decision to begin
dialing back bond purchases in September. Economists at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc raised their estimates for
second-quarter U.S. gross domestic product, citing the trade
data.  European Recovery  German factory orders increased by the most in eight months
and U.K. industrial production beat forecasts in June, adding to
evidence of a nascent recovery in  Europe , separate reports
showed yesterday. Italy’s economic contraction slowed.  Pioneer dropped 8.7 percent to 178 yen in Tokyo after
cutting its full-year net-income forecast by 92 percent as
profit margins dropped and sales of car-navigation systems and
optical disc-drives declined.  IHI Corp. (7013) , a manufacturer of  jet
engines  and ships, dropped 5.8 percent to 409 yen after its
earnings outlook missed estimates.  Japanese exporters declined as the yen traded as high as
96.77 per dollar. A stronger currency reduces the overseas
income of the nation’s carmakers and electronics manufacturers
when repatriated.  Exporters Decline  Toyota Motor Corp., Asia’s biggest carmaker, dropped 2.4
percent to 6,230 yen.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the largest camera maker,
slipped 2.5 percent to 3,130 yen. Sony Corp., which manufactures
Bravia televisions and PlayStation game consoles, fell 4.3
percent to 1,952 yen.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest carmaker,
decreased 3.2 percent to 225,000 won, while affiliate Kia Motors
Corp. fell 3.7 percent to 60,500 won after union negotiators
walked out of wage talks and said they would ask workers to vote
on a strike.  Raw-material producers dropped as copper futures fell.  BHP
Billiton  slipped 2 percent to A$34.90 in Sydney. Rio Tinto
Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, decreased 2.1
percent to A$58.60.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  