-- Korean Dollar Bonds Advance as SK Innovation Completes Offering
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-08-07T05:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
SK Innovation Co., the South Korean
oil refiner, sold dollar bonds as the nation’s corporate notes
in the currency are among the leading gainers in Asia outside
 Japan  this month amid low supply.  Korean debt rose  0.23 percent  since July 31 while Chinese
notes climbed 0.26 percent, the top performers among Asia’s five
largest markets, according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase
& Co. SK Innovation yesterday sold $350 million of five-year
securities, with bids exceeding the amount offered by almost
eight times, said a person familiar with the matter.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy expanded 2.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, up from 1.5 percent in the
first three months of the year, official data showed last month.
The average yield on Korean bonds has fallen 44 basis points
from a high in June to  3.16 percent , according to JPMorgan
indexes.  “Credit spreads on Korean dollar bonds are narrowing as
local companies have not increased their debt supply by a lot
this year,” said Choi Jin Young, a Seoul-based fund manager at
Mirae Asset Global Investments.  SK Innovation’s 2018 notes were quoted at 100.77 on the
dollar, compared with the issue price of 99.683, according to
Standard Chartered Plc prices.  Elsewhere in the dollar bond market in Asia, Macquarie Bank
is marketing three-year securities to yield 160 basis points
more than Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter said,
asking not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  Credit Risk  The cost of insuring bonds in the Asia-Pacific region from
nonpayment increased, according to credit-default swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 2.5 basis points to
97 as of 9:22 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
measure is poised for its first increase since July 31,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan increased 2 basis points to 144 as of
8:59 a.m. in Singapore, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. prices show. The benchmark is on course to climb for the
first time in three days, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1 basis point to 118
basis points as of 10:23 a.m. in Sydney, according to National
Australia Bank Ltd. The gauge is also headed for its first
increase in three days, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a drop suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  