-- Tata Motors Net Misses Estimates as Jaguar Growth Slows
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-08-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/tata-motors-net-misses-estimates-after-jaguar-sales-growth-slows.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , India’s biggest
automaker, posted profit that missed analyst estimates as sales
growth at its Jaguar Land Rover Ltd. unit slowed.  First-quarter  net income  fell 23 percent to 17.3 billion
rupees ($282 million), the Mumbai-based company said. That
missed the 22.2 billion-rupee median of 39  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit at the Jaguar Land Rover luxury
unit rose 29 percent to 304 million pounds ($470 million).  Retail sales at the luxury unit, which Tata Motors bought
from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2008, rose 10 percent in the three months
ended June, slower than the 17 percent pace in the previous
quarter. Deliveries of cars and commercial vehicles at the local
business fell 19 percent, as customers in  India  held off
purchases on expensive loans and slowing economic growth.  “Earnings are far below the street expectations and going
forward the road doesn’t look smooth for the company,” Jigar Shah, an analyst at Kim Eng Securities Pvt. in Mumbai, said by
phone. “A Chinese slowdown will weigh on JLR’s performance.
We’ll have to wait and see if the company revises its sales
target for the country.” Shah has a sell rating on Tata Motors.  China, the biggest market for Tata Motors’ luxury unit,
plans to widen the number of cities curbing auto purchases to
fight pollution and congestion, threatening vehicle sales, the
government-backed car association said last month. Expanding
restrictions on vehicle purchases would follow a cash crunch
that sent interbank borrowing costs to record levels in June and
a slowing economy.  Tata Motors fell 3 percent to 278.90 rupees at the close in
 Mumbai  yesterday, the lowest level since June 27. The stock was
the  biggest loser  on the benchmark 30-company S&P BSE Sensex
Index, which declined 0.4 percent.  India Slump  Passenger vehicle deliveries at Tata Motors’s home market
have dropped for 11 straight months as promotions to buy back
the Manza sedan and credit card purchases of the Nano, the
world’s cheapest car, failed to lure buyers. Intensifying
competition and slowing growth in  Asia ’s third-largest economy
cut demand for the company’s vehicles.  Sales at the India business declined 14 percent from a year
earlier to 90.4 billion rupees and the parent posted an
operating loss of 3.94 billion rupees.  “The standalone entity will be a big drag on Tata
Motors,”  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Financial
Services Ltd. in Mumbai, said before the earnings announcement.
“JLR volumes are also decelerating.”  Jaguar Boost  Jaguar accounted for 17,459 units of the luxury unit’s
deliveries last quarter, an increase of 28 percent spurred by
the new F-Type convertible introduced in May. Land Rover sales
rose 7 percent to 77,260 vehicles, according to company data.  Sales of Jaguar Land Rover climbed 13 percent to 4.1
billion pounds, according to the statement. The luxury unit
based in Gaydon,  England  plans to introduce eight new or
refreshed models this year, Jaguar Land Rover Chief Executive
Officer Ralf Speth said in May.  The luxury unit is turning to  emerging markets  such as
China,  Russia  and  South Africa  to pursue growth. Global retail
sales in the three months ended June rose to 94,719 vehicles,
with those in China increasing 11 percent to 20,427 units,
according to company  data . China was the company’s largest
market, according to the data, followed by  Europe .  The luxury unit, together with Chery Automobile Co., is
investing 10.9 billion  yuan  ($1.78 billion) to build a
manufacturing plant in eastern China. The venture will include a
local brand as well as a research & development center and an
engine plant.  “Our ambition is to sell about 100,000 cars in China this
year,” Speth told reporters yesterday. “This is an ambitious
target but nevertheless we think we can achieve it as the
economy in  China  is still strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  