-- Athabasca Oil Surges on Dover Approval: Calgary Mover
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-07T20:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/athabasca-oil-surges-by-record-on-dover-approval.html
Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , the oil-sands
developer that began publicly trading in 2010, rose after the
Alberta Energy Regulator approved its Dover project, a joint
venture with  PetroChina Co. (857)   Athabasca climbed 10 percent to C$8.12 at the close in
Toronto. Earlier the shares surged as much as 22 percent, the
biggest gain intraday since they began trading in April 2010.
The stock fell 29 percent this year through yesterday.  Athabasca can now proceed with the sale of its stake in the
project, worth about C$1.3 billion ($1.25 billion), to
PetroChina, giving it funds for other projects. The transaction
would be the first Canadian oil-sands asset to be sold to a
Chinese company since  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  completed the takeover of Nexen
Inc. earlier this year.  “We view the decision as highly positive,” Jared Dziuba,
a Calgary-based analyst with BMO Capital Markets, said in a note
to clients today. “With funding in hand likely by the fourth
quarter of 2013, we expect Athabasca to materially advance oil-sands and light-oil development programs, setting the stage for
several meaningful catalysts.”  Aboriginal groups had objected to the project. The Alberta
Energy Regulator applied 10 conditions to the project in its
approval, including “progressive reclamation” of land
disturbed by the production process.  Moose Lake  The regulator said in its 40-page  decision  posted yesterday
that Dover won’t have a direct impact on the Moose Lake area, a
traditional territory of the Fort McKay First Nation, which
sought a 20-kilometer (12-mile) buffer zone free of development
around two lakes the community uses for cultural activities. The
site is about 100 kilometers northwest of Fort McMurray.  The Moose Lake area is “still peaceful and clean,” said
Gerald Gladue, a member of the Fort McKay First Nation, in
remarks to the panel reviewing the project and published in the
decision yesterday. “Moose Lake and Buffalo Lake are basically
the last place we have to go. They have chopped off our arms and
our legs.”  The provincial government must review the project and make
a final decision, the regulator said. The Dover project is
expected to create C$5.3 billion annually in economic activity,
the company said yesterday after the regulator’s announcement.  The Dover project contains reserves of 4.1 billion barrels
at a 50 percent recovery rate, the regulator said. Athabasca
expects production at the site to reach 250,000 barrels a day at
full capacity.  PetroChina is planning to invest at least $60 billion this
decade in global oil and natural gas assets. Athabasca in
January 2012 sold a 40 percent stake in the MacKay River oil-sands project to a PetroChina division for C$680 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  