-- Athbasca Wins Approval From Alberta for Dover Oil Sands
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-08-07T01:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/athbasca-wins-approval-from-alberta-for-dover-oil-sands.html
Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  won approval from
the Alberta regulator for its Dover oil-sands project with
PetroChina Co., over objections from local aboriginal groups.  The project, now known as Brion Energy Corp., will be
required to do “progressive reclamation” of land disturbed by
the steam-assisted bitumen extraction, the Alberta Energy
Regulator said today on its  website . Ten conditions were applied
to the project in order for it to proceed.  Athabasca can now go ahead with a sale of its stake in the
project, worth about C$1.3 billion ($1.25 billion) to
PetroChina, helping the Canadian oil producer move ahead with
other projects. The shares have declined 29 percent this year,
trailing the 3.6 percent gain for the S&P/TSX Energy Index, amid
uncertainty over the project.  The regulator said the project won’t have a direct effect
on the Moose Lake area, a traditional territory of the Fort
McKay First Nation, which sought a 20-kilometer (12-mile) buffer
zone free of development around two lakes the community uses for
cultural activities. The Dover site is about 100 kilometers
northwest of Fort McMurray.  The Moose Lake area will only be “minimally affected” by
the oil sands project, the regulator said in its 40-page
decision. The oil sands site contains reserves of 4.1 billion
barrels at a 50 percent recovery rate, the regulator said.  Eleven  analysts  rate Athabasca a buy, four say hold and
there are no sells on the stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 12-month average target price is C$11.71,
compared with a closing price today of C$7.37.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  