-- Aussie Dollar Falls Versus Most Major Peers Before Jobs Report
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-07T07:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/aussie-dollar-falls-versus-major-peers-before-employment-data.html
Australia ’s dollar fell versus most
of its major counterparts ahead of a report tomorrow forecast to
show the  unemployment rate  rose to the highest in four years.  The Aussie retreated from its strongest this month against
the U.S. currency as Asian stocks fell, reducing demand for
higher yielding assets.  New Zealand ’s dollar held its biggest
gain in almost two weeks against the greenback after a
successful milk powder auction reduced concern about a
contamination recall in  China . The  Reserve Bank of Australia 
said it would monitor the economy to decide on further policy
action when it cut the benchmark rate to a record yesterday.  “The general outlook for the Australian economy, despite
what’s going on in the housing market right now, seems to be one
of concern, particularly heading into tomorrow’s  employment (NZLFQOQ) 
report,” said Jim Vrondas, the Sydney-based chief currency and
payment strategist at OzForex Pty. “Given that the Aussie
failed to sustain any move above 90 U.S. cents after the RBA,
it’s only natural that we see markets start to sell off again.”  The Aussie weakened 0.2 percent to 89.64 U.S. cents as of
5:02 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched 90.05, the
highest since July 31. New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.2 percent
to 79.13 U.S. cents after climbing 1 percent yesterday.
Australia’s currency fell 1.1 percent to 86.88 yen, while the
kiwi dropped 0.7 percent to 76.66 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of stocks slumped 2 percent.  Four-Year High  Australia’s  unemployment rate  probably rose to 5.8 percent
in July, from 5.7 percent the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News poll. That
would be the highest since August 2009.  Home loan approvals  in Australia rose 2.7 percent in June,
from a revised 1.7 percent gain in May, the statistics bureau
said today. Economists predicted a 2 percent gain.  “The housing finance data is a clear indication that some
interest rate sectors of the Australian economy are responding
to lower  interest rates ,” Michael Workman, a Sydney-based
senior economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a
research note. “Further interest rate stimulus cannot be ruled
out if the non-mining areas fail to respond.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement yesterday
after cutting the benchmark rate to 2.5 percent that the board
“will continue to assess the outlook and adjust policy as
needed to foster sustainable growth in demand and inflation
outcomes consistent with the inflation target over time.”  Rate Bets  The reduction was the second this year, and extends an
 easing cycle  that began in November 2011, when the benchmark
rate was lowered from 4.75 percent.  The central bank is trying to stimulate growth in
manufacturing, construction and retail, as a record mining-investment boom wanes. The nation’s economy will expand 2.5
percent this year, slowing from 3.6 percent growth in 2012,
according to the median estimate of economists.  Traders place 67 percent odds that the RBA will cut its
benchmark again this year,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They see a 22 percent chance that the  Reserve
Bank  of New Zealand will lift interest rates from a record-low
2.5 percent by year-end.  The Aussie has fallen 11 percent over the past three
months, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s dollar is
the second-worst performer, with a 5.3 percent decline.  Milk Prices  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said whole-milk powder prices for delivery across all contracts through
February fell 1.6 percent in an auction today, the first decline
in two months.  “What we saw from the auction was basically a vote of
confidence in the New Zealand dairy industry, following the
turmoil and fears we’ve seen over the past few days,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist in Wellington at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd.  Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe in one of its
processing plants may have tainted whey protein with a bacteria
that causes botulism. China, New Zealand’s largest trading
partner, has imposed a ban on imports of whey powder and another
dairy ingredient, threatening export ties.  The kiwi dollar was also supported after a report showed
New Zealand employers added workers at a faster pace than
economists estimated in the three months to June, supporting the
case for higher interest rates.  Employment rose 0.4 percent, or 8,000 jobs, from the first
quarter when it surged a record 1.7 percent,  Statistics New
Zealand  said in a report today in Wellington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.3 percent gain. The
 jobless rate  rose to 6.4 percent from 6.2 percent, as the
participation rate climbed to 68 percent.  “A strengthening economy is starting to flow through into
the demand for labor,” said  Mark Smith , senior economist at ANZ
Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “It remains a case of
looking for the cash rate to move up at some stage in the first
half of 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  