-- Aussie Trades Near Highest This Month Before Home Loans Data
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-08-07T00:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/aussie-trades-near-highest-this-month-before-home-loans-data.html
Australia ’s dollar traded near the
highest this month ahead of data today that may signal strength
in the housing sector as the central bank tries to soften the
blow from the peaking of a mining boom.  The currency held its biggest advance in almost two weeks
after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia damped speculation of
further cuts to borrowing costs when it reduced its key rate to
a record low 2.5 percent yesterday. New Zealand’s kiwi dollar
remained higher after a successful milk powder auction reduced
concern about a contamination recall in  China .  “The RBA has really injected a little bit of uncertainty
about the rate outlook, when previously Australian interest-rate
markets were fairly certain of one more rate cut,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist in Wellington at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. “There’s probably a little more upside pressure to
come through on the Aussie dollar as the speculative community
in particular trims what had been very large short positions,”
he said, referring to bets an asset’s price will fall.  The Aussie traded at 89.78 U.S. cents as of 10:08 a.m. in
Sydney from 89.85 yesterday, when it rose 0.6 percent and
touched 90.05, the highest since July 31. The kiwi was little
changed at 79 U.S. cents after climbing 1 percent yesterday.
Australia’s currency bought NZ$1.1366 from NZ$1.1373 yesterday.  Home loan approvals  in Australia probably rose 2 percent in
June, following a 1.8 percent gain in May, according to the
median estimate of economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  before
the statistics bureau’s report today. Data yesterday showed the
nation’s home prices rose 5.1 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, beating analyst estimates.  Housing Sector  Evidence that lower rates and higher prices are having an
effect in the housing sector “will sit on the side of the
ledger arguing against the RBA feeling the need to provide any
further monetary stimulus anytime soon,” National Australia
Bank Ltd. analysts, led by  Global Head  of Research  Peter Jolly ,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement yesterday
following the rate cut that the board “will continue to assess
the outlook and adjust policy as needed to foster sustainable
growth in demand and inflation outcomes consistent with the
inflation target over time.”  The reduction was the second this year, and extends an
 easing cycle  that began in November 2011, when the benchmark
rate was lowered from 4.75 percent.  Record Shorts  Traders held record positions betting on declines in the
Aussie versus the  U.S. dollar  last week, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a drop compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 72,573 on July 30, compared with shorts
of 63,982 a week earlier.  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group. said whole-milk
powder prices for delivery across all contracts through February
fell 1.6 percent in an auction today, the first decline in two
months.  “What we saw from the auction was basically a vote of
confidence in the  New Zealand  dairy industry, following the
turmoil and fears we’ve seen over the past few days,” said
BNZ’s Jones.  Fonterra said on Aug. 3 that a dirty pipe in one of its
processing plants may have tainted whey protein with a bacteria
that causes botulism. The news prompted recalls in China,
 Vietnam , Sri Lanka,  Thailand  and New Zealand.  China, New Zealand’s largest trading partner, has imposed a
ban on imports of whey powder and another dairy ingredient,
threatening export ties. Fonterra said yesterday that no
products offered at a GlobalDairyTrade auction of dairy products
were subject to trade sanctions.  New Zealand’s unemployment rate rose to 6.4 percent in the
second quarter from 6.2 percent in the previous period, official
data showed today, as the participation rate advanced to 68
percent from an upwardly revised 67.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  