-- Australia’s Mining Tax Upheld by Nation’s Top Court
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-08-07T00:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/australia-mining-tax-upheld-as-valid-by-nation-s-highest-court.html
Australia’s mining tax was upheld as
legal today by the country’s highest court in a defeat for
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and state governments that
challenged its validity.  The High Court of Australia’s full bench unanimously
dismissed the challenge, ruling the tax “did not discriminate
between states and that the acts did not give preference to one
state over another,” according to a  summary  of the ruling
posted on the court’s website.  Fortescue, Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore producer,
sued in the nation’s highest court in June 2012 to nullify the
 Minerals Resource Rent Tax , with the backing of the governments
of Queensland and  Western Australia , claiming the levy was
discriminatory.  The tax on iron-ore and coal profits, introduced by former
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government, will raise A$600
million ($538 million) in the current fiscal year, according to
Treasury forecasts released last week. That’s down from the A$4
billion projected by Treasury in May 2011, as slumping commodity
prices on weaker Chinese demand curb mining profits.  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has promised to repeal the
tax should his coalition win the federal election set for Sept.
7, saying the revenue shortfall is an example of the
government’s failure to manage the $1.5 trillion economy.  The mining tax, designed by Gillard and then Treasurer
 Wayne Swan , has drawn criticism from mining companies, state
governments aligned with the Liberal-National opposition and
billionaire  Gina Rinehart , Asia’s richest woman.  Tax Structure  The structure of the MRRT offsets any reduction in state
taxes, so if Western Australia cuts levies in a bid to spur
development the federal tax rises and eliminates the difference.
That inhibits states from offering tax breaks to companies
agreeing to finance development in remote regions, Western
Australia argued in a Dec. 21 filing to the  high court .  The states’ argument is wrong because the recent practice
has been to boost state royalties “to cash in on high ore
prices in global markets,” the federal government said.  The  case  is between Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and The
Commonwealth of Australia. S163/2012. High Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  