-- Lawmakers Invoking Abenomics to Push Cuts at Japan Oil Refiners
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-08-07T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/lawmakers-invoking-abenomics-to-push-cuts-at-japan-oil-refiners.html
JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. and
competing refiners will be under pressure to cut more capacity
as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s ruling party targets bloated
industries as a way to promote economic growth.  A group of 126 lawmakers is asking the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry to come up with measures to spur refiners to
merge and shrink capacity, Takeshi Noda, the chairman of the
group discussing oil-product distribution, said in an interview.  Abe, who took office in December, seeks to speed up
restructuring of industries with overcapacity and too much
competition as part of a  growth strategy  announced in June to
revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  Japan  should use a
“carrot and stick” approach with refiners as demand for
gasoline is forecast to keep falling, Noda said.  “The essence of the problem is excess supply capacity,”
Noda said in an interview last week at his office near the
parliament. “An oversupply forces refiners to sell their
products cheaply. The government needs to actively work harder
than ever on measures to improve the production system,
including integration among refineries.”  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, known as Meti,
set rules in 2010 that required refiners to increase their
residue cracking ratios by March 2014. The rules force the
refiners to choose between building new cracking units or
reducing refining capacity.  Japanese refiners cut daily refining capacity to 4.47
million barrels as of March 2013 from 5.35 million barrels in
March 2000, the Petroleum Association of Japan said in an April
report. An additional 550,000 barrels a day of capacity is
expected to be cut to comply with the Meti rules, the group
said.  Biggest Refiner  JX, the country’s biggest refiner, plans to shut its
180,000 barrel-a-day Muroran refinery in northern Japan in March
2014 while  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  will close its 120,000 barrel-a-day Tokuyama plant.  TonenGeneral Sekiyu KK  (5012)  permanently shut two
crude distillation units with a combined capacity of 105,000
barrels a day in the January-March quarter and  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007) 
closed its 140,000 Sakaide refinery in July.  JX lowered its first-half profit forecast on July 31 to 65
billion yen ($670 million) from 90 billion yen. Profit margins
for gasoline and middle distillates fell to “the worst levels”
since Nippon Oil Corp. and Nippon Mining Holdings Inc. merged to
form JX in 2010, Senior Vice President Akira Omachi said.  Even so, Japanese refiners’ excess capacity will start
rising again as domestic demand for oil products falls by an
average of 1.5 percent annually over two decades through 2030,
Mizuho Bank Ltd. estimated in a May  report .  Aging Facilities  The Japanese refiners should seek to merge and reorganize,
following the lead of the banking and steel industries, Noda
said. That would help refiners replace aging facilities and
compete against South Korean and other Asian rivals, he said.  Japan has five major refiners, whereas the domestic banking
and steel sectors have only three major companies. The biggest
refiners are JX Energy, Idemitsu, TonenGeneral, Cosmo Oil and
 Showa Shell Sekiyu KK. (5002)   Noda’s comments invoke the “third arrow” of Prime
Minister Abe’s economic policies, dubbed Abenomics, which also
includes monetary and fiscal stimulus. A growth strategy, or the
third arrow, announced in June includes plans to encourage
replacement of aging facilities and speed up restructuring of
industries.  “The government will establish guidelines on areas where
an oversupply and excessive competition have been ignored for a
long time, and will build a framework to promote initiatives for
correcting the issue,” the government said in the growth
strategy.  The government may also revise the 2010 rules with tougher
targets to prompt refiners to cut more capacity if there is
still excess capacity, Noda said.  “We need both a carrot and a stick,” he said. “Why does
a growth strategy have to be always about deregulation? In some
cases, we need to tighten regulations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in 東京 at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  