-- BAE Systems Sees Demand Rise for Hybrid-Electric Combat Vehicle
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-07T10:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bae-systems-sees-demand-rise-for-hybird-electric-combat-vehicle.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , Europe’s largest
defense company, may upgrade its CV90 armored vehicle with a
hybrid-electric propulsion system as armies look to cut expenses
for fuel that can be many times the price paid at a civil gas
station.  “A requirement we are seeing more and more often is
environmental issues in terms of fuel economy,” Dan Lindell,
CV90 platform manager, told reporters yesterday at a briefing in
London. That’s driving BAE’s upgrade plans for the armored
fighting vehicle first developed for  Sweden  in the 1980s.  The Swedish military, which has deployed the CV90 in
Liberia, has seen fuel costs of about $107 per liter while
operating in  Afghanistan , while U.S. forces reported even higher
costs owing to the logistical burden to get gas on site, Lindell
said. That’s making fuel efficiency more important for customers
when they set demands for equipment, he said.  “I would not be surprised if we see a CV90 with hybrid
electric drive in the near future,” Lindell said. “We are
talking 10 percent to 30 percent fuel reduction.”  Fuel efficiency is not the only or even primary benefit, he
said. The hybrid-electric approach would also provide a power
boost to get the 30-ton vehicle moving.  The hybrid electric combines a standard diesel engine with
a battery pack to provide extra power to propel the vehicle or
provide additional electricity. The technology may form part of
a BAE push to win a contract for about 600 vehicles in  Poland 
with local supplier Polish Defence Holding, Lindell said.  Lowering Cost  The hybrid technology is derived from the now-canceled SEP
vehicle program in Sweden, Lindell said. Work the company has
done for commercial applications of the hybrid-electric system,
used by  Finland ’s Konecranes Oyj on a lift truck, will reduce
cost, he said.  The hybrid-electric approach for the CV90 differs from a
concept BAE is proposing from its U.S. unit as part of the
Pentagon’s 70-ton Ground Combat Vehicle program intended to
replace Bradley infantry fighting vehicles, he said.  The hybrid-electric concept could provide sufficient
electrical output for developments of the CV90 as militaries add
power-draining computers and sensors. The engine technology may
also find an application on the BvS10 all-terrain armored
vehicle, he said.  BAE is still pushing sales of standard CV90s, and a
decision is due in Canada soon for at least 108 armored fighting
vehicles.  Denmark , already a CV90 customer, may buy as many as 450
vehicles in a competition that includes  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) 
and  Rheinmetall AG. (RHM)  BAE’s Armadillo bid would be the first CV90
export in a multirole application without a gun turret, and that
may draw new customers, Lindell said.  Other sales opportunities are emerging for the CV90, which
has already sold to  Norway , Finland, the Netherlands and
Switzerland, he said, while declining to identify the potential
buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  