-- Bank of England Governor Mark Carney News Conference (Text)
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-07T13:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bank-of-england-governor-mark-carney-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of  Bank of
England  Governor  Mark Carney ’s comments at a news conference in
London today as he presented the bank’s quarterly forecasts.  NILS BLYTHE:  Well, good morning, everyone, and welcome to
the bank’s inflation report press conference.  On my left is
 Paul Fisher , the bank’s executive director for markets.  On my
far right is Spencer Dale, the bank’s chief economist.  Next to
him is Charlie Bean, the bank’s deputy governor for monetary
policy.  And next to me is the governor of the Bank of England,
Mark Carney.  MARK CARNEY, GOVERNOR, BANK OF ENGLAND:  Thank you, Nils.
Good morning, everyone.  A renewed recovery is now underway in the United Kingdom,
and it appears to be broadening.  Well, that is certainly
welcome.  The legacy of the financial crisis means that the
recovery remains weak by historical standards, and there’s still
a significant margin of spare capacity in the economy.  This is
more clearly evident in the high rate of unemployment.  It’s now more important than ever for the Monetary Policy
Committee to be clear and transparent about how it will set
monetary policy in order to avoid an unwarranted tightening in
interest rate expectations as the recovery gathers strength.
That’s why today, the MPC is announcing explicit state-contingent forward guidance.  Our aim is to help secure the
recovery, while ensuring that risks to  price stability  and
financial stability are well contained.  There are clear signs that economic activity has
strengthened this year.  Recent positive indicators have led the
MPC to revise up its growth projections significantly in this
inflation report.  Nevertheless, even under the assumption that
the currently -- current exceptionally stimulative monetary
policy stance is maintained throughout the projection horizon,
the MPC expects annual growth to be only 2.4 percent in two
years’ time, a rate still a little below its historical average.
 Moreover, the level of GDP is not expected to regain its pre-crisis peak until a year from now.  This remains the slowest
recovery in output on record.  While job growth has been a relative positive in recent
years, unemployment is still high.  There are 1 million more
people unemployed today than before the financial crisis, and
many who have jobs would like to work more than they currently
can.  The weakness in activity has also been accompanied by
exceptionally weak productivity.  It is for these reasons that
the MPC judges there to be a significant margin of slack in the
economy, even though the extent of that slack -- particularly
the scope for a productivity rebound -- is very uncertain.  What is clear is that, even under conservative assumptions
about the scope for a productivity rebound, the elimination of
the margin of spare capacity will require a sustained period of
robust growth.  The MPC can help deliver that, but only if it is
consistent with our primary objective to maintain price
stability.  Turning to prices, CPI inflation was 2.9 percent in June
and is likely to remain around that level in the near term, as
it continues to be pushed up by past increases in import prices
and unusually large contribution from administered and regulated
prices.  Nevertheless, underlying domestic inflationary
pressures remain subdued.  That’s why, as shown in chart three
on page eight of the report, even on the assumption that bank
rate remains at its current level and a sustained period of
growth is delivered, inflation is expected to fall back to the 2
percent target only a little after the two-year horizon.  For that reason, the MPC’s judgment is that the path of
market  interest rates  implies a faster withdrawal of monetary
stimulus than appears likely given the current economic outlook.  Above-target inflation, coupled with a depressed level of
output, make for an exceptionally challenging environment in
which to set monetary policy.  The uncertainty over the degree
of slack in the economy and the responsiveness of productivity
to the emerging recovery makes the MPC’s task harder still.  In
these unprecedented circumstances, the MPC has to decide how
quickly to return inflation to target and how much support it is
able to provide to activity unemployment.  The second document we are publishing today describes these
tradeoffs inherent in the setting of monetary policy, and it
describes how we are responding to them.  It’s in this context
that the MPC agreed at its meeting last week to adopt explicit
forward guidance.  The MPC intends, at a minimum, to maintain
the current exceptionally accommodative stance of monetary
policy until economic slack has been substantially reduced,
provided that this does not put at risk either price stability
or financial stability.  In practice, this means that the MPC intends not to raise
bank rate above its current level of 0.5 percent at least until
the Labour Force Survey headline measure of unemployment has
fallen to a threshold of 7 percent.  While the  unemployment rate 
remains above 7 percent, the MPC stands ready to undertake
further asset purchases if further stimulus is warranted.  But
until the unemployment threshold is reached, the MPC intends not
to reduce the stock of asset purchases from the current 375
billion pounds.  The Bank of England’s unwavering commitment to price
stability and financial stability is such that this threshold
guidance will cease to apply if material risks to either are
judged to have arisen.  In that event, the unemployment
threshold would be “knocked out.”  The guidance will remain in
place only if, in the MPC’s view, CPI inflation 18 to 24 months
ahead is more likely than not to be below 2.5 percent; secondly,
if medium-term inflation expectations remain sufficiently well
anchored; and, thirdly, the Financial Policy Committee has not
judged the stance of monetary policy -- has not judged -- pardon
me -- the Financial Policy Committee has not judged that the
stance of monetary policy poses a significant threat to
financial stability, a threat that cannot otherwise be contained
through the considerable supervisory and regulatory policy tools
of various authorities.  The two inflation knockouts ensure that the guidance
remains fully consistent with our primary objective of price
stability.  The financial stability knockout takes full
advantage of the new institutional structure at the Bank of
England, ensuring that monetary and macroprudential policies
coordinate to support a sustainable recovery.  To be clear, the
knockouts would not necessarily trigger an increase in bank
rate; they would instead be a prompt for the MPC to reconsider
the appropriate stance of monetary policy.  Similarly, it’s important to be clear that bank rate will
not automatically be increased when the unemployment threshold
is reached.  Nor is 7 percent a target for unemployment.  The
rate of unemployment consistent with medium-term price stability
-- a rate that monetary policy can do little to affect -- is
likely to be lower than 7 percent.  Seven percent is merely a
way station at which the Monetary Policy Committee will reassess
the state of the economy, the progress of the economic recovery,
and, in that context, the appropriate stance of monetary policy.  The threshold guidance we are announcing today makes the
current exceptionally stimulative monetary stance more effective
in three ways.  First, it reduces uncertainty about the future
path of monetary policy, in particular helping to avoid the risk
that market interest rates rise prematurely as the recovery
gains traction.  Secondly, it provides greater clarity regarding the MPC’s
view of the appropriate tradeoff between the horizon over which
inflation is returned to target and the speed with which growth
and employment recover.  And, thirdly, it gives monetary policy greater scope to
explore the potential sustainable level of employment and output
without putting price and financial stability at risk.  Today’s Inflation Report contains for the first time, in
chart 5.10 on page 47, the MPC’s projection for unemployment.
It shows that, with bank rate remaining constant at 0.5 percent
throughout the three-year forecast horizon, the MPC’s best
collective judgment is that the median unemployment rate at the
end of the projection period is 7.3 percent.  Chart 5.11 on page 48 is also new in this report, and it
shows that unemployment is judged by the MPC to be as likely to
reach the 7 percent threshold beyond the three-year horizon as
before.  Now, it’s important to stress that forward guidance does
not mean that the MPC is promising to keep interest rates low
for a particular period of time.  The path of bank rate and
asset purchases will, as always, depend on economic conditions.
What is new is that the MPC, in light of current exceptional
circumstances, is today setting out the conditions that will
need to be met before we consider increasing bank rate or
reducing our stock of asset purchases.  We are introducing forward guidance as part of a mixed
strategy which includes bank rate at historic lows, asset
purchases, and the Funding for Lending scheme.  That strategy is
complemented by the Bank of England’s other policy tools, in
particular, recent actions to increase the resilience of the
U.K. banking and building society sector.  To conclude, there’s understandable relief that the U.K.
economy has begun growing again, but there should be little
satisfaction.  Much is at stake as we seek to secure this
recovery and return inflation to target.  A fall in unemployment
from the 7.8 percent rate now to the 7 percent threshold would,
given normal growth in the  labor force , mean well over 750,000
new jobs over the three-year forecast period.  A recovery in
productivity driven by a recovery in demand would mean faster
growth of real incomes.  Such outcomes would represent real
improvements in the lives of people across this nation, and
that’s why the MPC has made clear its intention, while remaining
committed to price and financial stability, to conduct monetary
policy to secure this recovery.  With that, be happy to take questions.  BLYTHE:  Thank you.  Now I would be grateful if you could
identify yourselves before asking a question.  Please do wait
for the microphone to come to you.  As you can see, there are
lots of you here, so in the interests of letting as many people
as possible ask a question, can you please keep it to a single
question and then hand the microphone back?  Larry?  QUESTION:  Larry Elliott of the Guardian.  Can you tell us
what statistical relationship there is between unemployment and
inflation in the U.K.?  In the U.S., they use this sort of
threshold, unemployment threshold, but there is quite a stable
relationship between the level of unemployment and the level of
inflation.  I’ve never heard anybody say there’s a stable
relationship of that sort in the U.K.  I just wondered what
evidence there is -- academic or otherwise -- to show that there
is this sort of relationship.  CARNEY:  I’ll take the start of that and then pass to
Charlie.  I think -- let me put this in the broader context
first, which is that there is a considerable margin of slack in
the U.K. economy.  The question is how big that margin of slack
is.  Most of the questions around that degree of slack actually
relate to how much slack is in firms, as opposed to how much
slack is in the labor market.  We have -- currently, productivity is about 15 percent
below pre-crisis trends.  It’s not the judgment of the MPC that
the scale of that gap is that large.  But it is the judgment,
the best collective judgment of the MPC, that there is a margin
of slack, a margin of productivity that can be recovered as the
economy recovers.  Now -- and we go through in this some detail in the
accompanying report on monetary policy tradeoffs -- that aspect
would suggest that, in designing guidance, one would look at the
-- at measures of productivity, a measure perhaps of an output
gap that encapsulated that.  The problem is -- or the challenge
is that that’s incredibly difficult to measure with precision.  What we can measure with much greater precision -- and
which is related and a good indicator of how much overall slack
there is in the economy -- is the unemployment rate.  And so the
judgment of the MPC was weighing up in designing guidance that
would be appropriate for this set of circumstances that would be
appropriate given the productivity puzzle that I started to
describe in the U.K., was to use the unemployment rate, which is
readily understood, widely available, not subject to revisions,
and has a tighter relationship.  But for academic and other statistical relationships, I
defer to Charlie.  CHARLIE BEAN:  OK.  I mean, Larry, I’m sure you’re well
aware of the pretty substantial literature around unemployment
in the 1980s and 1990s.  One of the things that we learned
during that period, exactly as you say, there wasn’t a simple
relationship between, say, the rates of wage inflation and
unemployment.  The standard view that emerged as a result of the work that
took place in the ’80s and ’90s was that one had to allow for
the equilibrium or natural rate of unemployment to move around.
And it depends on lots of factors, things like the composition
of the unemployed, the long-term unemployed, less effective at
finding jobs than those who’ve recently lost them, obviously,
 unemployment benefits , the structure of the labor market in
general matters.  So we have a much better understanding of the drivers of
the equilibrium unemployment rate these days.  Now, one of the
interesting things I think about this downturn -- though there’s
been lots of puzzles, particularly the productivity puzzle,
actually, the joint behavior of pay growth and unemployment has
not been particularly puzzling.  That’s been pretty stable.  You
have to allow for some increase in the natural rate of
unemployment.  There’s a box on pages 28 and 29 of the report which
discusses our estimate of the equilibrium of unemployment rate
in a little bit more detail.  We think the sensible (ph) not too
long (ph) in the very short-run measure of the equilibrium
unemployment rate that tends to be factors like terms of trade
shops (ph), which can have transient effects.  I suppose you’d
(ph) look at the more medium-term measure.  That’s given in the
dotted maroon line in chart eight (ph).  We think that’s about
six-and-a-half at the moment.  But I say, the -- call it the
wage Phillips curve has actually been behaving pretty well in
this downturn.  BLYTHE:  Bill?  QUESTION:  William Keegan, the Observer.  Mr. Carney, the
MPC is responsible for monetary policy.  To what extent do you
think the government’s fiscal policy is inhibiting the reduction
in unemployment you so clearly seek?  CARNEY:  Well, a couple things.  First, what we seek is
price stability, as defined by the 2 percent inflation target.
And what the challenge for the MPC is to chart the best path
back to that 2 percent inflation target, given the weakness in
activity, given the slack in the labor market, what -- and given
the initial conditions, given that we’re starting with inflation
at 2.9 percent and we fully recognize that there has been a
prolonged period where inflation has been above target.  So we’re balancing the need to get inflation back and our
primary responsibility of getting inflation back to the 2
percent target with -- with due consideration for output and
employment.  So just to be absolutely clear, this is about us
fulfilling our primary objective, which is inflation, and given
the circumstances, doing it in a balanced way.  And just to re-confirm why we’re using a threshold, there
are a variety of thresholds that we could have chosen.  We could
have chosen real growth.  We could have chosen some nominal
indicators, some nominal levels.  We could have chosen the
unemployment ratio.  We looked at a variety, and our analysis of
that -- or summary of our analysis is detailed in the document.  In the end, what we’re trying to do -- and we landed on
unemployment, not because it’s a target, not because it’s a
target, but because it is the best summary indicator that gives
a sense of the conditions at which -- conditions in the economy
at which the MPC would begin to consider the possible withdrawal
of the exceptional monetary policy stimulus that’s currently in
place.  And to go back to the previous question, we fully recognize
that there’s no one indicator that describes the economy.
There’s no one indicator that describes the state of the labor
market.  And we go at some length in both reports to provide
more detail on that.  QUESTION:   David Smith , Sunday Times.  Governor, the first
and third of your knockouts look fairly clear-cut.  The second
one seems a little bit fuzzy.  How will the MPC decide whether
inflation expectations are well anchored?  I think at the
moment, 5- to 10-year inflation expectations are around 3.5
percent, which is obviously significantly above target.  CARNEY:  Well, a couple things.  First, you’re quoting a
market rate for RPI inflation.  Our target is CPI inflation.
I’m sure you’re -- I’m sure you’re aware of the distinction; we
certainly are.  The report provides a summary of work that the bank has
done previously on a range of indicators of inflation
expectations, some of which are market indicators, a number of
which are survey indicators, a number of which are the forecasts
of analysts of medium-term inflation and longer-term inflation.  We will look at all of those, as we always do, where we’ve
reproduced in summary form the range of indicators that we look
at -- we’ll look at those, as we always do -- we’ll look at them
in a variety of ways.  The view of members of the MPC is that
when looking at inflation expectation indicators, it’s important
to look not just at the level, but the change, the direction of
change.  It’s important to look at sensitivity to news, for
example, sensitivity of those indicators to CPI -- actual
outcomes on CPI, and to make judgments around that.  Just to be absolutely clear, the individual members of the
MPC will be making -- as they always do -- but will be making
their assessments, and they’ll be particularly important in this
context -- their assessments of the outlook for inflation, the
probability that inflation could be above 2.5 percent 18 to 24
months out -- and we spell out how we calculate that -- they’ll
be making those determinations each time we meet, as well as
making a determination about whether inflation expectations
remain sufficiently well anchored.  So we’re setting out the inputs to those decisions in the
report.  QUESTION:  Guy Faulconbridge, Reuters.  There’s much
concern that the Help to Buy scheme may create a housing bubble
in the U.K.  Do you share those concerns?  And perhaps you could
share with us your biggest worry about the U.K. economy and
whether you’ve lost any sleep over it.  Thank you very much.  CARNEY:  Well, I think our biggest concern is, at this
stage, and that over which we have the most influence, our
biggest concern is the possibility that as the recovery gathers
pace that there is an unwarranted change in expectations about
the pace of the withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus.  That is
the point -- that is one of the principal points of providing
explicit forward guidance, so that people whether they are
market participants, maybe most importantly whether they’re
running businesses, individuals across the country, they
understand the conditions under which the MPC would begin to
consider the withdrawal of stimulus.  And just to reiterate,
that would begin to be under consideration once the unemployment
rate hits 7 percent, the 7 percent threshold.  With respect to Help to Buy and the housing market more
generally, obviously, it’s something that we watch closely, not
just in terms of the conduct of monetary policy, which is the
topic today, but in the Bank of England’s broader
responsibilities for financial stability.  We do watch it
closely.  I think we have to put recent developments in the
housing market in context.  We still see -- for example,
mortgage applications are well below historic averages.  They’re
not yet at 60,000.  That’s one of our key judgments, as we
expect them to move above 60,000.  We see high loan-to-value loans -- proportion of loans that
are high loan-to-value about 40 percent.  Spencer, normally,
they’ve -- pre-crisis, they got up to about 70 percent, I think.
 We -- valuations are still quite a bit off.  They’ve started to
recover, but they’re still quite a bit off, whether you measure
them on a price-to-rent basis or relative to income.  So it’s -- the housing market is starting to recover.  And
actually, the overall level of housing activity relative to GDP
is a couple percentage points lower than where it was prior to
the crisis, so it needs to be put in context.  And I think the
last thing to put in context -- actually, Spencer, I’ll ask you
for the exact figure -- but Help to Buy relative to...  SPENCER DALE :  Yeah.  So, I mean, there’s two components to
Help to Buy, which I think sometimes get muddled up.  There’s
one, which is the shared equity scheme, which is operating at
the moment, and there’s a second one, which is the mortgage
guarantee scheme, which isn’t yet operating and the details of
which aren’t yet known.  In terms of the shared equity scheme, the main focus of
that is on people buying new houses and designed to encourage
the building of new houses.  I think in my experience, in
traveling around the country, that’s working.  I go and speak to
house builders.  They are building new houses, so that
component’s working.  But it’s important to keep the size of that component into
some sort of perspective.  So the current rate of that is
something like 3 percent or 4 percent of total housing
transactions accounted for by the Help to Buy -- the equity
component.  So I think it’s doing its job, in terms of
encouraging new house builds, but the idea that it’s somehow
fueling a housing boom I don’t think really stacks up in terms
of just the size of the numbers.  QUESTION:  Sam Fleming from the Times.  Governor, first of
all, how much weight should firms and households be putting on
this guidance, given the Bank of England has had quite a patchy
forecasting track record in the past and, also, in the same
context, the fact that the MPC itself will change its
composition over the next few years?  And, in fact, we don’t
even know today how united the MPC is behind this particular
policy.  CARNEY:  In terms of -- in terms of the weight, what we’re
doing is we’re setting out very clearly the conditions under
which the MPC would consider adjusting the current exceptional
level of monetary policy stimulus.  We have provided, if you
want to wade through it -- and, Sam, I’m sure you will --
specific sensitivities around the -- what would the unemployment
rate be, given various growth rate -- average growth rates, at -
- the extent to which that growth is on the supply side, comes
from productivity -- we have those data tables -- the degree of
where the unemployment rate would be, given various growth rates
and participation rates, as well.  We provided that analysis.  So there’s ways to cross-check the different ways the
economy could get to 7 percent.  And obviously, individuals,
firms, economic analysts, journalists, others, you know, have
different views about the outlook for the economy.  It could be
stronger or weaker than the MPC’s view.  I would note that we
have -- I would re-emphasize that we’ve significantly marked up
our central tendency for the U.K. economy, both in terms of
growth, with this forecast.  And so people will have different views; that’s entirely
reasonable.  What they should coalesce their views around,
though, or what this has given an opportunity to focus those
views on is the conditions under which the monetary policy would
-- committee would -- would intend to consider the possible
withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus.  Now, we can’t -- in terms of the composition, the
composition of the Monetary Policy Committee will change over
time.  And there is -- again, I’ll speak in possibilities --
there’s certainly the possibility that there will be new members
of that committee before the threshold is reached.  Those new
members, as every member of the MPC is, will be independent.
They will form their own views.  The members of the committee at present will form their
views on both bank rate and asset purchases at each meeting in
the context of the guidance that we’ve given.  But, again, I’ll
just re-emphasize, if their outlook for inflation is above the
inflation knockout, if their concerns -- if they have concerns
about whether inflation expectations are sufficiently well
anchored, they would -- naturally, it would follow, they would
judge that that guidance no longer applies, and that would
influence.  And I would just make one final point, which is that the
recovery were to falter or if an individual member of the MPC
had a view that additional stimulus were required, under this
guidance, they would be in a position, as they always would as
an independent member, to support further asset purchases or
other elements of a mixed strategy to ensure that we achieve our
primary objective, which is price stability, while supporting
output and activity -- output and employment.  BLYTHE:  Ben?  QUESTION:  Ben Chu from the Independent.  Governor, you’ve
spoken in the past about the importance of economies achieving
escape velocity when emerging from recessions.  Is it your view
that the U.K. economy is now traveling at that speed?  And if
not, at what stage on these present forecasts do you think we
will achieve that speed?  CARNEY:  Well, the short answer is, no, we’re not at escape
velocity right now.  We’re -- the welcome news is that the
economy is returning to levels of growth that could begin to be
described as approaching historic averages, historic averages,
after a prolonged period of very weak -- very weak performance.  The guidance provides a sense of the conditions under which
we would start the judge -- we being the MPC -- would start to
judge whether -- to use the terminology -- whether the economy
is at escape velocity, whether it is consistent with a
sustainable recovery, and whether, in the context of our primary
objective, which is price stability, an adjustment in monetary
policy is warranted.  QUESTION:  Jennifer Ryan from Bloomberg News.  I wanted to
see if you could talk a little bit more about the reasons behind
the pickup in your expectations for growth.  It was a pretty big
revision from May to August, and I wondered if you could talk
about the extent to which you see the factors that are figuring
in the pickup now and the recent data as being sustainable.  There’s been a big consumer-led element to it, and as you
know, wage growth hasn’t been great.  People have been dipping
into their savings.  So why further out should we see that the
recovery has further traction to go?  CARNEY:  Well, there’s a broad range of indicators that
support the MPC’s revised view or updated view of growth in the
U.K. economy.  They range from softer indicators, survey
indicators, whether it’s the CIPS data, other indicators of
business intentions, hiring intentions, to harder data, the
manufacturing -- recent manufacturing data, retail sales data on
the housing market, performance of the consumer during a period
-- it has to be said -- during a period where there’s some
volatility because of shifting in time of compensation payment,
some volatility in the savings rate that is there, but  consumer
confidence  levels that have recovered significantly, as well.  So there’s a variety of both hard and soft data that --
including, I should add, on our soft data -- our agent surveys
around the country that are supportive of this revision.  With respect to the consumer -- and to be clear, in terms
of the components of growth going forward -- obviously,
consumption, largest share of the economy, plays -- household
spending does play an important role.  But we see that
consumption growth is broadly in line with income growth.  There
is not embedded in this projection a material increase in our
expectations of -- or there’s -- we do not expect material
increase in borrowing over the horizon.  We detail that in the
report.  The housing -- the recovery in housing activity from very
low levels means that there is an important contribution from
housing, as well.  And as you get farther out in the projection
horizon, forecast horizon, we see business investment starting
to pick up.  As one would expect, there’s that -- that lag
response on the business investment side.  BLYTHE:  Jeremy?  QUESTION:  Jeremy Warner,  Daily Telegraph .  The BIS
recently expressed a number of concerns about the long-term
consequences of prolonged period of negative real interest
rates.  Do you share those concerns?  CARNEY:  Well, we share -- we fully recognize that a
prolonged period of low interest rates could -- if unattended,
could lead to some financial vulnerabilities.  And that’s why we
put in place the financial stability knockout, so that we use to
the fullest the institutional -- the new institutional structure
of the Bank of England, so that we get the benefit of the
perspective and advice of the Financial Policy Committee.  But it’s not necessary to have a financial stability
knockout to address the types of issues to which you’re alluding
and the BIS was discussing.  The FPC and the PRA spend
appropriately so -- in fact, the issues around so-called low for
long interest rates are one of the top vulnerabilities that the
Financial Policy Committee has identified for the U.K. economy
and has gone through in some length, as most recent FSR.  There are a variety of tools that can be used that -- to
address those.  They start with supervision, effective
supervision of institutions.  They include the possibility of
sectoral adjustments, Pillar 2 capital, other adjustments that
could be brought into place.  They would include a range of
measures in markets, as well, if necessary.  In sum, the point is that there are several lines of
defense, both in terms of microprudential supervision and
regulation and macroprudential policy, before one even gets to
monetary policy.  And I think the only -- change of emphasis I
would -- at least in the reporting of the BIS analysis -- is to
make the emphasis on going to -- using all of those lines of
defense first before the very blunt tool of monetary policy is
used or is considered to be used.  BLYTHE:  Hugo?  QUESTION:  Hugo Duncan from the  Daily Mail .  Governor, how
worried are you or concerned are you about the ability of the
banking system to support this recovery?  And might there be
further movements on credit easing, Funding for Lending, and so
on, to encourage lending, particularly to small businesses?  CARNEY:  OK.  Well, the first thing -- two parts to that
answer -- and I’ll ask Paul if he has anything to supplement on
Funding for Lending -- the first is that there has been
considerable progress made in recent years and in recent months
on enhancing the resilience of the U.K. banking system.  We have over 50 building societies that meet the leverage
ratio now.  We have virtually all of the major banks that meet
the leverage ratio, and the last remaining bank has put in place
a credible plan to achieve that in a realistic timeframe.  So the core capital position of the U.K. banking system is
substantially improved.  Also, the risk profile of the -- of the
system is substantially improved.  And the consequence of that
is that the ability to provide lending to the real economy has
improved, and improved not just at this point in time, but
importantly over the course of the forecast horizon, because the
one thing we know -- we don’t know exactly what shocks the U.K.
economy will face over the course of the next three years -- but
undoubtedly we will spend -- face some shocks, and it’s
important not just to be there in the better times, but to be
there when things get more challenging.  In terms of -- just to reiterate what I said earlier -- in
terms of the actual credit creation that underpins the --
underpins the economy, there is some, but it is -- it is not a
return to the double-digit levels by any stretch of the
imagination that we saw pre-crisis.  Finally, in terms of Funding for Lending, I mean, I’ll ask
Paul to speak to that, but I’ll make the general -- the general
comment that the bank as a whole and the MPC as appropriate will
continue to look at any sensible adjustments that can be made to
any of our facilities within the context of our mandate in order
to appropriately -- appropriately support sustainable credit --
credit creation in this economy.  But, Paul?  FISHER:  Yeah.  I think we can say that, when the Funding
for Lending scheme was introduced just over a year ago, the
ability -- the ability to raise funds and the cost of those
funds was an issue of potentially holding back credit growth
(ph).  I think it’s certainly safe to say (ph) that that’s no
longer the case.  The big banks are certainly out there saying (inaudible)
they’ve got plenty of funds to lend if they can find the right
businesses to lend to.  And the report details the reduction in
funding costs over the past year.  So I think in terms of making
sure that funding is not an obstacle to lending, the FLS has
achieved that objective.  Still further to go in terms of seeing
the amount of credit pick up, particularly to small businesses,
but shortage of funding is no longer the problem.  BLYTHE:  Claire?  QUESTION:  Claire Jones, Financial Times.  Governor Carney,
how strong was the agreement among members of the MPC that
unemployment was the right variable to use?  And was the
decision on guidance in this exact form unanimous?  CARNEY:  Well, as with any decision of the MPC, we don’t
comment until the -- comment on specific individuals’ opinions
or on specific votes comes out with the minutes.  The minutes
are coming out next Wednesday, so you’ll be the first to read
them, I take it, given your interest.  BLYTHE:  Paul?  QUESTION:  Paul (inaudible) from the Economist.  Given the
first knockout, one interpretation of that would be that you’ve
-- or the MPC has temporarily raised the inflation target to 2.5
percent.  Do you accept that?  And doesn’t that raise a concern
about the credibility of the Bank of England’s inflation-fighting credentials?  CARNEY:  Absolutely not.  There has been no change to the
inflation target.  The inflation target remains 2 percent.  It
applies at all times.  The knockout reflects the initial
conditions that we’re faced at this point in the recovery.
Inflation is at 2.9 percent.  The question is, what is the
appropriate path to return that to the 2 percent inflation
target?  We’ve set a knockout that -- and we’ve given the
probability that the knockout, in our best judgment, that that
knockout would be triggered, given where we are today, which is
roughly around 40 percent, and that’s detailed in one of the
charts.  I can’t remember...  BLYTHE:  Chart four, page eight.  CARNEY:  Chart four, page eight.  Thank you.  And so this
is about the right path to bring inflation back to target, while
supporting output and activity.  BLYTHE:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:   Michael Bird , City AM.  There have been
suggestions that the jobs emerging since the crisis are lower
paid and less stable than a lot of the ones they replaced.  If
that indicates that households might still be deleveraging and
uncertain, is the composition of new employment something the
MPC will be considering alongside the headline rate of
unemployment?  CARNEY:  Well, without question, we have to consider a
range of indicators, and we always consider a range of
indicators in formulating monetary policy.  The -- we have --
for simplicity and for clarity, we have chosen a specific labor
market indicator, the unemployment rate, to -- as our threshold
condition, but without question, when assessing the appropriate
stance of monetary policy, we look at a wide range of
indicators.  And specifically to your question, we are -- the
members of the MPC are well aware in setting policy that the
number of part-time jobs has increased by more than 2 percentage
points as a proportion of overall jobs that -- average hours
worked, while it has been relatively strong, as many labor
market indicators have been, given the scale of the recession
and the weakness of the recovery, average hours worked is not
yet back to pre-crisis levels.  Total hours worked actually are
back to pre-crisis levels, so we look at a range of indicators
in terms of assessing the stance of the labor market.  And just, again, as a bit of a guide, we provide a lovely
spider diagram in the document which gives you a sense of where
things are.  The one thing I would take from that, actually, is
that in terms of -- and this diagram gives you a sense of the
standard deviation from the longer-run averages -- that actually
most labor market indicators are relatively -- sending
relatively similar signals in terms of the degree of slack in
the labor market.  In other words, there is slack in the labor
market across things, but we will watch all elements closely.  BLYTHE:  Phil?  QUESTION:  Phil Aldrick of the Daily Telegraph.  There’s
been a lot of pressure for -- a lot of stress on the rebalancing
of the economy.  And this commitment, the rates will be low at
0.5 for potentially three years.  You could argue that that is a
case for encouraging an unbalanced recovery.  And alongside
that, just wondered if you could give us an idea of what FPC
knockout -- give some examples of an FPC knockout.  Are you
concerned about the unbalanced economy, Governor?  CARNEY:  Well, I -- without question.  I mean, the bank and
the MPC have long been focused on this issue of -- of
rebalancing, and it’s part of ensuring a sustainable recovery.
Let’s be clear.  There’s a few aspects to rebalancing.  There’s
the process of deleveraging of households and financial
institutions.  There’s been -- there has been progress on that
front.  Household debt-to-income has fallen by more than 20
percentage points.  Financial institutions have raised
considerable capital.  They have derisked their businesses to
some extent, as well.  So there has been progress.  There’s also
-- obviously, the rebalancing is necessary on the fiscal side,
which is in train.  In terms of the other element, though, is -- and it’s very
much related, in terms of the overall level of savings --
balance of savings and investment in the economy -- is on the
external side.  And in a -- in a global economy that remains
relatively weak -- actually, Charlie, I think I’ll ask you to
supplement this -- but in a global economy that remains
relatively weak, and certainly with our largest trading partner,
which despite some recent improvements is -- is still moving
sideways, meaning Europe, the path to sustainable rebalancing is
to increase productivity.  And one of the advantages of the approach that we’re taking
-- there’s little monetary policy can directly do, do to
influence productivity, but one of the advantages in terms of
setting this guidance, this threshold-based guidance, is that it
allows us to test the degree to which productivity will recover
alongside demand, and by helping to spur demand, we test that,
and there is a dynamic aspect to this guidance.  If we see more
of demand being met by supply, all other things being equal,
that means that it will take longer to achieve the threshold,
which will mean more stimulus over that time.  But, Charlie, do you want to talk more broadly?  BEAN:  Well, I mean, it’s no secret that the MPC would like
to have seen rebalancing in the form of an increase in the share
of net trade and also, ideally, an increase in investment.  But
the fact is, achieving that against the background of a
depressed global economy -- particularly our key export markets,
the eurozone -- that’s not a particularly propitious backdrop.  Now, the decline in the  exchange rate  that we had in 2007-’08 should have gone some way towards helping that.  Indeed, if
you look at exports of goods, that has, indeed, been boosted by
the exchange rate depreciation.  But unfortunately, at the same
time, we found ourselves being subject to essentially a -- think
of it as a loss in comparative advantage in financial and
business services, probably brought on by the financial crisis,
so that the contribution from that sector has been less than we
would have hoped.  Now, as we go forward, hopefully as we start seeing the
rest of the world picking up, we will see our strong
contribution from net trade.  As far as investment goes, you
can’t expect businesses to be increasing investment against the
backdrop of relatively weak demand for -- for their products.
So to some extent, you need also some pickup in domestic demand
to expect to see some pickup in business investment.  We do expect to see a pickup in construction investment,
housing investment in particular, and that -- and going back to
an earlier question, that’s one of the factors behind the
recovery and momentum in growth in the near term.  And that’s
clearly something that is good for the economy.  We need more
houses.  But the pickup in business investment comes farther
down the road as the recovery appears more entrenched.  BLYTHE:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) News.  Today’s strategy clearly needs
to be communicated to a wide audience.  What’s the message that
you want ordinary businesses and ordinary people to hear today?  CARNEY:  The message is that the MPC is going to maintain
the exceptional monetary policy stimulus until unemployment
reaches a 7 percent threshold, at which point we will
reconsider.  That means if nobody else enters the labor force,
that means 250,000 jobs.  Under a normal period of labor force
growth over the three-year horizon, that means 750,000 more
jobs, same participation rate is there.  The second message is that we will do this while
maintaining price and financial stability.  So we’ll do this in
a fashion that respects our primary responsibility for price
stability and our secondary responsibility for financial
stability.  And the combination of that is to secure a
sustainable recovery.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  Sky News .  Governor, you say in your
commitment to forward guidance that this shouldn’t rule out
future asset purchases necessarily, but you’re not necessarily
saying all that much in the report about what those purchases
might be, the particular type of quantitative easing, and I’m
just curious to press you on whether you feel the particular
breed of QE that the Bank of England has followed in the past,
so buying up  government bonds , is necessarily -- is necessarily
the best form of asset purchases for the future and whether you
would support something like that?  CARNEY:  Well, the -- this is the -- the policy that we
have at present, the strategy we have at present, which is the
adoption of this threshold-based forward guidance, which
includes, obviously, bank rate at 0.5 percent, the existing
stock of asset purchases that’s in place, the 375 billion, and
taking into account Funding for Lending and other things that
the bank has put in place to strengthen the banking system.  In
the MPC’s judgment, that’s the appropriate stance of monetary
policy for -- to achieve the inflation target and to help secure
the recovery.  So it’s not a question that this -- for today about
considering additional measures.  That’s only a question that
would be addressed in -- and is a question we will always ask
ourselves appropriately at subsequent meetings, just as we will
ask ourselves the questions of whether the knockouts have not
yet been breached or whether or not the knockouts have been
breached.  So it would be -- I think it would be inappropriate for me
to speculate on what we might or might do under future
hypotheticals.  And in any event, I would only be one of nine
individuals who would be making those determinations.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) World Business Press.  I was going to
ask a similar question, but just to expand on what might trigger
more quantitative easing and what could lead to the Bank of
England to begin selling gilts back to the markets, and also if
you’ve considered buying commercial assets, as well.  CARNEY:  Well, I’m going to -- given the similarity of the
question, I’m afraid, I’m going to -- I’m going to refer to my
earlier answer in terms of -- I just don’t think it’s
constructive to -- and it wouldn’t be appropriate to speculate
on different policies.  We’ve made a decision.  We’ve adopted this strategy.  This
is the appropriate stance of monetary policy, in the MPC’s
judgment, for this point in time, to help secure the recovery.
With respect to one of your questions that was embedded in
there, I’ll just turn to Paul in terms of restating our -- our
views on asset sales when the point comes in time.  But I would say, just as a preview of that, that our
approach here very much reinforces that view, because we have
committed to reinvest all of the proceeds of maturing -- all the
cash flows associated with maturing gilt during the period of
time during which the forward guidance is in place.  But, Paul?  FISHER:  Yeah, so on asset sales, what we have said is that
we would only commence asset sales at a time when we thought we
could do over a sustained period of time in order to keep an
orderly (ph)  debt market .  The presumptive plan currently is
that we will raise interest rates before we would start asset
sales, but that’s not a commitment.  That’s just a planning that
we’ve got for now.  What we won’t (ph) want (ph) to do is use asset sales an
active instrument where we buy some one month, sell some the
next.  When we get into asset sales, it will be because we want
to do it over a sustained period of time in an orderly fashion.  BLYTHE:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  (inaudible) CNBC.  Thank you, Governor.  You
touched on it briefly, but can I just ask you how you view the
eurozone risk?  In the report, you said domestic recovery
continues to emanate from abroad, and you refer to the eurozone.
 Has that gotten better?  Has it subsided?  CARNEY:  There has been over the course of the last -- over
the course of the last year, there has been important progress,
and there remains important work in progress in the eurozone to
-- to construct a sustainable monetary union and to enhance the
potential of the European economy.  There has been progress on
banking union.  The recovery resolution directive, which also
applies here, is something we very much welcome and support.  The upcoming asset quality review by the ECB will be
important in further enhancing and reinforcing the resilience of
the European banking system.  It’s absolutely essential.  A
variety of structural reforms on the national level have -- to
varying degrees -- have been put in place.  And the monetary
measures of the ECB have very much helped to contain both tail
risks and, to the extent possible, in a banking system that’s --
financial system that is still quite fragmented, the extent
possible, have done much to support output in the context of
their price stability mandate.  But we should not get ahead of ourselves in terms of
expectations from the eurozone.  There remain risks.  Senior
European authorities and political figures are well aware of
these risks.  They’re working hard to try to minimize them, but
there remain risks.  And in fact, in our forecasts, we don’t fully include the
most extreme risks that could emanate from the eurozone in
constructing our forecast.  So -- and then the last point I’ll
make is that it -- it -- while the market -- while the eurozone
economy has stabilized and is beginning to pick up slightly,
this is -- in order to gain significant exports into Europe,
British firms will need to continue -- will really need to build
their competitiveness by investing and improving productivity,
because it’s not going to be driven by very strong demand pull
in our best judgment.  BLYTHE:  Hugh?  QUESTION:  Hugh Pym, BBC News.  Governor, what do you say
to those who say, well, indicators in the last few days about
U.K. growth have been pretty positive?  You yourselves have
revised up your growth forecast for this year and next to a
pretty healthy looking 2.7 percent.  You’ve already successfully
persuaded the markets that a rate rise is going to be somewhere
in the future. What’s wrong with the existing starts?  Why do
you need to bind your hands by doing more?  CARNEY:  Well, a couple things.  First, the last bit of
your comment question, to be absolutely clear that, with the
combination of the thresholds and the knockouts, hands are not -
- hands are not bound here.  What we’re -- what the MPC is doing
is it’s providing much greater clarity about how we would react
to underlying economic conditions, how we’d set monetary policy.  But to go to the big part of your question is, why now?
This is exactly the time when something like this is
appropriate.  It’s -- we are at the start of a renewed recovery.
 As I said in my opening comments, this is very welcome.  But
it’s after a very long period of -- it’s after a very sharp
recession and a very long period of very weak activity.  This is
the weakest recovery on record.  Records go back over a century.  Let’s put it in context.  There is -- there is significant
slack in this economy.  And there is -- to some extent, in the
relief about the recovery, there is an understandable --
expectation can build up that that immediately means pulling
back on the exceptional monetary stimulus, which is really at
the heart of helping to get the recovery going.  And what the MPC is saying here is that we need to make
further progress, and we need to reach certain threshold -- a
threshold -- at a minimum, that threshold before we consider
pulling back.  And we’re doing it in a way, again, that fully
takes regard of our responsibilities on price and financial
stability.  QUESTION:  Faisal Islam, Channel 4 News.  Governor, is this
-- just for clarity’s sake, is this basically a clarification of
communication kind of designed as a -- as a beacon to the great
British public to increase their demand for credit and for
money, which has been lacking?  Or is it actually a loosening of
policy?  CARNEY:  First and foremost, it is a clarification.  This
is -- what this does is make stimulus more effective.  We have
exceptional monetary policy stimulus in place.  This is about
making that monetary policy stimulus more effective.  It does it
in three ways.  It provides greater clarity about what we’re
trying to achieve, what’s the path.  Everyone knows we have the
2 percent inflation target.  What’s the path that we think --
the MPC thinks is best for the economy in terms of returning
inflation to 2 percent, while supporting -- to the extent
possible -- activity in employment?  The second thing is, it reduces uncertainty.  My response
to Hugh Pym just now just referenced that.  It reduces
uncertainty, because there can be a premature view -- premature
withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus as the recovery starts to
build up.  And the third point, which is maybe the most subtle, is
that this provides a robust framework in order to test how much
excess supply there is in the economy, not just within the labor
market, but within firms.  And it’s a -- it’s a robust framework
because it has with it those price -- two price and one
financial stability knockout, which disciplines the framework as
a whole, as we test to see how supply comes on as the economy
recovers.  It’s more effective.  BLYTHE:  We’re almost out of time, but we’ve had -- a bunch
of people over on this side have had their hands up for a long
time.  Richard, quick question?  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) this is still quite complex guidance.
 You’ve got the three knockouts.  You’ve got this handy 44-page
booklet explaining your thinking.  Is one to understand that
it’s your intention to give somebody making a big decision on
borrowing that interest rates by your best estimate are likely
to stay where they are until the middle or late 2016?  CARNEY:  The -- this is -- this is -- if you look at page
seven of the Inflation Report, for what it’s worth, on the top
half of the page, it tells you everything you need to know,
Richard, and I can read it to you later, if you’d like me --
like me to.  The -- what we’re -- we’re -- what the MPC is doing is
giving a sense of the economic conditions that would have to be
achieved before we consider -- consider -- starting to withdraw
the exceptional monetary policy stimulus that’s in place, not a
point in time, but the economic conditions.  And that economic
conditions is one -- it’s one.  It’s the unemployment rate.
Everyone knows what the -- everyone in this room knows what the
unemployment rate is.  The unemployment rate is reported
monthly.  Everyone can understand what the concept is.
Unfortunately, a lot of us know people who are unemployed or
have just become employed.  It is something that’s real, it’s tangible, it’s widely
understood, it doesn’t get revised -- or if it’s revised, these
are minimal revisions.  And so for a business, for an
individual, you have a pretty good sense of where it is.  Now, furthermore, we provided our best view on where
unemployment is going to be.  We have, for the first time,
published our forecast of -- the MPC’s forecast of unemployment.
 In this case, today, we’ve published a forecast that’s
conditioned on bank rate remaining constant for the next three
years and asset purchases remaining at the 375 billion level
over that course in time.  And our median unemployment is 7.3 percent.  Our view in
terms of the probabilities is that -- and we’ve provided a
probability chart -- is that it’s as likely that we’ll meet that
7 percent threshold by the end of the forecast horizon, as it is
-- as it is before.  And let me just -- let me just add one other thing, which I
should -- to Faisal’s question earlier -- which is that our view
-- so we’re not providing a view in time.  We’re providing a
view of those underlying conditions.  If you take that together
and you map that towards where market interest rates are, is --
our best collective judgment is that the current market curve at
the time we produced this was less likely to be realized over
time, given that outlook for economic conditions.  But this is about an unemployment threshold.  Different
individuals will have different views on when that’s going to be
achieved, and on the basis of forming those opinions, they can
infer -- not just infer, they can understand what the bank would
do -- will do, rather.  BLYTHE:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) Bloomberg Television.  Governor,
there’s been a huge degree of correlation between global --
major global bond markets over the last few years.  There’s some
evidence that that’s breaking down.  Would you expect that to
continue to break down?  Or do you think that once the Fed
starts seriously tapering, tightening, that the gravitational
effect will simply be too great for the gilt market to resist?  CARNEY:  Well, the first thing is that there’s been a huge
degree of correlation, as you know, across all asset prices.
You know, risk on, risk off correlations, whether it’s major
commodities and the  S&P 500 , whether it’s credit spreads,
whether it’s global bond markets, certain currency pairs,
correlations that previously would have been 0.3, 0.25,
something like that, all in the 0.75, 0.8 level, and it’s only -
- has been in the -- in the first part of this year that those
very high correlations, both across asset classes and within
asset classes, started to return to something like pre-Lehman
level.  That’s a good thing, because that’s -- we’re out of the
huge macro tail risk world, where you have the possibility of
major events to -- the small probabilities of major, very bad
events influencing the course of -- the course of asset prices.  Now, in that -- in that context, between the major advanced
economy bond markets, even in a more normal environment, one can
expect a relatively high correlation of yields, longer-term
yields -- and I’d make the import on longer-term yields --
because these high-quality credits are relatively good
substitutes for each other.  I think it’s a point that we make
in the actual report, in the -- in the tradeoff guidance report.  What is important, though, is that -- to recognize is the
different major economies, advanced economies, are at different
points in their economic cycle.  They have different outlooks
for inflation.  There will be different stances of monetary
policy.  There will be different timings that are appropriate of
exit, beginnings of exit from exceptionally stimulative monetary
policy.  And what we saw a few months ago, in June, was that there
was much less differentiation at the shorter end of the curve
between the major central -- the major short rate curves than
would have been warranted by the different positions that they
are in.  That’s one of the advantages of guidance.  In this context,
it’s giving a better sense, to use the technical term, of the
MPC’s reaction function, not a change in the reaction function,
but it gives a better sense of the MPC’s reaction function to
financial market participants.  BLYTHE:  We’re way over time, but a very quick question,
Simon?  QUESTION:  I’ll be very quick.  Simon Nixon, the Wall
Street Journal.  Governor, there are some (inaudible) economists
who are forecasting that  house prices  might rise by 15 percent
in the next year.  Would you regard that as a success for this
policy?  CARNEY:  The success for -- the bank -- the Bank of England
judges -- sorry, be more specific -- the MPC judges success in
achieving -- by achieving the inflation target, the 2 percent
inflation target.  That is our primary objective.  The issue we
face today is the speed with which we return to that 2 percent
objective and in a manner that, to the extent possible, supports
output and activity.  We don’t target asset prices.  We focus on
CPI inflation and getting there at the right period of time.  Within the broader Bank of England, within the broader set
of responsibilities of the Bank of England, there are both
prudential regulators, the PRA, macroprudential authorities, the
FPC, who take an intense interest in scenarios such as the one
you just described and the implications for sustainability, but
that’s why there’s that division of responsibility.  QUESTION:  Thank you.  BLYTHE:  I’m afraid that really is all we’ve got time for,
so thank you all very much, indeed, for coming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Gordon in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  