-- Beiersdorf Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates on Emerging Markets
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-07T06:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/beiersdorf-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-on-emerging-markets.html
Beiersdorf AG (BEI) , the maker of Nivea
skin cream, reported second-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates as sales growth in  emerging markets  offset sluggish
demand in western  Europe .  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes rose to 219
million euros ($291.4 million) from 191 million euros, the
Hamburg-based company said in a statement today. That beat the
215.5 million-euro  average estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Stefan Heidenreich is investing in
China, Brazil, Russia and other emerging economies, where the
company now gets almost half of its revenue, as government
austerity measures weigh on  consumer spending  in western Europe.
Europe’s economy, which has contracted for six straight
quarters, probably had stagnant growth in the three months
through June and will return to expansion this quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists last month.  Under Heidenreich, who has been CEO since April 2012,
Beiersdorf is focusing on large innovations and its main product
lines to drive growth as part of the “Blue Agenda”
reorganization, which takes its name from the company’s
trademark Nivea packaging.  ’Blue Agenda’  “The systematic implementation of our Blue Agenda over the
last twelve months has given Beiersdorf a clear boost,” said
Heidenreich. “We are becoming increasingly better at
translating the potential of our brands and our company into
economic success.” The company forecast sales growth of between
5 percent and 6 percent this year.  Heidenreich dropped singer Rihanna from Nivea’s
advertisements last year as he vowed to return the brand to its
roots. This year, the company introduced a skin conditioner
across Europe under the Nivea brand to win over women who don’t
moisturize daily and redesigned its Nivea Men brand. Nivea’s
sales gained 6.8 percent in the first half, Beiersdorf said
today.  Beiersdorf’s second-quarter sales increased 3.7 percent to
1.59 billion euros. A revenue decline of 1.6 percent in Europe
was offset by a sales jump of 19 percent in  Africa ,  Asia  and
 Australia . Revenue at the consumer unit, which accounted for
almost 84 percent of annual revenue last year, gained 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  