-- BHP’s CEO Sees U.S. Shale Expansion as Mineral Demand Grows
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-08-07T06:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bhp-s-mackenzie-sees-shale-expansion-as-commodity-demand-grows.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, signaled it will expand in the shale oil
and gas industry in the U.S., forecasting global commodity
demand will jump 75 percent over the next 15 years.  “It’s my intention to make us hugely proficient, if not
one of the leaders in the shale gas and oil business,” Andrew Mackenzie, chief executive officer of the Melbourne-based
company, said today in an interview. “Which means if there are
opportunities elsewhere we’ll be able to consider them with a
lot of precision and interest.”  China, the biggest consumer of metals and energy, will
continue to fuel demand for commodities as 250 million people
move into cities, said Mackenzie, 56, who succeeded Marius
Kloppers in May. BHP spent $20 billion in 2011 on shale assets
in the U.S., joining rivals including Exxon Mobil Corp. and
 China  Petrochemical Corp. in seeking to tap surging energy
demand that’s driving an industrial revival.  BHP slipped 2.0 percent to A$34.90 at the close of trading
in Sydney. It’s dropped 5.9 percent this year.  Premier Li Keqiang is driving reform of the Chinese economy
in a bid to maintain growth while reining in financial risks and
controlling local government debt. China’s policy makers have
this year rolled out targeted measures to support the economy,
including boosting infrastructure, tax cuts and help for small
companies.  “I’m on the whole reasonably positive about China,”
Mackenzie said. “They’re doing a good job at rebalancing and
moving more towards a consumption-based economy and at the same
time thinking more deeply how they can make more efficient use
of the resources that we sell to them and others.”  Asian Demand  Asian energy demand, including from China, is helping drive
the development of about $180 billion of liquefied natural gas
projects in Australia, BHP’s home country. The nation is
forecast to surpass Qatar as the world’s largest exporter of LNG
by the end of the decade.  “We’re not yet investing in export terminals in the U.S.,
we’re simply producing the gas,” Mackenzie said. “But I do
believe that Australian LNG will face stiff competition from
U.S., Canada and  Africa  to supply the next tranche of LNG into
Asia.”  The U.S. Energy Department is weighing 20 applications for
LNG export terminals. Hydraulic fracturing of shale rock
formations from  Texas  to West Virginia has boosted supplies of
gas in the U.S., helping the nation overtake  Russia  as the
world’s biggest producer of the fuel in 2009.  BHP, due to report  earnings  on Aug. 20, expects annual
economic growth in China to moderate toward 6 percent over the
next two years, Chief Financial Officer Graham Kerr said in
April. China, whose economy grew 7.9 percent last year, the
slowest since 2008, accounts for 30 percent of BHP’s sales.  Potash Benefit  China’s changing economy would benefit demand for natural
gas, copper, coal and food production, which involved potash,
Mackenzie said. BHP is continuing a study of its Jansen potash
project in  Canada . The operation may cost $16 billion to build,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Russia’s OAO Uralkali, the largest potash producer, July 30
quit a venture that controlled about 43 percent of global
exports and signaled prices may fall by as much as a quarter.
BHP’s Jansen project in Canada contains a 3 billion-metric-ton
resource. The break-up of Uralkali’s marketing partnership may
signal “game over” for BHP’s plans to start producing the crop
nutrient, Citigroup said in July.  Free Market  “We’ve always been clear that we think that the market is
likely to evolve into more of a free market and be less driven
by what some would call cartels,” Mackenzie said. “We continue
to take an interest in Saskatchewan because we believe we have
some great ore bodies there and it’s also part of our
diversification strategy.”  Mackenzie’s predecessor, Marius Kloppers, in August last
year put major project approvals, including Jansen, on hold
after revenues fell. Falling profits also prompted the company
to sell assets, netting $1.63 billion for its stake in the
Browse LNG project in  Australia  last year to PetroChina Co. BHP
and Rio Tinto Group are leading a global push for asset
disposals as companies focus on their most profitable
operations.  “We can further simplify the portfolio,” said Mackenzie.
“That simplification process of really understanding how we can
create even more focus is very much part of my productivity
agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  