-- Bond Yields Hit Week High as Rand Fluctuates on Growth Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-08-07T15:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bond-yields-hit-week-high-as-rand-fluctuates-on-growth-concerns.html
South African bond yields rose to the
highest in a week amid concern that lower commodity prices and
labor disputes in the  mining industry  will slow growth. The rand
fluctuated between gains and losses.  Gold retreated to the lowest in three weeks and copper fell
on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will start to reduce
bond purchases as the  U.S. economy  improves. Johannesburg-based
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-largest producer of the metal,
is cutting capital expenditure and slowing output after
reporting a second-quarter loss, it said today. Workers at South
Africa’s biggest gold processor, Rand Refinery, went on strike
on Aug. 5 after pay talks stalled.  “Ongoing domestic wage negotiations and the vulnerable
fiscal position” are contributing to rising bond yields, Carmen Nel, a Cape Town-based analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, said in a
note. “Upward pressure should persist in the short-term due to
rising local inflation, strong U.S. data and the pending
announcement of Fed tapering in September.”  Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.20 percent
by 4:25 p.m. in Johannesburg, the highest on a closing basis
since July 29. South Africa’s currency gained as much as 0.6
percent and weakened 0.3 percent before trading at 9.9090 per
dollar.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share  Index (JALSH)  declined for a second
day, led by miners including AngloGold and BHP Billiton Plc.
Metals and other commodities account for more than 50 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data.  South Africa’s gold and foreign-currency reserves rose in
July after the price of bullion increased. Gross  reserves  gained
to $47.3 billion last month from $47 billion in June, the South
African Reserve Bank said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  