-- BP Loses Bid to Avoid Paying Spill Center $130 Million
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-07T23:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bp-loses-bid-to-avoid-paying-spill-claim-center-s-budget.html
BP Plc (BP/)  lost a bid to avoid paying the
third-quarter operating budget of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico 
disaster claims administrator, totaling $130 million, as part of
its settlement with most private claimants.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  rejected BP’s appeal of a
magistrate’s decision earlier today that ordered the company to
fund the budget “in its entirety” no later than Aug. 12.
Barbier agreed with the magistrate, ruling today after a hearing
in New Orleans.  The U.K.-based energy company rejected the Deepwater
Horizon Claims Center’s fund request two days ago, saying the
administrator hadn’t provided sufficient detail to determine
whether the budget was “reasonable,” according to a filing in
New Orleans federal court.  BP can’t withhold funds to run the settlement program, U.S.
Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan ruled today. “The refusal to
fund the third quarter 2013 budget is unreasonable,” Shushan
said.  Barbier ordered BP to submit a report to the court when it
funded the administrator.  BP faces thousands of lawsuits over damages caused by the
explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig. The blast
killed 11 workers and released more than 4 million barrels of
crude from BP’s well off the  Louisiana  coast in the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history  Administrator’s Budget  BP reached the agreement with most private party plaintiffs
last year, initially estimating the cost of the settlement at
$7.8 billion. The company last month raised the estimate to $9.6
billion.  “The claims administrator’s budget is subject to BP’s
reasonable approval,” the company argued in an Aug. 5 letter to
the program. The budget provided failed to include “supporting
analysis, metrics or explanatory notes providing any
transparency into the budgeting process or justification for the
$130,300,000 request.”  BP says it has paid more than $500 million in
administrative fees to the claims center through the first half
of this year, according the letter. As of July 28, BP has paid
$4.2 billion in total compensation under the settlement,
according to court filings.  ‘Legitimate’ Concerns  “Today’s hearings related to BP’s request for information
to which we are entitled under the settlement agreement,”  Geoff Morrell , a spokesman for the London-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “The court said that the concerns we raised
are legitimate.”  The claims program “itself admitted that the facility is
inefficient and that costs are higher than they should be,”
Morrell said. BP had offered to provide interim funding to
cover currently payable invoices while it reviewed information
sought from the claims administrator, Morrell said.  Nick Gagliano, a spokesman for the Deepwater Horizon Claims
Center, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment on the ruling. Richard Stanley, a lawyer for
claims administrator Patrick Juneau, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  