-- Food Price Drop Provides Relief in Brazil Inflation Fight
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-08-07T14:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/brazil-s-inflation-at-slowest-pace-in-three-years-on-food-prices.html
The first decline in food  prices (BZPIIPCM)  in
two years provided temporary assistance to Brazilian President
 Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to tame inflation being pressured by
the biggest currency slide among  emerging markets .  Prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA index rose 0.03
percent in July, in line with analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
whose median forecast was for prices to remain unchanged.
Cheaper food costs, as well as declines for transportation and
clothing, lowered 12-month inflation, which had exceeded the 6.5
percent upper limit of the government’s target range, to 6.27
percent.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  celebrated today’s reading,
saying it shows that inflation remains under control in the
world’s second-biggest emerging market. Banco Merill Lynch SA
forecast monthly inflation will rebound as a rallying dollar
puts pressure on companies to raise prices even as policy makers
have embarked on the biggest cycle of interest rate increases in
the Group of 20.  “This is likely just a transitory respite,”  Zeina Latif ,
a partner at Sao Paulo-based Gibraltar Consulting, said in a
phone interview. “The combination of a very strong devaluation,
and the limited space by companies to reduce margins further
after absorbing rising salary costs the past few years, means
that the pass-through to consumers is likely to be
significant.”  Real Plunge  The real has plunged nearly 13 percent over the past three
months, more than any major emerging market currency, as a wave
of street protests over rising bus fares further dim the
country’s growth outlook.  The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 2.3041 per U.S. dollar
at 10:54 a.m. local time. Swap rates on the contract maturing in
January 2015, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.68 percent.  While a weaker jobs market and high consumer indebtedness
may help restrain inflation, the currency has room to weaken
further as the  Federal Reserve  considers rolling back its bond-buying program on signs the  U.S. economy  is improving, Latif
said.  Fair Price        The average real effective  exchange rate  over the past two
decades, taking into account inflation and the currency’s value
against those of Brazil’s trading partners, is around 2.40 reais
per dollar, she said.  “While the currency depreciation has been sudden you can’t
argue that there’s been overshooting,” she said.  The weakening currency led the government to cut tariffs
this month on more than 100 imported products, including basic
materials such as steel.  The central bank also raised the benchmark rate by 50 basis
points to 8.5 percent in July following a 75-basis-point boost
between April and May. Traders expect policy makers to raise
rates to 9 percent this month, swap rates show.  The slide in the real is “avoiding an important decline in
inflation expectations, despite the ongoing increase in  interest
rates ,”  David Beker , the chief Brazil economist at Banco
Merrill Lynch SA, wrote in a note to clients today.  Economists expect inflation to accelerate to 5.87 percent
in 2014 from 5.75 percent this year, according to the median
forecast in a central bank survey published this week.  Food prices dropped 0.33 percent in July, clothing prices
fell 0.39 percent and transportation costs contracted 0.66
percent, the Rio de Janeiro-based statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  