-- Brookfield to Buy Industrial Portfolio for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-07T14:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/brookfield-to-buy-industrial-portfolio-for-1-1-billion.html
Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U) , the
commercial real estate company that was spun off by its Canadian
parent earlier this year, agreed to purchase U.S. industrial-property assets from Japan’s  Kajima Corp. (1812)  for $1.1 billion.  Brookfield Property will buy about 25 percent of Kajima’s
Industrial Developments International Inc., with the balance
owned by its institutional partners, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based
company said today in a statement. The deal includes more than
27 million square feet (2.5 million square meters) of operating
assets and 49 million square feet of future space.  “The addition of IDI to Brookfield’s existing industrial
operations will create a leading global industrial real estate
company able to deliver high-quality distribution facilities to
clients around the world,” Ric Clark, chief executive officer
of Brookfield Property, said in the statement.  The company is expanding in industrial real estate, an area
where it hasn’t previously had large investments, as global
trade grows. The Kajima acquisition will increase its industrial
portfolio to 62 million square feet of operating assets, with 79
million square feet available for future development. Brookfield
agreed in June to buy a U.K. warehouse developer from Dubai
World’s Economic Zones World unit.  Office Properties  Brookfield Property has previously focused on office and
retail real estate, with stakes in more than 300 properties with
about 250 million square feet. It owns about 50 percent of
 Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) , lower Manhattan’s largest
office landlord, and about 22 percent of  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-biggest U.S. mall owner.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , Canada’s largest manager
of alternative assets, spun off Brookfield Property in April. It
was the last of three main business units to be carved out by
the Toronto-based company. After the spinoff, the parent held an
effective economic stake of about 92.5 percent in the property
unit, according to a regulatory filing.  The Kajima transaction is expected to be completed in the
fourth quarter, Brookfield said. Industrial Developments
International, an Atlanta-based unit of Kajima, owns 75
industrial-distribution facilities in 12 states in cities
including Atlanta, Chicago, Cincinnati and the Dallas-Fort Worth
area in  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  