-- BTG Bets on New Commodities Business as Big Banks Exit
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-08-07T20:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/btg-bets-on-new-commodities-business-as-big-banks-exit.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
investment bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , said its new
commodities business will start adding to revenue as some of the
world’s biggest lenders retreat.  “We expect to have some revenue from the area in coming
quarters,” Marcelo Kalim, chief financial officer for the Sao
Paulo-based company, told analysts on a conference call today.
“This is the appropriate moment to start this business.”  Increased regulatory scrutiny and falling revenue have
prompted banks including New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
pull back from commodities. Revenue from the business sank 25
percent in the first half, to about $2.7 billion, at the 10
largest investment banks, according to data from analytics firm
Coalition Ltd.  Esteves, 45, previously ran the fixed-income, currencies
and commodities business at Zurich-based UBS AG. BTG hired Shon
Loth, Noble Group Ltd.’s former head of metal warehousing, for
its commodities business, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said this week. Loth is a vice chairman of the London
Metal Exchange’s warehousing committee and a member of the
bourse’s steel committee, according to data on its website.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which has said it remains
committed to the business, previously warned potential rivals
that getting involved in commodities can be dangerous.  Smart People  “A lot of very smart people have gotten into a lot of
trouble or lost a lot of money by getting into the commodities
business,” the New York-based company’s former CFO, David
Viniar, said at a 2007 investor conference in  Florida . Goldman
Sachs has a “very long history of watching our competitors get
into the commodities business at the top of the market, and
buying their businesses at the bottom.”  U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether banks should be
allowed to own physical commodities businesses and the Federal
Reserve said it’s reviewing a decision it made a decade ago that
allowed commercial banks to enter the industry.  JPMorgan said last month that it’s considering exiting the
business of owning and trading physical commodities ranging from
metals to oil. That marks a reversal of its push into the
practice of owning raw materials with its 2010 purchase of parts
of RBS Sempra, a joint venture between Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and  Sempra Energy. (SRE)   BTG said yesterday that second-quarter  net income  declined
to 650 million reais ($283 million), or 72 centavos a share,
from 822 million reais, or 93 centavos, a year earlier. That
missed Deutsche Bank AG’s estimate of 881 million reais and
Banco Bradesco SA’s 669 million-real forecast.  BTG rose 2.8 percent to 27.44 reais at 5:06 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. The shares  dropped  14 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 22 percent decline for  Brazil ’s
Ibovespa benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  