-- Bulger Jury Ends Second Day of Deliberations in Boston
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-08-07T22:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bulger-jury-ends-second-day-of-deliberations-in-boston.html
A federal court jury in  Boston  ended
a second day of deliberations without a verdict in the trial of
former crime boss James “Whitey” Bulger, who’s charged with
running a vast racketeering plot including 19 murders.  The group of eight men and four women was sent home today
by U.S. District Judge Denise Casper after weighing the case for
a total of 13 hours over two days. The jury will return tomorrow
to continue deliberating 48 charges, one of which includes 33
separate acts, including the alleged murders.  Casper convened prosecutors and defense lawyers twice
during the day to review notes passed from the jury’s foreman.
One note asked whether the statute of limitations might apply to
any of the charges, to which Casper said no. The other asked
whether the jurors had to unanimously find the U.S. hadn’t
proved one of the 33 acts included in one of the racketeering
offenses, revealing a possible dispute over the evidence.  The judge replied in a note that if the jury couldn’t reach
a decision, it “should make no finding as to that act, and move
on to the next act.” Casper also reminded jurors that they only
need to agree on two of the 33 acts to find Bulger guilty on
that particular charge.  White Noise  Bulger was captured in 2011 in  Santa Monica ,  California ,
after hiding from authorities for 16 years. The jury must decide
whether he’ll spend the rest of his life behind bars for crimes
committed while he ran an Irish-American criminal gang in South
Boston from the 1970s to the early 1990s.  Casper held private meetings in the crowded courtroom with
prosecutors and defense lawyers while white noise was playing
over the room’s speaker system to prevent anyone from hearing.
Families of victims looked on in concern, while Bulger took
notes. Some of his family members were also present.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Brian Kelly  left the room at one
point saying, “Now we wait.”  “They’re leaving us in limbo,”  Steve Davis , one of the
victims’ family members, said outside the courtroom.  J.W. Carney, Bulger’s lawyer, argued during the trial that
Bulger is being blamed for killings carried out by the
government’s star witnesses. The U.S. said the evidence against
Bulger is overwhelming and that he should remain locked up.  Cut Deals  The testimony of the 83-year-old’s one-time associates,
including a former gunman who admitted to killing 20 people,
can’t be trusted because they cut deals with prosecutors to
avoid lengthy prison terms or death sentences, Carney told
jurors in his closing statement Aug. 5.  “The government is buying their testimony; the witnesses
are selling their testimony; the currency that’s used here is
how much freedom is the person going to get,” Carney said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Fred Wyshak told the jury Aug. 5
that the evidence showed Bulger” is one of the most vicious,
violent, calculating criminals to ever walk the streets of
Boston.”  During the two-month trial, jurors heard from prosecution
witnesses including John Martorano, the gunman who said he
killed 20 people, sometimes on Bulger’s orders.  Martorano, who was a fugitive living in  Florida  from 1978
to 1995, spent 12 years and two months in federal prison under a
plea agreement for his crimes. He was released from prison in
2007 and agreed to help in the case against Bulger.  Plea Deal  Stephen Flemmi, another ex-friend, told the jury that
Bulger conspired with him to kill people who discovered too much
about their illegal activities. Flemmi avoided a federal death
penalty for his crimes by pleading guilty in 2004 to 10 murders.
He’s serving a life sentence.  Kevin Weeks, a former ally of Bulger who testified against
the defendant and in previous related cases, reached a plea deal
with prosecutors on drug charges and served five years in
prison. He was released in 2005.  Carney told jurors Aug. 5 to weigh the “moral character
and values” of the government’s key witnesses and whether they
received inducements to back the government’s claims.  Carney also denied the government’s claim that Bulger was
an informant for the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation who
corrupted three of its agents.  Bulger last week declined to testify in his defense,
depriving some victims’ family members of the details they
sought about FBI corruption that let crimes go unprosecuted for
decades.  Bigger Target  Bulger’s crimes raised questions about the extent to which
federal agents wrongfully protected Bulger from local and state
authorities for years before he disappeared, letting him kill
and steal in exchange for tips about a bigger FBI target that he
was associated with, the Patriarca Family organized crime group.  The relationship came to an end when Bulger went into
hiding in 1994, tipped off about impending charges. The warning
came from his longtime FBI handler, Special Agent John Connolly,
who’s now serving 50 years in prison for crimes linked to
Bulger, including murder.  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston at   jlawrence62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 