-- Sexagenarian Bus-Fare Cheats Cost Creditors in Worst Rout
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-08-07T18:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/bus-fare-dodgers-cheat-bondholders-in-deepest-rout-andes-credit.html
Bondholders of a Santiago bus-system
operator are reeling from the deepest losses in  emerging markets 
as a drop-off in ridership and persistent fare cheating caused
the company to violate its debt agreements.  Inversiones Alsacia SA’s bonds due in 2018 have tumbled 10
cents to 74.28 cents on the dollar in the past month. That’s the
worst return on a percentage basis among similar-maturity notes
that had comparable grades from  Fitch Ratings , which lowered its
rating on Alsacia’s debt three levels today to B. In the same
span, junk-rated corporate bonds in  developing nations  gained
1.1 percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, which operates about 1,494 buses under a
concession from the city of Santiago, said Aug. 5 that it isn’t
generating enough cash to satisfy the terms of its $405 million
of bonds. Alsacia has lost money for the past two years as
commuters spurned buses for cars after route cuts on the state-subsidized bus system and longer wait times. Yields on the debt,
secured by assets including buses, real estate and bank
accounts, have doubled this year to a record 15.58 percent.  “It’s not looking good,” Mariela Anguiano, an analyst at
BCP Securities LLC, who began covering the bonds in June with
the equivalent of a sell recommendation, said in a telephone
interview from  New York . While Alsacia says it has the money to
meet its obligations, “clearly the fact that they have breached
covenants isn’t good news.”  Jumping In  Ridership has been falling as more Chileans buy vehicles
instead of using public transportation. To make matters worse,
about 19 percent of passengers skipped fares on the Santiago bus
system during the second quarter, the transportation ministry
said Aug. 1. While riders are supposed to swipe a prepaid card
at the front of the bus, it’s possible to jump in through the
rear doors as passengers are getting off.  Antonia Besares, 60, a maid in north Santiago, said she
occasionally skips payment. It’s partly out of frustration over
the long wait times, she said.  “I only do it sometimes when there are lots of people,”
she said in a telephone interview. “It makes me angry. You wait
at a bus stop for 20 minutes and eight come past, but they don’t
stop.”  Alsacia had $70 million of cash at the end of April,
according to an Aug. 6 report by Daniel Sensel, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The company has a $38 million bond payment
due on Aug. 18, Chief Financial Officer Leopoldo Falconi said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  “The company doesn’t have problems making that payment in
August,” he said.  Seeking Waivers  Alsacia is asking investors to waive an acceleration of
debt payments that would otherwise be triggered by the covenant
breach, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
company will also ask its creditors to approve a reduction in
the amount of deposits it must keep in an operation and
maintenance account.  “The second waiver could be interpreted as indicating that
liquidity will be tight” through 2015, according to an Aug. 6
report by JPMorgan’s Sensel. He cut his recommendation on the
bonds to the equivalent of sell from hold.  Under the terms of the notes, Alsacia must deposit 1.1
times its debt-payment requirements in a special bank account.
The company said in its Aug. 5 statement that it had missed that
target as of July 31.  The company is also in negotiations with the government to
receive an increase in the payments it receives per passenger,
according to JPMorgan.  Compensating Losses  Alsacia will begin the bondholder consultations next week,
with decisions expected in 30 days, Falconi said.  “The business in itself remains profitable in the long
term,” he said. “The concession contract we have through 2018
creates fluctuations in income that are compensated for by the
contract itself. Those fluctuations can provoke the breach of
some financial ratios in the short term but they don’t affect
long-term profitability.”  The bus fares are set by a government-appointed panel. When
customers board, the fares are routed to a central
administrator, which forwards payments to the bus operators
under the terms of the concessions. There’s an additional
government subsidy to compensate for losses caused by a lack of
ridership.  Last year, Transantiago buses transported a total 1.04
billion passengers, 5 percent less than in 2011 and a 13 percent
decline from 2010, according to the  Metropolitan Public
Transport Directorate . At Alsacia and a sister bus operator,
ridership fell 4 percent last year, Falconi said.  Shareholder Support  “It’s a very difficult business,” Diego Torres, the head
of corporate bond research at MCC Securities Inc. in Santiago,
said in a telephone interview. “We haven’t seen any support
from shareholders so it will have to do with the company’s
ability to negotiate with the government.”  Closely held Alsacia is owned by Global Public Services SA,
a Panamanian company owned and controlled by Carlos and Javier
Rios and members of their family, according to a prospectus for
the bonds. Carlos Rios, who earned a doctorate in economics in
Paris and later worked as a waste-management executive in
Bogota, serves as Alsacia’s president and chairman of the board.  Alsacia is one of seven operators of the city’s
Transantiago system, which was set up in 2007 to put all public
transportation, including buses and subways, under an integrated
management and payment system.  Concession Renegotiation  Under an agreement renegotiated in 2011, the city will pay
Alsacia an aggregate $64 million over the life of the contract
that ends in 2018, Anguiano said.  Alsacia had a net loss of 5.28 billion pesos ($10.3
million) in 2012, narrower than the 9.79 billion peso loss the
prior year, according to its annual report.  “The concession agreement is looking pretty negative for
them,” Anguiano said. “They have to renegotiate.”  Although the government has offered to partly compensate
bus operators for the decline in receipts, the payments are
“insufficient to mitigate the overall situation,” she said.  Alsacia’s Falconi said the company has a “coverage reserve
account” of $19 million that can be used to make debt payments.  The company expects  cash flow  to be positive in 2013 when
debt payments are excluded. “After debt payments it isn’t
positive, so we will use the coverage reserve account,” he
said.  Fitch Watch  The yield on Chilean 10-year fixed-rate bonds in pesos fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.24 percent at
11:00 a.m. The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 515.52 per dollar.  Chile’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts insuring
the nation’s debt against non-payment, climbed one basis point
to 93 basis points at 11:01 a.m. in New York.  Alsacia’s new grade from Fitch, which was lowered from BB,
is five levels below investment grade. The rating remains on
“watch negative,” reflecting concern over future earnings as
well as uncertainty about the outcome of discussions with
bondholders over the waivers and with officials over contract
renegotiations, Fitch said in a statement today.  The contract that went into effect last year “made revenue
much more dependent on passenger demand,” Fitch analyst Astra Castillo said in a phone interview yesterday. “The government
and the bus operators must have thought this would be a
positive, but since then passenger demand has been falling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  