-- U.K. Agrees on Gibraltar Talks With Spain
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-08-07T15:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/cameron-calls-spain-s-rajoy-over-gibraltar-border-dispute.html
Britain and  Spain  agreed to a
dialogue on whether fees could be imposed on people crossing the
Spanish border with the U.K. territory of Gibraltar.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  called his Spanish
counterpart,  Mariano Rajoy , today to express concern after
Spain’s foreign minister said a fee could be imposed on
travelers. Cameron said on his Twitter Inc. feed the discussion
had been “constructive” and that he “made clear my concerns
re Gibraltar and that our position on sovereignty won’t
change.”  There’s been increasing tension between Britain and Spain
during the past few months over Gibraltar, situated on the
southern tip of the Iberian peninsula. Spain disputes U.K.
sovereignty over the territory, which is home to about 30,000
people. Delays at the frontier put in place by Spanish border
guards after a dispute over fishing rights late last month led
to British protests.  Rajoy told Cameron that  Gibraltar ’s decision to build an
artificial reef with cement blocks off its coast was
unacceptable and that the leaders agreed to instruct their
foreign ministers to begin talks immediately to reach a
resolution, according to a statement on the Spanish premier’s
website. Border controls are necessary to control smuggling and
are in line with the European Union rules, Rajoy said.  ‘Reducing Measures’  “Prime Minister Rajoy committed to reducing measures at
the border,” according to a statement by Cameron’s office.
“Both leaders agreed there should be a solution to the fishing
dispute.”  Spain’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the two
national governments would set up working groups to discuss the
issue.  The dispute escalated after Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo was cited as telling ABC newspaper on Aug. 4
that Spain would step up border controls.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  spoke with Garcia-Margallo on the phone today, the Foreign Office in London said
in an e-mailed statement. Hague reiterated the British position
that the Spanish reaction was “disproportionate” and the two
ministers agreed to continue their dialogue.  “I urged the Spanish authorities to de-escalate the
situation,” Hague said. Gibraltar Chief Minister Fabian Picardo
“has been consistent throughout in his commitment to introduce
measures on sustainable fishing in British Gibraltar territorial
waters. These matters are within the constitutional competence
of Gibraltar and show Gibraltar’s genuine willingness to resolve
the fishing dispute,” Hague said.  Spain would be entitled to impose tighter border controls
as long as they are “proportionate,” the European Commission
said Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  