-- Canada June Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-08-07T12:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/canada-june-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
June building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Contractors took out building permits worth $6.6 billion in
June, down 10.3% from May and the first decrease in six months.
Despite this decline, the total value of building permits
continued to trend upward.  The decrease in June came mainly from the non-residential sector
in Quebec and the residential sector in Ontario.  After three consecutive monthly increases, the total value of
permits in the residential sector declined 12.9% to $4.0 billion
in June. The value of residential building permits was down in
nine provinces, led largely by Ontario, followed by Quebec and
Alberta. Saskatchewan and the  Northwest Territories  showed the
only gains in June.  In the non-residential sector, the total value of building
permits decreased 6.1% to $2.7 billion in June. Quebec, Manitoba
and Prince  Edward Island  accounted for most of the decline.
Gains were recorded in five provinces, led by Alberta, British
Columbia and New Brunswick.  Residential sector: Construction intentions down for both multi-family and single-family dwellings  Building permits for multi-family dwellings fell 18.8% to $1.8
billion in June, following three consecutive monthly gains.
Lower construction intentions for apartments and apartments-condominium projects in Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and  Nova Scotia 
contributed to the decline in June. Decreases were registered in
nine provinces, with Ontario posting the largest decline,
followed by Quebec.  Construction intentions for single-family dwellings decreased
7.4% to $2.2 billion in June, following two consecutive monthly
increases. Lower construction intentions were posted in seven
provinces with Ontario, Alberta and  Quebec  accounting for most
of the national decline.  Canadian municipalities authorized the construction of 17,656
new dwellings in June, down 12.2% from May. The decline was
attributable to both multi-family dwellings, which fell 16.0% to
11,541 units, and single-family dwellings, which decreased 4.1%
to 6,115 units.  Non-residential sector: Declines in the commercial and
industrial components  Canadian municipalities issued $1.4 billion worth of commercial
building permits in June, down 9.5% from May. The decline was
the result of lower construction intentions in a variety of
commercial buildings, including retail complexes and office
buildings. Decreases were posted in six provinces, led by
Quebec, Ontario and Saskatchewan. In contrast, British Columbia
posted the largest gain, as a result of higher construction
intentions for office buildings and service stations.  After advancing by over 40% in May, the total value of
industrial permits fell 21.5% to $493 million in June. Although
gains were posted in six provinces, they failed to offset
declines in the other four. The decrease was mainly the result
of lower construction intentions for manufacturing plants in
Quebec and British Columbia, and for utilities buildings in
Ontario.  In the institutional component, the value of permits increased
14.6% to $820 million in June, the first increase in three
months. The value of institutional building permits was up in
four provinces. Ontario and  Alberta  accounted for much of the
gain as a result of higher construction intentions for long-term
care facilities and educational buildings in Ontario as well as
medical facilities in Alberta.  Provinces: Large declines in Quebec and Ontario  The value of permits was down in seven provinces in June, led by
Quebec and Ontario.  The largest decrease occurred in Quebec and was mainly a result
of lower construction intentions for commercial buildings,
multi-family dwellings and industrial buildings. In Ontario, the
monthly decrease was attributable to residential dwellings and,
to a lesser extent, commercial buildings.  Manitoba followed a distant third, as a result of lower
construction intentions for institutional buildings and multi-family dwellings.  The largest increase occurred in British Columbia, where an
advance in commercial building intentions offset decreases in
the industrial and institutional components. In  New Brunswick ,
commercial construction intentions largely contributed to the
advance.  Significant decrease in construction intentions in Toronto and
Montréal  In June, the total value of permits was down in 20 of the 34
census metropolitan areas.  The largest decreases were in Toronto and Montréal, with Québec
a distant third. In Toronto, the decrease was principally
attributable to multi-family dwellings. Lower intentions for
commercial and industrial buildings explained the decline in
Montréal. In Québec, institutional and commercial construction
intentions and, to a lesser degree, residential dwellings were
behind the decrease.  Calgary saw the largest increase in June, followed by Vancouver
and Thunder Bay. Following a 41.0% decline in May, the value of
permits issued in Calgary advanced largely as a result of higher
construction intentions for commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings. In  Vancouver , commercial buildings were
responsible for the advance, while in Thunder Bay institutional
buildings were responsible for the gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  