-- Canadian Crudes Strengthen as U.S. Midwest Import Demand Rises
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-08-07T19:14:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/canadian-crudes-strengthen-as-u-s-midwest-import-demand-rises.html
Canadian crudes strengthened on the
spot market as a weekly report from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration showed rising demand for imports in Midwest.  U.S.  imports  into PADD 2, or the Midwest, rose by 131,000
barrels a day last week, or 7.5 percent, the biggest gain since
June 21, the EIA report today showed. Demand for Canadian oil
may increase this fall as  BP Plc (BP/)  finishes converting a crude
unit at its refinery in Whiting,  Indiana , to process heavy oil.  Western Canadian Select for September delivery strengthened
by 65 cents to a $22.95-a-barrel discount to U.S. benchmark West
Texas Intermediate crude, according to Calgary oil broker Net
Energy Inc. October delivery gained $1.25 a barrel to a $23.25
discount.  “June saw a huge increase in PADD 2 imports, then they
fell in July and tracked lower,” said David Bouckhout, senior
commodities strategist at TD Securities Inc. in Calgary. “The
report this week saw imports jump back up, so that’s also
lending a hand to the WCS differential.”  Some purchases of heavy oil to stockpile in preparation for
BP Whiting’s conversion may also be supporting prices, Bouckhout
said.  The Whiting refinery’s new coker will come online during
the middle of the fourth quarter, Iain Conn, BP’s chief
executive of refining and marketing, said during the company’s
conference call last week.  Canadian Output  WCS had been weakening against WTI this month as Canadian
producers such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  reported better-than-expected production and outlooks during the second quarter,
potentially increasing supplies. Suncor said yesterday that its
Alberta oil-sands output rose 33 percent in July to a monthly
record of 390,000 barrels a day. WCS is down $3.70 a barrel
against WTI since the start of the month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Syncrude light oil, produced from oil-sands bitumen, also
strengthened against WTI today, rising 60 cents to a $2.70-a-barrel premium for September delivery, Net Energy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  