-- Canadian Dollar Falls to Four-Week Low Amid Speculation on Fed
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-07T21:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/canada-dollar-falls-to-three-week-low-as-discount-widens-on-oil.html
Canada’s dollar slid to the lowest in
almost four weeks as commodities fell for a fourth day and
stocks sank amid bets the  Federal Reserve  may slow quantitative-easing stimulus in the nation’s biggest trade partner.  The currency extended losses, falling against most major
peers, after a report showed building permits dropped in June
for the first time this year. The discount applied to Canadian
 heavy oil , the nation’s biggest export, was almost the biggest
in three months. Canada’s payrolls grew by 10,000 jobs last
month after losing positions in June, data due Aug. 9 are
forecast to show.  “For dollar-Canada, the bigger driver at the moment is QE-tapering expectations,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto. “Our
expectations are in September. The Canadian employment report is
the biggest thing on the calendar and could drive the Canadian
dollar in either direction.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0423 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0445, the weakest level since July 11. One Canadian dollar
buys 95.91 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  rose, pushing yields on benchmark  10-year
debt (GCAN10YR)  down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.50
percent. The yields reached 2.60 percent on Aug. 2, the highest
level since August 2011. The price of the 1.5 percent securities
due in June 2023 gained 14 cents to C$91.36.  Bond Auction  The  Bank of Canada  auctioned C$2.7 billion ($2.6 billion)
of three-year bonds today, with an average yield of 1.373
percent. The 1 percent securities due in August 2016 drew C$7.1
billion in bids for a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.64. The average
ratio at the past five sales of the debt was 2.76.  The Canadian currency fell 1.1 percent last week, the most
since June, amid concern the Fed will start slowing monetary
stimulus as soon as next month as the  U.S. economy  strengthens.
The American central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage bonds each month in a strategy designed to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs.  Fed Bank of Cleveland President  Sandra Pianalto  said today
a tapering of the stimulus may be warranted if the labor market
continues to strengthen. She spoke at a conference in Cleveland.  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans , among the strongest
proponents of the unprecedented efforts to provide stimulus to
the U.S. economy, said yesterday he “would clearly not” rule
out a decision to start curbing monthly bond purchases next
month. He spoke to reporters in Chicago.  ‘Event Risk’  “People could be hesitant to put on risk positions ahead
of September because there is significant event risk being built
up in market participants in relation to tapering,” Brian Kim,
a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said by phone.  Canada ’s dollar lost 2.3 percent in the past three months
versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The currencies of  Australia  and
 New Zealand , fellow commodity exporters, slid 11 percent and 3.8
percent. The greenback rose 2 percent.  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of raw materials fell 0.8
percent, and the S&P 500 Index of stocks declined 0.4 percent.
Crude-oil futures dropped 1 percent to $104.24 a barrel in  New
York  and touched $104.10, the lowest in a week.  The discount to the North American benchmark price for
Canadian heavy oil was $22.50 after closing yesterday at $23.25,
the most since May. The discount shrank in June to $9.25, its
narrowest this year.  Reduced Demand  “We’re getting less dollars for each barrel than we were
previously,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone from New York. “That
means less flows, less U.S. dollars that need to be converted
into Canadian dollars, so that’s reduced the demand for the
Canadian dollar.”  The loonie reached its weakest level of the day after
 Statistics Canada  reported that the value of municipal  building
permits  fell 10.3 percent, more than three times economists’
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey, to C$6.65 billion in
June. The figure, which was the lowest since March, followed a
revised 5.8 percent gain in May.  “The government and the BOC still have a lot of heavy
lifting to do in getting the housing market in line with
underlying fundamentals,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
client report.  Canada’s Ivey purchasing managers’ index unexpectedly
decreased. The gauge was 48.4 in July on a seasonally adjusted
basis, following a June reading of 55.3, according to a
statement on the website of Western University’s business
school. A Bloomberg survey predicted 57. Readings of more than
50 indicate purchasing by governments and companies advanced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  