-- Carlyle Swings to Second-Quarter Profit as Funds Gain
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-07T20:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/carlyle-swings-to-second-quarter-profit-as-fund-holdings-gain.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, reported a second-quarter profit after a loss a
year earlier as its fund holdings appreciated.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, was $123.2 million, or 39 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $57.7 million, or 19 cents, a year
earlier, Washington-based Carlyle said today in a statement.
Earnings missed the 55-cents average estimate of 12  analysts  in
a Bloomberg survey. The shares fell as executives said the pace
of dealmaking will slow.  Carlyle benefited from rising U.S. markets in the second
quarter, selling shares in seven companies, including  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and  Nielsen Holdings NV. (NLSN)  Increased
competition for deals globally prompted Carlyle’s co-chief
executive officer, Bill Conway, to reverse his outlook for 2013,
saying the firm will invest less than the $7.9 billion it did
last year. Conway during the prior quarter predicted that deal
activity this year would exceed that of 2012.  “The overall investment environment has grown more
challenging, particularly in the U.S., for large transactions,”
Conway said on a conference call today with investors. “With
the world awash in liquidity,  interest rates  at rock-bottom
levels and asset prices bid up, it has become increasingly
difficult for us to compete when underwriting our investments to
a 20 to 25 percent internal rate of return.”  Shares Fall  Carlyle fell 1.2 percent to $27.98 at the close of trading.
The stock has  gained  7.5 percent so far this year, rising above
the $22 price at which it was first sold to the public on May 2,
2012.  Like competitors  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and KKR & Co., Carlyle
has diversified its business  beyond  traditional leveraged
buyouts to bolster assets dedicated to real estate and credit
investments. Together, Carlyle’s funds from which it can collect
a slice of profits -- which include private equity, real estate,
energy and other strategies -- gained 3 percent in the second
quarter.  The firm’s private-equity funds rose 5 percent during the
quarter, compared with 5.4 percent at Blackstone and 0.9 percent
at KKR.  The value of buyout holdings at private-equity firms
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric depends
on quarterly mark-to-market valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings every quarter.  GAAP Loss  Carlyle, like its peers, reports profit that differs from
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
rules, known as GAAP, Carlyle reported a loss of $3.3 million,
or 7 cents a share, compared with a loss of $10.3 million, or 26
cents, a year earlier.  Carlyle said distributable earnings, a measure of cash
profitability, rose 41 percent to $163 million from the second
quarter last year. The company plans to pay a  dividend  of 16
cents a share on Aug. 30.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments
as a carried interest.  Assets Rise  Assets under management at Carlyle rose to $180.4 billion
from $176.3 billion at the end of the first quarter as the firm
raised $6.9 billion in the quarter and distributed money back to
investors. Blackstone, the largest so-called alternative-asset
manager, said last month its assets reached an industry record
of $229.6 billion.  Carlyle in June agreed to buy the remaining 40 percent of
Dutch funds-of-funds manager AlpInvest Partners NV, taking full
control of the manager in which it took a 60 percent stake in
2011 as a strategic acquisition, rather than a fund investment.
 AlpInvest  oversaw 37 billion euros ($49 billion) as of March 31.  Worldwide, the number of private-equity deals announced so
far this year is down 20 percent to 3,144 from the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect deployment levels to remain muted over the back
half of the year,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
Howard Chen said in a note to clients after Carlyle’s results
were announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  