-- Carney BOE Rates Guidance Meets Investor Skepticism: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-08T09:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/carney-boe-rates-guidance-meets-investor-skepticism-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney ’s push to restrain expectations of an increase in
 interest rates  is running into skepticism from investors.  Gilt yields rose to the highest in more than a month
yesterday after Carney took the unprecedented step of saying the
bank probably won’t raise its  benchmark  rate from a record low
0.5 percent until unemployment falls to 7 percent. While policy
makers don’t expect that to occur before the third quarter of
2016, investors bet faster inflation will force them to act
sooner.  “Markets have taken the view that the inflation
conditionality that can suspend the bank’s forward guidance
dilutes the effectiveness of the pre-commitment to keeping rates
low for longer,” said  Lena Komileva , chief economist at G+
Economics in  London .  The reaction highlights the challenge Carney faces in
introducing Federal Reserve-style policy thresholds as the U.K.
economy strengthens and makes him the latest central banker at
odds with financial markets. Economists from Nomura
International Plc to Deutsche Bank AG are among those to
forecast interest rates will be increased in 2015.  The pound rose as much as 1.2 percent to $1.5531 yesterday,
the highest in almost seven weeks, and it was trading at $1.5505
as of 10:05 a.m. in London today. The yield on the  10-year gilt ,
which yesterday increased to 2.56 percent, the most since June
25, was little changed at 2.47 percent. That’s 80 basis points
 more  than the yield on equivalent German debt, the widest spread
since June 2010. Three-month short sterling futures maturing in
September 2016 were down 5 basis points at 1.85 percent after
gaining 6 basis points yesterday.  ‘Very Marginal’  Asked on Sky News television about the market reaction to
the guidance, Carney said the moves were “very marginal.”  Investors were responding to an overhaul of communications
at the BOE just over a month since Carney, the former  Bank of
Canada  governor, took the reins pledging to be innovative in
acting to speed up the weakest  U.K. recovery  on record.  Carney’s aim is to reduce uncertainty about the policy path
as the economy gathers pace, supporting the revival by
persuading investors to reverse recent gains in market rates he
calls “unwarranted” and encouraging consumers and companies to
spend.  Under a plan that echoes one introduced by the Fed in
December, the BOE said  joblessness  must fall to 7 percent from
7.8 percent for a rate increase to be considered. It forecast
that’s unlikely to happen for three years and will require the
addition of 750,000 new jobs.  Knockout Questions  The Monetary Policy Committee’s commitment is voided if
policy makers decide  medium-term inflation  is likely to breach
2.5 percent, price expectations are no longer well-anchored or
if financial stability is viewed as being at risk.  It was those “knockouts” that investors focused on as
they questioned the strength of commitment by suggesting
inflation concerns may prove too much for the bank to bear. The
BOE currently predicts consumer-price growth will slow to its 2
percent target in the fourth quarter of 2015 from 2.9 percent in
June. It has been above the goal since 2009. Speaking on BBC
Radio 4 today, Carney said inflation remains the BOE target
“without question.”  The MPC has “gone out of its way to avoid having its hands
tied,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist at Investec
Securities in London. “These clauses look to have been
unhelpful for the credibility of the new guidance.”  Unemployment Drop  Clarke added that, given signs of a faster economic
recovery, unemployment could drop below 7 percent as soon as the
end of 2015. Indexes of  services , manufacturing and construction
all exceeded economists’ forecasts last month, signaling
continued momentum in the economy after 0.6 percent growth in
the second quarter.  Jens Larsen , chief European economist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London, revised his forecast to show the BOE raising
its key rate in the third quarter of 2016, a year later than he
previously expected. Citigroup Inc. economist  Michael Saunders 
said the central bank won’t hike before 2017.  Deutsche Bank’s  George Buckley  said the curbs on the
thresholds may not prove binding, noting the bank has never
forecast inflation above 2.5 percent in two years’ time even
when it breached 5 percent. The two other controls are open to
wide interpretation and judgment calls, he said.  Rates Call  Still, he refused to adjust his forecast to fully reflect
Carney’s direction that policy will remain on hold for another
three years, pushing back his call to 2015 from 2014.  “The bank may feel very different about the need to
tighten policy in the future,” he said. “While we need to put
back our forecast for the rise in interest rates on account of
today’s message from the bank, we do not see it being as late as
2016-2017.”  The choice of unemployment as a metric revived a debate
among economists as to whether it is a good proxy of economic
health in the U.K., given that it has fallen from a crisis high
of 8.4 percent in 2011 even as the economic recovery has proved
sluggish. That drop has prompted suggestions U.K. productivity
is lackluster and the economy more inflation-prone than
previously.  “The BOE can say it doesn’t expect to hit 7 percent for
such a long time, but its record on forecasting such things is
easily bad enough to lack credibility,” said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura in London. “Our forecast is for
unemployment to fall much faster and thus rate hikes to come
earlier.”  Easily Understood  Data also might fail to show whether workers have been
forced to accept part-time jobs and, as in the U.S., joblessness
might drop because people are leaving the workforce, said Clarke
at Investec.  Another concern is whether the crisis has left a large
proportion of U.K. workers unemployable, which would mean the
labor market is already tight, according to  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities.  Carney defended the use of joblessness as a metric, calling
it understood, widely available and not subject to revisions.  The Bank of England isn’t alone in revamping communications
in a bid to boost growth at a time when interest rates are about
rock-bottom and there are questions about the effectiveness of
asset purchases.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  introduced unemployment and
inflation parameters in December to guide rate increases, while
 Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda aims to deliver 2 percent
inflation within two years. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has pledged to keep his benchmark low for an
“extended period.”  Fed Tapering  The challenge has been that markets aren’t fully buying
those messages as the world economy improves and the Fed signals
it may begin tapering its asset purchases as soon as next month.
Bernanke has had to stress a slowing of stimulus doesn’t mean
imminent rate increases, while investors have pushed up market
borrowing costs in the euro area as it appears set to leave
recession.  The next test for the BOE’s strategy is the Aug. 14 release
of minutes for the meeting last week at which policy makers
agreed to the new framework. Officials including  Spencer Dale 
and  Paul Fisher  were among those to question the use of guidance
prior to Carney’s arrival.  “It will now be vital for the markets to see if these
decisions were unanimous,” said Nick Beecroft, chairman of Saxo
Capital Markets U.K. Ltd. “Absence of unanimity will undermine
the whole message and probably increase fears of earlier
tightening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  