-- Carney Says Harassment of Austen Campaigners Shocking
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/carney-says-harassment-of-austen-campaigners-shocking.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
said harassment of women lobbying for 19th-century novelist  Jane Austen ’s image to appear on U.K. banknotes was “shocking” and
the perpetrators should be prosecuted.  “It was shocking, it should be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law,” Carney said in a  Channel 4 television
interview  yesterday. “This institution, myself personally, have
nothing but admiration” for the women who raised the issue,
including Labour Party lawmaker Stella Creasy and journalist
Caroline Criado-Perez, he said.  Criado-Perez, who led the campaign to get Austen’s image
printed on a new banknote, complained about sexual abuse from
comments posted on Twitter. Creasy also reported abusive
comments posted online, including a rape threat, to police.
 London ’s Metropolitan Police said yesterday a 32-year-old man
was arrested in Bristol in connection with the allegations. It’s
the third arrest police have announced.  The Austen campaign arose after Carney’s predecessor,
 Mervyn King , announced that former Prime Minister  Winston Churchill  would replace Elizabeth Fry, a 19th-century social
reformer, on the five-pound note starting in 2016. The change
would have meant no female historical figure appeared on U.K.
banknotes. Carney said last month an Austen note would appear
within a year of the Churchill note.  “It’s important that we get across to people across the
country as much as possible what we’re doing, and why we’re
doing it, and doing it in a transparent way, and if we’ve made a
mistake that people understand we recognize that,” Carney said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  