-- Carney’s BOE Rates Guidance Stumbles on Investor Skepticism
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-07T16:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/carney-s-boe-rates-guidance-stumbles-on-investor-skepticism.html
Bank of England Governor Mark Carney’s campaign to restrain interest-rate expectations is
already running into skepticism.  Gilt yields  rose to the highest in more than a month after
Carney took the unprecedented step of saying the bank probably
won’t raise its  benchmark  from a record-low 0.5 percent until
unemployment falls to 7 percent. While policy makers don’t
expect that to occur before the third quarter of 2016, investors
bet faster inflation will force them to act sooner.  “Markets have taken the view that the inflation
conditionality that can suspend the bank’s forward guidance
dilutes the effectiveness of the pre-commitment to keeping rates
low for longer,” said  Lena Komileva , chief economist at G+
Economics in London.  The reaction highlights the challenge Carney faces in
introducing Federal Reserve-style policy thresholds as the U.K.
economy strengthens and leaves him the latest international
central banker at odds with financial markets. Economists from
Nomura International Plc to Deutsche Bank AG are among those to
forecast interest rates will be increased in 2015.  The pound rose as much as 1.2 percent to $1.5531, the
highest in almost seven weeks, and traded at $1.5513 as of 4:03
p.m. in London. The yield on the  10-year gilt  increased to 2.56
percent, the most since June 25, before easing to 2.48 percent.
The rate on three-month sterling futures maturing in September
2016 rose 7 basis points to 1.87 percent.  Policy Innovation  Investors were responding to an overhaul of communications
at the BOE just over a month since former Bank of Canada
Governor Carney took the reins pledging to be innovative in
acting to speed up the weakest  U.K. recovery  on record.  Carney’s aim is to reduce uncertainty about the policy path
as the economy rallies, supporting the revival by persuading
investors to reverse recent gains in market rates he calls
“unwarranted” and encouraging consumers and companies to
spend.  Under a plan which echoes one introduced by the Fed in
December, the BOE said  joblessness  must fall from 7.8 percent to
7 percent for a rate hike to be considered. It forecast that’s
unlikely to happen for three years and will require the addition
of 750,000 new jobs.  The Monetary Policy Committee’s commitment is voided if
policy makers decide  medium-term inflation  is likely to breach
2.5 percent, price expectations are no longer well-anchored or
if financial stability is viewed at risk.  Knockout Questions  It was those so-called “knockouts” that investors focused
on as they questioned the strength of commitment by suggesting
inflation concerns may prove too much for the bank to bear. The
BOE currently predicts consumer-price growth will slow to its 2
percent target in the fourth quarter of 2015 from 2.9 percent in
June. It has been above the goal since 2009.  The MPC has “gone out of its way to avoid having its hands
tied,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist at Investec
Securities in  London . “These clauses look to have been
unhelpful for the credibility of the new guidance.”  Clarke added that, given signs of a faster economic
recovery, unemployment could drop below 7 percent as soon as the
end of 2015. Indexes of  services , manufacturing and construction
all exceeded economists’ forecasts last month, signaling
continued momentum in the economy after 0.6 percent growth in
the second quarter.  Jens Larsen, chief European economist at RBC Capital
Markets in London, revised his forecast to show the BOE raising
its key rate in the third quarter of 2016, a year later than he
previously expected. Citigroup Inc. economist Michael Saunders
said the central bank won’t hike before 2017.  Partial Shift  Deutsche Bank AG’s George Buckley said the curbs on the
thresholds may not prove binding, noting the bank has never
forecast inflation above 2.5 percent in two years’ time even
when it breached 5 percent. The two other controls are open to
wide interpretation and judgement calls, he said.  Still, he refused to adjust his forecast to fully reflect
Carney’s direction that policy will remain on hold for another
three years, pushing back his call to 2015 from 2014.  “The bank may feel very different about the need to
tighten policy in the future,” he said. “While we need to put
back our forecast for the rise in interest rates on account of
today’s message from the bank, we do not see it being as late as
2016-2017.”  Unemployment Measure  The choice of unemployment as a metric revived a debate
among economists as to whether it is a good proxy of economic
health in the U.K. given it has fallen from a crisis high of 8.4
percent in 2011 even as the economic recovery proved sluggish.
That drop has prompted suggestions U.K. productivity is
lackluster and the economy more inflation-prone than previously.  “The BOE can say it doesn’t expect to hit 7 percent for
such a long time, but its record on forecasting such things is
easily bad enough to lack credibility,” said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in London. “Our forecast
is for unemployment to fall much faster and thus rate hikes to
come earlier.”  Data also could fail to show whether workers have been
forced to accept part-time jobs and, as in the U.S., joblessness
could drop because people are leaving the workforce, said Clarke
at Investec.  Another doubt is whether the crisis has left a large
proportion of U.K. workers unemployable, which would mean the
labor market is already tight, according to  Marc Ostwald , a
strategist at Monument Securities.  Easily Understood  Carney defended the use of joblessness as a metric, calling
it understood, widely available and not subject to revisions.  The Bank of England isn’t alone in revamping communications
in a bid to boost growth at a time when interest rates are
around rock-bottom and there are questions about the
effectiveness of asset purchases. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
introduced unemployment and inflation parameters to guide rate
increases in December, while Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda aims to deliver 2 percent inflation within two years.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi has pledged to keep
his benchmark low for an “extended period.”  The challenge has been that markets aren’t fully buying
those messages as the world economy improves and the Fed signals
it may begin tapering its asset purchases as soon as next month.
Bernanke has had to stress a slowing of stimulus doesn’t mean
imminent rate increases, while investors have pushed up market
borrowing costs in the euro area as it appears set to leave
recession.  The next test for the BOE’s strategy is the Aug. 14 release
of minutes for the meeting last week at which policy makers
agreed to the new framework. Officials including  Spencer Dale 
and Paul Fisher were among those to question the use of guidance
prior to Carney’s arrival.  “It will now be vital for the markets to see if these
decisions were unanimous,” said Nick Beecroft, chairman of Saxo
Capital Markets U.K. Ltd. “Absence of unanimity will undermine
the whole message and probably increase fears of earlier
tightening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  