-- Chef Skewers Virginia Governor and Attorney General
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-08-07T13:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/chef-skewers-virginia-governor-and-attorney-general.html
“Be nice to the little people.”
This 11th Commandment should be in needlepoint on a pillow, next
to the one that says “Don’t confuse brains with a  bull
market .”  Virginia  Governor  Bob McDonnell  ignored this injunction, as
did his attorney general,  Ken Cuccinelli , who is now running for
governor against former Democratic National Committee Chairman
 Terry McAuliffe . Cuccinelli was favored to succeed the term-limited McDonnell, a darling of the Christian right who was once
considered presidential timber. Now McDonnell has to bat down
rumors that he’s resigning while repaying more than $140,000 in
gifts and loans from a wealthy businessman.  The  scandal  -- which, unlike some others, is G-rated --
begins in March 2010 and plays like a game of Clue in which the
prime suspect is the chef in the kitchen with a side of beef.
Todd Schneider was a small-town celebrity cook, the subject of a
feature on the Lifetime network, with his own restaurant and
catering company. McDonnell hired him in 2010 to cook two meals
a day at the governor’s mansion and to provide the flowers,
chairs, linens, rare tuna and wine from his catering operation
for official events. When the bills came, the mansion director
balked at paying them: It was a conflict of interest for the
chef to be getting private catering jobs. The remedy was for
Schneider to keep cooking and be paid in foodstuffs from the
mansion’s pantry.  Purloined Peas  So far, so good -- until February 2012, when two state
policemen showed up, perhaps on a tip from someone who saw a
truck pulling up to the mansion’s back door, and Schneider
described the food-for-pay arrangement. Next thing he knew, the
police were at his catering company looking for possibly
purloined peas.  At that point, Schneider called one of Richmond’s best
criminal lawyers, Steve Benjamin, who, in turn, got in touch
with the attorney general’s office to say: If you’re going to go
after my client for a legitimate arrangement, let me tell you
about some illegitimate ones. Schneider then spilled the beans
about who paid the bills for McDonnell’s daughter’s 2011
wedding, the first shoe to drop in the scandal: It was Jonnie R. Williams Sr., the wealthy founder of  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI)   McDonnell blamed his daughter -- until Schneider produced
the contract signed by McDonnell, plus the check that had gone
back to the governor’s wife for Jonnie’s overpayment.  That was just the tip of the baked  Alaska . Williams was the
McDonnells’ -- and Cuccinelli’s -- human ATM.  The entrepreneur underwrote a shopping spree to  New York 
for Virginia’s first lady and bought, at her bidding, a Rolex
for her to give to her husband. That’s in addition to cold, hard
cash: Williams gave Mrs. McDonnell $50,000 in May 2011 and put
$70,000 into a real-estate company owned by the governor and his
sister. Mindful of sibling rivalry, he also gave $10,000 for
another McDonnell daughter’s wedding in May.  Williams also showered Cuccinelli with goodies -- trips,
stays at his vacation homes and catered dinners estimated at
$18,000. Cuccinelli also made money on Star Scientific stock,
which he initially neglected to note on his financial-disclosure
forms.  For his trouble, Williams got the personal attention of the
McDonnells for his cause. They hosted a lunch to introduce
Williams’s sketchy dietary supplement, Anatabloc -- an anti-inflammatory pill made from tobacco byproducts. The first lady
went on to appear at several events endorsing  the product , for
which Williams was seeking state regulatory approval. (A state
bureaucrat -- another little person -- refused to roll over for
Anatabloc, and it wasn’t approved.)  Embezzlement Charges  In February 2013, the attorney general indicted Schneider
on charges of embezzling state property. Apparently, Schneider
was welcome to take the occasional slab of meat, but the
detergent and strawberries were off-limits. There’s a motion to
dismiss pending on the grounds that Cuccinelli -- who was later
recused from the case - was hopelessly conflicted when he
brought the case. Now Williams has joined the chef in spilling
to federal investigators.  McDonnell’s defense is that he didn’t agree to everything
that was trucked out of the mansion, only some of it, and he is
paying everything back. Cuccinelli has amended his disclosure
forms to reveal his financial ties to Williams, and recused
himself from the case, although that doesn’t settle the question
of whether he brought charges to retaliate against the chef for
his revelations.  Cuccinelli now claims the state’s ethics laws aren’t
stringent enough, presumably because they didn’t catch someone
like him. He’s just called on McDonnell to convene a special
session of the state’s General Assembly to consider new rules.  As for repaying the $18,000 in goodies from Williams,
Cuccinelli says that particular “bell can’t be unrung.” That
one deserves a needlepoint pillow of its own.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 