-- China Shipbuilder Yangzijiang’s Profit Falls on Tax, Forex Loss
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-07T00:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/china-shipbuilder-yangzijiang-s-profit-falls-on-tax-forex-loss.html
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings
Ltd. (YZJSGD) , China’s second-biggest private shipyard, posted a 7.6
percent decline in second-quarter profit because of higher tax
and foreign exchange loss on contracts done in euros.  Net income  in the three months ended June dropped to 812
million  yuan  ($133 million) from 878 million yuan a year ago,
the company said in a statement to the Singapore stock exchange
today. Sales rose 12 percent to 4.42 billion yuan.  Yangzijiang is among companies diversifying into offshore
drilling and production as demand for new bulk vessels decline.
The government has urged financial support, capacity control and
a move into high-end products as part of a three-year plan to
help the troubled shipbuilding industry after  China Rongsheng
Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the country’s biggest
private yard, sought financial assistance.  “The current shipbuilding down cycle has been harsh on all
Chinese shipbuilders and has claimed many victims along the
way,” Yangzijiang Chairman Ren Yuanlin said in the statement.
“In times of difficulty, customers turn to those who have an
established and untarnished track record and a strong balance
sheet.”  Second-quarter foreign exchange-related loss was 66.6
million yuan, compared with a gain of 6.21 million yuan a year
earlier, the Jiangyin, China-based company said in the
statement. Tax rate in the second quarter was 27 percent,
compared with 19 percent a year ago.  The company won $1 billion of orders in the first half and
$2.54 billion of options that could become firm contracts. Its
orderbook stood at $3.24 billion at the end of June.  Yangzijiang shares gained 0.5 percent to 92.5 Singapore
cents yesterday. The stock has fallen 3.7 percent this year,
compared with 1.8 percent gain in the Straits Times Index.  China ’s State Council urged local governments to support
innovation, promote high-end products and stabilize the
industry’s international market share with greater funding
support, according to a statement earlier this week.  Thirty-eight percent of yards in China didn’t get contracts
for new vessels last year, and 10 percent had no deliveries
scheduled beyond the end of that year, the London-based ship-broking unit of ICAP Plc said in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  