-- China’s PBOC May Plan Forex Unit, South China Morning Post Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T01:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/china-s-pboc-may-plan-forex-unit-south-china-morning-post-says.html
China ’s central bank is studying a
plan to set up a new agency to invest the bulk of the nation’s
$3.5 trillion of foreign exchange overseas for better returns,
 South China Morning Post  reported.  The People’s Bank of China Govenor  Zhou Xiaochuan  has
assigned a division head of the foreign exchange regulator to
lead a team to study the plan, according to the report, citing
two unidentified people close to the central bank. The new
agency would be in addition to the China Investment Corp., the
nation’s sovereign wealth fund, and may report to the central
bank directly, according to the report.  Senior government officials and scholars, unhappy with
China Investment Corp.’s poor returns, have been pushing for new
platforms to invest China’s foreign exchange reserves abroad,
today’s report said.  Calls to the PBOC news office weren’t answered. A call to
CIC’s press office in Beijing today wasn’t immediately answered.  CIC, with $575 billion under management, posted a 10.6
percent return on its overseas investments last year as global
equities rallied. The MSCI World Index jumped 13 percent in
2012.  The fund, which last month named Ding Xuedong chairman, has
sought to burnish its performance as it seeks to make the case
for more money to be placed under management. That came as State
Administration of Foreign Exchange, the foreign exchange
regulator that oversees day-to-day management of China’s
reserves, began diversifying away from U.S. Treasuries and
seeking investments in assets from equities to property.  China’s foreign-exchange regulator said earlier this year a
new unit will use the nation’s reserves to support Chinese
companies expanding abroad, signaling fresh outlets for the
world’s largest currency stockpile.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange said Jan. 14
that its Co-Financing office has been seeking “innovative use”
of the  reserves  including “supporting financial institutions in
serving China’s economic growth and going-out strategy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  