-- China Railway Corp. Plans First Train Orders of $8.2 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-08T02:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/china-railway-corp-plans-first-train-purchase-of-8-2-billion.html
China ’s state-owned railway company
will spend more than 50 billion  yuan  ($8.2 billion) in its first
large-scale train purchases to meet rising transport demand even
as the economy slows, Xinhua  News Agency  reported.  Newly formed China Railway Corp., which took over train
operations from the dismantled Ministry of Railways in March,
will buy locomotives, bullet trains and rolling stock, the
official news agency  said  yesterday, citing the company.  The orders come after China’s government pledged last month
to speed up rail investment, especially in the nation’s central
and western regions, to promote urbanization and help boost
economy. The purchases will benefit  CSR Corp Ltd. (601766)  and  China CNR
Corp. (601299) , the country’s two biggest trainmakers, according to Bank
of China International Ltd.  “The long-awaited tender is definitely good news to the
two trainmakers,” Xu Minle, a Shanghai-based analyst at the
bank, said before the announcement, referring to the tender for
bullet trains. “But the trainmakers’ share prices may have
already factored this in.”  CSR, which builds high-speed trains itself and in a venture
with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , climbed 1.3 percent to HK$5.66 in Hong
Kong trading as of 9:30 a.m. CNR rose 1.8 percent to 4.46 yuan
in  Shanghai .  Train Crash  The call for tenders for bullet trains, which Xinhua said
the company will make soon, will end a hiatus in place since a
2011 high-speed train crash near the eastern city of Wenzhou
that killed 40 people. An official report into the accident said
it was caused by mismanagement and signaling-system design
flaws.  Cargo delivery by train reversed declines last month,
rising by 6.46 million tons from a year earlier to 260 million
tons, despite an  economic slowdown , according to Xinhua. China
will add 5,500 kilometers of new track this year, bringing the
total to more than 100,000 kilometers and prompting China
Railway to expand capacity, Xinhua said.  China split the Ministry of Railways into two in March as
the nation’s new leaders sought to pare bureaucracy and
eliminate graft in a department that had more than 2 million
employees and 2.8 trillion yuan in debt. Some administrative
functions went to the Ministry of Transport’s State Railway
Administration and China Railway took over commercial
operations.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  