-- China Developers’ Financing Hopes Revive on Share Sale Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T08:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/china-developers-refinancing-hopes-revive-on-share-sale-plans.html
Chinese developers may resume share
sales on the country’s mainland exchanges as announcements of
such plans by property companies in the past week add to signs
that the government may allow new equity financing to proceed.  Sundy Land Investment Co. (600077) , a Shenyang-based developer,
plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion  yuan  ($245 million) in a
private placement to finance two housing projects, the company
said in a statement to  Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday.  China
Merchants Property Development Co. (000024) , the country’s third-biggest
developer by market value, plans to sell shares to buy assets,
according to a statement posted to Shenzhen Stock Exchange.  The planned share sales reinforce expectations that
regulators will ease limits on fundraising by developers,
according to  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665)  China
will seek “stable and healthy” development of the  property
market , the Communist Party’s Politburo said July 30, the first
time this year that authorities didn’t mention further
tightening of restrictions, according to Credit Suisse Group AG
and Orient Finance Holdings (H.K.) Ltd.  “These companies must have received some signal that the
government will gradually ease refinancing for developers,
otherwise they wouldn’t announce such plans,” said Hugo Hou, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Haitong. “It will be good news for
the industry, because the availability of more options will
lower fundraising costs for developers.”  Both Xinhu and Sundy Land’s share sales plans, along with
China Merchants Property, will need approval by Chinese
regulators. The country hasn’t allowed developers to raise money
by selling shares since 2010, according to Zheshang Securities
Co. and Haitong.  Shares Rise  A  gauge  tracking property shares on  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.7 percent to the highest since July 17, compared
with a 0.7 percent fall in the benchmark index.  The two developers followed  Xinhu Zhongbao Co. (600208) , which last
week said it plans to raise as much as 5.5 billion yuan in a
private placement to finance two real estate projects.  The government’s stance on developers’ financing has not
changed, said an unidentified news official at China Securities
Regulatory Commission, who asked not to be identified because of
the agency’s rules, in a phone interview on Aug. 5.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  