-- China Stocks Fall Before Trade Report as Smaller Companies Slump
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-07T08:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/china-s-stock-index-futures-fall-after-six-day-rally-for-index.html
China ’s  stocks  fell before a trade
report tomorrow as losses for technology and health-care
companies snapped a six-day rally for the benchmark index that
was the longest in four months.  Tasly Pharmaceutical Group Co. and Chengdu Dr Peng Telecom
& Media Group Co. led declines for gauges of drug and technology
shares that jumped at least 30 percent this year. PetroChina Co.
and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s biggest oil and copper
producers, dropped at least 0.8 percent. Poly Real Estate Group
Co. paced gains for  developers  on speculation regulators will
ease limits on fundraising after China Merchants Property
Development Co. announced plans to sell shares.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.7 percent to 2,046.78
at the close. The ChiNext index of small companies slid 3
percent after its estimated price-earnings ratio jumped to the
highest level since January 2011. The ChiNext may face a
“correction” in the second half after surging 65 percent this
year, the China Securities Journal reported today.  Small-company earnings “are just not there to warrant such
valuations,” said Gerry Alfonso, a broker at Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. “We have advised our clients to be more
defensive on this sector for some time now. Some investors are
concerned about tomorrow’s export and import figures and are
selling as a preventive tactic.”  Chinese stocks swung between gains and losses for most of
the day as the Shanghai measure’s 50-day volatility jumped to
the highest level in 17 months. The CSI 300 Index fell 0.6
percent to 2,280.62. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost
1.6 percent. The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index slid 0.7 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  Export Data  China’s overseas shipments are expected to have gained 2
percent in July from a year ago, compared with a 3.1 percent
decline in June, according to estimates of 18 economists
compiled by Bloomberg. An inflation report due Aug. 9 may show
consumer-price growth quickened to 2.8 percent in July from 2.7
percent the previous month, according to another survey.  PetroChina fell 1 percent to 7.97 yuan, while Jiangxi
Copper declined 0.8 percent to 15.99 yuan. Measures of energy
and material stocks in the CSI 300 have slumped at least 28
percent this year amid concern a slowing economy will damp
demand for commodities. They are the worst-performing groups.  Gauges of technology and drug companies in the CSI 300 fell
2.7 percent and 1.9 percent respectively, the biggest losses
among 10 industry groups. Chengdu Dr Peng slid 4.5 percent to
16.40  yuan , paring this year’s gain to 175 percent. Tasly
declined 5.3 percent to 45.88 yuan, trimming the 2013 advance to
66 percent.  Property Stocks  The ChiNext index fell the most since July 25. Shanghai
Wangsu Science & Technology Co. fell 4.4 percent to 52 yuan,
while Lepu Medical Technology declined 4.5 percent to 10.80
yuan. Share prices of ChiNext companies more than reflect
fundamentals, the China Securities Journal reported. The ChiNext
index is valued at 44 times estimated earnings this year,
compared with 9 times for the Shanghai Composite.  A gauge of developers in the Shanghai measure rose 0.7
percent. Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest developer,
advanced 2.3 percent to 11.07 yuan. Gemdale Corp. surged 0.8
percent to 7.23 yuan.  China Merchants Property, the third-biggest developer, was
suspended from trading after saying it plans to buy assets with
the share sale. The share plan shows an “opening of
floodgates” is definitely becoming more likely, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Jinsong Du wrote in an e-mail response to
questions. The plan should be good for industry sentiment, he
said.  Baby Formula  Sundy Land Investment Co., a Shenyang-based developer,
plans to raise as much as 1.5 billion yuan ($245 million) in a
private placement to finance two housing projects, the company
said in a statement to  Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday. Xinhu
Zhongbao Co. said on Aug. 2 it’s planning a private placement.
All the share sales plans need approval by the regulators.  The government’s stance on developers’ refinancing has not
changed, said an unidentified news official at China Securities
Regulatory Commission, who asked not to be identified because of
the agency’s rules, in a phone interview on Aug. 5.  China fined six dairy companies including Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. and Danone a combined 670 million yuan ($109
million) for price fixing, a record penalty for violating anti-monopoly laws, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Zhejiang Beingmate, Nestle SA’s Wyeth brand and Meiji
Holdings Co. were exempt from punishment because they cooperated
with the investigation, provided important evidence and carried
out active “self-rectification,” Xinhua said, citing the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Zhejiang Beingmate climbed for a seventh day, gaining 1.8
percent to 34.41 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  