-- Cinven Said to Approach Banks Over Possible Gondola Exit
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-08-07T13:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/cinven-said-to-approach-banks-over-possible-gondola-exit.html
Cinven Ltd., a London-based private-equity firm, held discussions with investment banks about a
possible sale of Gondola Group Ltd., owner of the U.K.’s Pizza
Express chain, three people with knowledge of the talks said.  Cinven, which acquired  Gondola  in 2006, has held
preliminary talks with investment banks assessing options for a
sale of all or part of the business, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because no decision has been made. An
outright sale of Gondola could raise about 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion), two of the people said.  “We do not anticipate any improvement in economic
conditions in the near future and expect the coming financial
year to remain tough,” said Chris Woodhouse, chairman of
Gondola, in the firm’s 2013 interim report. “We have delivered
a resilient performance, despite the challenging backdrop, as
the U.K. economy remained under pressure.”  Spokesmen for Cinven and Gondola in London both declined to
comment.  Gondola operates some 680 restaurants such as Pizza
Express, Ask, Kettner’s and Zizzi. It also owns the Byron burger
chain and employs more than 15,000 people. The company has been
expanding its Pizza Express franchise chain in the  Middle East 
and  Asia , the latest annual report showed.  Gondola’s revenue rose to 591.7 million pounds in the 53
weeks through July 1, 2012, from 569.5 million pounds in the
year-ago period, the latest filings show. Operating profit fell
to 39 million pounds from 47.7 million pounds in that period.
The restaurants reported sales of 577.6 million pounds, up from
556.5 million pounds a year earlier.  Private-equity firms typically pool money from pension
plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies within five
to six years, then sell them and return the money and a profit
after 10 years. The firms usually charge a management fee of as
much as 2 percent and keep 20 percent of the profits from
investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  