-- Citigroup Debt-Sales Team Defects to Sterne Agee After Pay Shift
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-08-07T12:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/citigroup-debt-sales-team-defects-to-sterne-agee-after-pay-shift.html
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., the
Alabama-based brokerage, hired five credit salespeople from
 Citigroup (C)  Inc. after the third-largest U.S. bank stopped paying
them commission on what they earned for the firm.  Edward LaScala, who started his career at the former
Salomon Brothers in 1984, Cindy Hellman, a 27-year veteran of
Citigroup and its predecessors, Mike Maresca, Paul Cappelli and
Christopher Sanford, have joined Sterne Agee in New York,
according to a new-hire announcement from the Birmingham,
Alabama-based firm.  Some of the group left as Citigroup changed the way the
middle-market debt-sales group was paid starting July 1, moving
to salaries and bonuses from a so-called eat-what-you-kill model
that had given them a proportion of their sales revenue, LaScala
said. Hellman and Maresca left in April when the bank closed
their office, Hellman said.  Privately held  Sterne Agee , which traces its roots to a
securities firm founded in 1901 by former Birmingham Mayor
George B. Ward, has more than doubled its credit trading, sales
and research team since 2010 as Wall Street’s biggest banks fire
thousands of employees and reduce compensation in the face of
new risk-curbing rules.  At the same time, rivals  Gleacher & Co. (GLCH)  and  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  have closed or sold credit-brokerage units, with
profit margins shrinking as debt yields fall to about record
lows and volatility wanes.  ‘Falling Away’  “A lot of our competitors are falling away,” said Eric Needleman, Sterne Agee’s head of fixed income. “We’ve gained
market share.”  Citigroup, which required a bailout in 2008 by U.S.
taxpayers as mortgage-debt values plunged, reduced investment
bankers’ bonuses by 10 percent to 20 percent globally, the firm
told staff members in January. Starting in July, the New York-based firm merged its middle-market debt-sales unit, which
caters to smaller or less-active buyers of new corporate bonds,
with its institutional debt-brokerage group, LaScala and Hellman
said in telephone interviews.  Scott Helfman, a Citigroup spokesman, declined to comment.  Citigroup’s transition to a salary-bonus system from a
commission-based plan was “yet another example of a firm
narrowing its focus to the top 100 clients and away from medium
and smaller-sized investors,” LaScala said in an e-mail.  Sales Drivers  Large investment firms such as BlackRock Inc., which
managed $3.86 trillion in assets as of June 30, or Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund and oversees about $2 trillion, are the ones that help
drive debt issuance and the accompanying revenues, not the
smaller buyers, he said.  Sterne Agee, which started expanding its presence in New
York in 2006, had about 75 people in its credit trading, sales
and research team at the end of last year. The group is part of
a fixed-income division that now includes about 260 people,
Needleman said.  Last month, Sterne Agee hired an emerging-markets group
from Gleacher, which said in April it was shuttering its fixed-income unit. The team is led by traders Mario Rappoport and
Harry Wool and includes salesmen Mike Santiago and David Cortes,
Jon Walker, a senior managing director at Sterne Agee, said in
an e-mail.  The firm also hired Kevin Maxwell in July from Oppenheimer
& Co. for fixed-income sales. He previously worked at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. for more than 20 years, mostly brokering
investment-grade credit, Walker said. In May, it hired Robert Dudley, a corporate bond, leveraged loan and emerging-markets
salesman, from Gleacher.  Dodd-Frank  Sterne Agee is expanding its credit brokerage business
after the market for the dollar-denominated corporate bonds
expanded 66 percent to $5.3 trillion since 2008, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Investment-grade bond
trading volumes on average have risen to $12.9 billion a day
this year, 7 percent higher than during the same period in 2012,
Trace data show.  “The revenue impact from a middle-market business is less
and less important to the major banks, but for the regional guys
it’s a significant source of revenue,” Needleman said.  Gleacher and Knight also sought to take advantage of the
expanding market and pullback by banks that are curbing trading
with their own money in the face of the Dodd-Frank Act, passed
by U.S. Congress in 2010, and tougher global capital
requirements from the 27-country Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  Shrinking Inventories  The 21 primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve
cut their corporate-debt holdings by 76 percent from the peak in
2007, according to Fed data through the end of March, when the
central bank revamped the way it reported the data. The dealers
have cut their holdings of investment-grade bonds by 31 percent
to $7.8 billion on July 24 since the Fed started  reporting the
new data  on April 3.  Gleacher, the New York-based brokerage that’s lost about
$200 million since 2009, decided to shutter its fixed-income
unit in April. Knight agreed to sell its debt-brokerage unit to
 Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  earlier this year after the Jersey City,
New Jersey-based firm’s computers generated a flood of errant
equities orders that brought it to the brink of bankruptcy.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds in the U.S. have
plunged to 3.35 percent, 0.7 percentage points from the all-time
low in May, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That
compares with a 10-year average of 4.93 percent. The yield
decline is shrinking potential profits that brokers capture on
the difference between bid and offer prices.  Cutting Bonuses  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  is among
global banking leaders who are reducing bonuses as slow economic
growth squeezes revenue and European lawmakers put curbs on
compensation. Profit at the lender’s securities and banking unit
slumped 10 percent in 2012.  “You have commission salesmen in middle-market groups that
make more money than the institutional salesmen,” said Michael Maloney, president of the New York-based recruitment firm
Maloney Inc. “There are obviously going to be problems. All of
these banks are taking away the ability for people to get paid a
set percentage of their revenues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  