-- Clarity Versus Flexibility at the Bank of England
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-07T16:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/clarity-versus-flexibility-at-the-bank-of-england.html
A month after taking charge at the
Bank of  England ,  Mark Carney  has  announced  a decisive break with
the old way of communicating the central bank’s intentions. The
new way is “forward guidance,” pioneered by Carney at the  Bank
of Canada  and subsequently adopted, with mixed success, by the
 Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank .  The idea is fine in principle, but, as the Fed and ECB have
lately demonstrated, it’s tricky to apply in practice. The
instant reaction to Carney’s announcement suggests as much. He
said the central bank’s target interest rate would stay very low
at least until the U.K.’s rate of unemployment falls to 7
percent, which he said might be in 2016. At this, the pound
strengthened and long-term  interest rates  briefly went up -- in
effect, a slight tightening of policy, one that Carney
presumably didn’t intend.  The logic behind forward guidance is appealing. It starts
with a question: How can a central bank ease monetary conditions
if short-term interest rates are already at zero? The answer:
Promise that rates will stay low, or that unconventional
measures such as quantitative easing will stay in place, for
longer than financial markets were expecting.  It isn’t as easy as it sounds. Everything depends on the
clarity and credibility of the bank’s promise. With typical
thoroughness, the  Bank of England  today published a detailed
 paper  on the different forms forward guidance might take.  At one extreme is an unconditional promise to keep interest
rates very low for a fixed period. This would be perfectly
clear, though its credibility would surely be in doubt. (If
inflation surged unexpectedly, would the bank keep its promise?)
At the other is a promise so hedged with conditions and
“knockouts” (as Carney calls them) that it conveys no real
information. This looser commitment might be credible, but only
because it doesn’t say anything.  Breaking promises is a bad habit for a central bank.
Wisely, Carney’s formula tends to the latter end of the range.
If the bank decides that  monetary policy  poses a threat to
financial stability, interest rates could rise. If it decides
that inflation two years ahead is likely to exceed 2.5 percent,
interest rates could rise. Regardless of its own inflation
forecast, if it sees that market expectations of inflation are
no longer “well-anchored,” interest rates could rise. In
addition, now that unemployment is an explicit metric for
monetary policy, expect a new focus on how slack in the labor
market is measured: Soon, perhaps, there’ll be new room for
maneuver there, too.  If all else fails, the guidance can simply be changed. The
Fed seems to clarify -- i.e., adjust -- its guidance month by
month. How much new information, if any, markets detect in
forward guidance this elastic is hard to say.  The fact that the pound strengthened after Carney’s
announcement doesn’t show that the policy has backfired. Rather,
it proves that controlling expectations is hard. Carney’s new
policy had been anticipated, so some loosening of monetary
conditions was already in place before he spoke. Central banks
make their announcements -- but financial markets decide for
themselves what to think.  Carney’s predecessor,  Mervyn King , was a skeptic on forward
guidance. There’s too much uncertainty about the future, he
believed: Monetary policy, he said, using a cricketing metaphor,
was a matter of “one ball at a time.” Carney’s approach to
forward guidance looks flexible enough that it won’t snap under
pressure, and that’s good. Whether it’s firm enough to make much
difference, we remain to be convinced.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 