-- Computer Trading in Bonds Won’t Match Stock Level, McKinsey Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-08-07T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/computer-trading-in-bonds-won-t-match-stock-level-mckinsey-says.html
The corporate bond market is
unsuitable for full electronic trading, according to a study by
McKinsey & Co. and Greenwich Associates, even as  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  expand their own systems.  The bond market has more securities compared with listed
stocks and its issues trade at a lower frequency, making a full
transition to computer-based buying and selling unlikely, the
consultants said in a joint survey released today. Asset
managers are “cautiously optimistic” that electronic auction
systems for trading bonds will grow, the report said.  “While e-trading will undoubtedly play an important role
in the future of corporate bond trading, structural realities
stand in the way of attaining the order-driven ‘nirvana’ that
the cash equities market has achieved,” the report said.
“Corporate bond markets in the aggregate are unsuited to e-trading, and the market participants surveyed and interviewed
are dubious about the prospects for bona fide match-based e-trading.”  Firms from BlackRock to Goldman Sachs have sought to build
up electronic trading systems as Wall Street dealers that
traditionally acted as middlemen by warehousing bonds cut the
 amount  of debt they hold amid tighter rules on capital and risk-taking. BlackRock, which managed $3.86 trillion in assets as of
June 30, said in April it instead would route trades through
 MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX) ’s electronic system.  Goldman’s GSessions  The consultants surveyed 117 portfolio managers, traders
and analysts at investment firms in the U.S. and Europe for the
survey, and conducted interviews with eight of the 10 largest
dealers as well as representatives of electronic trading
systems. About 70 percent of U.S. respondents expect electronic
auctions to buy or sell bonds, known as request-for-quote
systems, will be the method of electronic trading that
proliferates in the next five years. In Europe, 85 percent said
the same, the report said.  Goldman Sachs spent a year developing an electronic trading
system for corporate bonds called GSessions that started
operating in 2012. Other electronic trading systems for fixed
income include Tradeweb Markets LLC and Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, which also provides news and
information to the financial community.  Almost a quarter of survey respondents believe crossing
systems such as BlackRock’s Aladdin Trading Network will “play
a meaningful role in the future,” according to the report.
Exchange trading for bonds, where debt is bought or sold with
the click of a mouse, is even less probable, with 3 percent of
U.S. investors and 10 percent in Europe saying they were
enthusiastic about this method, the report said.  ‘Liquidity Improved’  “Fewer than 15 percent of respondents say they are willing
to provide firm quotes on such systems, making it difficult to
attract liquidity,” the report said.  The ability for investors to find the bonds they wanted to
buy or sell was “not as bad as many had feared” in the 18
months before mid-spring of this year, according to the report.
“Around 30 percent of survey respondents said that liquidity
had actually improved during the prior 18 months,” the report
said.  The effect of regulations related to the capital levels
banks must maintain and other restrictions will make it harder
to find debt to trade, according to 80 percent of U.S. investors
surveyed and 55 percent in Europe, the report said.  Dealer Inventory  The market for company debt, which generally trades over
the counter, is growing less liquid as the biggest banks reduce
the volume of their own money they use to facilitate credit
trading. The 21 primary dealers that do business with the
Federal Reserve have reduced their holdings by 76 percent since
the peak in 2007 through the end of March, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That  reduction  may not fully reflect the amount of
corporate bonds held by dealers due to the Fed’s inclusion of
non-agency mortgage backed securities in the data, the report
said.  “It is safe to say that this change in net inventory did
not have a direct impact on corporate bond liquidity,” the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 