-- Corn in U.S. Seen by Cordonnier at Risk of Damage From Frost
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-07T10:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/corn-in-u-s-seen-by-cordonnier-at-risk-of-damage-from-frost.html
Late-sown corn in the U.S. is at risk
of frost damage in the northern and northwestern Corn Belt
because of delayed development, according to Michael Cordonnier,
president and owner of crop analyst Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc.  Should initial frosts occur two weeks earlier than normal
on Sept. 15, “we would have a big problem,” he wrote in an
 online report  today. Early frosts may leave the corn yield in
the U.S., the world’s biggest producer of the grain, at 150
bushels an acre (9.42 metric tons a hectare) or less, it showed.  The Midwest is set to have near to below-normal
temperatures through August’s first half that will aid corn
pollination, forecaster DTN said yesterday in a report. If that
pattern were to continue beyond pollination, the crop would be
vulnerable to an early freeze because late planting would leave
it lacking maturity, DTN said.  “If the corn crop continues to develop at a slower-than-normal pace, there will be significant risk of frost for the
later-planted corn in  Iowa ,  Wisconsin , Minnesota, South Dakota
and North Dakota,” Hinsdale, Illinois-based Cordonnier wrote.
“Any frost during the month of September will negatively impact
the corn in the above-mentioned states.”  For a “killing frost” that ends the growing season,
temperatures would have to fall to 27 or 28 degrees Fahrenheit
(-2.8 to -2.2 degrees Celsius) for three to four hours,
according to Cordonnier. Temperatures of 31 degrees Fahrenheit
for a brief period would cause little damage, he wrote.  North Dakota  Corn in Iowa, the biggest U.S. growing state, was 2 percent
in the dough stage as of Aug. 4, compared with an average of 21
percent normally for that date, Cordonnier wrote. For  Minnesota ,
2 percent was at that stage, against an average 11 percent,
while the respective figures for North Dakota were 3 percent and
16 percent.  At the dough stage, which occurs about 24 to 28 days after
silking, kernels have reached about half of their mature dry
weight,  according  to the Iowa State University Agronomy
Extension website. Silking is part of the pollination stage.  The “ideal situation” for corn in the northern and
northwestern Corn Belt would be for the first frosts to come two
weeks later than normal, the analyst wrote. That could mean a
U.S. yield as high as 160 bushels an acre, he wrote.  If the first frosts were to occur Oct. 1, the average U.S.
yield would be in the “mid-150 range,” the report showed.  Black Layer  Corn plants are safe from frost when the grain reaches the
stage known as black layer, with 30 percent to 32 percent
moisture content in the grain, occurring about 60 days after
pollination, according to the report. A black layer at the base
of the kernel indicates the grain is mature.  Late-developing soybeans will also be at risk from early
frost, Cordonnier wrote. The U.S. is the biggest global producer
of the oilseed.  “If the first frost occurs two weeks earlier than normal
on Sept. 15, these late soybeans are going to have a big problem
and the nationwide soybean yield could be reduced to 40
bushels/acre, and in a worst-case scenario, maybe even lower,”
he wrote.  Initial freezing temperatures on Oct. 1 might result in an
average U.S. soybean yield of 42 to 42.5 bushels an acre, while
a two-week delay might give 43.5 to 44 bushels an acre,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  