-- Coutu Shores Up Cash for Pharmacy Acqusitions
-- B y   L a u r e n   S .   M u r p h y
-- 2013-08-07T13:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/coutu-shores-up-cash-for-pharmacy-acqusitions.html
  Jean Coutu Group Inc. (PJC/A) , the second-best performing pharmacy stock in  North America  in the past
three years, is poised to buy up smaller rivals as it hoards
cash amid consolidation in  Canada ’s retail industry.  The Longueuil, Quebec-based company has built up cash of
about $462 million by selling a 28 percent stake in  Rite Aid
Corp. (RAD)  in three different equity transactions since April,
according to  statements  released by the company.  The reserves and lack of  debt  raised speculation that
Canada’s most acquisitive pharmacy chain will look for more
deals after Loblaw Cos.’s C$12.4 billion purchase this month of
 Shoppers Drug Mart Corp. (SC) , the country’s biggest drug-store firm.  “We believe this Rite Aid sale and the preceding one have
increased the possibility that Jean Coutu could be preparing to
make an acquisition,” said James Durran, a Toronto-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, who rates Coutu the equivalent of a
hold, in a note to clients on July 17.  The Rexall pharmacy banner, owned by closely held Katz
Group Pharmacies Inc., based in  Edmonton , and Sobeys Inc.’s
Lawton drugs are potential acquisition targets, Durran said in
the note, declining further comment.  Coutu declined to comment on potential acquisitions or
future strategy, Helene Bisson, a spokeswoman for the company,
said in an e-mail. Katz Group declined to comment, said Brian
McLaughlin, a company spokesman, by phone July 25. Lawton Drugs
is not for sale, said Barbara McCully, a spokeswoman for the
company, on July 24.  Store Openings  Coutu shares  rose  0.2 percent to C$19.32 at 9:48 a.m. in
Toronto after climbing 2.5 percent yesterday to C$19.29 for a
market value of C$4.2 billion ($4.1 billion). Coutu gained 33
percent this year, making its stock an attractive currency for
potential deals. Over three years, Coutu advanced 122 percent,
behind only Rite Aid’s 231 percent gain among five North
American drug stores tracked by  Bloomberg News .  Coutu sales were below analysts’  estimates  in five of the
last eight quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Pharmacy competition is set to increase from a Loblaw-backed
Shoppers Drug Mart.  Shoppers Drug Mart has 1,363 locations, and added an
average of 54 locations a year over the past five years,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Coutu has 411 stores,
increasing by an average of 15 stores per year in the same time
period. Quebec is the location of 92 percent of Coutu’s outlets,
with the remaining stores in  New Brunswick  and Ontario. Just 18
Jean Coutu stores have been renovated or expanded this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Growth Plan  Jean Coutu lacks a plan for growth, acquisitions and
capital deployment, Perry Caicco, an analyst at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto, said in a note dated July 10, declining
further comment.  “Coutu’s never had as compelling a store experience,” and
Loblaw’s acquisition of Shoppers will make that gap more
pronounced, said Kenric Tyghe, an analyst at  Raymond James , in a
phone interview from Toronto.  Loblaw announced plans last week to open six new Quebec
stores, signaling an increased presence in Coutu’s home
province. Coutu will also face increased competition from
Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) , North America’s third-largest
retailer, which plans to open 25 stores across the province
starting in fall 2013. Sebastien Bouchard, manager of public
relations for Target’s Canadian operations, did not respond to a
voice mail left for him yesterday.  Coutu has relied on takeovers for growth in the past, with
five acquisitions worth $2.62 billion since 2000. Shoppers made
five acquisitions valued at $148.19 million over that same
period, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pharmacist Founder  Coutu, founded by pharmacist Jean Coutu in 1969, purchased
80 Osco Drug stores in Maine, Massachusetts and  New Hampshire  in
2001 and two Pharma-save locations in Ontario in 2003, according
to Bloomberg data. These acquisitions preceded the company’s
foray into Rite Aid in 2006, when it became the largest
shareholder of the  Camp Hill , Pennsylvania-based company after
selling its Eckerd and Brooks chain to Rite Aid for $3.4
billion. Jean Coutu, now 86, acts as the company’s non-executive
chairman, after stepping down as chief executive officer in
2007.  Coutu began selling its shares in April, as Rite Aid rose
65 percent from the beginning of the year. Rite Aid shares fell
about 61 percent from the time Coutu acquired the shares in 2006
until it began selling them in April. Coutu also expanded into
drug and health device production, buying Pro-Doc Ltee, an
indepedent drug maker, in 2007, and Le Groupe Medicus, an
orthotics and prosthetics company, in 2012.  Has Resources  “Jean Coutu has a new, expanded distribution center and
cash on hand from its final sale of Rite-Aid shares,” said
Professor  Manish Kacker  of McMaster University’s DeGroote School
of Business. “This gives them the resources and capabilities
needed to acquire other pharmacy chains, a strategy that they
have used in the past to grow their business.”  Rexall, with 425 locations across Ontario and the west
coast, offers access outside the Quebec market. Lawton Drugs may
come onto the market as Sobeys plans to sell C$1 billion in non-core assets to support its June bid for  Safeway Inc. (SWY) ’s Canadian
grocery stores, according to Durran. Lawton Drugs has more than
80 stores across the Maritimes, according to its  website , a
market close to Coutu’s Quebec stronghold.  Richmond, British Columbia-based London Drugs, may not be a
good fit because the chain’s west coast stores are too far from
the company’s Quebec operations, Durran said.  London Drugs ,
which has 77 stores in the western provinces, did not respond to
voice mails for comment yesterday.  Quebec Challenge  While the Shoppers/Loblaw deal presents a challenge to
Coutu’s dominance in the Quebec market, it also provides
potential expansion opportunities, Kacker said.  “The overlap between Loblaw and Shoppers locations may
force Loblaw to give up some of the Shoppers locations in
Ontario,” said Kacker. “Jean Coutu could attempt to take over
these locations if they decide to expand westwards and enter the
southern and western Ontario markets.”  The recent wave of consolidation through the Canadian
retail industry has also fueled speculation Montreal-based
grocer  Metro Inc. (MRU)  is in the market to acquire a pharmacy chain
like Coutu.  “It is now imperative for Metro to make an acquisition,”
said CIBC’s Caicco, in a note to clients dated July 16. “That
puts Jean Coutu in the gun sites.”  Metro declined to comment on acquisition speculation
regarding Jean Coutu, a spokeswoman for the company said on Aug.
6.  Being a target of an acquisition rather than an acquiring
party seems the less likely of the two alternatives, said Derek Dley, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity.  “I would say it’s more likely, looking at them, to
consolidate,” Dley said in a phone interview on July 22 from
Toronto. “Seeing some decent consolidation opportunities, some
smaller store networks out there. That could be why they have
this strong cash balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 