-- Credit Suisse Sells First Notes Tied to Severstal Since May 2011
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-08-07T13:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/credit-suisse-sells-first-notes-tied-to-severstal-since-may-2011.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  sold the first
structured notes in two years tied to the debt of OAO  Severstal (SVST) ,
Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, and mobile carrier  VimpelCom (VIP) 
Ltd.  The bank issued $33.1 million of two-year credit-linked
notes, the first such securities tied to Severstal since May
2011 and the first to reference VimpelCom since September of
that year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit
Suisse’s notes, which are tied to a basket of debt from
different companies, are also linked to Kazan, Russia-based  AK
Bars Bank. (AKBR)   Sofia Rehman, a spokeswoman at Credit Suisse in  London ,
declined to comment on the offering.  The notes were probably created for investors who are
restricted from buying bonds of emerging market borrowers,
Alexander Sklemin, deputy head of credit research at  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  in Vienna, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Sales of credit-linked notes tied to Russian banks
and corporates totaled $275.8 million this year, with securities
tied to companies including OAO Gazprom, OAO Rosneft and VTB
Group, Bloomberg data show.  “VimpelCom and Severstal are leading companies in their
sectors,” said Egor Fedorov, a senior credit analyst at ING
Groep NV in Moscow. They both have a “strong credit profile and
generate solid operating cash flows despite relatively high
leverage in VimpelCom’s case and negative trends on global steel
markets in the case of Severstal,” he said.  Credit-Linked Notes  Credit-linked notes can have higher yields and tailored
maturities that may not be available in the  bond market . Buyers
of the securities, which include private banks and wealthy
individuals, suffer losses if there’s a default either by the
bank issuing the note or the linked entity.   DZ Bank AG, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and Societe
Generale SA led $27.4 billion of issuance of the credit-linked
notes this year in Europe and Asia, little changed from the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show. The securities are linked
to the creditworthiness of companies and countries, from Italian
utility  Enel SpA (ENEL)  to  Sri Lanka .  Citigroup Inc. sold $50 million of 2 1/2-year notes tied to
Severstal in May 2011, Bloomberg data show. Russian state-run
lender VTB Group sold debt tied to VimpelCom in September 2011
when it raised 755 million rubles ($22.8 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  