-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Rise; Royal Dutch Shell Sells Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-07T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-royal-dutch-shell-said-to-plan-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose to an almost two-week high amid concern the  Federal Reserve 
may begin trimming its bond buying later this year.  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  issued $3.75 billion in bonds in a three-part sale.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 76.3 basis points at 4:47
p.m. in New York, the highest since July 25, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index rose yesterday as Chicago Fed President
 Charles Evans  said the U.S. labor market has shown “good
improvement” and a reduction in the central bank’s stimulus
measures in September is possible. Investors are responding to
signs of when the Fed will start reducing its $85 billion
monthly asset purchases that have bolstered credit markets.  “There are just a lot of unknowns,” on the timing of
tapering, Matthew Duch, a  fund manager  at Calvert Investments,
said in a telephone interview from Bethesda,  Maryland . “With a
lot of uncertainty, you’re seeing people play it close to the
vest before there’s more clarity from the Fed.”  The credit-swaps gauge typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Shell Bonds  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 10 that the U.S.
central bank would maintain a “highly accommodative monetary
policy for the foreseeable future.” He indicated the month
before that officials may begin paring the bond-buying program
this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the recovery in the
world’s largest economy showed sustained improvement.  Royal Dutch Shell issued $1.5 billion of 1.9 percent, five-year notes to yield 55 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $1 billion of 3.4 percent, 10-year bonds at 83
basis points more than benchmarks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The notes, issued through the company’s Shell
International Finance unit, are expected to be rated Aa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Europe ’s largest oil company also sold $1.25 billion of
4.55 percent, 30-year debentures at a spread of 92 basis points.
Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes, according
to a regulatory filing.  Moody’s Offering  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , owner of the second-largest credit rater,
issued $500 million of 4.875 percent notes maturing in February
2024 and paying a 235 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show.  Proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes that
may include share buybacks, acquisitions or debt repayment, New
York-based Moody’s said in a regulatory  filing  today. The debt,
which initially was marketed as $350 million, may be rated BBB+
by  Standard & Poor’s , the largest credit grader, the data show.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
rose 11.5 basis points to 382.8 basis points, Bloomberg prices
show.  The average extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade corporate debt rather than similar-maturity Treasuries
increased 1.4 basis points to 128.7 basis points, Bloomberg data
show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt
widened 6.4 basis points to 568.9.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  