-- Cyber Security Is Biggest Threat to Markets, DTCC Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-08-07T16:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/cyber-security-is-biggest-threat-to-markets-dtcc-says.html
Cyber security is the greatest threat
to markets and governments around the world, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which processes U.S. stock
trades.  The New York-based clearinghouse cited eight key concerns
to the financial industry such as new regulations, high
frequency trading, the risk to counterparties defaulting,
collateral requirements and natural disasters, according to a
 report  published today titled “Beyond the Horizon.”  “Given the diverse and global nature of cyber-attacks,
DTCC does not expect this risk to dissipate significantly in the
near term,” the firm said in the report.  DTCC’s findings on computer security echo a July study co-authored by  the World Federation of Exchanges  and  the
International Organization of Securities Commissions . The two
groups said a “significant” number of exchanges fought off
sabotage via the Internet in the last year. About 53 percent of
exchanges surveyed have been hit by a cyber-attack in the last
year, the report said.  American venues were most likely, with 67 percent saying
they had to fight them off, the WFE and IOSCO study showed.
About 89 percent said it represents a systemic risk.  In February 2011, suspicious files were discovered on a
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. website that facilitates director
communication among listed companies, prompting the exchange
operator to start an investigation with federal authorities. The
trading platforms operate independently from the company’s
“web-facing” services, the company said at the time.  The  New York  Stock Exchange website faced threats from a
hacker group in October 2011. The venue said its website
functioned without interruption on the day of the threatened
intrusion.  Technology and the risk it poses to markets is under
increasing scrutiny after breakdowns at Knight Capital Group
Inc. drove the firm to the brink of insolvency. The mishap
spurred calls in the  U.S. Congress  to examine whether increasing
automation is damaging the integrity of the U.S. equity market,
the world’s largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  