-- Czech Paralysis Extends as President Zeman Seizes Spotlight
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-08T10:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/czech-paralysis-extends-as-president-zeman-seizes-center-stage.html
The  Czech Republic ’s political
deadlock was extended yesterday as President Milos Zeman’s
defiance of lawmakers threatens to hamper the country’s ability
to tackle its longest economic slump on record.  The showdown with lawmakers came to a head when technocrat
Prime Minister Jiri Rusnok lost a confidence vote. His
nomination by Zeman in June without parliamentary backing was an
unprecedented snub to parties. The country may now face a snap
vote as its increasingly fractured politics remain in crisis.  Buoyed by a mandate from almost one-third of 10 million
Czechs in a January ballot, the nation’s first directly elected
head of state is carving out a new role for the presidency
shaped by the likes of the late Vaclav Havel. Following the
illegal spying and graft scandal that toppled Premier Petr Necas’s government in June, the rift risks policy paralysis in a
country struggling to exit its second  recession  since 2009.  “Zeman started to alter the practice essentially from day
one in office, and in his view the direct mandate entitles him
to interpret his role in the constitutional system differently
from his predecessors,” Otilia Dhand, an analyst at Teneo
Intelligence, a London-based political risk evaluator, said Aug.
5 by phone.  Yields Rise  The yield on the government’s 10-year koruna debt, which
reached an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, has risen since
the start of the crisis to 2.254 percent today, holding below
comparable U.S. Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The coalition that backed the previous cabinet said it
continued to hold a majority to stay in power and pledged to
choke the interim government’s budget plans, including
infrastructure spending, aimed at kickstarting an economy that
has shrunk for six consecutive quarters though March.  That front was shattered after the failed confidence vote.
The TOP09 party of former Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg,
frustrated that several members of its allies broke an agreement
to vote against Rusnok, said it would back the poll-leading
Social Democrats’ push for an early election. Such a motion may
now have enough votes as deputies today start meetings to
untangle the crisis.  No Deadline  Even if parliament dissolves itself, Zeman has to make the
move official and has no constitutional deadline for doing so.
For now, Rusnok stays in office.  While previous presidents largely acted as figureheads in
domestic policy, Zeman is seeking a greater say as  interest
rates  near zero have failed to revive the $196 billion  economy .  Necas had focused on curbing the fiscal  gap  by reducing
investments and raising taxes. While undershooting 2011 and 2012
deficit targets helped cut borrowing costs, it frustrated the
public and damped private consumption, exacerbating the economic
contraction, the central bank has said.  The turmoil scuttled ex-Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek’s plan to boost spending if the outlook for public
finances improved. The budget  gap  narrowed by about half through
July from a year ago, to less than a third of the 2013 target.  While the  second-richest  ex-communist European Union nation
has had more premiers than any other bloc member in the last
decade, it’s attracted $65 billion of foreign direct investment
since 2003, helping the economy double in size. The  koruna  has
gained about 20 percent against the euro in that period.  ‘Gigantic Victory’  The currency didn’t react to the rising chance of an early
election with opinion polls “indicating a gigantic victory for
the left,” Lubos Mokras, a Ceska Sporitelna AS analyst in
 Prague , said today by e-mail. The koruna gained 0.1 percent to
25.886 per euro as of 11:22 a.m.  Zeman in March became the Czech Republic’s third president
since the country’s independence 20 years ago. The euro-skeptic
economist Vaclav Klaus beat out Zeman among others to replace
Havel in 2003. He was forbidden by law to seek the post again.  With Zeman already breaking with tradition, his next moves
may also be unconventional because the law doesn’t set the rules
for when and how to replace Rusnok after the lost confidence
motion, nor is there a deadline for dissolving parliament, said
Jiri Pehe, director of  New York  University in Prague.  “Zeman is trying to shift the center of power gravity
toward the president and weaken the parliament, and he is using
his direct mandate to justify his moves,” Pehe said in an Aug.
6 interview. “The recent developments mean that even extreme
possibilities now appear conceivable. In all scenarios, Zeman is
holding the winning cards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  