-- Czech President Urges Cabinet Backing in Showdown With Lawmakers
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-08-07T11:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/czech-president-urges-cabinet-backing-in-showdown-with-lawmakers.html
Czech President Milos Zeman urged
parliament to back the interim cabinet in a confidence vote as
lawmakers of the previous pro-austerity administration oppose
his attempts to shape government policies.  Zeman, the country’s first directly elected head of state,
is promoting Prime Minister Jiri Rusnok, who he appointed
against the will of the three former coalition parties that say
they hold a majority in parliament. Zeman won’t name a
replacement for Rusnok “for several weeks” even if he loses
the vote, he told lawmakers in  Prague  today.  The rift prolongs political turmoil that started in June,
when a scandal of illegal spying and graft allegations sank ex-Premier Petr Necas’s government. The parties that backed Necas
are trying to return to power and plan to block Rusnok’s fiscal
proposals. The poll-leading Social Democrats, the largest
parliamentary group, want early elections as the $196 billion
 economy  struggles to exit a record-long recession.  “We are in the middle of a political crisis that most of
us didn’t cause, but we all need to cope with it,” Zeman said.
“I proposed the only possible solution.”  The yield on 10-year government koruna debt, which reached
an all-time low 1.48 percent on May 17, has risen since the
start of the political crisis to 2.27 percent today, staying
below comparable  U.S. Treasuries , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The technocrat cabinet, which includes unsuccessful
presidential candidate Jan Fischer as finance minister, needs a
simple majority to survive the confidence vote. Rusnok wants to
focus on restarting economic growth after six consecutive
quarters of contraction through March.  Rusnok’s Backing  While two lawmakers excused themselves from today’s
session, the threshold for winning the confidence motion will
depend on how many deputies are present at the actual vote,
according to parliament’s procedures.  Rusnok secured the backing of three parties with a combined
91 mandates, the Prague-based newspaper  Hospodarske Noviny 
reported today. The former ruling coalition formally holds 98
seats and relied on unaffiliated deputies to push through laws
when in power.  A motion to declare an existing parliamentary majority
after the confidence vote takes place, was backed by 101
lawmakers of the former ruling coalition and unaffiliated
deputies in the vote on the session’s agenda today, according to
the result of the ballot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  