-- Delta Flight to Detroit Diverts to Amsterdam on Flaps
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-07T19:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/delta-flight-to-detroit-diverts-to-amsterdam-on-flaps.html
A  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  wide-body jet
bound for  Detroit  landed safely at the Amsterdam airport after
being diverted there because its wing flaps wouldn’t retract
following its departure from Paris.  Flight 99, a twin-engine Airbus SAS A330 jet carrying 309
passengers and crew, touched down about 4:15 p.m. local time at
Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport,  Anthony Black , a spokesman for
Atlanta-based Delta, said today by e-mail. Video by Amsterdam
television station AT5 showed the jet landed without incident.  Passengers are being rebooked on a flight leaving Amsterdam
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, Black said. While maintenance workers were
able to repair the aircraft, crew members reached their work-hour limits and today’s trip had to be canceled, he said.  Flaps that won’t retract keep a plane from reaching its
usual airspeed. They are extended from the back edge of the wing
in different configurations during takeoff and landing,
expanding the lifting surface and allowing a plane to maneuver
at slower speeds. The tradeoff is that they increase drag.  “The airplane, any airplane, with flaps down could not
make it across the North Atlantic,” said Les Westbrooks, a
former commercial and military pilot who teaches airline
operations at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in  Daytona
Beach ,  Florida . “They had to land.”  Speed Limit  The A330’s maximum cruise speed is about 547 miles (880
kilometers) per hour, according to industry website
Airliners.net. That’s more than twice the top speed when flying
with the flaps lowered for takeoff or landing, ruling out a
trans-Atlantic flight spanning more than 3,900 miles.  Planes have safety systems that block flaps from retracting
completely if one isn’t moving up in sync with the other,
Westbrooks said in a telephone interview.  The Dutch television video showed that the flaps on the
right wing of Flight 99 were in a downward position, while the
view of the left wing was obscured by the fuselage. Three
firetrucks were nearby as a precaution, AT5 said. Schiphol
airport is a Delta hub.  Flap malfunctions aren’t common, said G.W. “Bo” Corby, a
former commercial pilot who now works with Future & Active Pilot
Advisors, a career and financial-planning website.  “The flaps are a complicated system with a lot of moving
parts, and on occasion for any number of reasons you may have a
malfunction” including computer problems, Corby said by phone.
“The response of the computer may be to lock them out so they
don’t go anywhere and put the airplane in a compromised
position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  