-- Dementia Risk Boosted by High Blood-Sugar Levels in Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/dementia-risk-boosted-by-high-blood-sugar-levels-in-study.html
High levels of blood sugar raise the
risk of dementia, even if a person doesn’t have diabetes, a
condition known to be associated with the brain disease, a study
found.  The higher the level of blood sugar among patients, the
greater the risk of dementia, according to the report published
in the New England Journal of Medicine. The finding was also
true of diabetes patients.  Previous research  has found that diabetes diagnosed later
in life conveys a high risk of dementia. Insulin doesn’t work
properly in the brains those with Alzheimer’s disease, the most
common form of dementia, leading researchers to explore whether
GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s diabetes drug Avandia may benefit those
with the ailment. Clinical trials found the drug didn’t help.  “It’s a steadily increasing risk, the higher the blood
glucose, the higher the risk, and that’s one of the things that
surprised us,”  Paul Crane , a study author and associate
professor of medicine at the  University of Washington  in
 Seattle , said in a telephone interview.  It’s not clear why blood sugar is associated with dementia
risk, Crane said. Higher levels of blood sugar may play a role
in vascular disease or inflammation. Little research has been
done on the effects of blood sugar within the normal range, he
said.  The research published yesterday analyzed the medical
records of about 2,100 people who were part of the  Adult Changes
in Thought  study. The study, begun in 1994, follows adults older
than age 65. Participants are evaluated every two years by
researchers.  Study Results  In those without diabetes, people whose average blood
glucose was 115 milligrams per deciliter had an 18 percent
higher chance of dementia than peers with an average level of
100 milligrams per deciliter. Among diabetics, those with an
average blood sugar level of 190 milligrams per deciliter were
40 percent more likely to be diagnosed with dementia than
patients with averages of 160 milligrams per deciliter.  Although blood sugar varies, most people without diabetes
have glucose levels of less than 125 milligrams per deciliter,
 according to  the  National Institutes of Health .  More than 5 million people in the U.S. have  Alzheimer’s , a
progressive disease that erodes a patient’s memory, thinking and
ability to carry out simple tasks. The cause of the illness is
unknown and there is no known cure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  