-- Family Gets Review on Immortal Cells That Led to 74,000 Studies
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/descendants-of-henrietta-lacks-cell-line-now-consulted-on-genome.html
Descendants of  Henrietta Lacks,  a
poor black tobacco farmer whose cells were taken without consent
and used in 74,000 medical studies since the 1950s, will have a
say over how that genomic data will be used.  Any scientist receiving  National Institutes of Health  funds
to study the cells’ genome must apply to a panel of scientists
and two of Lacks’s descendants for access to the information,
according to guidelines published in the journal  Nature .  The agreement was shaped after a German group published a
complete genome of these cells, nicknamed HeLa, without the
family’s consent. It was available in a public research database
for days, before the family’s outrage prompted researchers to
remove the data. Doctors originally took the cancerous cells
from Lacks in 1951 without her permission, and decades of work
have taken place without consulting the family. Her case was the
subject of a best-selling book three years ago.  “We are pro-science, we want to continue our legacy,”
said David Lacks, Jr., Lacks’s grandson, in a conference call
with reporters. ‘We just want to add an extra step to preserve
our privacy.’’  The  HeLa cells  carry mutations that enabled them to form
the aggressive cervical cancer Lacks died from later in 1951,
which is why they grow prolifically in laboratories. They have
contributed to numerous scientific advances, including testing
the Jonas Salk polio vaccine, antidepressants and blood-pressure
pills, and led to the injection techniques used for in-vitro
therapy.  Genome Information  However, parts of the genome may reveal information about
her family members. David Lacks, who lives in Baltimore, had a
chance to look at the genome, and noted that not all the genomic
information was being passed on.  “If I had this genome, I wouldn’t be going bald, but that
is certainly not the case,” Lacks said. There’s a lot of
information in public about his family, and though he shares
only about 25 percent of the data in the genome, he’s concerned
about his family’s privacy, he said.  More broadly, the HeLa genome raises questions about
whether it’s possible to keep tissue donated in research private
by stripping out the name and address from the donation, said
 Francis Collins , director of the NIH. The  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services is preparing a new proposal for how to
more effectively protect the safety and privacy of human
research participants.  Agreement Terms  The terms of the agreement announced yesterday require
investigators to apply to the NIH for access to the whole-genome
sequences of two HeLa cell lines. Scientists must agree to abide
by the terms of the data-use agreement, and acknowledge
Henrietta Lacks and her family’s contribution in their work. Any
new genomic information will be deposited into the protected
database.  That includes a genome sequence of one of the HeLa cell
lines published yesterday in Nature, which finds few mutations
occurred over years of lab work. The study also suggests that
the secret behind the quick-growing cells was the insertion of
human papillomavirus near a known cancer-causing gene, causing
the gene to be more active than it otherwise would have been.  The publication of that research, led by  Jay Shendure  of
the  University of Washington , was briefly delayed when another
group from  Germany  published the HeLa sequence in whole in
March, without consulting the family. While the paper was held,
the Lacks family and the NIH discussed how best to respect their
privacy while allowing science to go forward.  Lacks’s Story  Henrietta Lacks grew up in  Virginia .  After marrying at age
14, Lacks moved with her family to Turner Station,  Maryland . She
had five children before being diagnosed with cervical cancer.
She received treatment at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore,
where the cells from her cancer were removed without her
permission, and eventually developed into the immortal cell
line. She died in October 1951, at age 31.  Her story became the subject of a book entitled “The
Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” in 2010 by Rebecca L.
Skloot.  Lacks and her family are “among the greatest
philanthropists of our time, when you consider how they’ve
contributed to science and human health,” Collins said.
Committees like the one formed around HeLa cells won’t be
commonplace, since the identity of the family being widely known
is relatively unique, and since no consent was granted for the
initial cell line, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  