-- Detroit’s Venal Art Sale No Fix for Urban Nightmare
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/detroit-s-venal-art-sale-no-fix-for-urban-nightmare.html
The idea of auctioning the crown-jewel holdings of the  Detroit Institute of Arts  looks like a
quick fix for a bankrupt city.  The debate goes like this: Sell the art, worth billions, to
vaporize the city’s obligations to struggling pensioners.  Christie’s International Plc has been hired by Detroit to
appraise the art collection while leaving the art in the City’s
ownership,  the auction house  said in an e-mailed release. The
City must know the current value of all its assets, Emergency
Manager Kevyn Orr said.  Whether or not the art is sold -- Orr says there is no such
plan -- the collection is only the most prominent candidate in
what may become an asset-stripping orgy.  Detroit has endured decades of decline, disinvestment and
depopulation. While Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  claims not to
be pursuing a bailout, any such thing would Band-Aid the city’s
chronic problems. Debt would be reduced by permitting mostly
outsiders to abscond with anything of value the city owns.  When companies go bankrupt, the medicine can be harsh for
staff members and the local tax base, yet the effects are
temporary. A bankrupt city can’t fire citizens who pay taxes but
already receive worse than subsistence services like one-hour
police response times.  Large cities don’t disappear or die, they just waste into
chronic basket cases, like Camden,  New Jersey ; Gary,  Indiana ;
and East St. Louis,  Illinois .  Basket Case  Detroit just happens to be the biggest basket case.  The critics who are scathing about the city’s
mismanagement, its supposedly greedy unions, and its citizens’
alleged “victimology” ignore the fact those who will pay the
highest price -- the city’s 700,000 citizens -- have the fewest
resources to deal with a mess that’s brewed for years.  What would it take to put  Detroit  on a sustainable footing?
That’s the question that’s got to drive decisions, and it is
appalling that it does not. Too few of the people and
institutions that have been diligently assembling a future for
Detroit on the ground have been heard from.  There’s a revival plan for Detroit. Local corporations have
committed resources to turn it around.  The architecture school at the University of Detroit Mercy
has undertaken projects such as a graffiti art playground and a
proposal for a mobile black history museum through its Detroit
Collaborative Design Center.  Juicy Targets  Major philanthropies have been deeply involved, like the
local  Kresge Foundation . The foundation has long supported arts
organizations as a tool for community revitalization -- not
because they offer juicy targets for asset strippers.  Much of the revival of American cities started out with
just the kind of committed young people -- artists, designers,
historic preservationists, restaurateurs -- that have created
the new vitality you can see in Detroit. (In such a process,
cultural institutions like the Detroit Institute of Arts act as
magnets.)  Detroit, like all older cities, suffers from America’s
urban “age penalty.”  Few renters living in poverty get public subsidy, while top
earners in new-home developments get substantial portions of
their mortgage interest and property taxes covered by the
Federal government. Congress lushly subsidizes highways while
Detroit bus riders suffer reduced service and higher fares.  Stagnation Struggle  Except for urban and suburban wealth belts, mature
communities struggle to stave off stagnation and decline. Rote
real-estate finance cannot recognize the unique conditions and
opportunities of aging places, so invigorating deals are a hard-fought rarity rather than standard practice.  That’s why the forces that emptied Detroit of businesses
and people decades ago are gaining speed in 1950s suburbs
everywhere. The suburban cities that starred in the massive
migration from industrial cities -- such as Atlanta,  Dallas , and
Phoenix -- all now possess large tracts of poverty.  America has not focused on urban renewal since the 1970s.
Cities that clambered back from the brink did it because they
were valued by citizens, retained some wealth, and had a diverse
economic base. (The latter, Detroit didn’t -- and still doesn’t
-- have.)  Once disinvestment starts in an American city, it’s pretty
hard to stop. When businesses leave because somewhere else is
newer and accessible by a shiny new freeway, you lose the talent
and investment that keeps cities healthy. You lose good leaders
and have to settle for hacks. Of course Detroit is badly
governed, as many other poor communities are. Who would want
such a thankless job?  Struggling Cities  These are the reasons Detroit’s got plenty of company in
its struggle.  America continues to hubristically believe it can rebuild
nations like  Afghanistan , when it won’t lift a finger to see
what can be done with older cities that have long languished.  The primary counterbalance to the forces of disinvestment
has been the historic-preservation movement, which has drawn
millions of people and catalyzed the investment of billions of
dollars in cities.  The Federal government assists with a tiny tax-credit
program that has probably gotten the biggest bang for the buck
of any Federal effort.  Restoring handsome old homes is hardly enough to revive an
urban economy, though. Chicago has gentrified dozens of square
miles left for dead yet still has huge swaths of emptied-out
blocks colonized by heavily armed gangs.  So responding to the Detroit debacle by regarding art
assets as monetizable for the purpose of paying off creditors is
not only wrong, it is strikingly venal and cruel. Detroit’s
assets need to be understood in terms of what they can do to
revive the city, not on what cash they will produce at auction.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture,
 Martin Gayford  on European art and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://www.jamessrussell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
Or  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 