-- Deutsche Bank Hires Goldman Sachs Banker as Australia CEO
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-07T05:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/deutsche-bank-hires-goldman-sachs-mcmurdo-as-australia-n-z-head.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  hired James McMurdo
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  as chief executive officer for its
Australian and New Zealand business to replace John Macfarlane,
who retires in early 2014.  McMurdo was most recently a partner at Goldman Sachs in
London, where he headed the financial sponsors group for Europe,
the Middle East and Africa. He will report to Gunit Chadha and
Alan Cloete, co-chief executive officers for the Asia-Pacific
region, Deutsche Bank said in an e-mailed statement. McMurdo’s
appointment is effective from February.  Deutsche Bank is on course to finish outside the top three
for advising on mergers and acquisitions in Australia and New
Zealand for a third straight year, ranking ninth in 2013,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Frankfurt-based
bank is the fifth-biggest arranger of bond deals in  Australia ,
trailing the four largest domestic lenders, the data show.  “James McMurdo is one of the most respected bankers in
this key growth market for Deutsche Bank,” Chada said in
today’s statement. “He brings great depth of experience to this
important role and is best suited to help grow our strong
position across all our client businesses.”  Slowing M&A  Australian M&A volume dropped 31 percent this year from the
same period in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as the
fading mining boom sapped the economy and  consumer confidence .
The government on Aug. 2 cut its growth estimate for the year
ending June 2014 to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.  Before his stint in London, McMurdo was co-head of
investment banking for Goldman Sachs in Australia and  New
Zealand , Deutsche Bank said in the statement.  Macfarlane, 53, has been executive chairman for Australia
and New Zealand since 2007 and chief country officer for
Australia since 2011. He said in June that he would step down
after 25 years at the bank.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the country’s largest lender
by assets, said on July 24 that it hired Craig Drummond,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch Australia head, as its group
executive for finance and strategy. Drummond will join NAB by
the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  