-- Deutsche Hires Goldman Currency Co-Head as Managing Director
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-07T17:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/deutsche-hires-goldman-currency-co-head-as-managing-director.html
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader, said it hired Gaurang Chadha as a managing
director in its North American foreign-exchange investor sales
team in New York.  Chadha was co-head of foreign-exchange hedge fund sales for
the Americas at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., where he worked for
five years, according to a Deutsche Bank statement. Chadha, who
was also employed at Citigroup Inc. and ABN Amro Bank NV, will
report to Liza Duke and Daniel Swasbrook, co-heads of investor
sales, North America.  “Themes in the market have been supportive of our business
franchise this year, specifically the interest in  Japan  and the
strong dollar story as macro themes that people have gotten
behind,” Hans Ephraimson, managing director and head of foreign
exchange, commodities and short-duration sales for the Americas
at Deutsche Bank in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“Gaurang’s expected contribution, and hires like this, are much
longer lasting than any one interim-year increase in flow.”  The yen has fallen 10 percent this year against the
greenback. The dollar has rallied against 13 of its 16 most-traded peers during that span.  Currency trading volumes in the U.S. and U.K. rose to
records in April, according to the Foreign Exchange Committee’s
twice-yearly survey. The average-daily-volume of U.S. currency
trading rose 27 percent since October to $1 trillion, the
committee said July 29 in a statement. U.K. volume rose 26
percent to $2.55 trillion.  Deutsche Bank, based in  Frankfurt , is Continental Europe’s
biggest bank and this year was named the biggest currency trader
in a Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  