-- Dexia’s $1.2 Billion Loss Uses Up 13% of Latest Taxpayer Funds
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-08-07T06:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/dexia-s-1-2-billion-loss-uses-up-13-of-latest-taxpayer-funds.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the bank being wound down
at the expense of Belgian and French taxpayers, posted a first-half loss of 905 million euros ($1.2 billion), consuming 13
percent of the additional money both governments put up last
year.  The figure includes a 299 million-euro decrease in the
value of collateralized derivative contracts Dexia uses to swap
fixed- into floating-rate interest income, according to a
statement today, as the lender moved to the standard practice of
measuring the value of future cash flows against overnight-indexed swap rates rather than interbank offered rates.  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, consumed 741 million
euros so far of the 5.5 billion euros in additional capital it
got from Belgium and France at the end of last year, which
forced the bank into  nearly complete  government ownership.
Clinging to government backstops and central-bank funding, the
lender plans to run down its assets to about 150 billion euros
by 2020 and gradually return to profit as of 2018, according to
a May 8  presentation  for investors. Loan loss provisions of 84
million euros in the six months through June were less than
Dexia’s own estimate of an average 50 million euros per quarter
in its resolution plan.  “Beyond volatility caused by accounting items or one-offs,
the  recurring result  improved, driven by a reduction of funding
costs over the second quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Karel De Boeck said in the statement.  Unrealized Losses  As the first-half loss was smaller than the decrease in
unrealized losses accounted for directly through equity, Dexia’s
 shareholders’ equity  increased to 3.11 billion euros as of June
30 from 2.85 billion euros at the end of last year.  Dexia aims to raise 5 billion euros to 6 billion euros
selling medium- and long-term government-backed bonds through
its French subsidiary Dexia Credit Local this year to reduce
central-bank funding and diversify its financing sources. It
sold 1.5 billion euros of 3-year notes last month which were
priced to yield 1.016 percent, or 30 basis points more than
Belgian government bonds of similar maturity.  Central-bank funding fell to 40.8 billion euros at the end
of June, a 9.3 billion-euro reduction from six months earlier.
Dexia didn’t have to use emergency liquidity assistance from the
Banque de  France  in the period and collateral requirements
decreased by 6.5 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  