-- E. Nelson Asiel, Brokerage’s Third-Generation Leader, Dies at 96
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-08-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/e-nelson-asiel-brokerage-s-third-generation-leader-dies-at-96.html
E. Nelson Asiel, a third-generation
leader of one of Wall Street’s oldest brokerage firms, Asiel &
Co., has died. He was 96.  He died on Aug. 5 at his home in White Plains, New York,
according to his son, John Asiel.  Asiel, known as Bill, and his firm were broker’s brokers,
handling the deals of other finance companies when they needed
to sell or acquire assets. His 1941 marriage to Betty Lehman, a
great-granddaughter of  Mayer Lehman , the co-founder of  Lehman
Brothers , connected the lineages of two great Wall Street names.  Asiel’s grandfather, Elias, started the firm in 1878 and
was succeeded as managing partner by Asiel’s father, Nelson, who
became a governing member of the New York Stock Exchange.  During World War I, the firm became a top broker of  Liberty
Bonds  sold to fund the U.S. military. When bankrupt railroads
were being reorganized during the Great Depression, Asiel traded
their bonds.  The firm was merged in 2000 with Tradition Government
Securities Inc., a unit of Swiss brokerage Cie. Financiere
Tradition SA, forming today’s New York-based  Tradition Asiel
Securities Inc.   E. Nelson Asiel was born on June 10, 1917, in  New York
City , and grew up there and in Elberon,  New Jersey . His mother
was the former Ethel Rossin.  He received his undergraduate degree from  Yale University ,
in New Haven, Connecticut, in 1939 and his law degree from  Yale
Law School  in 1942.  He worked as a lawyer at  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett  for
almost 10 years before joining the family business. He became
one of the firm’s senior managing members when it became a
limited liability company, his son said.  He remained active through the company’s merger, finally
retiring at age 90.  Survivors include his sons John and Harold and daughter
Terri, two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  