-- E*Trade Drops Most Since April After Finra Probe: New York Mover
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2013-08-07T20:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/e-trade-drops-most-since-april-after-finra-probe-new-york-mover.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC)  shares fell
the most since April after the online brokerage said regulators
are investigating trading practices at two of its units.  E*Trade slid 3.4 percent to $14.62 today. The Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority told E*Trade on July 11 that it’s
examining the order routing practices of E*Trade Securities LLC
and G1 Execution Services LLC, according to the company’s
quarterly report filed yesterday.  The company is trying to sell G1 Execution after disclosing
earlier this year that it found “shortcomings” in how it
measured whether customers were getting the best prices on their
trades. In yesterday’s filing, New York-based E*Trade said it
completed a review last year of order handling practices and
pricing for trades between E*Trade Securities and G1 Execution,
also known as G1X.  Regulators “may initiate investigations into the company’s
historical practices which could subject it to monetary
penalties and cease-and-desist orders, which could also prompt
claims by customers of E*Trade Securities LLC,” the company
said yesterday. “Any of these actions could materially and
adversely affect the company’s broker-dealer businesses.”  E*Trade Chief Financial Officer Matthew Audette told
analysts on a July 24 conference call that E*Trade is looking to
sell G1X and expects to announce a divestiture within six
months. Market-making profits are under pressure in the U.S. as
computerized trading squeezes margins and volume stagnates.  A phone call and e-mail to E*Trade’s media relations
department wasn’t returned. George Smaragdis, a spokesman for
Finra, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  