-- Tecnisa Targeting Sales to Rich Lures Analysts: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-08-07T17:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/tecnisa-targeting-sales-to-rich-lures-analysts-corporate-brazil.html
Tecnisa SA (TCSA3)  is winning over analysts
faster than any other Brazilian homebuilder as sales rebound
after the company focused on higher-income buyers and pulled out
of poorer regions.  The stock’s  consensus rating , based on a scale of one to
five, rose to 3.83 yesterday from 3.36 three months ago for the
biggest jump among the BM&FBovespa Real Estate index’s 20
members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter
sales rose 34 percent to 500.7 million reais ($217.8 million),
topping analysts’ revenue  estimates  for the first time since
2010, the data show.  Tecnisa, the real estate gauge’s best performer this year,
is joining Cyrela Brazil Realty SA and EZ Tec Empreendimentos &
Participacoes SA in focusing on more expensive projects. Some
homebuilders are backpedaling from lower-income homes after
overestimating the profitability of government-subsidized
projects aimed at building 3 million houses for families earning
less than 5,000 reais a month.  “Brazilian homebuilders have matured,” Wesley Bernabe, an
analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  who plans to review his hold
rating on Tecnisa by the end of earnings season on August 14,
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The strategy to
focus on more liquid markets and higher-income consumers, where
demand is more resilient, is the best for homebuilders at this
moment.”  Tecnisa Rally  Sao Paulo-based Tecnisa, the first Brazilian homebuilder to
release full second-quarter earnings, has  gained  16 percent this
year, compared with a 22 percent drop for the  Ibovespa (IBOV)  stock
benchmark. Industry leaders Cyrela and EZ Tec, which posted
preliminary sales gains of at least 66 percent and are set to
release full results next week, posted an 11 percent drop and
4.4 percent gain, respectively.  Homebuilders in  Brazil  are showing signs of improvement as
their biggest counterparts in Mexico restructure operations and
debt after policy makers shifted government incentives to
encourage urban development instead of suburban homes.  “In both places, the excessive pace of growth caused
companies to lose control of their operations,” Andres Calderon, a portfolio manager who helps oversee $6.2 billion in
assets at Hansberger Global Investors, said by phone from Fort
Lauderdale,  Florida . Second-quarter figures released so far show
Brazilian homebuilders are “starting on the right path,” he
said.  Rising Rates  While some Brazilian homebuilders are beginning to show
improvement in sales and profit, faster inflation and rising
borrowing costs may hinder the rebound, said Joel Wells, the
 emerging markets  real estate fund manager at Purchase, New York-based Alpine Woods Capital Investors. His firm manages $5.5
billion in assets.  Annual  inflation  quickened to 6.7 percent in June, the
highest since October 2011 and above the central bank’s target
range. The central bank raised the target lending rate by a
half-percentage point on July 10 to 8.50 percent, the third
straight increase this year. Policy makers are expected to
further boost the rate to 9.25 percent by year-end, according to
the median forecast in a central bank survey published Aug. 5.  “I’m not willing to give the turnaround stories credit
right now,” Wells said by telephone. “There will still be
headwinds to the group as the economy continues to work through
the problems it’s having, and the weaker developers won’t be
able to compete as well.”  Tecnisa’s ‘Mistakes’  Of 12 analysts that rate Tecnisa, seven say buy, three say
hold and two say sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Chief Financial Officer Vasco De Freitas Barcellos Neto said he
expects ratings to rise further.  Tecnisa “has learned from its mistakes,” Barcellos said
in an Aug. 2 interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “It has
everything it needs to satisfy the market and improve the stock
price.”  Meanwhile, Sao Paulo-based  EZ Tec (EZTC3) ’s decision to maintain
its focus in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo gave it an
advantage as competitors expanded to other areas, said CFO
Emilio Fugazza.  “We always believed that a company should be its right
size,” Fugazza said by phone from Sao Paulo. “We stuck to our
plan and that’s what our results show.”  Cyrela’s press office in Sao Paulo, where the company is
based, declined to comment.  “The strategy in Brazil was to grow, and they were growing
in regions, income segments they didn’t know well,” Esteban Polidura, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone from
Mexico City. “Today, operations for most homebuilders are
healthier, but smaller.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  