-- Hedge Funds Gain 0.6% in July as Stocks Rally on Bernanke
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/hedge-funds-gain-0-6-in-july-as-stocks-rally-on-bernanke.html
Hedge funds  returned an average 0.6
percent in July as global stocks rallied following assurances
from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  that the central bank
won’t withdraw its monetary stimulus prematurely.  Macro and multistrategy funds fell in July and long-short
equity managers rose, data complied by Bloomberg show. Funds
managed by Bridgewater Associates LP, Renaissance Technologies
LLC and Paulson & Co. reported gains in July, while Tudor
Investment Corp. posted a decline, according to people briefed
on the returns.  “Hedge fund performance for July was in aggregate positive
but delivered a mixed bag of results at the underlying strategy
level,” Anthony Lawler, portfolio manager at Swiss asset
manager GAM, wrote in a August 2 report. “Equity-based
strategies performed well. July was choppy and challenging for
global macro and CTA managers,” an acronym for trend-following
commodity-trading advisers.  Billionaire  John Paulson  posted gains in all four of his
hedge-fund firm’s main strategies in July as his Recovery fund
recouped losses incurred in 2011, a person familiar with the
matter said.  Hedge funds  overall trailed global stocks, which
rose 4.7 percent last month after Bernanke said that it’s too
early to decide whether to begin scaling back debt purchases in
September, after surprising markets in June by saying that bond
buying could slow if the economy improves.  Macro Declines  Hedge funds’ first monthly gain since April brings yearly
returns to 3.2 percent. The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate
Index is down 5.6 percent from its July 2007 peak. The index is
weighted by market capitalization and tracks 2,497 funds, 1,286
of which have reported returns for July. The index, with annual
data dating to 2006, has fallen short of the MSCI benchmark each
year except for 2008 and 2011.  Macro funds fell 0.1 percent in July and 2.3 percent this
year. Multistrategy managers fell 1.3 percent last month and
advanced 0.4 percent in 2013. Long-short equity managers rose
1.3 percent in July and 5.2 percent this year.  Tudor, the $13.2 billion global macro hedge fund founded by
 Paul Tudor Jones , lost 2.8 percent in July in its Tudor BVI
Global, paring yearly gains to 8.9 percent, according to another
person, who, like the others, asked not to be identified because
the information is private.  Bridgewater Associates’ Pure Alpha II fund rose 3 percent
last month, bringing gains for the year to 1.9 percent, said a 
person briefed on the returns. The fund rose about 1 percent so
far this month, the person said.  Ray Dalio ’s Westport, 
Connecticut-based firm manages about $145 billion.  Renaissance Technologies, the $22 billion investment firm
founded by  Jim Simons  based in New York, rose 1.8 percent in
July in its Renaissance Institutional Equities Fund, bringing
returns this year to 11 percent, according to the person.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  