-- Legg Mason to Close Emerging-Markets Affiliate Esemplia
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-08-07T16:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/legg-mason-to-close-emerging-markets-affiliate-esemplia.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
seeking to reverse more than five years of net redemptions, will
close an emerging-markets equity affiliate and return money to
investors after weak performance.  Esemplia Emerging Markets, which had about $500 million in
assets and employed 25 people, will start winding down given its
small size, according to an e-mailed statement from  Mary
Athridge , a spokeswoman for Baltimore-based Legg Mason. Legg
Mason remains committed to building its international equity
capabilities internally or through an acquisition, Athridge
said.  Legg Mason Chief Executive Officer Joseph A. Sullivan has
vowed to stem withdrawals by focusing on Legg Mason’s product
lineup and improving performance. He said in an interview in
June he wants to add a unit for non-U.S. equities that ideally
offers both non-U.S. developed market and emerging-market stock
funds. Sullivan said during a conference call last month that
Legg Mason intends to review smaller units and that it agreed
sell Private Capital Management, which manages equity portfolios
for high-net-worth investors and institutions, to its management
team.  One of the funds run by Esemplia, the $101 million Legg
Mason  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, declined 4.1 percent over
the past five years, trailing 86 percent of rivals and fell 6.3
percent over the past three years, behind 89 percent of peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $15 million  Legg
Mason Esemplia Emerging Markets Long-Short Fund (SMKAX)  lost 2.9 percent
over the past five years, falling behind 90 percent of similarly
managed funds, and declined 5.3 percent over the past three
years, trailing 93 percent of peers.  Legg Mason has eight main investment affiliates, including
bond unit Western Asset Management Co. and equity manager
ClearBridge Investments, which operate independently with
separate revenue-sharing agreements. The firm managed $644.5
billion in assets as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  