-- Egypt Presidency Says Talks Failed, Warns Brotherhood
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-07T15:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/egypt-presidency-says-talks-failed-warns-brotherhood.html
Egypt’s prime minister warned backers
of ousted President Mohamed Mursi to end their sit-ins after the
presidency said international efforts to mediate the standoff
failed, signaling a crackdown may be imminent.  The government blamed the Muslim Brotherhood that fielded
Mursi for office for the failed diplomatic mission and said it
would hold it responsible for the consequences that may result
from “breaking the law and endangering social peace.” The
Brotherhood said its protests would continue.  Envoys from the U.S.,  Europe  and Gulf Arab states had flown
to Cairo to try to help ease the crisis triggered by the
military’s July 3 removal of Mursi following mass protests
against him.  “These efforts have not realized the hoped-for success,”
the presidency said in a statement received today. Hours later,
Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi told reporters the decision to
break up their sit-ins in two main Cairo squares was “final.”  In televised remarks, El Beblawi warned demonstrators
against thinking that the Cabinet’s observance of the
“sanctity” of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which ends
this week, meant it had dropped its earlier demand to clear the
sites.  Stands Firm  The Brotherhood said it would not back down.  “What else are they going to do?” asked Hamza Zawba,
spokesman for the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party.
“They’ve already committed massacres against our people, jailed
our leaders and members. They have nothing left to do.”  At least 130 Mursi loyalists were killed by security forces
in Cairo alone during clashes last month. The potential for
violence grew after the government warned it will take action
against the sit-ins in two main Cairo squares.  Clashes late yesterday and early today in Cairo, Alexandria
and Beheira provinces left at least one person dead and 62
injured, the state-run Middle East News agency reported.  The presidency’s statement “is a very final warning from
the government that they’ve run out of diplomatic as well as
political options, and what’s left is violence,” Ziad Akl,
senior analyst at Al Ahram Center for Political and Strategic
Studies, said by phone. “It was very much expected that this
round of talks wouldn’t work, because there’s a deadlock here.”  ‘Foreign Pressure’  Yesterday, Egyptian authorities denounced “foreign
pressure” and said “ Egypt  is capable of protecting the
revolution and the state,” according to Ahmed El-Meslemani,
media adviser to interim President Adly Mansour.  Government officials have repeatedly said they will push
ahead with a political road map that includes parliamentary and
presidential elections next year. The Brotherhood says the
blueprint follows from a “coup” and refuses to recognize it.  “The phase of diplomatic efforts has ended today,” the
presidential statement said. The state “allowed” such
endeavors to try “to exhaust the necessary efforts to urge the
Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters to renounce violence,”
the statement said. Egypt “will always welcome the efforts of
these parties,” it added.  Mursi’s supporters will “stand firm,” said Zawba, the
Freedom and Justice Party spokesman.  “We’re sticking to our position: no talks before the
legitimate president, constitution and Shura council are
reinstated,” he said.  Decision Final  El Beblawi, the prime minister, accused the protesters of
inciting violence and urged them to “swiftly” vacate the sit-ins where thousands have gathered. The government’s decision to
end the sit-ins was final, he said.  “The Cabinet warns against the continuation of the
dangerous escalation and the incitement of those misled by
leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood, which threatens the safety of
the homeland,” he told reporters in Cairo in televised
comments.  The government’s impatience with the sit-ins have sparked
fears that violence would flare if security forces were to move
in to break up the protests.  Mursi’s removal by the military compounded frictions that
have risen up since  Hosni Mubarak  was deposed in 2011.
Immediately after Mursi’s ouster, authorities began rounding up
Islamist political leaders and freezing their assets. His
backers say the moves undermine reconciliation efforts. The
government denies its measures are politically motivated.  The prospect of further unrest in the Arab world’s most-populous nation has spurred international concerns, including in
the U.S., which has had close ties to Egypt’s military for three
decades.  The presidency’s statement comes a day after visiting  U.S.
Senator  John McCain  said he called for the release “of
political prisoners” and a national dialogue “inclusive of all
parties that renounce the use of violence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  