-- Egypt’s President Warns Opponents Mediation Has Ended
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-07T22:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/egypt-s-president-warns-opponents-mediation-has-ended.html
Egypt ’s interim president Adly Mansour vowed to press ahead with the government’s plans,
sending a warning to backers of ousted President Mohamed Mursi
that “those who stay behind will bear the consequences.”  Signaling that a crackdown on two main opposition sit-ins
in Cairo squares may be imminent, Mansour said in a televised
speech last night that “the train of the future has taken off”
and “all of us have to catch it.”  Mansour spoke hours after his office said in a statement
that international mediators had failed in efforts to end the
military imposed government’s standoff with Mursi’s supporters
in the Muslim Brotherhood. Top diplomats for the U.S. and
European Union rejected that assessment and went beyond past
statements in singling out the government for criticism.  “We remain concerned and troubled that government and
opposition leaders have not yet found a way to break a dangerous
stalemate and agree to implement tangible confidence building
measures,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and  Catherine Ashton , the EU’s foreign policy chief, said in a joint
statement. “The Egyptian government bears a special
responsibility to begin this process to ensure the safety and
welfare of its citizens.”  Describing what they called some of their “practical
ideas,” Kerry and Ashton said the proposals included public
statements condemning violence, “steps to scale down and ease
tensions surrounding the ongoing demonstrations” and
“immediately beginning the process of releasing detained
political figures.”  Envoys’ Efforts  Envoys from the U.S.,  Europe  and Gulf Arab states had flown
to Cairo to try to help ease the crisis triggered by the
military’s July 3 removal of Mursi following mass protests
against him. The State Department confirmed yesterday that its
emissary, Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns , had returned
to  Washington .  The statement from the Egyptian presidency said the
diplomatic efforts “have not achieved the hoped-for results”
and that the government would hold the Muslim Brotherhood
responsible for “breaking the law and endangering social
peace.”  The statement “is a very final warning from the government
that they’ve run out of diplomatic as well as political options,
and what’s left is violence,” Ziad Akl, senior analyst at Al
Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies in Cairo, said
by phone. “It was very much expected that this round of talks
wouldn’t work because there’s a deadlock here.”  ‘Committed Massacres’  Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi told reporters the decision
to break up the Muslim Brotherhood’s sit-ins was “final,”
while the Brotherhood said it had no intention of calling off
its protests.  “What else are they going to do?” Hamza Zawba, spokesman
for the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party, said of the
government. “They’ve already committed massacres against our
people, jailed our leaders and members. They have nothing left
to do.”  He said Mursi’s supporters are “sticking to our position:
no talks before the legitimate president, constitution and Shura
council are reinstated.”  At least 130 Mursi loyalists were killed by security forces
in Cairo during clashes last month. The potential for violence
grew after the government warned it will take action against the
sit-ins in two main Cairo squares.  Clashes early yesterday and late in the previous day in
Cairo, Alexandria and Beheira provinces left at least one person
dead and 62 injured, the state-run Middle East News agency
reported.  Government’s Road Map  Government officials have repeatedly said they will push
ahead with a political road map that includes parliamentary and
presidential elections next year. The Brotherhood says the
blueprint follows from a “coup” and refuses to recognize it.  Mursi’s removal by the military compounded frictions that
have risen since  Hosni Mubarak  was deposed in 2011. Immediately
after Mursi’s ouster, authorities began rounding up Islamist
political leaders and freezing their assets. His backers say the
moves undermine reconciliation efforts. The government denies
its measures are politically motivated.  The prospect of further unrest in the Arab world’s most-populous nation has spurred international concerns, including in
the U.S., which has had close ties to Egypt’s military for three
decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  