-- Melco Crown Profit Doubles on Mass-Market Macau Gambling Revenue
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-08-07T12:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/melco-crown-profit-doubles-on-mass-market-macau-gambling-revenue.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd., (MPEL)  the
Macau venture between Australian billionaire James Packer and a
son of casino mogul Stanley Ho, said second-quarter profit more
than doubled on higher mass-market gambling revenues.  Net income climbed to $181 million from $82.3 million a
year ago for the three months ended June, the casino operator
said in a filing today. Adjusted Ebitda, or earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, rose to $330.1
million from $203.8 million. That compares with the median
estimate of $310 million from seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Melco Crown is building its new Studio City casino resort
on Macau’s Cotai strip, the city’s equivalent of the Las Vegas
strip. It is taking on larger rivals including  Sands China Ltd. (1928) 
and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  which have been adding new
attractions on Cotai. Melco’s new resort will cost more than $2
billion to build and is scheduled to open by mid-2015.  City of Dreams, the company’s flagship casino in the
world’s largest gambling hub, attracts mainland visitors with a
popular show called the House of Dancing Water featuring
motorcycle stunts.  The Hong Kong-based company is expanding both at home and
overseas. In the Philippines, it is partnering with  Belle Corp. (BEL) 
to develop and operate a casino resort in  Manila  which is
expected to cost $1 billion. Belle holds one of four casino
licenses in the Southeast Asian nation.  Russian Casinos  Lawrence Ho, a son of casino mogul Stanley Ho, is investing
in two Russian casino resorts through his other two companies,
 Melco International Development Ltd. (200)  and  Summit Ascent Holdings
Ltd. (102)   Casino revenue in Macau, the only place in China where
casino gambling is legal, is expected to rise to $44.5 billion
this year from $38 billion last year, according to Deutsche Bank
AG estimates.  Shares of Melco Crown dropped 0.2 percent to close at HK$67
before the earnings announcement. The stock has risen 56 percent
this year, beating the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 4.7
percent loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  