-- Telstra Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Mobiles Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-08T07:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/telstra-earnings-beat-estimates-on-mobile-subscriber-growth.html
Telstra Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s largest
phone company, posted profit that beat analyst estimates as a
surge in new users for its fourth-generation network boosted its
share of the mobile phone market to almost 50 percent.  Net income  rose 12 percent to A$3.8 billion ($3.4 billion)
in the 12 months ended June 30 from A$3.41 billion a year
earlier, the Melbourne-based company said in a statement today.
That compares with the A$3.7 billion average of three  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Telstra spent A$1.3 billion upgrading its network, A$2.9
billion on mobile devices including Apple Inc. iPhones and
bought A$1.2 billion worth of new spectrum to tap surging demand
for wireless services. Chief Executive Officer  David Thodey 
switched on the carrier’s high-speed 4G service in 2011, beating
out rivals  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  and Vodafone
Hutchison Australia Pty.  “They’re getting into people’s hands, on their iPhones, on
their iPads, on whatever,” said Evan Lucas, a market strategist
at IG Markets in  Melbourne . “They’re probably making the
winning bet about where consumption of the Internet will go.”  Telstra  shares  rose 2.4 percent to A$5.13 at the close in
Sydney, the highest since May 22 and bringing this year’s gain
to 17 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index climbed 1.1
percent, marking a 9 percent increase in 2013.  New Users  “Our strategy is delivering,” Chief Financial Officer
Andy Penn said in a phone interview today. The company is
“investing in our customers to grow our customer base and
improve  customer service ,” he said.  Telstra’s domestic mobile customers rose by 1.3 million
during the year, giving the company 15.1 million subscribers,
equivalent to about 65 percent of  Australia’s population .  Telstra’s customer base compares with 9.6 million at
SingTel’s Optus at the end of March while Vodafone had 6 million
at the end of June, according to company presentations.  The former state-owned company has dominated mobiles growth
in Australia, adding 2.9 million customers in the past two
calendar years.  SingTel’s Optus unit added 601,000 over the two-year period
while Vodafone Hutchison lost 1 million, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Telstra’s bill for buying mobile phones, tablet computers
and other goods sold through its stores rose 14 percent to A$2.9
billion as demand drove up the average cost of handsets, the
company said today. It sold 2.8 million handsets, tablets,
dongles and wireless devices designed to operate on the 4G
network, Thodey told an investor call today.  Mobiles Growth  “Telstra has the first-mover advantage,” Vikas Gour, a
Sydney-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note to
clients Aug. 6. “The superior network is likely to help the
company increase its market share in a slowing mobile market.”  The company will pay a final dividend of 14 cents, matching
its own forecast, a payout it hasn’t changed since 2005.
Telstra’s dividend yield, a measure of the payout in relation to
its share price, hit an eight-year low of 5.5 percent in May.  Full-year revenue rose 1.9 percent to A$26 billion, while
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
increased 3.9 percent to A$10.6 billion, Telstra said. The
company had forecast low single-digit increases in both
measures.  In the six months ended June, revenue rose 2.1 percent to
A$13 billion and Ebitda grew 2.9 percent to A$5.6 billion.  New Customers  Mobile revenue grew 7.4 percent during the second half and
6 percent over the year. That compares to the average of 8.9
percent a year over the previous five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Total revenue in Australia’s mobile phone industry shrank
1.5 percent during the year through June 2012 and will stagnate
after accounting for inflation in the most recent 12-month
period, Deloitte Access Economics said in a February report.
There may be a “modest recovery” in 2014 financial year.  Telstra has boosted investment in mobiles as fewer
customers use traditional services and it cedes control of its
copper-wire network to NBN Co., a government-backed company
building a national fiber platform.  Second-half revenue from fixed lines fell 1.7 percent and
data sales declined 4.3 percent while network services increased
24 percent. Revenue from Telstra’s international unit, which
includes  Hong Kong ’s CSL New World mobile network, rose 22
percent to A$895 million during the period amid a 425,000
increase in customers over the past 12 months.  Government Project  Telstra has cut jobs in its Sensis phone directories
division and agreed to pay A$1.3 billion in a government auction
of mobile spectrum during the period. The company’s wage bill
fell 0.1 percent to A$3.5 billion, the company said. Financing
costs rose 2.4 percent to A$909 million during the year, it
said.  It’s giving up control of its copper-wire network to NBN
Co., a government-backed company that is building a national
fiber network, in exchange of about A$11 billion of
compensation.  That’s helping Telstra fund mobile upgrades to meet its
forecast that customers will use as much data this year as in
the previous  two years put together .  Australia ’s Labor government and opposition coalition
differ on the design and cost of the new NBN network, which will
turn Telstra from Australia’s biggest seller of wholesale phone
services to its biggest consumer by the time it’s  completed in
2021 .  The opposition wants to spend A$30 billion funding a
network reaching as far as neighborhood nodes. The government’s
plan would connect homes directly to the fiber network for A$44
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  