-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-08-07T21:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/emerging-stocks-decline-to-4-week-low-on-technology-auto-losses.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated to
the lowest level in about a month after results from companies
including  Tata Motors (TTMT)  Ltd. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. missed
analysts’ estimates.  Brazil ’s real sank to a four-year low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.9 percent to 937.86,
the lowest since July 10. Tata Motors slumped 3 percent in
Mumbai as sales growth at its Jaguar Land Rover Ltd. unit
slowed, while South Africa’s AngloGold Ashanti tumbled to a 12-year low after reporting a loss and suspending its dividend.
Most Brazilian stocks declined as Banco Santander SA lowered its
forecast for the Ibovespa and the real slid 0.7 percent.  About  60 percent  of the companies in the benchmark of
developing nations that reported quarterly results missed
earnings projections, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks also joined a global slump on growing concern the Federal
Reserve may reduce its bond purchases. The measure of  emerging
markets  extended this year’s  decline  to 11 percent, compared
with a 14 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.  “Negative earnings surprises are a sign of more negative
surprises to come,” Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based chief
international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, said by phone.
His firm oversees about $1.3 trillion. “We’ve returned to the
same mindset that the Fed is going to remove stimulus, and
that’s going to change the risk-reward to being invested in
emerging markets in an unfavorable way.”  Biggest Losses  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated
as technology shares had the biggest losses. The  iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded fund lost 1.1 percent to
$38.54. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, jumped 5.6 percent to 23.35.  Brazil’s Ibovespa gained less than 0.1 percent as 43 stocks
dropped and 27 rose. Santander cited slower economic growth and
a weaker currency for the change in outlook. Smiles SA, the
frequent-flier unit of  Brazilian (IBOV)  airline Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA, tumbled to a three-week low after
Santander removed the stock from its recommended list.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  capped the longest slide in two months as
OAO Mechel,  Russia ’s biggest producer of coal for steelmakers,
sank. Benchmark gauges in the Czech Republic, Poland and  Hungary 
gained. Komercni Banka AS, the Czech unit of Societe Generale
SA, surged to an almost five-month high as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
said profit will jump to a record next year.  Tata Motors  Indian equities fell for the second day amid concern a weak
rupee will undermine the government’s efforts to revive economic
growth. Tata Motors led a gauge of automobile companies to its
lowest level in four months.  AngloGold Ashanti (ANG)  dropped 3.7 percent as the third-largest
producer of the metal suspended its  dividend  after bullion
suffered a record three-month drop.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent before a
trade report tomorrow. Poly Real Estate Group Co. paced gains
for developers on speculation regulators will ease limits on
fundraising after China Merchants Property Development Co.
announced plans to sell shares.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s biggest carmaker, and
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  fell 3.2 percent in Seoul trading
after labor union negotiators walked out of wage talks and
threatened to ask workers to vote on a strike.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.04 percentage point to 328 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  