-- England’s Pietersen Denies Using Silicone on Bat During Ashes
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-07T15:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/england-s-pietersen-denies-using-silicone-on-bat-during-ashes.html
England  cricketer  Kevin Pietersen 
denied a television report that he may be among players using
silicone tape on their bats to cheat the review system being
used in the Ashes series against  Australia .  Australia’s  Channel Nine  reported some players are using
the tape to prevent the Hot Spot infrared system from
determining if the ball hit their bats.  The broadcaster singled out Pietersen’s dismissal in the
second innings of the third Test at Old Trafford this week. The
batsman was ruled out caught behind after a noise was heard
indicating a nick, but no mark was shown on his bat on Hot Spot.  Pietersen today called the report “horrible journalism”
and “hurtful lies.”  “I am never afraid of getting out!” he said on his
Twitter account. “If I nick it, I’ll walk. To suggest I cheat
by covering my bat with silicon infuriates me.”  Channel Nine  said that members of the Australian team it
didn’t identify may also be using silicone tape.  “I don’t think any of us have done anything with silicone
on our bats,” Australia all-rounder  Steven Smith  was quoted as
saying by the Sydney Morning Herald. “We put fiberglass tape on
the front, and that’s purely for protection of the bat and to
make it last longer.”  Channel Nine also reported Geoff Allardice, the
 International Cricket Council ’s general manager of cricket
operations, was flying to Durham, England, where the fourth Test
begins in two days, to investigate the matter.  Cricket’s governing body said today in a  statement  that
Allardice is going to Durham to meet with the teams about the
umpire decision review system being used and that no probe was
being planned.  The Laws of Cricket allow players to use tape to protect or
repair their bats.  England won the opening two games of the five-match series
and retained the Ashes two days ago after a draw in the rain-shortened third Test.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 