-- Lenovo Plans to Open About 7 More Flagship Stores Across China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T07:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/lenovo-plans-to-open-about-7-more-flagship-stores-across-china.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  plans to open about
seven more flagship stores in  China  by 2016 as the world’s
largest maker of personal computers accelerates its push into
smartphones and tablets.  The retail outlets would be company-owned and are planned
for Beijing,  Shanghai , Shenzhen and Guangzhou, Chen Xudong,
president of China operations for the ThinkPad maker, said in an
interview yesterday. The first Lenovo location opened in Beijing
last year, and the second opens Aug. 10.  Lenovo in the past relied on a network of 40,000 partner-owned shops to sell its computers in China. Its entry into
smartphone sales in 2010 is pushing the PC maker to adopt a
retail strategy similar to that of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which opened its
first China outlet in Beijing’s Sanlitun district in 2008.  “As we expand our business into smartphones, tablets and
smart TV, that requires a lot of storefront to show the
products,” Chen said at the company’s headquarters in Beijing.
“It’s not just a point of sales, it’s a place for people to
experience the products.”  Lenovo is developing mobile devices and TVs as it seeks to
lure customers from Apple and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and
weather a global slump in demand for PCs. The company, which
reported a 90 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit in May,
ranked No. 4 in global smartphone shipments in the second
quarter, according to IDC.  Upscale Malls  In addition to the company-owned outlets, the number of
partner-owned shops exclusively selling all Lenovo products will
expand to 300 in the next three years from about 100 now, Chen
said.  To better match the buying patterns for handsets, those
stores are being located in upscale shopping malls instead of
the electronics markets where PCs traditionally are sold, Chen
said.  He declined to comment on how much the company is investing
in the retail expansion.  Apple has 11 stores in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Chengdu
and  Hong Kong . Chief Executive officer  Tim Cook  in April said
the company would double the number of outlets in the world’s
largest market for computers and smartphones.  Lenovo doesn’t have plans for company-owned flagship stores
in markets outside China, Chen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  