-- Equity Residential Said to Prepare Sale of DeWAG Unit
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-08-07T18:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/equity-residential-said-to-prepare-sale-of-1-7-billion-dewag.html
Equity Residential and  AvalonBay
Communities Inc. (AVB) , the largest publicly traded U.S. apartment
owners, are preparing the sale of a German unit that’s valued at
about 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion), four people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  has been hired to manage the sale of DeWAG
Management GmbH, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan is private. DeWAG is most likely to
be sold to an individual buyer, though an initial public
offering is also being considered, one of the people said.  Equity Residential, founded by billionaire investor Sam Zell, and AvalonBay acquired the Stuttgart, Germany-based
landlord as part of their purchase earlier this year of
Archstone Inc. from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. DeWAG owns
14,500 residential properties in west German cities including
Cologne, Munich and  Frankfurt , according to its  website .  Marty McKenna, a spokesman in  Chicago  for  Equity
Residential (EQR) , didn’t return a call or e-mail seeking comment on
the company’s plans. DeWAG, Morgan Stanley and Jason Reilley, a
spokesman for Arlington, Virginia-based AvalonBay, declined to
comment.  Property Sales  Equity Residential and AvalonBay said in November that they
would sell some assets after buying Archstone in a deal valued
at $6.5 billion. In January, Equity Residential agreed to sell
27 U.S. properties to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Greystar Real
Estate Partners LLC for as much as $1.5 billion.  In the U.S., Equity Residential this year accelerated sales
of buildings outside its core coastal markets, before an
expected increase in interest rates, Chief Executive Officer
David Neithercut said on a July 31 conference call. The company
said it will complete $4.1 billion of dispositions planned for
this year by September.  “An important driver of the Archstone transaction was the
ability it provided us to accelerate the sale of so many of
these non-core assets, and we’re very pleased that the market
has been extremely receptive to our offerings,” Neithercut said
on the call.  U.S. firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Goldman Sachs
are selling German residential properties to take advantage of
high demand as investors seek a safe place to put their money
amid the  European debt crisis . Archstone bought DeWAG for about
$649 million in 2006. At that time, the German company owned
6,100 apartments, according to a statement.  While DeWAG mostly manages properties, it also develops
them. The company is held in a fund of which Archstone owns 16
percent and investors such as insurers and pension funds own the
rest, according to DeWAG’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  