-- Meridian Agrees N.Z. Smelter Power Deal, Clearing Way for IPO
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-08-07T21:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/meridian-agrees-n-z-smelter-power-deal-clearing-way-for-ipo.html
Meridian Energy Ltd.,  New Zealand ’s
largest power company, agreed a new electricity supply deal with
the nation’s only aluminum smelter, removing a potential
obstacle to its planned initial public offering.  The agreement with New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd.,
which is owned by Rio Tinto Group and  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , allows for
a price reduction effective from July 1, 2013, and the owners’
commitment to the smelter until January 2017, state-owned
Meridian said in a statement in Wellington today. The government
contributed NZ$30 million ($24 million) to secure the medium-term future of the plant, it said.  The government is planning to sell as much as 49 percent of
Meridian in an IPO later this year that Prime Minister John Key
expects will raise about NZ$3 billion. The yearlong talks about
the future electricity supply agreements with the smelter, and
the risk that the plant may close, have made investors wary of
the performance of the company.  “We have reached an agreement that is commercially
acceptable to both parties and provides a greater level of
certainty for Meridian,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Binns
said in the statement. “Meridian trusts that the new pricing
framework and associated arrangements assist NZAS in
establishing a competitive cost position for the future.”  Price Increases  Meridian didn’t disclose the new electricity price it has
negotiated with the smelter owners. The agreement is inflation
indexed, and allows for price increases should the New Zealand
dollar value of aluminum rise above agreed levels, it said.  The new contract extends to 2030, matching the one it
replaced. The smelter company can terminate it after January
2017 provided it gives at least 15 months notice. The company
can also reduce the volume of power it takes to 400 megawatts
from 572 megawatts from 2015.  The government’s payment was a one-off incentive to help
secure agreement on the revised contact “because of the
importance of the smelter to the stability of the New Zealand
electricity market,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in an
e-mailed statement. “It provides medium-term certainty for
Southland and New Zealand.”  The smelter is near Invercargill at the sourthern tip of
New Zealand’s  South Island .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  