-- Terror Threats Enough to Merit Warning, Obama Tells Leno
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-08-07T17:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/terror-threats-enough-to-merit-warning-obama-tells-leno.html
President  Barack Obama  said that the
latest terrorism threats are “significant enough” to justify
last week’s worldwide travel alert and the temporary closing of
almost two-dozen U.S. diplomatic posts.  “Whenever we see a threat stream that we think is specific
enough that we can take some specific precautions within a
certain time frame, then we do so,” Obama said in an interview
on NBC’s “Tonight Show With Jay Leno” that aired last night.
“This radical violent extremism is still out there and we have
to stay on top of it.”  The president’s remarks came days after his administration
decided to temporarily close 22 U.S. embassies and consulates
from West Africa to  South Asia , a move that underscored the
potential threat posed by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as
the Yemen-based branch of the terror group is known.  During the interview, Obama also faulted Russian President
 Vladimir Putin ’s administration for refusing to hand over former
U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden, who exposed American
surveillance programs that the White House and U.S. intelligence
agencies have called crucial to combating terrorism.  The Obama administration had pressed for Snowden’s return
to face prosecution on charges including espionage and theft.
 Russia  last week granted Snowden temporary asylum.  “I was disappointed because, you know, even though we
don’t have an extradition treaty with them, traditionally we
have tried to respect if there’s a lawbreaker or an alleged
lawbreaker in their country, we evaluate it and we try to work
with them,” Obama said. “They didn’t do that with us.”  G-20 Summit  The administration announced today that Obama is canceling
a planned summit meeting with Putin in Moscow before leaders of
the Group of 20 nations gather in  St. Petersburg . The president
will stop in Sweden Sept. 4 and 5 before going to the G-20.  A White House statement cited continuing differences with
the Russian government over missile defense, trade and human
rights in addition to the standoff over Snowden.  Obama last night said Russia has been cooperative on some
issues, such as supplying American troops in  Afghanistan  and in
the U.S. inquiry into the April 15 bombing of the Boston
Marathon.  Cold War  “There’s still a lot of business we can do with them, but
there have been times where they slip back into  Cold War 
thinking and a Cold War mentality,” he said.  In bantering with Leno, Obama suggested that his Russian
counterpart once led that country’s Soviet-era intelligence
service, the KGB. “Well, he headed up the KGB,” Obama said.
Putin, 60, served in the KGB as a colonel.  Members of Congress from both parties have been urging
Obama to take a harder line with Putin.  Senator Lindsey Graham ,
a South Carolina Republican, said Aug. 1 that the move was
disrespectful of the U.S. president and a sign that “our
foreign policy is not working.”  Obama said Snowden’s revelations about classified National
Security Agency programs that collect telephone and Internet
data have “raised a lot of questions.” The president said that
information gathered by the agency is useful and that oversight
by Congress and a federal court act as safeguards to make sure
there’s no spying on American citizens.  Snowden gained access to the information that he disclosed
while working at the NSA for government contractor  Booz Allen
Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  His leaks led U.S. lawmakers, including
Democratic Senator  Bill Nelson  of  Florida , to call for an
inquiry into private contractors’ security-clearance practices.  Contractor Reliance  Asked last night by Leno about the U.S. reliance on
contractors, Obama said that he has asked his national security
team to examine whether, “when it comes to intelligence, we
should be farming that much stuff out.”  While defending the State Department travel warning and
embassy closings, Obama said that as president he tries not to
overreact. “The odds of people dying in a terrorist attack are
still a lot lower than in a car accident,” he said.  Last night’s appearance marks the president’s sixth on
Leno’s show. Such stops are one way for the White House to reach
Americans who don’t consume news from traditional platforms.  “The viewers of late-night shows are not necessarily the
readers of newspapers or wire services, or necessarily viewers
of cable or broadcast news shows,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  told reporters with Obama on Air Force One yesterday.  Obama flew to  Los Angeles  yesterday after giving a speech
in Phoenix advocating a larger role for nongovernment capital in
mortgage financing. Today, he plans to field questions during an
online session on  Zillow Inc. (Z) ’s real-estate information website.
Later, Obama will visit the U.S. Marine Corps base at Camp
Pendleton, about 80 miles (129 kilometers) south of Los Angeles,
before returning to  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  