-- Tesla Seen Posting Quarterly Loss After First Profit
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-07T14:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/tesla-seen-posting-quarterly-loss-after-first-profit.html
Electric-car maker  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) 
may have slipped back into the red last quarter, reversing its
first-ever profit in the prior period, after a lease-style
financing program cut into revenue.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk , may
report a loss of 20 cents a share excluding some items, the
average of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Palo Alto ,
California-based Tesla is projected to report $387.9 million in
revenue, the average of 10 estimates, after generating $561.8
million in sales in the first quarter.  Tesla has said sales of U.S. and California green-car
credits to other automakers, which helped first-quarter profit,
would decline. Leasing and expansion into  Europe  also damped
second-quarter results. Tesla shares soared after it posted
first-quarter net income of $11.2 million, which was also aided
by a one-time benefit from accelerating a U.S. loan repayment.  “These kinds of issues are more signs of Tesla becoming a
real car company, not an experiment,” said Karl Brauer, an
analyst for Kelley  Blue Book , an industry pricing and data
provider in  Irvine , California.  Tesla began in April a lease-style finance offer that may
have limited Model S revenue recorded for the quarter, said
Elaine Kwei, an analyst for Jefferies Group, who who rates the
shares a buy. Initial shipments to Europe, for final assembly in
the Netherlands, won’t be recorded as revenue until the year’s
second half, she said.  Credit Sales  Decade-old Tesla is an auto-industry phenomenon this year.
Its shares have surged more than fourfold, fueled by the first-quarter profit, a rave Model S review by Consumer Reports
magazine and the rushed repayment of the Energy Department loan
that got the company’s factory into operation.  Tesla had $85 million of revenue from selling both
 California  zero-emission vehicle credits and U.S. corporate
average fuel economy-related credits for the three months that
ended March 31, according to a May regulatory filing. Tesla’s
California credit sales to other automakers will drop in each
successive quarter this year, Musk said in May.  California and nine states that follow its Zero-Emission
Vehicle program require carmakers to generate compliance credits
by selling models that emit little or no tailpipe exhaust,
including plug-in hybrids, battery-only cars and hydrogen
vehicles. Large manufacturers need the most credits to comply
and Tesla, with annual volume too small to be covered by the
rules, generates surplus credits.  Production Forecast  Perhaps most significant will be how many units of Model S
the company forecasts to deliver this year, said Ben Kallo, a
San Francisco-based analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. who rates
Tesla shares outperform.  “More than the bottom line, I think people are going to be
focused on deliveries and margin improvement,” Kallo said. He
estimates the company may deliver as many as 22,000 cars this
year. Kwei expects at least 21,500 deliveries of the Model S,
priced from $69,900 before a $7,500 U.S. tax credit.  Tesla fell 5.7 percent to $134.06 at 10:28 a.m.  New York 
time. The shares rose 320 percent this year through Aug. 6.  Musk, who is also Tesla’s  biggest shareholder , declined to
discuss any change in the annual sales target in a July 10
interview at the carmaker’s Fremont, California, plant.  Production of Model S began in June 2012, and the company
missed an initial 5,000-car sales goal last year. In the first
quarter, Tesla struggled to reach a production pace of 400 cars
a week.  ‘Cool Car’  That output level has since been surpassed, and “not
trivially,” Musk said last month. “At this point, making 400
cars a week actually feels like a walk in the park, whereas it
was a nightmare in Q4.”  A development this year that wasn’t foreseen for Tesla was
the degree to which Model S would become a particularly trendy
car in California and other markets, said Brauer.  “Right now the Tesla Model S is the new Prius -- the cool
car to have for rich people for what it represents, the
statement it makes,” he said. “Back in 2004, Prius became the
trendy green car for celebrities. Now it’s Model S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  