-- Ethanol Credits’ Drop Scant Relief for Refiners: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-07T15:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/ethanol-credits-drop-scant-relief-for-refiners-energy-markets.html
Even after yesterday’s 14 percent
decline, the price U.S. refiners are paying to comply with a
2007 law that requires companies to blend ethanol with gasoline
is at least 10 times more than at the start of the year.  Renewable Identification Numbers, or RINs, tradable credits
tied to each gallon of ethanol to show compliance with the law,
tumbled to 89 cents yesterday after President  Barack Obama ’s
administration responded to criticism by allowing four extra
months to reach this year’s mandate and signaled an adjustment
may come next year. RINs traded at $1.43 on July 17, compared
with 7 cents at the start of the year.  The price increase is refocusing attention on the cost to
refiners from  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  to  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  in adhering
to a law enacted under President  George W. Bush  before America’s
energy-production boom. While gasoline consumption has fallen to
the lowest level since  2001 , the mandate calls for refiners to
blend increasing amounts of ethanol this year and next.
Congressional hearings on revising the law have failed to bring
any relief.  “It’s an unnecessary burden to the marketplace,” Peyton Feltus, president of Randolph Risk Management in  Dallas , said
yesterday by phone. “You can make the case that it was needed
when it was mandated back in ’07, but we’ve got plenty of fuel
now. That’s not a problem.”  Corn-based ethanol RINs  fell as much as 18 cents to 85
cents before yesterday’s announcement on speculation that the
EPA would lower the targets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
They dropped 19 cents, or 21 percent, to 70 cents at 11:16 a.m.
in  New York . Advanced RINs, which cover biodiesel and Brazilian
sugarcane-based ethanol, fell 12 percent to 85 cents.  EPA Action  The Environmental Protection Agency  announced  yesterday
that U.S. refiners should use 13.8 billion gallons of ethanol
this year, a 4.5 percent increase from 2012 levels, under the
2007 Renewable Fuels Standard. The agency extended the deadline
to show 2013 compliance to June 30, 2014, from Feb. 28, 2014,
and said that it expects to adjust volume requirements for 2014.
The mandate will increase to 14.4 billion gallons next year
unless the EPA makes an adjustment.  Most gasoline in the U.S. is sold in a formula of 10
percent ethanol to the rest of the motor fuel, a mix known as
E-10, and petroleum interests argue that the law would force
them to exceed that threshold, a phenomena known as the blend
wall.  While EPA has approved blends of as much as 15 percent
ethanol in gasoline for vehicles made after 2001,  oil companies 
haven’t marketed the higher concentration, citing liability and
engine-damage concerns.  Fuel Consumption  Gasoline consumption  is expected to be 133.2 billion
gallons this year and 132.9 billion in 2014, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration  forecast  in the latest Short-Term
Energy Outlook yesterday. Gasoline will average $3.52 a gallon
this year, down from $3.63 in 2012, according to the report.
Pump prices averaged $3.60 a gallon nationwide yesterday,
Heathrow, Florida-based AAA said on its website.  “EPA does not currently foresee a scenario in which the
market could consume enough ethanol sold in blends greater than
E-10, and/or produce sufficient volumes of non-ethanol biofuels
to meet the volumes of total renewable fuel and advanced biofuel
as required by statute for 2014,” the agency said yesterday.  That isn’t enough to lower RINs prices to the levels that
they were trading at earlier this year, said Aakash Doshi, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  While EPA’s announcement was acknowledgment that the
renewable fuel requirement is “infeasible” for 2014, the
impact that it’ll have on RINs prices remains to be seen,  Bill Klesse , chief executive officer of Valero, the world’s largest
independent refiner, said by e-mail yesterday.  “RINs have become a market all to themselves, which was
never the intention of the law, and that continues to cost
consumers money and increase gasoline costs,” he said.  Biofuel Group  Biofuels interests lauded yesterday’s EPA decision as a
signal that the Obama administration won’t yield to calls from
oil and food industry interests to repeal the program.  “By setting the 2013 targets as such, the EPA is fully
utilizing the flexibilities incorporated within the RFS,” Fuels
America, a Washington-based coalition of biofuel groups, said in
a statement. “It also provides evidence that the RFS works, it
adjusts to market conditions.”  Once refiners blend ethanol into gasoline they are able to
maintain the RIN to submit to the EPA or they can trade it to
another party that may not have enough to show compliance.  Oil advocates and biofuel proponents last month testified
at a  hearing  by the U.S. House of Representatives’ Committee on
Energy and Commerce on the impact of the standard. Lawmakers
signaled that there weren’t enough votes to repeal the program
and that it may be altered.  Possible Easing  The extended deadline for refiners to show compliance
should help ease RINs prices, Brooke Coleman, executive director
of the Advanced Ethanol Council, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based
lobbying group, said it was a mistake for Obama to not adjust
the standards immediately.  “While the administration acknowledges that higher ethanol
mandates are unworkable by suggesting a new approach for the
2014 standards, EPA missed an opportunity to fix the problem
this year,” the group said in a statement yesterday.  Charles Drevna , president of the American Fuel and
Petrochemical Manufacturers, which represents  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and Valero, said he was “disappointed” that the EPA didn’t
change the 2013 targets, though he’s “encouraged” that it
acknowledges the challenges in meeting next year’s requirements.  Falling Short  The EPA fell short of offering a “clear price direction”
for the RINs market, Dustin Haaland, CHS Inc.’s director of
renewable fuels and additives supply, said by e-mail yesterday.
The move could at least curb some trading that’s “more
speculative in nature,” he said.  “It could also take some of the bid support out of the
market as obligated parties reassess how to address RIN needs in
2014,” he said. CHS is the largest farmer-owned cooperative in
the U.S.  Haaland declined to comment on how yesterday’s decline in
RINs prices could help the company cope with its RINs exposure.  Kim Windon, a spokeswoman for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in
Houston, said by e-mail yesterday that the company was
“disappointed that EPA didn’t make meaningful adjustments” to
the 2013 standards. Windon said Shell was encouraged by the
agency’s recognition of blend-wall limitations and its plans to
change the 2014 requirements.  “Shell believes that ultimately Congress must act to
revise the RFS to reduce blend-wall impacts, avoid limiting
supplies of gasoline and diesel to U.S. consumers, and increase
regulatory certainty for investments in cellulosic biofuels,”
Windon said.  Revision Needed  Doshi said rather than tweaking the law and adjusting the
targets, the U.S. should revise it to reflect the advances made
in shale oil drilling and the effectiveness of Obama mandates
that forced automakers to make vehicles consume less fuel.  The U.S. met 87 percent of its energy needs in the first
four months of 2013, on pace to be the highest annual rate since
1985, according to EIA.  Drilling techniques including hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, helped push crude oil output last month to the highest
level since December 1990, EIA data show.  “2007 was the peak of U.S. oil consumption, peak of U.S.
gasoline consumption, the peak of the economic growth outlook,”
said Doshi. “Everything was up, up, up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  