-- Etihad Partners Coordinate Fleet in Boeing, Airbus Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-07T12:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/etihad-partners-coordinate-fleet-in-boeing-airbus-talks.html
Etihad Airways PJSC is coordinating
fleet strategy with partners including  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  and  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  amid the “final stages” of talks with
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  on potential orders in coming decades.  Business-class layout is part of the three carriers’
planning as the carriers negotiate with suppliers on possible
airliner purchases from 2020 through 2040 in a cost-reduction
drive, Etihad Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said at a
conference in Sydney today.  Etihad’s tie-ups with airlines through equity stakes
contrast with policies at major carriers that focus more on
global marketing alliances and joint ventures. Common
procurement and cross-leasing of items from aircraft and engines
to seating allows airlines to get a better price and smooth out
fluctuations in regional demand.  “Most airlines want to one-up the competition in business
and first class, so it’s a really interesting thing that Etihad
is doing” in unifying cabin designs with those of partner
carriers, Oliver Lamb, director of Pacific Aviation Consulting,
said by phone from Sydney today. “It certainly does make sense
in terms of airlines keeping their costs down.”  Etihad, which is based in Abu Dhabi, is developing
partnerships with Jet Air, Air Berlin,  Virgin Australia Holdings
Ltd. (VAH) ,  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , Serbia’s Jat Airways and Air
Seychelles Ltd. The links will offer a global fleet exceeding
500 aircraft, according to a slide Hogan showed at the CAPA
Australia Pacific Aviation Summit in Sydney.  Fleet Comparisons  That’s comparable to the 573 aircraft flown by  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and greater than the 197 planes in the fleet of Dubai-based Emirates’ fleet, 139 used by  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and
377 operated by British Airways and Iberia parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , Hogan said in the presentation.  There will probably be another two to six weeks of
discussions on the Etihad group’s aircraft orders, he said.  “The way we’ve constructed the deal is a group deal, so
the group can take advantage of it,” he said. “In the past,
Boeing and Airbus would never have done that.”  Any airline in which Etihad has a stake of more than 3
percent will be able to deal jointly with the group, Hogan said.
Procurement teams from the partners meet to coordinate strategy
every six to eight weeks. Economy and business class seats will
have different fabrics, though will otherwise be similar, he
said.  A330 Revamp  Air Berlin has already retro-fitted its wide-body Airbus
A330s with business-class seats matching Etihad’s, Hogan said.
Etihad uses a Virgin Australia Boeing 777 on legs from  Abu Dhabi 
to  Kuala Lumpur  between its return flights to Australia.  The airlines’ cabin coordination matches Boeing’s move to
make previously optional features standard on the manufacturer’s
latest model, the 787 Dreamliner, Ken Morton, a spokesman for
the Chicago-based planemaker, said by e-mail.  “The commonality makes the 787 more easily transferred
between operators,” and “even the engines can be switched from
one type to the other,” Morton said. “Manufacturing longer
runs of similar aircraft enables us to produce aircraft at more
attractive prices for our customers.”  While economy-class seats are already largely standardized
across carriers, the shift to a unified business class may pose
risks to fit-out companies offering customized premium cabins,
Lamb said. Suppliers include Wellington, Florida-based  B/E
Aerospace Inc. (BEAV)  and Wichita, Kansas-based DeCrane Aerospace Inc.  “It’s more the third-party providers who may feel the
effects of this,” he said by phone. “The airlines may end up
having greater buying power than they do at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  