-- Facebook and Groupon Win Back Investors, Spur Rally
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/facebook-to-groupon-win-back-investors-spur-rally.html
Investors are finally warming up to
the hyped Internet stocks they were supposed to love last year.  Shares of three of the Web’s top newly minted stocks --
local-reviews site  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , online real-estate site  Trulia
Inc. (TRLA)  and social-networking giant  Facebook Inc. (FB)  -- have returned
an average 130 percent this year, compared with a 19 percent
gain for companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid
strong revenue growth and progress in areas like mobile. Even
daily-deals company  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , which plummeted as low as 87
percent below its 2011 initial public offering price because of
management stumbles and competition, is up 79 percent this year.  The gains are set to continue as investors grow more
confident in fledgling business models such as mobile and local
advertising, said  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond James &
Associates. Those areas have propelled sales for Yelp and
Facebook, and analysts on average project Groupon will post 7
percent revenue growth when it reports earnings today as it
diversifies into mobile and e-commerce offerings, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Web 2.0 companies have been performing better than the
Web 1.0 companies,” Kessler said. “More companies with social,
mobile and local have been doing better recently. These are the
growth drivers today.”  Investor Optimism  The optimism contrasts with last year’s turbulence for
consumer Internet companies. Groupon, social-games company  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  and Facebook, in particular, fomented an investor frenzy
upon their IPOs -- only to suffer the consequences when skeptics
questioned how their newfangled businesses could sustain growth
through virtual goods and daily deals, and without a way to make
money from mobile.  Facebook tumbled more than 50 percent below its IPO price
in September as investor concern mounted over whether a shift
toward usage of its service on mobile devices would hamper its
ability to sell advertising. Groupon grappled with management
snafus and a slowdown in daily-deals sales, and Zynga plunged
more than 75 percent as consumers shifted away from some of its
games.  Now several months on, some of the companies are benefiting
from pushes into mobile and local advertising. Last week,
Facebook closed above its $38 IPO price for the  first time  since
its debut trading day, after it turned development toward mobile
software and began charging marketers to show messages in the
news feed of users’ wireless devices. The social network had its
biggest one-day gain last month after announcing mobile ads
accounted for 41 percent of revenue, up from 14 percent a year
earlier.  Tucker Bounds, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  Sentiment Change  “It was a change in sentiment on Facebook and a change in
sentiment on the mobile online-ad opportunity,” said  Tom Forte ,
an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group.  Yelp also surged to a record high earlier this month after
its revenue, driven by local advertising, topped analyst
expectations. Trulia last month posted sales that also beat
estimates, as buyers and sellers of homes increasingly rely on
online tools to connect with one another to compare prices.  “Our marketplace and our media businesses both had a
strong second quarter,” Pete Flint, Chief Executive Officer of
San Francisco-based Trulia, said in an e-mailed statement.  Vince Sollitto , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Yelp,
declined to comment.  While Groupon remains below its IPO price of $20, it has
seen its shares more than triple to $8.70 at yesterday’s close
from a low of $2.60 last November.  Shifting Course  The company has shifted away from daily discounts toward a
trove of coupons available to users at any time, helping to spur
a rally,  Sameet Sinha , an analyst at B. Riley & Co., said in an
interview.  “People started doing the math on what, ultimately, this
could be worth,” Sinha said. “The numbers are finally starting
to go up.”  Groupon is projected to report a second-quarter net loss of
3 cents a share, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. At
the same time, analysts estimate sales will grow to $606.1
million, up 7 percent from the same period a year earlier.  Going Mobile  Investors will look for the deal provider’s progress in
adding customers on mobile phones, who accounted for 45 percent
of North American transactions in the first quarter of this
year.  Groupon, which started out promoting discounts via e-mail
alerts, is bringing on new customers as more smartphone users
turn to its mobile app, according to  Ross Sandler , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank.  “Groupon is surprisingly the most mobile penetrated e-commerce company we track,” Sandler wrote in a research report
in June. He upgraded the shares to buy from hold and raised his
target price to $10 from $6.  Co-CEOs Eric Lefkofsky and  Ted Leonsis  have also helped
stabilize the company while they search for a replacement for
 Andrew Mason , the Groupon co-founder they ousted as CEO in
February amid faltering growth.  Bill Roberts, a spokesman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment on the stock.  Some Exceptions  Not all recent Web IPOs have fared as well. Zynga is up 24
percent this year, more than the  S&P 500 . Yet its stock tumbled
14 percent on July 26, the biggest one-day decline since July
2012, as the company abandoned plans to enter the online-gambling business in the U.S. Zynga recently replaced CEO  Mark Pincus  with Microsoft Corp.’s Don Mattrick.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment.  And this year, shares of mobile-ad network Millenial Media
Inc. are down 28 percent. Tremor Video Inc., another online
video firm, has dropped 20 percent since its June 26 debut.  The reversal of fortune for many top Internet stocks
nonetheless signals investors believe in the growth of new areas
including mobile ads, Sinha said.  “They are exceptionally high-growth companies,” Sinha
said. “If you have a great brand name and a strategic advantage
in an industry, then you have room for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  