-- Pianalto Sees Potential Tapering on Improving Labor Market
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-08-07T18:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/fed-s-pianalto-sees-stronger-labor-market-potential-tapering.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said there has been “meaningful
improvement” in the labor market and that a tapering of the
central bank’s bond-buying program may be warranted if it
continues to strengthen.  “Employment growth has been stronger than I was expecting,
and the  unemployment rate  today is more than half a percent
lower than I projected it to be last September,” Pianalto told
an audience in Cleveland today. “In light of this progress, and
if the labor market remains on the stronger path that it has
followed since last fall, then I would be prepared to scale back
the monthly pace of asset purchases.”  Fed policy makers are weighing whether the economy has
improved enough to warrant scaling back their stimulus. Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in June that the Fed may trim its $85
billion in monthly bond buying later this year and halt it
around mid-2014 if economic performance improves as policy
makers expect.  The economy added the fewest jobs in four months in July,
even as the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.4 percent, Labor
Department figures showed Aug. 2. Joblessness has fallen from a
peak of 10 percent in October 2009.  ‘Picked Up’  “The pace of recovery in the labor market has picked up”
and “I take these recent improvements in the labor market as
evidence that the economy is on firmer footing,” said Pianalto,
who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year and will be a
voting member next year as part of a regular rotation.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , among the most vocal
proponents of record monetary accommodation, said yesterday that
there has been a “good improvement” in the labor market and
indicated that a tapering of the central bank’s bond purchases
in September is possible.  “This is not to say that the labor market is fully
recovered; it is not,” said Pianalto, who hasn’t dissented from
a Federal Open Market Committee decision since becoming the
Cleveland district president in 2003. “So even when the asset
purchase program is scaled back, the Federal Reserve will remain
committed to supporting employment growth and  price stability .
”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  