-- Fed Drains $1.02 Billion From Banking System With Reverse Repos
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-09T14:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/fed-drains-2-26-billion-from-banking-system-with-reverse-repos.html
The  Federal Reserve  drained $1.02
billion in  reserves  from the banking system with tri-party
reverse-repurchase agreements in an operational-readiness test
of the tool as policy makers prepare for the eventual withdrawal
of monetary stimulus.  The “small-value” transaction, part of a series of
temporary open-market operations that began in 2009, didn’t
signal any change in monetary policy, according to a  statement 
posted Aug. 5 on the Fed Bank of  New York ’s website.  The central bank drained $2.26 billion in reserves Aug. 7
with tri-party reverse-repo agreements in another readiness test
of the tool.  The Fed uses repos and reverse repos to help maintain the
level of money in the banking system to keep overnight  interest
rates  close to its target. The central bank has held the target
rate for overnight loans between banks in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-party repo market.  The central bank’s large-scale asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, have swelled its  balance sheet  to more than
$3.5 trillion, as policy makers have sought to reduce borrowing
costs and stimulate growth. Fed officials have listed tri-party
reverse repos as one tool they will use when they begin to drain
cash in the banking system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 rburgess@bloomberg.net  