-- Ford to Honda Move to Boost Capacity as U.S. Sales Rise
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-07T22:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/ford-may-add-capacity-for-some-vehicles-in-north-america.html
Automakers, enjoying the best U.S.
sales since 2007, this week disclosed plans to spend $434
million to boost their capacity to make vehicles and engines in
 North America .  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it’s looking to squeeze more vehicles
out of every factory on the continent.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  said
yesterday it will invest $215 million in  Ohio , including about
$180 million at an engine plant, the Tokyo-based automaker said
in a  statement . Chrysler Group LLC yesterday said it will add
capacity and almost 300 jobs at a Michigan engine plant.  The carmakers are responding to increased sales, including
a 14 percent July jump in U.S. car and light-truck deliveries to
1.32 million, according to Autodata Corp. The annualized
industry sales rate, adjusted for seasonal trends, was 15.8
million, accelerating from 14.2 million a year earlier. The July
results keep the U.S. on track for its best year since 16.1
million vehicles were sold in 2007.  “We’re still looking at how we get more out of every
plant, and that’ll be a focus for as long as the demand is as
strong as it is,” Jim Tetreault, Ford’s vice president of North
American manufacturing, told reporters yesterday near Traverse
City,  Michigan . He spoke later during the  Center for Automotive
Research ’s annual Management Briefing Seminars.  Ford, already facing low inventories of its Fusion sedan,
may add more capacity for “some products,” he said.  Asked if the Dearborn, Michigan-based company needed
additional capacity for the Fusion sedan and Escape sport-utility-vehicle, Tetreault said, “We’re working on it.”  Plant Investments  The popularity of Ford’s new Fusion sedan has left
inventory low and the automaker is adding a second shift of
1,200 workers at its assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan, to
start building Fusions there this quarter.  A third shift could be added there, Tetreault said
yesterday.  “If sales and marketing says we need more, we’ll give them
more.”  Separately, Chrysler said it intends to spend $52 million
at its engine factories in Trenton and Dundee, Michigan, to
boost capacity of the Tigershark engine. The  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker will add 298 jobs at the Trenton plant,
according to a statement. Chrysler is majority owned by Turin,
Italy-based  Fiat SpA. (F)   General Motors Co. (GM)  said Aug. 6 that it’s increasing a
planned Spring Hill,  Tennessee , plant investment by $167
million. The Detroit-based automaker is adding $40 million to a
previously announced mid-size vehicle program and will spend
$127 million on a second mid-size vehicle program.  The moves will retain or create 1,800 jobs and bring total
spending at the Tennessee plant to $350 million, according to a
statement.  Brazil, Too  Automakers are also investing in  South America . Honda said
it plans to double its capacity in  Brazil , where it will spend 1
billion reais ($435 million) to build a second factory, which
will open in 2015.  GM fell 1.3 percent to $35.48 at the close in  New York .
Ford declined 1.5 percent to $16.77. GM has increased 23 percent
this year, while Ford has gained 29 percent, both exceeding the
19 percent climb for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Acme, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  