-- Fox Grabs TV Rights to U.S. Open Golf From NBC-ESPN
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/fox-signs-tv-agreement-to-carry-u-s-open-golf-tournament.html
21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ,  Rupert Murdoch ’s film and television company, signed a 12-year
agreement to televise the  U.S. Open  golf tournaments, grabbing a
marquee event from NBC and ESPN.  The Fox broadcast network and the new cable channel Fox
Sports 1 will carry the U.S. Open, the U.S. Women’s Open and
U.S. Senior Open championships from 2015 to 2026, the New York-based media company said yesterday in a statement with the
United States Golf Association. The deal includes broadcast,
cable and multimedia rights.  The agreement marks Fox’s first foray into professional
golf. With the U.S. Open, which traditionally airs in June, the
company gains sports programming that can help highlight new
shows ahead of the start of the prime-time TV season in
September. Fox is taking over rights previously split between
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC.  “We’re committed to elevating coverage of USGA events on
every level, infusing them with a new energy and innovation that
will make every championship the best golf event on
television,” Eric Shanks, co-president and co-chief operating
officer of Fox Sports, said in the statement.  Financial terms of the deal weren’t disclosed. Under the
deal, Fox Sports will also televise the USGA’s national amateur
championships and international team competitions, according to
the statement.  “We’ve enjoyed our 19-year relationship with the USGA, and
will continue to serve the golf fan every day,” NBC Sports said
in a statement. NBC and Comcast’s Golf Channel “will continue
to be the dominant voice in golf coverage going forward,” it
said.  ESPN has had a “rewarding relationship with the USGA,”
Disney’s sports channel said. “We look forward to televising
the U.S. Open and other USGA championships in 2014 and wish them
the best in the future.”  Fox Class A shares climbed 1.9 percent to $31.81 at the
close in New York yesterday. The stock has gained 41 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  