-- Freddie Mac to Pay Treasury $4.4 Billion on Quarterly Profit
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-07T14:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/freddie-mac-to-pay-treasury-4-4-billion-on-quarterly-profit.html
Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the U.S.-owned mortgage
financier, will pay $4.4 billion to the Treasury Department
after continued housing-market improvements allowed the company
to post a seventh consecutive profitable quarter.  The McLean, Virginia-based company, which has operated
under federal conservatorship since it was seized in 2008, had
net income of $5 billion for the three-month period that ended
June 30, according to a statement released today.  “Clearly our outstanding financial results continue to
benefit from the turnaround in the housing market as well as our
work to minimize losses and build a strong new book of
business,” Freddie Mac Chief Executive Officer Donald Layton
said on a conference call with reporters.  Freddie Mac finished the  second quarter  with net worth of
$7.4 billion and is required to pay everything above $3 billion
to Treasury in return for the taxpayer aid it has received under
conservatorship. The company and Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA) 
were sustained by drawing almost $190 billion in assistance
after they were seized amid soaring losses during the subprime
mortgage crisis.  The two government-sponsored enterprises returned to
profitability as the housing market rebounded. They’ve paid the
Treasury a total of $131.6 billion in dividends, which count as
a return on the U.S. investment in the firms and not repayment
of their debt to taxpayers.  Freddie Mac could send as much as $28.6 billion back to the
federal government in the next two quarters if the company
determines that tax credits it holds have value because it will
remain profitable, Layton said.  Guarantee Payments  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  President  Barack Obama  yesterday called for the two
companies to be replaced with a government mortgage reinsurer
that would sustain losses only in catastrophic circumstances.  Hedge funds including Paulson & Co. Inc. have been pushing
Congress to abandon plans to liquidate the companies as they buy
up preferred stock that has been soaring after being considered
worthless, according to people with knowledge of the
discussions. Some owners of preferred shares have sued the U.S.
government, charging that some of the companies’ profits should
eventually go to stockholders.  Freddie Mac is not involved in the suits, Layton said. “In
conservatorship, we are a watcher, not a player in this
activity,” he said.  Eminent Domain  The company is also monitoring plans by local governments
to seize mortgages from investors using their power of eminent
domain so that they can reduce balances for borrowers in danger
of default. Freddie Mac would consider taking legal action to
block the eminent domain seizures if its regulator, the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , wanted to do so, the company’s general
counsel, William McDavid, said on the call with reporters.  Freddie Mac said in a statement yesterday that Saiyid T. Naqvi, former head of  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ’s
mortgage unit, has joined its board of directors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  