-- Abe Pledges Government Help to Stem Fukushima Water Leaks
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-08-07T08:23:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/fukushima-leaks-priority-not-nuclear-restarts-activists-say.html
Japan’s government will step in to
help the operator of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant deal with the tons of radioactive groundwater spilling
into the Pacific Ocean.  The government isn’t content to leave the matter to
Fukushima operator  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. and will draw up its
own strategy to tackle the problem, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
told a ministerial meeting in Tokyo today.  Abe’s comments echo those of Greenpeace campaigners who
called yesterday for authorities to intervene, saying Tokyo
Electric, also known as Tepco, is incapable of resolving the
leaks. The prime minister’s stance underscores the escalating
seriousness of the matter, which has been called an emergency by
officials at the nation’s  nuclear regulator .  “It is an urgent problem,” Abe said. “We will not leave
this to Tepco, but put together a government strategy. We will
direct Tepco to make sure there is a swift and multi-faceted
approach in place.”  Officials from  Japan ’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry estimated today at a briefing in Tokyo that the
Fukushima facility is leaking at least 300 tons of radioactive
water a day into the ocean.  Activist groups will tomorrow meet with the Nuclear
Regulation Authority to urge it to shift focus from evaluating
atomic plants’ safety for restart to the growing crisis of the
radioactive water flowing into the sea from the Fukushima plant.  Growing Concerns  The groups include citizen activists from Fukushima, where
as many as 160,000 people had to evacuate to escape airborne
radiation when buildings exploded and reactors melted down at
the coastal atomic station in March, 2011.  The regulator, set up in response to the nuclear disaster,
has already indicated growing alarm about the water leaks. Tepco
officials apologized last month for failing to publicly
acknowledge sooner that the radioactive groundwater was leaking
into the ocean.  The utility first suspected the water was spilling into the
ocean on June 19 when it found strontium and tritium in a
monitoring well at a turbine complex within the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco President Naomi Hirose said on July 26.  More funds will be made available to help stem the flow of
contaminated water into the ocean, Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said at a press conference in Tokyo today.  Use of Resources  “I believe Tepco is doing all it can, but from the point
of view of those in the disaster zone and the people of Japan,
it does not seem to be progressing very fast,” he said. “The
government feels it should step forward and support the
management of the problem.”  Kaoru Suzuki, a spokeswoman for Tepco, had no comment on
funds for dealing with radioactive water leaks.  The activist groups argue the NRA is dedicating its already
slim resources to checking that applications by utilities to
restart reactors comply with new safety standards, Kyoto-based
organizer Green Action said in a release.  “The bulk of the Nuclear Regulation Authority’s human
resources is being used to examine electric utility nuclear
power plant restart applications,”  Green Action  Director Aileen
Mioko Smith said in the release. “Dealing with the Fukushima
accident is back-burner at the NRA.”  The organizers of tomorrow’s meeting “are demanding that
the NRA prioritize dealing with the radioactive emissions into
the marine environment, and that work on restart which is taking
away from NRA’s foremost mandate be suspended,” according to
the statement.  ‘State of Emergency’  Tepco said two weeks ago that the radiated water had been
flowing into the sea at Fukushima, backtracking on previous
comments that it couldn’t be confirmed. The delay earned a
rebuke from the government and academics.  The NRA has since indicated increasing concern about the
state of the Fukushima clean up.  Radioactive water leaks are getting out of control and
“creating a state of emergency,” said Shinji Kinjo, citing
comments made by NRA Chairman Shinichi Tanaka in a meeting last
week. Kinjo leads a Fukushima disaster task force for the
regulator.  All but two of Japan’s reactors are currently idled. The
NRA, which was set up after the disaster to independently review
Japan’s nuclear power, has accepted applications from three
utilities for safety inspections at four separate plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  