-- Germany’s AAA Rating Affirmed by Fitch on Budget Consolidation
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-08-07T17:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/germany-s-aaa-rating-affirmed-by-fitch-on-budget-consolidation.html
Germany’s top  credit rating  was
affirmed by Fitch Ratings, which said  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government had beat its own budget targets and positioned
Europe’s largest economy on the path to growth.  Fitch maintained Germany’s AAA rating long-term with a
stable outlook and affirmed the country’s short-term foreign
currency rating. The ratings company cited the country’s first
budget surplus since reunification on the combined federal,
state and municipal level last year. Germany’s outstanding debt
as a portion of gross domestic product has “peaked,” Fitch
said in a statement today.  “Germany has all the ingredients of a declining public
debt path,” Fitch said. “The economy is growing, the budget
position is relatively favorable and nominal interest rates are
low.”  Germany has preserved its top credit rating as it’s
weathered the single currency’s debt crisis on the back of
exports and a stable labor market. The government is reducing
the  budget deficit  in a bid to meet constitutional debt limits,
aiming for a federal  budget surplus  in 2014.  Still, investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the
rally in Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at
 Standard & Poor’s  in 2011. Yields on sovereign securities moved
in the opposite direction from what ratings suggested in 53
percent of 32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg published on
Dec. 17.  While the debt crisis, closing in on its fourth year, “is
not yet over,” Fitch said risks posed to Germany have receded
because of euro-area-wide budget rules and the European Central
Bank’s promise to buy sovereign debt if countries sign up to
reforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  