-- German Bonds Advance as Stock Declines Boost Demand for Safety
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-08-07T15:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-before-five-year-note-auction.html
Germany ’s 10-year bonds rose for the
first time in three days as a decline in stocks around the world
underpinned demand for the safest fixed-income assets.  French and Dutch securities also gained amid speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve is moving toward ending its stimulus
program that has helped support the global recovery. Bunds
advanced even after a government report showed industrial
production in Europe’s largest economy rose in June. Germany
sold 3.32 billion euros ($4.42 billion) of five-year notes.  “The decline in stocks is providing some support for core
assets such as German bonds,” said Jussi Hiljanen, head of
fixed-income research at  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  in
 Stockholm . “Further drops in yields may be limited. Recent data
out of Germany suggested the country is moving gradually in the
right direction and that is consistent with higher bond rates in
coming months.”  Germany’s 10-year bund yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.69 percent at 4:38 p.m.  London  time after
increasing to 1.73 percent on Aug. 2, the highest level since
July 4. The 1.5 percent security due in May 2023 rose 0.08, or
80 euro cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to 98.28.  The French  10-year yield  dropped two basis points to 2.25
percent and similar-maturity Dutch yields declined basis point
to 2.08 percent.  Germany allotted securities due in April 2018 at an average
yield of 0.64 percent, compared with 0.63 percent at the
previous auction on July 3 and a record-low of 0.31 percent in
August 2012.  Industrial Output  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said yesterday
he “would clearly not” rule out a decision to begin curbing
bond purchases in September.  German  industrial output  increased 2.4 percent from May,
when it fell a revised 0.8 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said. Analysts forecast a gain of 0.3 percent, according
to the median of 41 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey .  The 10-year bund yield rose two basis points yesterday,
approaching the highest level in four weeks, after a report
showed German factory orders increased in June more than
economists forecast.  Spanish  government bonds  have returned almost twice as much
as Italy’s this year, reflecting investor bets that  Spain ’s
recovery from recession will outstrip the moribund Italian
economy.  Spain, Italy  Spain’s 10-year bond yields dropped to the lowest level in
six weeks on Aug. 5 as evidence of a nascent recovery in the
euro region bolstered demand for higher-yielding assets. The
bonds also rallied after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said last month that  interest rates  will remain low for
an “extended period” to support the economy.  “We currently favor Spain over Italy and we think the
outperformance can continue,” said Russel Matthews, a  money
manager  at BlueBay Asset Management in London, which oversees
$56 billion. “The fundamental picture in Spain is likely to
improve more than in Italy. The economy is slightly more dynamic
and has a better chance of taking off.”  Spanish bonds were little changed today, leaving 10-year
yields at 4.57 percent. The rate fell to 4.54 percent on Aug. 5,
the lowest since June 19. Similar-maturity Italian yields were
also little changed, at 4.25 percent.  Volatility on French securities was the highest in euro-area markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and
 Belgium , according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread
between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Belgium’s 10-year bond yield fell one basis point to 2.57
percent.  German bonds lost 1.5 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spain’s securities
returned 6.8 percent and Italy’s gained 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  