-- German Stocks Decline Amid Fed Stimulus Measures Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-07T08:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/german-stocks-decline-amid-fed-stimulus-measures-concern.html
German stocks  declined for a fourth
day after Federal Reserve officials signaled that the U.S.
central bank may soon reduce bond purchases.  Beiersdorf AG fell 3.4 percent after the maker of Nivea
skin cream reported first-half sales growth at its consumer unit
that trailed some analysts’ estimates on sluggish European
demand. Hannover Re added 1.4 percent after the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer reported an increase in second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ forecasts.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.6 percent to 8,252.85 at
10:22 a.m. in Frankfurt. The equity measure rose 2 percent last
week, extending its 2013 advance to 10 percent, as the Fed kept
its monthly bond purchases unchanged. The broader HDAX Index
dropped 0.5 percent today.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , a proponent of
monetary stimulus, said late yesterday he would not rule out a
decision to begin reducing bond purchases from September.  “We’ve seen good improvement in the labor market, there’s
no question in my mind about that,” Evans said in a meeting
with reporters in Chicago. “I’m still wanting to see greater
evidence that it’s a sustainable improvement.”  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher , one of the
most vocal critics of quantitative easing, had said Aug. 5 that
policy makers were “closer to execution mode” in considering
the right time to begin reducing purchases.  Data today may show industrial output in Germany, Europe’s
largest economy, rose 0.3 percent in June after falling 1
percent in May, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted
before the  Economy Ministry  releases the figures at noon in
Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  