-- GM CEO Says Shareholder Dividend Unlikely This Year
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-08-07T21:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/gm-ceo-says-shareholder-dividend-unlikely-this-year.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said the automaker doesn’t plan to pay a
dividend in 2013.  “I don’t think that’s going to happen this year,” Akerson
said today, referring to the dividend, during an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “A Closer Look With  Arthur Levitt ,”
scheduled to air in September.  The U.S. invested $49.5 billion in GM, the biggest piece of
an industry bailout that became a centerpiece in the first term
of President  Barack Obama . The automaker spent $5.5 billion in
December to buy back 200 million of its shares from the  U.S.
Treasury . The U.S. government said at the time it would sell its
remaining GM  stake  in 12 to 15 months.  “We hope the government will have sold their shares
hopefully in the next probably three to six months, maybe a
little longer,” Akerson said. “At that point in time, we’ll
revisit our capital distribution expectations.”  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-biggest U.S. automaker, resumed
paying a dividend last year. Akerson reiterated that GM’s top
priority for cash is to reinvest in new cars and trucks.  “One of our strategic goals is to always have a fortress
balance sheet and in doing so we can invest in both up and down
economic cycles,” Akerson said. “We have such good cash flow
post exit from bankruptcy that our primary goal is to continue
to develop great products.”  Medical Trust  GM said today the United Auto Workers Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust will sell $171 million worth of warrants to
purchase GM common shares. The trust is the second-largest GM
shareholder behind the U.S., with 140.2 million shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. GM won’t receive any
proceeds from the offering.  Canada ’s government has begun a search for investment banks
to sell its stake, a person familiar with the matter said last
week.  GM is poised for growth as it introduces 18 new vehicles in
the U.S. this year, transforming its lineup into one of the
industry’s newest from oldest.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month replaced Ford with GM
on its Americas Conviction Buy list and projected that the
largest U.S. automaker’s shares may rise to $45 in the next
year.  GM slid 1.3 percent to $35.48 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 23 percent this year, outstripping the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which rose 19 percent.  Patrick Archambault , a New York-based auto analyst for
Goldman Sachs, said GM will earn higher profit margins because
of its Silverado and Sierra pickups and that the automaker may
pay a dividend by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Acme, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  