-- Gulf Coast Fuels Gain on Strong Product Pipeline Flow
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-08-07T20:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/gulf-coast-fuels-gain-on-strong-product-pipeline-flow.html
U.S.  Gulf Coast  fuels strengthened
relative to futures as allocations along Colonial Pipeline Co.’s
main lines signaled strong demand for the region’s supplies, and
as Citgo Petroleum Corp. shut a unit in  Louisiana .  The  discount for conventional , 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB,
narrowed 0.25 cent to 21.75 cents a gallon versus futures on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:05 p.m. New York time,,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel 
weakened 0.13 cent to trade 4.13 cents a gallon below ULSD
futures.  Colonial, operator of 5,500 miles of pipelines originating
in Houston and ending in Linden,  New Jersey , on the New York
Harbor, allocated shipments on Lines 1 and 2. When a company
allocates shipments, it means demand to send barrels has
exceeded the line’s capacity. Citgo also shut a reformer for
planned work in  Lake Charles , Louisiana.  There has been “strong pipeline flow from the U.S. Gulf as
pipeline space has been allocated,” said Tom Finlon, director
of Energy Analytics Group Ltd., who is based in Jupiter Beach,
 Florida .  That may have drawn from supplies along the Gulf, where a
government report showed that  inventories of gasoline  slipped
1.16 million barrels to 77.2 million barrels in the week ended
Aug. 2. Supplies the  previous week  were at a six-month high,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  ‘Quite Surprising’  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline  in New York Harbor gained
0.75 cent to a discount to futures of 3.75 cents a gallon, while
reformulated gasoline, or RBOB, gained 0.5 cent to a 3.63-cent
premium.  Gasoline inventories on the U.S. East Coast rose to 61.7
million barrels, the highest since July 12, the EIA reported in
its weekly release. Imports to the region fell to 584,000
barrels, while refiners in the area, known as PADD 1, processed
 1.1 million barrels  a day of crude and other feedstock, the
lowest level since March 22, according to the EIA.  “It’s quite surprising to see a drop in imports, which are
needed to maintain Northeastern supplies, and a gain in overall
regional stocks in the same week,” Finlon said. “This is
clearly feeding the drop in gasoline structure.”  The 3-2-1 crack spread in the New York Harbor, a rough
measure of refining margins for gasoline and diesel based on
Brent oil in  Europe , slid to $15.72 a barrel, the lowest level
since July 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The same spread on the Gulf Coast, based on West Texas
Intermediate oil in Cushing,  Oklahoma ,  retreated  to $10.88 a
barrel, while the margins based on  Light Louisiana Sweet oil 
slipped to $5.43.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  