-- Time Warner Cable’s Plea to Washington for Help Tuned Out
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/time-warner-cable-s-plea-to-washington-for-help-tuned-out.html
Regulators in Washington probably
won’t heed  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ’s call for help in a dispute
that has blocked  CBS Corp. (CBS)  television shows from more than 3
million subscribers in cities such as  New York  and  Los Angeles .  Federal Communications Commission Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn has said the agency lacks the authority to intervene,
and rewriting rules for settling such disputes would take too
long to end the current disruption, according to  Paul Gallant ,
Washington-based managing director at Guggenheim Securities LLC.  Members of Congress or the FCC “are likely to issue
statements urging the parties to reach agreement in the interest
of the consumers who now lack access to CBS programming,”
Gallant said yesterday in a research note. “Such statements
might be perceived as marginally diminishing CBS’s negotiating
position.”  A dispute over fees led the cable company to stop sending
programming from CBS-owned TV stations to viewers in major
cities such as  Dallas  on Aug. 2. The two sides are arguing over
what the New York-based broadcaster charges Time Warner Cable to
provide its shows to subscribers, and over rules for streaming
CBS content on the Internet. The showdown pits the most-watched
U.S. TV network against the second-largest cable provider.  “The best way to resolve this dispute is at the bargaining
table,” Shannon Jacobs, a CBS spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Time Warner Cable, in a letter to the FCC released Aug. 5,
asked the agency for “prompt action” to alter the rules to
address “coercive” tactics by CBS.  Maureen Huff , a Time Warner
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the issues.  Fee Dispute  Cable companies have asked the FCC for such changes as
stalemates proliferate with broadcasters seeking higher fees for
rights to send their programs to subscribers, or to retransmit
the shows.  “The commission is disappointed that the respective
parties could not reach a retransmission agreement,” Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said by e-mail. “We urge all parties
involved to resolve this situation as soon as possible.”  The agency hasn’t acted after asking for comments more than
two years ago on possible rule revisions. The request followed
disputes in 2010, including one between Fox, then a News Corp.
unit, and Bethpage, New York-based  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
that cut  World Series  broadcasts to 3 million viewers.  Congress probably won’t act quickly, in part because
broadcasters are a potent lobbying force present in every
lawmaker’s district, Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst
with Medley Global Advisors LLC, said in an interview.  Political Nonstarter  “This is a fight between two parties,” Silva said. “What
upside is there from taking on the broadcasters?”  Commercial television and radio stations spent $26.6
million on Washington lobbying in 2012, and gave $11.6 million
in campaign contributions for that year’s federal elections,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based nonprofit research group that tracks money in politics.  Cable and satellite TV producers and distributors spent
more than twice as much lobbying in 2012 -- paying out $57.2
million -- and gave $14.6 million in campaign contributions,
according to the research organization.  Any congressional action would place lawmakers between two
powerful forces, said James Gattuso, a senior fellow in
regulatory policy for the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based research group that promotes limited government.  ‘No-Win Situation’  “You open a can of worms if you start stepping up on
behalf of a network, or on behalf of a cable provider,” Gattuso
said in an interview. “It just politically is a no-win
situation.”  The FCC decided not to act on earlier disputes, and the
Republican-led U.S. House of Representatives is disinclined to
intervene in markets, Gattuso said.  Senator  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, in a
letter yesterday to Clyburn asked the FCC to “bring the parties
together” for negotiations.  Markey also asked the FCC to investigate CBS’s blocking
access to Internet-based video for Time Warner Cable broadband
customers. “In such instances, consumers lose their freedom to
access the Internet content of their choice,” Markey said.  CBS in a statement posted on a  website  addressing the
dispute said it was blocking access by Time Warner Cable’s
Internet customers to CBS episodes.  Representative  Anna Eshoo , of  California , the top Democrat
on the House telecommunications subcommittee, in a statement
released yesterday said she would “carefully examine whether
changes to the current law are needed.”  Any congressional action would place lawmakers between two
powerful forces, Gattuso said.  “You open a can of worms if you start stepping up on
behalf of a network, or on behalf of a cable provider,” Gattuso
said. “It just politically is a no-win situation.”  Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the Washington-based  National
Cable & Telecommunications Association , declined to comment.
Members of the trade group include New York-based Time Warner
Cable and largest U.S. cable provider,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , which also
owns broadcaster NBC.  ‘Bullying Tactics’  “Policy makers should not reward the bullying tactics of
Time Warner Cable or any other pay-TV providers with government
intervention into free-market negotiations,”  Dennis Wharton , a
National Association of Broadcasters spokesman, said by e-mail.
The Washington-based group’s members include CBS, NBC,  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, and  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ’s Fox
network.  In Senate testimony in June, President  Barack Obama ’s
nominee to lead the FCC, Tom Wheeler, said he’s bothered when
“consumers are held hostage over corporate disputes.”  “That’ll be something that I’ll be looking at,” Wheeler
told the lawmakers.  Clyburn, who is the agency chairwoman in the interim, said
in a March 2011 statement that “the law here is clear: the
commission holds limited authority via limited methods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  