-- Time Warner Beats Profit Estimates as Ad Revenue Increases
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-07T20:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/time-warner-beats-profit-estimates-as-network-ad-sales-increase.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of the TNT,
 CNN  and  HBO  cable channels, reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates, boosted by higher advertising
revenue. The company also said it has pushed back its planned
spinoff of Time Inc. to early 2014.  Excluding some items, earnings were 83 cents a share in the
period, surpassing the  76 cents  that analysts predicted on
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Network
advertising sales rose 11 percent, helped by the National
Basketball Association playoffs on TNT and the college
basketball tournament, the New York-based company said.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes has focused Time
Warner’s growth strategy on its TV business, which accounts for
more than 70 percent of operating income. He announced plans in
March to spin off magazine publisher Time Inc. -- the company’s
worst-performing division -- after unsuccessful talks to merge
the unit with  Meredith Corp. (MDP) , owner of Ladies’ Home Journal. The
spinoff was originally slated for later this year.  “Our networks businesses, Turner and HBO, continued to
shine, reflecting the success of our increased investments in
distinctive programming that is resonating with audiences,
advertisers and affiliates,” Bewkes said in a statement. “TNT
and TBS finished the second quarter as the No. 1 and No. 3 ad-supported cable networks in prime time for adults 18 to 49.”  Time Warner shares were little changed in New York trading,
closing at $63.84. The stock has climbed 33 percent this year.  Forecast Raised  The company also increased its full-year forecast, saying
adjusted earnings would see percentage gains in the “mid-teens” from a base of $3.24 a share.  Net income increased to $771 million, or 81 cents a share,
from $413 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier. Revenue advanced
10 percent to $7.4 billion, topping the $7.1 billion estimate.  Original shows such as “Falling Skies,” “Major Crimes”
and “Dallas” helped increase ratings at its cable networks,
Bewkes said.  The Warner Bros. division’s sales gained 13 percent to
$2.94 billion, lifted by movies such as “Man of Steel” and
“The Great Gatsby.” Time Inc.’s sales dropped 2.9 percent to
$833 million.  The company boosted its dividend by 11 percent in the first
quarter to almost 29 cents a share. The company also has
repurchased $1.8 billion in stock in 2013. Those moves will
return cash to investors as the company waits to renegotiate
programming rights fees with pay-TV systems later this year.  Time Inc.  Last month, Time Warner named Joseph Ripp as CEO of Time
Inc. ahead of its planned split. Bewkes’s move to spin off the
shrinking magazine business and focus on the more valuable
television and film divisions mirrors plans by other media
companies. News Corp. split in two at the end of June to form
separate newspaper and entertainment businesses, and  Tribune Co. (TRBAA) 
announced last month it would spin off its newspapers, which
include the Los Angeles Times, while keeping its TV stations.  In July, Bewkes named Chief Financial Officer John Martin
to lead its Turner Broadcasting unit, replacing Phil Kent.
Bewkes is moving his lieutenants into key posts as the company
evaluates possible successors in anticipation of the end of his
employment agreement in 2017, when he’ll be 65.  In January, Bewkes named Kevin Tsujihara to lead the
company’s Warner Bros. film and TV studio, ending a two-year
contest among a number of Warner executives to succeed Barry Meyer.  A few months earlier, Bewkes hired Jeffrey Zucker to lead
the ailing CNN after then-President Jim Walton said he would
step down, and in September, he named Richard Plepler head of
HBO.  “The new generation that has been here is reaching the
point in their careers where they can take the next step,”
Bewkes said today of the appointments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  