-- India’s Rupee Approaches Record Low on Fed Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-07T05:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/india-s-rupee-approaches-record-low-on-fed-stimulus-concern.html
India ’s rupee fell toward an all-time
low on concern the  Federal Reserve  will pare stimulus, spurring
outflows and leaving the currency vulnerable to a record
current-account deficit. Bonds fluctuated.  Fed officials signaled this week that cuts to asset
purchases that have fueled demand for emerging-market assets are
possible next month as the U.S. economic outlook improves.
 Raghuram Rajan , who will take charge of India’s central bank
when Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s term ends Sept. 4, said
yesterday more steps will be taken soon to stabilize the rupee.  “The rupee’s situation is a classic case of demand-supply
mismatch, where dollar demand outstrips supply,” Ashtosh Raina,
head of foreign-exchange trading at  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  in Mumbai,
said today in an interview on Bloomberg TV India. “Unless
there’s intervention in the market on a large scale, the rupee
will continue to slide.”  The rupee declined 1 percent to 61.40 per dollar as of
10:39 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency tumbled to an all-time low
of 61.8050 yesterday. That prompted the  Reserve Bank  of India to
intervene, said two traders with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified as the information isn’t public.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was little changed
at 13 percent.  Fed Stimulus  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , among the
strongest proponents of the monetary accommodation in the U.S.,
said yesterday he “would clearly not” rule out a decision to
begin curbing asset purchases in September. Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  said on Aug. 5 the central bank is closer to
slowing $85 billion in monthly bond buying and warned investors
not to rely on that stimulus.  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $9.1
billion since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first
signaled a potential tapering. The outflows leave the rupee
vulnerable to the nation’s current-account deficit, which
official data showed widened to an unprecedented 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ended March 31.  The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds due May 2023
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.19 percent,
according to prices from the central bank’s trading system. It
had earlier risen to 8.21 percent. The 10-year note’s 50-day
historical volatility rose to 21.96 percent, the highest level
since June 2009.  RBI Tightening  The RBI last month tightened cash supply to support the
rupee. A weaker currency stokes inflation in a nation that
imports about 80 percent of its oil.  “Markets are likely to give the RBI the benefit of the
doubt and stabilize at current levels,” strategists at Barclays
Plc, including Singapore-based  Igor Arsenin , wrote in a research
report today. “The jump in volatility following the tightening
of liquidity by the RBI on July 15 makes it virtually impossible
to trade, but we would look for an entry point as volatility
drops.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were little changed at
62.82 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were steady at 63.04. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  