-- India Rupee Forwards Rise on New Governor Optimism, Intervention
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-07T02:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/india-rupee-forwards-rise-on-new-governor-optimism-intervention.html
India  rupee forwards rallied from a
record low on speculation the new central bank governor who is
due to take the helm next month will implement more steps to
arrest the slide in the currency.  Raghuram Rajan , a former International Monetary Fund chief
economist credited with predicting the 2008 global financial
crisis, was named the next  Reserve Bank  of India governor
yesterday. The rupee is Asia’s worst-performing currency in the
past six months having fallen 12.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The onshore currency tumbled to an
unprecedented 61.8050 per greenback yesterday, prompting the RBI
to sell dollars, said two traders with knowledge of the matter.  “The appointment, coupled with RBI intervention, allowed
the India rupee to rebound from all-time lows yesterday, and new
measures to support it are expected in weeks to come,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB,
wrote in a note today. “This will at least slow the rupee’s
slide in the near term.”  One-month offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 0.08
percent to 62.05 per dollar as of 10:30 a.m. in  Singapore ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They touched 62.53
yesterday, the weakest level on record. Forwards are agreements
to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable
contracts are settled in dollars.  In the onshore market, the rupee rallied yesterday from an
all-time low to close 0.2 percent higher at 60.785, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg.  Current Account  The rupee has been hurt by India’s current-account deficit,
which widened to an unprecedented $87.8 billion in the 12 months
through March. Concern the  Federal Reserve  could reduce monetary
stimulus as the  U.S. economy  strengthens has also triggered
capital outflows from  emerging markets .  India’s policy makers are exploring options to support the
currency, including containing imports, Siddhartha Sanyal and
Rahul Bajoria, economists at Barclays Plc, said in a report
yesterday.  India may ease offshore loan rules to boost inflows, the
Economic Times reported today, citing a government document. The
overseas borrowing limit may be doubled to $1.5 billion for debt
maturing in five years, the newspaper said. The regulatory panel
on external borrowing meets today in Mumbai to decide on steps
that will include allowing local multinational company units to
raise working funds from overseas holding companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  