-- ING Shares Rise as Bank Results Surpass Esitmates
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-07T14:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/ing-shares-rise-as-bank-results-surpass-esitmates.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, rose the most in almost a year after
reporting improved results at its bank and insurance units,
stoking optimism a restructuring plan is working.  The shares  climbed as much as 6 percent as second-quarter
earnings at ING’s bank grew by 14 percent to 1.15 billion euros
($1.5 billion), above analysts’ estimates, on cost cuts and
improving margins. ING said today that it’s examining ways to
extend a plan that aims to reduce expenses by 1 billion euros by
2015, resulting in 7,450 fewer jobs.  ING is nearing the end of a European Union-imposed plan
that requires shrinking its balance sheet by 45 percent and
disposing of its global insurance operations. Chief Executive
Officer Jan Hommen, who led the Amsterdam-based firm through the
aftermath of a government bailout, has raised about 23 billion
euros through more than 35 disposals since taking the helm in
2009. The company’s market value has almost tripled since then.  “Numbers were slightly ahead of estimates, in the bank in
particular,” said Corne Aben, who helps manage about 1.5
billion euros of assets, including ING shares at Amsterdam-based
Optimix Vermogensbeheer.  Underlying pretax profit for the banking unit beat the 1
billion-euro estimate by Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank
International in the Dutch city of Utrecht.  Shares Rise  Second-quarter net income fell 39 percent to 788 million
euros, hurt by hedging losses for annuities sold in the U.S. and
 Japan , ING said in a statement today. That missed the 907
million-euro  average estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  ING shares rose 5.6 percent to 8.30 euros at 3:55 p.m. in
Amsterdam and touched 8.33 euros, the highest level since July
2011. The stock has gained 17 percent this year, in line with
the increase in the 30-member Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index, which was little changed today.  “We have become simpler, more focused and notably
stronger,” Hommen, 70, who will step down in October, told
reporters today. “Apart from the separation of the bank and
insurer, we have sharpened the strategic focus of the bank.”  ING has realized 279 million euros of about 840 million
euros in banking savings it seeks to achieve by 2015, Hommen
told analysts today. The banking division is “on track” to
reach a return on equity of between 10 percent to 13 percent by
2015, ING said. The measure of profitability stood at 9.3
percent in the first half of 2013, it said.  Interest Income  “Better commission income and better cost control”
boosted bank results, Rabobank’s Kluis said in a note to
investors today. ING also benefited from reducing interest rates
payable on savings deposits in  Germany , he said.  Interest income rose to 3.01 billion euros from 2.86
billion euros, while bad-debt provisions increased 14 percent to
616 million euros, mainly due to a 30 million-euro provision for
a restructured U.K. loan. The cost of risk on Dutch mortgages
and real-estate finance remained elevated, yet stable compared
to the previous quarter, ING said.  ING’s pro-forma core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio under
Basel III accounting rules, a measure of financial strength, was
10.2 percent at the end of June, exceeding a target of 10
percent, the company said. The leverage ratio, defined as Basel
III Tier 1 capital divided by total balance sheet exposure,
including off balance sheet holdings, was 3.9 percent at the end
of June, ING said.  Annuity Charges  The company took a 190 million-euro charge on a hedge aimed
at protecting capital in the Japanese variable annuity business.
The Asian and European insurance division had an underlying
pretax profit of 182 million euros in the second quarter,
compared with a loss of 110 million euros a year earlier.  ING’s U.S. unit reported a loss by that measure of 19
million euros, compared with a profit of 394 million euros last
year, also caused by a hedging loss on a variable annuity book.  Variable annuities offer policy holders guaranteed benefits
that a provider will generate by relying on investment returns.
Declining equity markets and interest rates can push up costs of
the guaranteed returns, while hedges used to protect capital
levels can incur a loss when markets rise.  State Aid  ING received 10 billion euros in state aid from the
Netherlands in 2008, while the government assumed the risks on
80 percent of its investments in U.S. mortgage securities a year
later to stem losses. The firm has repaid 7.8 billion euros in
aid and 2.4 billion euros in interest and premiums, and has
pledged to repay the remainder by May 2015.  Hommen said the firm’s new management may return the money
to the Netherlands sooner. He is being succeeded by Ralph Hamers, 47, who previously led ING’s Belgian and Luxembourg
banking unit.  “If they have an ability to pay earlier, they will,” he
told reporters on a call today. “But we have to watch that
carefully. We cannot make any promises.”  To gain EU approval for the rescue, ING agreed to dispose
of more than 50 percent of its European insurance arm by the end
of 2015 and the remainder by 2018. The company must also sell
its Asian insurance and investment-management operations and the
U.S. unit by the end of 2016.  In Europe, it’s preparing to sell the insurance businesses
in an initial public offering by mid-2014. ING hired  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley to lead the IPO, while ING Bank
will also act as global coordinator, according to two people
with knowledge of the process.  ING spokesman Raymond Vermeulen declined to comment.  ING plans to give investors an update on the IPO
preparations on Sept. 19, Hommen said today. During the second
quarter, ING raised $1.27 billion by selling 25 percent of its
U.S. insurer  in an IPO . An additional share sale to underwriters
of the deal cut ING’s remaining stake to 71 percent.  The firm is in exclusive talks with MBK Partners Ltd. on a
sale of its South Korean life insurance business, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter. ING has already sold
insurance units in Hong Kong, Macau,  Thailand  and  Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  