-- ING Profit Drops on Hedging Loss; Shares Rise on Banking
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-08-07T09:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/ing-groep-second-quarter-profit-slides-after-loss-at-asian-unit.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, posted a 39 percent drop in second-quarter profit as hedging losses for annuities sold in the U.S.
and  Japan  outweighed improved banking results.  Net income fell to 788 million euros ($1.05 billion) from
1.29 billion euros a year earlier, Amsterdam-based ING said in a
statement today. That missed the 907 million-euro  average
estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The shares  rose as much as 4.3 percent after earnings at
ING’s banking arm grew by 14 percent, beating estimates and
stoking optimism that a restructuring plan is paying off. ING
said today that it’s examining more savings to extend a cost-cutting plan that aims to reduce the company’s expenses by 1
billion euros by 2015, resulting in 7,450 fewer jobs.  “The hedging loss, always hard to predict, was bigger than
expected,” said Corne Aben, who helps manage about 1.5 billion
euros of assets, including ING shares at Amsterdam-based Optimix
Vermogensbeheer. “For the rest, the numbers were slightly ahead
of estimates, in the bank in particular. They are working hard
on the restructuring.”  ING is nearing the end of a European Union-imposed plan
that requires shrinking the company’s balance sheet by 45
percent, including disposing of its global insurance operations.
ING has completed about 70 percent of the plan after selling a
stake in its U.S. insurer to the public in May, according to
Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen. The company has executed 35
transactions so far, raising 23 billion euros, Hommen said.  Shares Rise  Underlying pretax profit for the banking unit rose 14
percent to 1.15 billion euros as interest margins improved and
cost cuts paid off, the company said. That beat the 1 billion-euro pretax profit seen by Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank
International in the Dutch city of Utrecht.  ING shares rose 4.1 percent to 8.19 euros at 11:15 a.m. in
Amsterdam, extending gains this year to 16 percent and valuing
the company at 31 billion euros. That compares with a 17 percent
increase for the 30-member Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index,
which was little changed today.  Annuity Charges  The company took a 190 million-euro charge on a hedge aimed
at protecting capital in the Japanese variable annuity business.
The Asian and European insurance division had an underlying
pretax profit of 182 million euros in the second quarter,
compared with a loss of 110 million euros a year earlier.  ING’s U.S. unit reported a loss by that measure of 19
million euros, compared with a profit of 394 million euros last
year, also caused by a hedging loss on a variable annuity book.  Variable annuities offer policy holders guaranteed benefits
that a provider will generate by relying on investment returns.
Declining equity markets and  interest rates  can push up costs of
the guaranteed returns, while hedges used to protect capital
levels can incur a loss when markets rise.  In Japan, one of ING’s remaining insurance units in  Asia ,
ING stopped selling variable annuities in 2009. The business
still has about 366,000 policies with a total account value of
about 16.1 billion euros, according to Victorina de Boer, an ING
spokeswoman.  ING has realized 279 million euros of about 840 million
euros in banking savings it seeks to achieve by 2015, Hommen
told analysts today. The banking division is “on track” to
reach a return on equity of 10 percent to 13 percent by 2015,
ING said. The measure of profitability stood at 9.3 percent in
the first half of 2013, it said.  Interest Income  “Better commission income and better cost control”
boosted bank results, Rabobank’s Kluis said in a note to
investors today. ING also benefited from reducing interest rates
payable on savings deposits in  Germany , he said.  Interest income rose to 3.01 billion euros from 2.86
billion euros, while bad loan provisions increased 14 percent to
616 million euros, mainly due to a 30 million-euro provision for
a restructured U.K. loan. The cost of risk on Dutch mortgages
and real-estate finance remained elevated, yet stable compared
to the previous quarter, ING said.  “It is comforting that the increase in loan loss
provisions doesn’t seem to be on Dutch mortgages,” Optimix’s
Aben said.  ING’s pro-forma core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio under
Basel III accounting rules, a measure of financial strength, was
10.2 percent at the end of June, exceeding a target of 10
percent, the company said.  State Aid  ING received 10 billion euros in state aid from the
Netherlands in 2008, while the government assumed the risks on
80 percent of its investments in U.S. mortgage securities a year
later to stem losses. The firm has repaid 7.8 billion euros in
aid and 2.4 billion euros in interest and premiums, and has
pledged to repay the remainder by May 2015.  Hommen, 70, who is stepping down in October, said the
firm’s new management may return the money to the Netherlands
sooner. Hommen will be succeeded by Ralph Hamers, 47, who
previously led ING’s Belgian and Luxembourg banking unit.  “If they have an ability to pay earlier, they will,” he
told reporters on a call today. “But we have to watch that
carefully. We cannot make any promises.”  To gain EU approval for the rescue, ING agreed to dispose
of more than 50 percent of its European insurance arm by the end
of 2015 and the remainder by 2018. The company must also sell
its Asian insurance and investment-management operations and the
U.S. unit by the end of 2016.  During the second quarter, ING raised $1.27 billion by
selling 25 percent of its U.S. insurer  in the IPO . An additional
share sale to underwriters of the deal cut ING’s remaining stake
to 71 percent.  Offloading Assets  The firm is in exclusive talks with MBK Partners Ltd. on a
sale of its Korean life insurance business, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. Since 2009, Hommen has sold
the U.S. and Canadian online banks and insurance units in  Hong
Kong , Macau,  Thailand  and  Malaysia .  In Europe, it’s preparing to sell the insurance businesses
in an IPO by mid-2014. ING hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan
Stanley to lead the IPO, while ING Bank will also act as global
coordinator, Dutch newspaper  De Telegraaf  reported today. ING
spokesman Raymond Vermeulen declined to comment on the sales
process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  