-- Insurers Get Shot at $3 Trillion in Hatch’s Pension Plan
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s ,   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/insurers-get-shot-at-3-trillion-in-hatch-s-pension-plan.html
Senator Orrin Hatch is pushing an
overhaul of public pensions that would let life insurers grab a
bigger share of the $3 trillion in state and local funds, a
potential windfall for companies such as  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)   Public pensions invest their money with asset managers and
use gains to help pay benefits. Under Hatch’s proposal, they
could choose to give their funds to insurance companies, which
would take responsibility for making payments when workers
retire. The Utah Republican has seized on  Detroit ’s July 18
bankruptcy to highlight budget deficits and ballooning debt that
threaten payouts by municipalities.  Taxpayers and workers pumped more than $126 billion into
public retirement systems last year, Census data show. Hatch,
the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, says
shifting investment risk to insurers will make the pension
system stronger and more efficient, even as the industry’s
financial vulnerability was exposed by the credit crisis five
years ago and the record-low interest rates that followed.  “Senator Hatch’s plan is built on false assumptions,”
said New York City Comptroller John Liu, who oversees the city’s
$137 billion retirement system and is running for mayor.
“Public pension funds are far more cost effective and secure
than for-profit insurance companies, which have to answer to
shareholders first and not the pension beneficiaries or
taxpayers.”  Insurance Contracts  Hatch’s plan calls for workers to receive a type of
insurance contract called a fixed annuity that guarantees
employees on retirement a lifetime stream of income in exchange
for upfront payments. They can only be issued by licensed
insurance companies, which are regulated by states where they do
business. Public pensions are primarily  overseen  by state laws,
local ordinances and IRS rules.  The bill would give insurers a new avenue of growth as
they’ve struggled to properly price annuities amid rock-bottom
interest rates and stock-market swings, and as investment firms
including Leon Black’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Phil Falcone ’s Harbinger Group Inc. have entered the business. It
would also boost sales of a relatively new insurance product
known as a deferred-income annuity, which can accept multiple
premiums during a career and guarantee lifetime payouts at a
future date.  ‘New Business’  “I know some will argue my bill will give too much new
business to the life insurance industry,” Hatch said in a
statement. “The way I see it, my bill takes advantage of the
life insurance industry to help Americans solve a serious
pension problem.”  While Congressional gridlock renders it unlikely that
Hatch’s bill will pass this year, it shouldn’t be dismissed,
said Derek Dorn, a partner at Davis & Harman LLP in  Washington 
who specializes in tax and retirement policy. Hatch would have a
chance to push the bill should his party gain the majority in
the Senate after the 2014 elections.  Hatch’s plan would raise costs for public workers and
increases the potential for “other AIG-type situations,” said
Dean Baker of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, which
gets money from unions.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , once
the world’s largest insurer, got a $182.3 billion taxpayer-funded rescue in 2008.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) 
and  Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  also received rescue funds. The
companies have repaid the aid.  There is precedent for losses from insurance company busts.
Executive Life Insurance Co., at one time the largest life
insurance company in  California , collapsed in 1991 under a load
of junk bonds, spurring losses for some policyholders.  Insufficient Contributions  Hatch’s proposal doesn’t address a key weakness in the
public pension system: the past underfunding by state and local
governments that routinely failed to set aside enough money for
benefits in order to free up money for other programs. Many
municipalities were forced to pump more money into retirement
plans after the 2008 financial crisis. The move by Detroit to
file for the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history may
cut retirement benefits of 30,000 current and former workers.  “Where we have pension-funding issues in the public
sector, it’s not because of exposure to risk,” said Steven Kreisberg, collective bargaining director for the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. “It’s
simply because employers have failed to make contributions that
they should have made.”  Investment Assumptions  Public pension benefits in the U.S. are administered by
2,500 retirement systems, covering 15 million working and 8
million retired employees, according to Census data. Most have
struggled to meet their retirement liabilities as assumptions
that their investments would earn 8 percent a year have proven
to be too high. In 2012, contributions from public agencies were
only about  80 percent  of what they should have been to ensure
that there will be enough to pay out all the promised benefits,
according to the Center for Retirement Research at Boston
College.  The bill is designed to prevent public agencies from
underfunding their pensions in the future by letting them buy
annuities for workers upfront, according to Hatch’s office. That
would force the funds to recognize the full cost of those
liabilities and prevent them diverting money to other projects,
which means the number of states or municipalities opting to do
it “will be precisely zero,” said Jeffrey Brown, a finance
professor at the University of  Illinois .  The bill makes it easier for state and local governments
under the federal tax code to shift the risk of future pension
benefits to workers from taxpayers, which may help it gain
support, said Ben Harris, senior research associate at the
nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.  Compromise Possible  “There may be room for compromise,” Harris said.
“Senator Hatch and the White House are both looking at ways to
induce employers to offer lifetime income or annuities to
workers.”  The Treasury Department proposed regulations last year to
make it easier for people to fund an annuity through their
company-sponsored pensions or 401(k) savings accounts in an
effort to help retirees from outliving their savings.  Under Hatch’s plan, a worker in a public pension would
receive a deferred fixed-income annuity contract for each year
of service, funded by their employer. Fixed annuities provide a
set payout based on current interest rates, the longevity
expectations of a pool of workers and other assumptions.
Participation by states or municipalities would be voluntary.  ‘Looming’ Crisis  Insurers would have to bid annually and offer institutional
prices, according to the legislation. Workers would be able to
take their benefit guaranteeing future monthly income from job
to job. A 30-year employee would have 30 policies at career end,
possibly from different providers.  “With cities and municipalities across America - from
 Chicago  to Los Angeles -facing a looming pension crisis,
Congress should act now to stop another city bankruptcy,” Hatch
said in an e-mailed statement.  Hatch’s pension plan is part of a broader legislation aimed
at the U.S. retirement system. Apart from public pensions, the
bill also proposes a plan for “Starter 401(k)s” to make
savings plans available to more workers at small employers.  Fiduciary Standards  The legislation also weighs in on the battle over the
Department of Labor’s efforts to boost financial advisers’
accountability to retirement-plan participants. The bill would
strip jurisdiction over prohibited transactions involving self-dealing and conflicts of interest in individual retirement
accounts from the Labor Department, which has been pursuing more
stringent rules to protect investors, and place it solely with
the Treasury Department.  Treasury also would work with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in determining professional standards for brokers and
advisers for IRA participants.  The Labor Department has been working on a rule since 2010
that would expand the list of those who are liable in retirement
plans as a so-called fiduciary. The brokerage industry has
lobbied against the Labor Department’s proposal.  Insurers currently play a limited role in public pensions,
said Keith Brainard, research director at the National
Association of State Retirement Administrators. Some public
pensions may outsource disability or death benefits to an
insurance provider, he said. Some insurers also act as fund
managers for pensions, providing investments in assets such as
stocks, bonds and real estate.  BlackRock, Pimco  The vast majority of public pension money is dominated by
money managers such as  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Pacific Investment
Management Co. and Vanguard Group Inc., which are selected by
the retirement systems. Pensions use these managers to invest in
stock and bond markets, as well as non-traditional strategies
such as hedge funds, private equity and real estate.
Prudential’s investment unit is the only insurance company among
the ten biggest institutional-investment managers, according to
data from Pensions & Investments magazine.  Hatch’s plan would expand pension assets held by the
insurers, which in the past year have taken over retirement
liabilities from companies such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   General Motors struck a deal to shift more than $25 billion
in pension obligations to  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
last year. In October, Verizon reached a similar deal to shift
about $7.5 billion in pension liabilities to Prudential.  Purchasing annuities will make pension costs for states and
municipalities more predictable and help insurers increase
revenues, Rokhaya Cisse, an associate analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, said in a July 15 note. The largest life
insurers with existing retirement businesses are likely to
benefit the most, Cisse wrote. MetLife and Prudential are the
largest U.S. life insurers and both sell retirement products.  Wall Street  The plan may also benefit Wall Street firms that have been
making acquisitions to expand in insurance. Private-equity firm
Apollo, based in New York, and a firm tied to  New York-  and
Chicago-based Guggenheim Partners LLC reached deals in December
to buy U.S. annuity units. A firm owned by Guggenheim
shareholders on July 31 received approval to proceed with the
deal to buy Sun Life Financial Inc.’s unit after agreeing to
policyholder protections sought by a New York regulator.
Falcone’s publicly traded  Harbinger Group (HRG)  bought Fidelity &
Guaranty, the U.S. life and annuity unit of London-based Old
Mutual Plc, for $350 million in 2011.  The securities and investment industry -- a group that
includes private-equity firms, life and health insurers -- was
the top contributor to Hatch’s campaign committee and Leadership
Political Action Committee as of 2012, according to
OpenSecrets.org. MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, and the
American Council of Life Insurers, a trade group, were listed as
supporters of the bill in Hatch’s July 9 press release
introducing it.  New York  “MetLife has been focused on the retirement income crisis
for a number of years and applauds Senator Hatch for recognizing
the importance of guaranteed streams of income in retirement
that people can’t outlive,”  John Calagna , a spokesman for the
New York-based company, said in an e-mail.  Prudential, the second largest U.S. life insurer, declined
to comment on Hatch’s proposal, according to  Bob DeFillippo , a
spokesman for the company.  Hatch’s proposal is a departure from how many retirement
funds are currently managed in the U.S. Staff in the New York
City comptroller’s Bureau of Asset Management, which oversee
five funds for police, firefighters, teachers, school and civil-service workers, farm out asset management to more than 300
firms and don’t manage any assets internally. The pension funds
don’t invest in annuity contracts to pay retiree benefits. The
system has invested with investment-management units of insurers
including Prudential, according to a report on its website.  Calpers Model  The city’s pension funds, the 11th largest in the U.S.,
gained 12.3 percent in fiscal year 2013, according to
preliminary, unaudited results, Comptroller Liu said in a July
18 statement. The funds had about 57 percent of their assets in
stocks, about 31 percent in bonds and the rest in assets such as
private equity and hedge funds, according to its website.  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
largest U.S. pension, commits money to hundreds of external
asset managers in addition to investment staff who manage
assets, said spokesman Joe DeAnda. The fund doesn’t buy
individual annuity contracts for workers. The money is invested
as a pool and payouts determined by formulas depending on
workers’ length of service and job type, according to DeAnda.  Calpers is reviewing Hatch’s proposal and doesn’t have a
position on it at this time, DeAnda said. The pension plan had
its portfolio invested in a diverse set of assets as of March
31, including about half in public equities, 12 percent in
private equity and 8 percent in real estate, according to its
 website . The Calpers fund earned 12.5 percent in the 12 months
ending June 30, according to a July 15  statement .  Executive Life  The collapse of insurance companies such as Executive Life
illustrate that pension beneficiaries would be at risk of losing
their payouts in retirement if the insurer behind their annuity
contracts went out of business, said Teresa Ghilarducci, an
economics professor at The New School in New York. Insurers are
regulated by states, which vary in their standards, she said.  Executive Life  issued  group annuities and guaranteed
investment contracts to pension plans and municipalities. The
estimated loss for contract owners was $3.1 billion and
policyholders recovered about 87 percent on average of their
expected account values, according to a 2008  report  by the
California State Auditor.  Insurance companies that go out of business are taken over
by a state’s insurance department. Guaranty associations pay the
claims from  payments  required of solvent insurers and provide
necessary funding if the policies are moved to a new insurer up
to certain coverage limits, which can differ from state to
state.  Carrying Costs  The switch to annuity contracts would carry a cost for
workers, Harris of the Tax Policy Center said. Insurance
companies on average take out 10 percent to 15 percent of
contributions from a group of people to cover costs such as
marketing and for taking on the risk, Harris said.  Annuities bought for groups generally have lower costs than
those purchased individually. Institutional pricing can vary by
an employer’s demographics such as gender, age and location of
its workers as well as by the features in the contract including
whether there are any payouts to survivors after death.  The argument that accumulating annuities will result in
smaller benefits for workers is a myth, according to an e-mailed
statement from Hatch’s office. The payouts under the plan can be
just as generous and have a financial backstop from the state
guaranty associations, according to the statement.  ‘Free Lunch’  Hank Kim, the executive director of the National Conference
on Public Employee Retirement Systems, said it costs 50 basis
points to 76 basis points of assets invested to run public
pensions. That’s lower than a for-profit insurance company could
offer, he said.  “It sounds as if it’s a free lunch -- and I really don’t
believe in free lunches,” he said. “To say it would cost the
same and you would get the exact same benefit, it really
stretches the realm of credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  