-- Israel Chemicals May Boost Potash Output as Market Shifts
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-08-08T14:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/israel-chemicals-may-boost-potash-production-as-market-changes.html
(Corrects first and third paragraphs of story published
Aug. 7 to show that the potential increase in output is part of
a strategic plan.)  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL) , which extracts
minerals from the  Dead Sea  to make fertilizers and potash, is
considering boosting production in the $20 billion global market
as well as listing shares overseas.  The company “will explore options for increasing its
potash production, both in its existing mines and in new
locations around the world,” Chief Executive Officer Stefan Borgas said in an e-mailed statement. “Even with current
challenging market developments, ICL continues to believe in the
potash market, both in the short term and in the long term.”  The announcement of the company’s strategic plan, under way
for the past nine months, follows a surprise announcement on
July 30 by OAO Uralkali, the biggest potash supplier, that it
would end production restrictions that underpin global prices.
While the end of the restrictions is expected to boost demand
for the commodity and push prices down in the short-term, prices
should recover in the long-term, ICL said in the statement.  The company said it would spend as much as $500 million to
buy back shares or pay dividends to shareholders. It is also
preparing to list its shares on a foreign exchange, while
keeping its Israeli trading, to broaden access to investors,
increase its financing options, and shield itself from worsening
conditions in the local exchange, according to the statement.  ICL’s second-quarter profit fell 23 percent to $316 million
as revenue dropped to $1.77 billion from $1.91 billion a year
ago, it said. The company’s shares declined 22 percent through
yesterday since Uralkali’s announcement. The shares gained 1.4
percent to 27.99 shekels at the close in  Tel Aviv .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  