-- New Japanese Helicopter Carrier Draws China Warning to Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-07T06:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/japan-s-latest-helicopter-carrier-draws-chinese-warning-to-asia.html
China  said Asian neighbors must be
alert to  Japan ’s defense buildup after it unveiled a vessel
capable of carrying 14 helicopters, the largest Japanese
military ship produced since World War II.  “Japan should reflect on its history, adhere to self-defense and respect its promise to follow the road of peaceful
development,” China’s  Defense Ministry  said in a faxed
statement today, referring to the pacifist constitution Japan
adopted after losing the war.  Yesterday’s unveiling of the 19,500-ton Izumo reflects
Japan’s push to bolster its maritime forces as it faces off with
China over East China Sea islands that both claim. Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe’s decision to boost  defense spending  for the
first time in 11 years coincides with China’s own  defense budget 
expansion of 10.7 percent this year.  The Izumo is a “symbol of Japan’s strong wish to return to
its time as a military power,” China’s state-owned Global Times
newspaper said in a commentary today. Japan already has two
helicopter carriers.  In the statement, China’s Defense Ministry urged Japan to
stick to self-defense. China’s projected 2013 defense budget is
the equivalent of $121 billion, more than twice Japan’s 2013
defense budget of 4.68 trillion yen ($51.7 billion).  The English-language China Daily newspaper said in an
editorial today that Abe has adopted a “militaristic approach
to building national pride.” The editorial said the Izumo was
“provocatively named after” a World War II ship involved in
the invasion of China.  Maritime Power  China’s President  Xi Jinping  vowed last month to turn China
into a maritime power. The country commissioned its first
 aircraft carrier , the Liaoning, last year.  The Izumo is the biggest military vessel Japan has produced
since the war, Defense Ministry spokesman Atsushi Sakurai said
today. The 1941-commissioned Yamato, which displaced 72,000 tons
fully loaded, was the  largest battleship  ever built at the time
along with its sister ship Musashi, according to the U.S. Navy.  The largest warships today are the the U.S. Nimitz-class
aircraft carriers, which displace  97,000 tons  fully loaded,
according to the Navy.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  