-- JPMorgan Sued With Goldman in Aluminum Antitrust Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-07T20:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/jpmorgan-sued-with-goldman-in-aluminum-antitrust-case.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, was sued with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  over claims they restrained aluminum supplies and
drove up prices.  The complaint was filed by a Jacksonville, Florida, direct
purchaser, Master Screens Inc., and by individual plaintiff
Daniel Price Bart of Tallahassee, who is described in the filing
as a “purchaser of beverages sold in aluminum cans.”  The banks and Glencore are accused in the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Tallahassee of racketeering and
conspiring with the London Metal Exchange, hoarding aluminum in
Detroit-area warehouses and violating federal antitrust laws.
Goldman Sachs was first sued over similar claims by a Michigan
company on Aug. 1.  “By inserting itself into a healthy industry producing
widely needed commodities, severely degrading functionality and
widely distributing costs while itself benefiting, Goldman Sachs
and JPMorgan couldn’t fit a more archetypal description of a
parasite on the markets,” according to the Florida complaint.  “There are no queues at our warehouses and we believe this
suit has no merit,”  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan Chase, said in an e-mail.  “We believe this suit is without merit and we intend to
vigorously contest it,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New
York-based Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mail. “We also note that
aluminum prices are down 40 percent from their peak in 2006.”  Warehousing ‘Giant’  More than 1 million tons of aluminum are stored in the
 Detroit  warehouses, many of which are owned by Goldman Sachs,
which charges rent for the storage, according to the complaint,
while London Metal Exchange load-out rules curtail how much of
the metal leaves.  JPMorgan-owned Henry Bath & Son Ltd., acquired in 2010, is
described in the complaint as a “metal warehousing giant.”  The  Florida  plaintiffs are seeking class action, or group,
status, to represent other aluminum buyers and consumers, as
well as compensatory damages.  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
commodities group Glencore, declined to comment.  DuVally last week said the complaint filed against  Goldman
Sachs in  Detroit was without merit.  A third lawsuit, naming as defendants Goldman Sachs and its
warehouse unit, Metro International Trade Services LLC, as
defendants, was filed yesterday in federal court in  New Orleans .  Plaintiff River Parish Contractors Inc. of Reserve,
 Louisiana , also alleges the Goldman Sachs entities inflated
aluminum prices and restrained supplies in violation of U.S.
antitrust laws. Neither London Metal Exchange nor JPMorgan are
named as defendants.  The Florida case is Master Screens Inc. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 13-cv-00431, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Florida (Tallahassee). The  Michigan  case is Superior
Extrusion Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., 13-cv-13315, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit). The
Louisiana case is River Parish Contractors Inc. v. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., 13-cv-05267, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  