-- Judges Hire Prostitutes, China Isn’t Shocked
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-07T19:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/judges-hire-prostitutes-china-isn-t-shocked.html
On the evening of June 9,  three
judges and a court official from   Shanghai ’s Higher People’s
Court apparently decided to  hire some prostitutes . To do so,
they ventured  to a hotel  with a karaoke and hostess bar, and --
under the watchful eye of surveillance cameras -- chose
companions. Later, as recorded by cameras, the women arrived at
the officials’ hotel rooms, where they  remained for  between 30
and 60 minutes, behind closed doors.  Whatever pleasures June 9 might have held for Shanghai’s
top judicial officers would probably have remained a secret if
not for a whistleblowing businessman, identified by  the New York
Times as Ni Peiguo , who obtained and uploaded nine minutes of
 choice clips  from the surveillance videos to a Chinese website
late last week. Within a few hours, they’d gone viral.  Despite the traffic, the footage itself has inspired little
more than bitter resignation, a bit of jealousy and, for those
not grossed out, some titillation. Surprise, and outrage,
elsewhere the  natural reaction  to the exposure of senior
officials  lewdly misbehaving , is rare these days in China.  This is understandable.  China in the age of President Xi Jinping is a  scandal-ridden  place, where officials regularly abuse public positions
and resources in pursuit of private pleasures. It was that kind
of place under Xi’s predecessors, too: The difference is that
Xi, more than  Hu Jintao  or  Jiang Zemin , has made cracking down
on  official extravagance  and  corruption  two of the most public
programs of his young tenure. China’s largely state-run (and
propaganda-heavy) news media have followed instep, running what
seems like daily stories on corrupt officials and their  pilfered
riches . To an extent, the Chinese media have always indulged
these stories; but social media, combined with Xi’s push, have
made them ubiquitous.  Over time, this barrage of corruption stories takes its
toll, lowering the already low baseline expectations that
Chinese have for the integrity of their government officials. In
a sense, every crime and crackdown transforms lingering mistrust
into conviction. Why bother getting worked up about a few
Shanghai judges when a small-time official in  Guangdong province 
is accused of taking in around $4.3 billion in bribes while
supporting  47 mistresses ? If anything, continued scandal is just
one piece in an era of diminished expectations, where blue skies
in Beijing are worthy of celebration and government food-safety
inspectors  tell reporters  they shouldn’t expect the food-safety
standards of the developed world.  On China’s microblogs expressions of ambivalence are rife.
“Judges of Shanghai Higher People’s Court went whoring together,
and it’s a big scandal,”  tweeted  an anonymous user on Sina
Weibo, China’s most popular microblogging service, on Sunday.
“But in a country with ceaseless scandal, this is just something
people will chatter about after meals.”  It’s not only online commentators who feel this way,
either. On Saturday night, the hardline Communist Party-owned
Global Times newspaper  sent an unusually frank message  from its
Sina Weibo account: “The judges of the Shanghai High Court were
revealed picking up prostitutes. The key point isn’t that they
went whoring, but that they did so in a group. Law is the bottom
line in society and judges are the safeguards of that line. They
crossed the line collectively. What’s ironic is that this is
nothing new to the public. Endless official corruption has
transformed anger into numbness. That’s what’s most pathetic.”  What might be even more pathetic, though, is that in many
of these scandals the corruption runs deeper than the single
case in the newspapers on a given day. In this instance, it
seems Ni Peiguo believes that one of the frisky judges  may have
had some influence in a 2009  lawsuit involving him and one of
the judge’s family members. Unable to seek legal redress, the
whistleblower apparently  sought revenge .  Corruption is also at the center of a question piquing the
curiosity of  Chinese commentators : How it is possible for
members of  China ’s most powerful courts to cavort in hostess
bars with so little apparent fear for their reputations? In a
Friday  night tweet , Liu Yu, vice-chair of the Municipal
Communist Party Committee in Changsha, pointed to the Chinese
government’s ability to open and close such venues at will. In
the case of the Hengshan Resort, it clearly chose not to act:  “When criticizing the personal morals of the judges, we
should think about the overall quality of our officials. After
all, how much corruption is hidden behind the ‘bath centers’
which provide sexual services? China is a country with strict
social control. Without public power and interests involved in
such venues, it’s impossible for them to exist.”  Sure enough, two days later, the Guangzhou-based Southern
Daily revealed that  the Hengshan Resort , where the judges
cavorted, is  officially designated  for government and Party
officials. That’s no surprise: According to  a company website ,
the Hengshan Group, which operates the hotel, is a government-invested company. Nonetheless, the Hengshan Resort told the
Southern Daily that independent operators, and not it, manage
the nightclub from which the judges allegedly purchased sexual
services.  Of course, the ubiquity of corruption is no reason to stop
cracking down on it, and Xi’s administration seems determined to
press on with its very public campaign. Late Tuesday, state
newswire Xinhua reported that two of the three judges and the
court official had been  expelled from  the Communist Party
( according to a later press report , the third judge’s Party
membership was preserved -- though on probation -- because his
drunkenness prevented him from engaging with prostitutes).
Meanwhile, business at the Hengshan Resort has been suspended
while it undergoes “rectification.”  These are unusually harsh and swift penalties, obviously
designed to restore faith in the Communist Party’s ability to
police itself. As a Xinhua editorial published earlier on
 Tuesday aptly  put it, the scandal is “indicative of the CPC’s
resolve to sniff out every corrupt pheromone, punish every
guilty official and constantly eliminate the soil which breeds
graft, so as to earn people’s trust with actual results.” The
ultimate question is whether the actual results are only fueling
the sense of mistrust.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.  Follow  him on Twitter.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  