-- Two Koreas Plan More Talks on Opening Gaeseong Factory Park
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-08-07T10:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/n-korea-offers-new-talks-on-reopening-gaeseong-industrial-park.html
North and  South Korea  agreed to
resume talks on reopening on the Gaeseong industrial complex, a
crucial source of hard currency for Kim Jong Un’s regime, two
weeks after similar negotiations collapsed.  The South accepted  North Korea ’s offer of working-level
talks at Gaeseong to be held Aug. 14, Unification Ministry
spokesman Kim Hyung Suk told reporters in Seoul. Along with the
offer, made in a statement carried by the official Korean
Central News Agency, North Korea said it would send its workers
back into Gaeseong.  South Korea had repeatedly warned it will make a “grave
decision” on the future of Gaeseong if North Korea didn’t
respond to what it called its final offer on July 29 for talks
on resuming operations at the complex. The North withdrew its
workers from Gaeseong in April amid heightened tension following
tightened United Nations sanctions over its nuclear program and
U.S.-South Korean military drills.  “North Korea probably couldn’t ignore the fact the park is
a cash cow and feeds not only the 53,000 workers there but also
their family members,” said Yoo Ho Yeol, a North Korea
professor at Korea University.  Talks on reopening Gaeseong collapsed last month after the
two sides failed to agree on a way to prevent future closures.
North Korea earned $100 million each year from the zone,
according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in  Seoul .  Sincere Attitude  “We expect a sincere and forward-looking attitude from
North Korea,” the Unification Ministry’s Kim said.  The offer for talks came less than two hours after South
Korea said it will pay 109 companies with operations at Gaeseong
280.9 billion won ($250 million) in exchange for 90 percent of
their assets in the North. It wasn’t clear if there was any link
between the two announcements.  North Korea said earlier this year that nuclear and
economic development were the regime’s top priorities. North
Korea’s economy is about one-fortieth the size of South Korea’s
and the country relies on  China  for diplomatic and economic
support. Chronic food insecurity and malnutrition affect about
two-thirds of the country’s 24 million people, according to a UN
assessment last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  