-- Noble Posts Third Quarterly Profit Decline on Agricultural Loss
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/noble-posts-third-quarterly-profit-drop-on-agricultural-loss-1-.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s largest
commodity trader, posted its third straight drop in quarterly
profit, dragged down by a loss at its agricultural business.  Second-quarter  net income  plunged 68 percent to $62.8
million in the three months ended June 30 from $194.8 million a
year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Sales rose 5 percent to $25.3 billion.  The agricultural unit, which posted a $53.7 million loss
related to supply chains in the quarter, was affected by
logistics issues in  Brazil  and low sugar prices, Noble said
yesterday. The division trading in aluminum, copper and other
metals recorded an 86 percent surge in operating income to $55.5
million as Noble expanded to nickel, bauxite, specialty metals
and ores.  “We have continued to execute our strategy, despite tough
market conditions,” Chief Executive officer Yusuf Alireza said
in a separate statement yesterday. “However, the agricultural
business currently remains a substantial drag on group
earnings.”  The stock, listed in  Singapore , fell 0.5 percent to 91.5
Singapore cents, before the announcement. The shares have
slumped 21 percent this year, making them the worst performers
on Singapore’s benchmark index.  Revenue from the energy business was little changed, while
income from supply chains gained 12 percent in the quarter as
Noble continued to source more coal and added new hires to its
oil and gas business.  Noble may see some delayed benefits from the weakness of
the Brazilian real due to its currency hedging policy, the
company said yesterday. The weaker real “is structurally
positive for the sugar industry in Brazil,” it said.  Noble’s sugar mills in the country, which will be operating
at full capacity next year, won’t generate attractive returns
unless sugar prices rise from recent levels, it said in the
statement. Sugar has slumped 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  