-- Nokia Siemens Said to Weigh 8,500 Job Cuts in Scale Focus
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-08-07T15:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/nokia-siemens-said-to-weigh-8-500-job-cuts-as-sales-wane.html
Nokia Siemens Networks, the phone-equipment maker that  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is fully taking over, is
considering reducing about 8,500 jobs to boost profitability,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  A scenario being discussed would bring its workforce to
42,000 by the end of 2014, or a 17 percent reduction, partly
through selling or shutting down plants and farming out
manufacturing, said the people, who asked not to be identified
discussing internal targets. Nokia Siemens had about 50,500
workers at the end of June. No final decisions have been made
and any plans would have to be approved by sole owner Nokia.  Nokia Siemens has cut more than 20,000 positions during the
past two years, a move that has proved to be successful by
restoring profitability amid declining sales as its shareholders
tried to unwind a six-year ownership agreement. Any plan to
reduce costs further would give the Espoo, Finland-based
manufacturer a more competitive position against market leader
 Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Chinese makers.  “It’s good to be focused where you’re strong and to build
scale around that dimension,” Nokia Siemens Chief Executive
Officer Rajeev Suri said by phone today, after Nokia announced
the completion of the 1.7 billion-euro ($2.3 billion) purchase
of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share and renamed the unit to Nokia Solutions
and Networks. “We’re the only ones playing that game.”  Paring Losses  Suri declined to comment on any potential job-cut plans, as
did Brett Young, a spokesman for Nokia.  Shares of Nokia  pared earlier losses  of as much as 1.9
percent and closed at 3.07 euros, or 0.8 percent lower, in
Helsinki trading today.  European companies that have announced major job cuts in
recent months include  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, which said in May it would eliminate 3,000 positions
after its net loss widened. Drugmaker  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  said in
March it would cut 2,300 sales and administrative jobs in a bid
to return to earnings growth.  Responding to intensifying competition from Huawei
Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , Nokia Siemens started a program
in late 2011 to cut 17,000 positions, or about 23 percent of its
total. Its profitability has steadily climbed, with its
operating margin, excluding some items, expanding to 11.8
percent last quarter from 0.8 percent a year earlier. Revenue
dropped 17 percent last quarter.  Contract Manufacturing  The buyout gives Nokia, the unprofitable Finnish handset
maker, full access to cash from the equipment business. Nokia
Solutions is considering selling a 500 million-euro bond to help
fund a  dividend  payment to Nokia worth about 900 million euros,
the people said.  The unit is also considering selling manufacturing
facilities in Finland, India and  China , the people said. Talks
with contract manufacturers are in progress, they said.  Last quarter, Nokia Siemens was the only profitable
division on a reported basis at Nokia, which is struggling to
reverse falling sales at its phone business. The network
division had sales of 2.78 billion euros and net cash of 1.45
billion euros.  Nokia Siemens raised 800 million euros in April through the
sale of five- and seven-year bonds to repay existing debt.
Covenants on its 2018 bonds allow Nokia Siemens’s owners to tap
the wireless venture’s coffers provided its free cash flow for
the past 12 months is positive, its gross cash exceeds 2 billion
euros and it would have a net cash position after the dividend.  Nokia doesn’t plan to integrate Nokia Siemens, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop said in July. Nokia’s debt rating
was cut further into junk by Standard & Poor’s and placed on
review for a downgrade at Moody’s Investors Service following
the acquisition.  “I’m not a believer in finding scale through being end to
end and therefore spreading your resources in R&D and sales and
marketing very thinly,” Suri said. “We are now in the mode of
continuous improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  