-- Nonstop Facebook Over Oceans Coming Soon to Jet Near You
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/nonstop-facebook-over-oceans-coming-soon-to-jet-near-you.html
Airline passengers pining for faster
in-flight  Internet access  anywhere in the world -- even over the
oceans -- are about to get their wish as satellite operators
find success where  Boeing Co. (BA)  failed a decade ago.  Stronger, more-focused signals from spacecraft lofted by
providers such as  Intelsat SA (I)  will replace cobbled-together
connections meant for mobile phones and television broadcasts.
Costs will fall, too, eventually making onboard broadband a free
amenity to win travelers’ loyalty, industry executives say.  The technology is poised to bring sweeping changes in
airborne Wi-Fi now marked by balky downloads, dead zones and
scant public enthusiasm.  ViaSat Inc. (VSAT) , whose service will debut
on  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  aircraft next month, promises more
satellite-delivered bandwidth for each passenger than current
market leader  Gogo Inc. (GOGO)  can offer to an entire plane.  “Ten years ago, we used to use dial-up; nobody does that
anymore,” said Tim Mahoney, chief executive officer of the
aerospace unit of  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , a satellite-hardware supplier. “That evolution that we’ve gone through in
our home setting is going to take place on the aircraft.”  So-called spot beams from the new satellites deliver a
more-concentrated signal than those blanketing a region with TV
images. There’s enough bandwidth for scores of fliers to share,
with moving jets handed seamlessly from one beam to another.
It’s akin to connecting a  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  coffee shop full of
Wi-Fi users -- if the store were zipping through the
stratosphere.  Satellite Competitors  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT) , which will pipe its signal through Honeywell
equipment, plans to girdle the globe with three spot-beam
satellites launched by 2014. Intelsat expects its first Epic
satellite in space in 2015. By then, JetBlue plans to have
ViaSat’s Wi-Fi on all its planes, airline CEO Dave Barger said
this week.  In-flight Internet is available on only about 40 percent of
the U.S. and Canadian airline fleets, said Jim Breen, a Boston-based William Blair & Co analyst. Usage is even less: Satellite
provider  Global Eagle Entertainment Inc. (ENT)  estimates that only
about 5 percent of fliers on Internet-enabled planes pay to hop
online.  “When the plane lands, almost everybody immediately pulls
out their phones,” said Mark Dankberg, CEO of Carlsbad,
California-based ViaSat. “That gives you a sense of how many
people would use it if it were better.”  Hit, Miss  Cory Levy, co-founder and chief operating officer of mobile
application company One Inc., is part of that unsatisfied group.
He buys Wi-Fi on only about half of the weekly flights he makes
between  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles .  “Fifty percent of the time, it works really well and
probably 50 percent of the time on the SF to LA flight I can’t
even get Gmail to load,” Levy said. “It’s sort of like a hit
or miss.”  Aerial Wi-Fi was kicked around for years as a concept
before Chicago-based Boeing introduced Connexion, a service sold
to airlines to deliver broadband via a global satellite network.
Unveiled in 2000, the program faltered as travel slumped after
the Sept. 11 terror attacks, and Boeing pulled the plug in 2006.  That left a void filled by Gogo, whose system of ground
towers and mobile-phone spectrum grabbed the largest share of
the U.S. in-flight Internet market, serving carriers including
 American Airlines  and  United Airlines. (UAL)  Itasca, Illinois-based
Gogo charges fees such as $14 for all-day service.  TV Adaptation  Panasonic Avionics Corp., Global Eagle and others jumped
in, too, knitting together systems with satellites designed for
direct-to-home television.  Like the mobile-phone technology, the older spacecraft had
limits on broadband speed. Gogo’s system only provides a signal
over land, creating hours-long Web blackouts on over-water
flights.  “When you’re stuck going far over the Atlantic for nine
hours, there’s only so many movies you can watch,” said Matt
Kepnes, who flies to  Europe  and Southeast Asia about once a
month for his New York-based travel blog, Nomadic Matt. “I like
getting on my computer and chatting on Facebook and talking to
my friends, checking my e-mail and getting some work done.”  Gogo plans to migrate to satellite to help expand overseas
and boost speed, CEO Michael Small said.  “Air-to-ground was a unique situation that worked just
right in the U.S. for us to get the early lead,” Small said in
a telephone interview. “But in the long run, it will be
predominantly a satellite solution.”  Frequency Choice  Still unsettled are technological questions such as which
spectrum is most efficient for in-flight Internet, leaving
airlines to weigh conflicting claims.  Satellites for ViaSat and London-based Inmarsat use the
higher-frequency Ka band, which potentially has twice the
capacity, said Chris Quilty, a Raymond James Financial Inc.
analyst in  St. Petersburg , Florida. Luxembourg-based Intelsat’s
Epic satellite will use the Ku band, the workhorse spectrum in
the last decade, and will be able to match rivals’ power, CEO
David McGlade said in a telephone interview.  Airlines’ choices will lock them into one system or the
other because antennas for the different bands aren’t
compatible, echoing the VHS-versus-Beta videocassette battle.
The cost of equipment and aircraft downtime for installation
precludes switching easily, Quilty said.  JetBlue’s Path  JetBlue CEO Barger said the airline will start ViaSat Wi-Fi
trials on three planes next month, before pushing the service to
all its larger  Airbus SAS (EAD)  planes next year. The timeline for
equipping smaller  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets in 2015 may be accelerated to
next year, Barger said in a telephone interview.  Internet access will be free on the first 30 ViaSat-equipped planes, said Morgan Johnston, a spokesman. After that,
there may be a fee for heavy use such as streaming videos, he
said. Johnston said New York-based JetBlue isn’t discussing
pricing, saying only the service will be “obtainable to anyone
on the plane.”  Passengers over time will want to be connected in the air
like they are on the ground -- for free, ViaSat’s Dankberg said.
New satellites will lower airlines’ Internet cost to the
equivalent of a beverage and bag of peanuts per passenger,
prodding carriers to offer the service to everyone, he said.  “You go to Starbucks and you can get free Wi-Fi, but you
don’t feel obligated to use it,” Dankberg said. “That should
become clear fairly soon that free is what people want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Surane in  New York  at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  