-- Old Mutual First-Half Earnings Rise on Emerging-Market Sales
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-07T16:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/old-mutual-s-first-half-earnings-rise-on-emerging-market-sales.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) ,  Africa ’s largest
insurer, said profit from continuing operations in the first
half rose 14 percent on higher emerging-market sales.  Earnings in the period through June were 555 million pounds
($852 million), compared with 487 million pounds a year earlier,
the London-based insurer said today in a statement. While the
dividend increased 20 percent percent to 2.1 pence, adjusted
earnings per share rose to 9.1 pence, missing the 9.5 pence
median  estimate  of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Emerging markets  performed well and “our U.S. asset
management business had a very strong half, substantially
contributing to our positive net client cash flows,” Chief
Executive Officer Julian Roberts said in the statement.  Old Mutual has operations in  Europe , the U.K.,  Latin
America ,  Nigeria  and  South Africa . The U.K. this year banned
fund management and life insurance firms from paying commission
to financial advisers in return for sales, undermining demand
for some products. Old Mutual, which set aside 5 billion rand
($505 million) for expansion in emerging markets, is focusing on
fast-growing countries such as Kenya where it said in July it
plans to buy a stake in lender Faulu Kenya DTM Ltd.  “We are working with our retail customers in South Africa
to help them through a challenging economic environment,” the
company said. “We are seeing improved conditions in the U.S.
and the U.K., and sub-Saharan Africa continues to grow
strongly.”  Share Gain  The stock rose 2.9 percent to 198.1 pence at the close of
trading in  London . Old Mutual has risen 11 percent in London
this year, less than the average 25 percent gain on the eight-member FTSE 350 Life Insurance Index.  South Africa’s rand has weakened 14 percent against the
dollar and more than 10 percent against the pound this year,
making it the worst-performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The rand’s weakness took 1 pence off Old Mutual’s first-half earnings per share, Philip Broadley, the insurer’s chief
financial officer, said on a conference call from London. While
the weaker rand makes dividend growth higher for South Africa
shareholders, continued weakness may take 2 pence or more off
the full-year earnings per share figure, he said.  Sales Progress  “The trends show progress in sales and operational
effectiveness, but profit and balance sheet measures have been
held back by currency movements,”  Marcus Barnard , an analyst at
Oriel Securities Ltd., said today in a note to investors.
“Future share price moves should reflect the improvements in
the underlying operating performance.”  Net income fell to 414 million pounds from 930 million
pounds a year earlier following asset sales last year. The U.S.
asset management operations are showing more consistent growth,
according to Roberts, and an initial public offering of the
business may be considered again sometime in the future after
plans were delayed, he said.  Old Mutual started in South Africa more than 100 years ago
and also owns  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the country’s fourth largest
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  