-- Home Capital Advances on Lowered Capital Decision
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-07T14:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/home-capital-advances-on-lowered-capital-decision-toronto-mover.html
Home Capital Group Inc. (HCG) ,  Canada ’s
largest alternative mortgage lender, gained the most on the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Financials Index after a regulator’s
decision reduced the amount of loss-absorbing capital the bank
has to hold against mortgages.  Home Capital climbed 2.2 percent to C$64 at 9:55 a.m. in
Toronto, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the 45-company
index. Shares of the Toronto-based lender have advanced 8.4
percent this year.  The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
issued a  ruling  after the market closed yesterday clarifying
that lenders can exclude certain securitized mortgages from
their asset-to-capital multiple calculations when they also sell
a “strip” representing the refinancing risk associated with
the loan. OSFI issued the ruling in response to questions from
lenders over the issue.  Home Capital will “gradually increase its origination and
securitization of insured residential mortgages and sales of
retained interests in the securitized mortgage pools,” Chief
Executive Officer Gerald Soloway said in a statement yesterday.  Home Capital, which provides mortgages for Canadians turned
away from the banks, could “ramp up” its origination of
certain loans, and possibly sell strips on existing loans to
free up capital,  Michael Goldberg , an analyst at Desjardins
Securities Inc. in Toronto, said in a note to clients.  ‘Positive Development’  “We view this as a positive development for Home,”
Goldberg wrote. “We also view this as a positive development
for the banks because it enhances their capital flexibility as
well.”  About C$2 billion ($1.9 billion) of Home Capital’s
securitized mortgages would be eligible for such treatment as of
the end of 2012, Stephen Boland, an analyst at GMP Securities LP
in Toronto, said today in a note. The lender’s asset-to-capital
multiple would be reduced about 1.5 times if it were able to
securitize the entire C$2 billion of applicable mortgages, he
said.  “This would generate approximately $8 million of gains for
HCG,” Boland said, assuming a 40 basis point margin on the sale
of the assets. “Going forward, there may be additional gains
for new mortgages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  