-- Honduras Rating Cut by S&P on Debt Burden, Deficit
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-07T21:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/honduras-rating-cut-by-s-p-on-debt-burden-deficit.html
Honduras ’s credit rating was lowered
by Standard & Poor’s as the Central American country is saddled
with a rising debt burden and a limited ability to fund deficit
spending.  The credit rating was cut to B from B+ as the country’s
ratio of debt-to-gross domestic product is forecast to rise to
27 percent this year from 21 percent last year, S&P said in a
report today. The central government deficit remains near 6
percent of GDP, S&P said. The downgrade comes 14 months after
S&P raised Honduras’s credit rating to B+, citing moderate
fiscal deficits and greater political stability.  “The downgrade reflects the government’s diminished fiscal
flexibility and rising debt burden, which increases Honduras’s
vulnerability to external shocks or negative political
developments,” S&P said. “Honduras’s shallow domestic capital
markets limit the government’s ability to fund fiscal
deficits.”  Honduras’s dollar bonds due in 2024 have lost 17 percent
since being sold in March, compared with a 0.7 percent return
for Central American and Caribbean debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bonds yield
10.4 percent, up from 7.1 percent in March.  S&P said that Honduras’s outlook remains stable on the
expectation that political uncertainty will diminish after the
November presidential elections and that the new administration
will take steps to halt the erosion of public finances. Credit
ratings could be lowered further should political uncertainty
persist after the elections, S&P said.  The new B rating, five levels below investment grade, puts
Honduras in the same category as Ghana and  Venezuela .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in San Jose, Costa Rica at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  