-- Montreal Maine Railway Files for Bankruptcy After Crash
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-08T19:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/montreal-maine-railway-files-for-bankruptcy-after-crash.html
Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway
Ltd., the operator of the runaway oil train that exploded and
killed 47 people in a Quebec town, said it was forced to file
for bankruptcy because of potential liability from the crash.  Service will continue during the restructuring, the carrier
said after yesterday’s filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Bangor, Maine. An affiliated company, Montreal, Maine & Atlantic
 Canada  Co., filed a petition in Canada, where the accident
marked the country’s worst rail disaster since 1910.  Those moves were foreshadowed by Chairman Edward Burkhardt,
who signaled last month that the railroad’s viability was in
question. A criminal probe by Quebec authorities is under way,
the town of Lac-Megantic is seeking financial aid to restore the
gutted community and a civil complaint alleges a failure to take
steps to prevent the derailment.  “This announcement does not mean that MM&A is off the hook
for their responsibilities to the people of Lac-Megantic,”
Ashley Kelahear, a spokeswoman for Canadian Transport Minister
Lisa Raitt, said in an e-mail. “We will work with the Province
of  Quebec  to ensure that the cleanup continues and that the
people of Lac-Megantic continue to receive the support they
need.”  Quebec Superior Court Justice Martin Castonguay granted the
company’s Canadian unit creditor protection today, Pierre
Legault, a Montreal-based lawyer who represents the railroad,
said in a telephone interview. A hearing has been set for Aug.
23, Canada’s RDI television reported.  Obligations, Assets  Shortly after 1 a.m. on July 6, the 73-car train crashed
near the center of the town of 5,932 people about 16 kilometers
(10 miles) north of Maine. A wall of flames 12 stories high
incinerated buildings in Lac-Megantic’s center.  “The obligations of both companies now exceed the value of
their assets, including prospective insurance recoveries, as a
direct result of the tragic derailment,” Burkhardt said
yesterday in a statement referring to Hermon, Maine-based
 Montreal , Maine & Atlantic and its affiliated Canadian business.  The train had been left unattended for the night outside
Lac-Megantic, and Canadian investigators with the Transportation
Safety Board found that the brakes weren’t applied with enough
force to stop the cars from rolling during the incident.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic was sued July 22 in state court
in  Chicago , along with Burkhardt and several fuel companies,
over the rail disaster. Burkhardt is the chief executive of the
carrier’s parent company, Rail World Inc., based in the Chicago
suburb of Rosemont,  Illinois .  Claims from the disaster are “sufficiently large that it
would be impossible or impractical to continue as a going
concern without the protection” of U.S. bankruptcy law,
Montreal,  Maine  & Atlantic railroad said in its filing.  Under U.S. law, a bankruptcy filing by a company halts
lawsuits by creditors seeking to collect on claims.  “Given the dramatically reduced cash flow and increase in
liabilities, a bankruptcy filing is the only option to preserve
the value of the system,” the company said in court papers.  1864 Roots  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic traces its roots to 1864. It
hauls pulp and paper, petroleum and chemicals along 510 miles of
track in Maine, Vermont and Quebec, according to its website.
The company listed assets of as much as $100 million and debt of
as much as $10 million in its U.S. bankruptcy filing.  Environmental cleanup costs will probably exceed C$200
million ($194 million), according to the company’s Canadian
court filing. Montreal, Maine & Atlantic’s liability insurer, XL
Insurance Co., has failed to make any payments under the
insurance policy, and neither Montreal, Maine & Atlantic nor its
Canadian unit is able to pay at this stage “given their
financial situation,” according to the document.  Montreal, Maine & Atlantic holds a $25 million liability
insurance policy with XL, which covers costs for evacuation,
fire suppression, pollution cleanup, bodily injury and property
damages, according to the filing.  The U.S. government is among the Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic’s creditors, with the railroad owing $27.5 million
under a Federal Rail Administration credit facility, according
to court papers.  Surete du Quebec’s criminal investigation into the railroad
isn’t affected by the filing, said a spokeswoman for the
provincial police force who declined to give her name. The
Transportation Safety Board’s inquiry also isn’t expected to be
affected, said Chris Krepski, an agency spokesman.  Lac-Megantic Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche told Radio-Canada
television yesterday that the cleanup there is continuing.  “This is not a surprise to us,” Roy-Laroche said. “We
can reassure the population that the work will continue despite
today’s announcement.”  About 5.7 million liters (1.5 million gallons) of crude
spilled from the damaged rail cars, Quebec’s environment
ministry said. The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train contained
about 7.2 million liters of crude at the time of the derailment,
the Canadian government said.  Career Railroader  Burkhardt, the Montreal, Maine & Atlantic chairman, founded
parent Rail World in 1999 after a railroading career that
included the formation of Wisconsin Central Transportation Corp.
in 1987.  He made his name by turning unprofitable castoffs into
successful businesses. Wisconsin Central was created from lines
that Soo Line Railroad deemed unprofitable in the wake of the
U.S. rail industry’s 1980 deregulation. In the 1990s, Burkhardt
expanded the company’s international reach by helping privatize
freight rail networks in  New Zealand  and the U.K.  In 1999, he was pushed out at Wisconsin Central after a 60
percent stock-price decline over a 2 1/2-year period, and he
formed Rail World in the same month. Rail World created
Montreal, Maine & Atlantic after buying the assets of bankrupt
Bangor & Aroostook Railroad Co. in early 2003.  Cleanup Order  Montreal Maine & Atlantic and its Canadian unit were among
the parties targeted by an emergency decontamination order
issued July 29 by Quebec’s environment minister to clean up oil
from the crash.  Miami-based  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT)  and Western Petroleum
Co. of  Eden Prairie ,  Minnesota  owned, and continue to own, the
crude spilled at Lac-Megantic, according to the government
order.  Lac-Megantic had to pay about C$8 million to eight
contractors hired by the railroad to clean up the spilled crude
because the carrier hadn’t paid for the work, Mayor Roy-Laroche
said July 30 at a televised news conference. Letters demanding
payment sent by Lac-Megantic’s lawyers remained unanswered as of
last week, the mayor said at the time.  The bankruptcy case is In re Montreal Maine & Atlantic
Railway, 1:13-bk-10670, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Maine
(Bangor). The lawsuit is Roy v. Montreal Maine & Atlantic
Railway, 2013-LOO8272, Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  