-- Morgan Stanley Seeks Repeat of Winning Dollar Call: Currencies
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M o r g a n e   L a p e y r e
-- 2013-08-07T09:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/morgan-stanley-seeks-repeat-of-winning-dollar-call-currencies.html
Morgan Stanley, which advised clients
to sell the dollar just before it tumbled to a four-month low in
June, has rejoined U.S. currency bulls on optimism that the
world’s largest economy will recover faster than peers.  Morgan Stanley forecasts that the greenback will strengthen
5 percent to $1.26 per euro and 10 percent to 107 yen by year-end, making it more optimistic than the $1.27 and 105-yen median
estimates of more than 70 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The trend in the dollar is clearly to the upside,”  Hans Redeker , the London-based head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Morgan Stanley, said in an Aug. 5 phone interview.
“The  U.S. dollar  is trading according to long-term return
expectations of underlying assets, and that’s highly dependent
on how you view the growth differential between the U.S. and the
rest of the world.”  Morgan Stanley is returning to its bullish stance just as
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show traders are
paring bets that America’s currency will continue to strengthen
after the Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose 4 percent this year,
heading for its biggest annual gain since 2008.  Greenback Whipsawed  The dollar climbed 0.2 percent to $1.3276 per euro at 10:36
a.m. in  London , and dropped 0.7 percent to 97.05 yen.  The greenback has been whipsawed by mixed messages from the
 Federal Reserve  over when it will slow the pace of the bond
purchases it uses to bolster the economy. The central bank has
been printing enough dollars to buy $85 billion of Treasuries
and mortgage bonds a month.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 10 that the U.S.
central bank would maintain a “highly accommodative monetary
policy for the foreseeable future.” That was after he said on
June 19 that officials may start dialing down their
unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely
in mid-2014 if the labor market showed sustained improvement.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major currencies, climbed to an almost three-year
high of 1,045 in May, before falling to 1,008.6 on June 14. The
gauge was at 1,026.32 today.  The turmoil spread beyond the foreign-exchange market. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  tumbled 1.5 percent in June, the
biggest monthly decline since October. The  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of
commodities fell to a two-month low on June 24, and bond yields
soared, raising the cost of borrowing. The JPMorgan  Emerging
Markets  Bond Index fell 5 percent in June, the most since
October 2008.  ‘Worked Out’  “In June, we thought about the developments in asset
markets and about the impact it was going to have on the way the
Fed would think about its tapering policy,” Redeker said. “We
thought here would be a pause in this dollar bullishness. So,
basically, we implemented that pause and that worked out.”  For all the hand-wringing over Fed policy, the economy is
showing signs of strength. U.S. gross domestic product will
expand 2.7 percent next year, according to the median forecast
of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with an
average estimate of 1.9 percent for the Group of 10 nations.  Equities have since bounced back, with the  S&P 500  reaching
a record high 1,709.67 last week, and bond market losses have
slowed. A measure of U.S. fixed-income securities is little
changed since the start of July, after tumbling 3.5 percent in
May and June as measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Broad Market Index.  Futures Traders  “The strength in the stock market is a reflection of the
U.S. recovery,” Alvin Tan, a director of foreign-exchange
strategies at Societe Generale SA in London, said in an Aug. 6
phone interview. “The market is pricing in better economic
conditions in the U.S.”  Futures traders decreased bets that the dollar will rally
for a second week, figures from the CFTC show.  Wagers that the U.S. currency will gain versus eight peers
including the euro, yen and pound -- known as net longs -- fell
$4.5 billion to $23.5 billion in the week ended July 30, the
least since the period ending July 2, according to CFTC data
compiled by SocGen.  That compares with a high for this year of $38 billion in
May, and $13.4 billion of bets that the dollar would weaken at
the end of last year.  “The currency positioning of the dollar is on the net-long
side, but not particularly heavy relative to recent history,”
Tan said. “Monetary policy divergence will drive the euro-dollar to the low 1.20s by the first quarter of next year.”  Predicting Gains  Of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, 20 predict that the
dollar will rally by the end of 2013 amid signs that the U.S. is
leading the developed world’s recovery from the financial crisis
and that it will reduce currency-sapping stimulus more quickly.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which
measures the currency versus those of six U.S. trading partners,
will rise to 85.6 by Dec. 31, from 81.784, according to the
median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 1
that  interest rates  in the euro region will remain low for an
extended period. The Frankfurt-based central bank will cut its
 main rate  by a quarter-percentage point to a record 0.25 percent
early next year, SocGen’s Tan forecast.  Higher Yields  Yields on 10-year  U.S. Treasury (USGG10YR)  notes, the benchmark for
everything from mortgages to corporate bonds, are climbing on
expectations that the Fed will pare stimulus.  While that makes U.S. investments more attractive, higher
borrowing costs may stifle the economy’s recovery, weighing on
the dollar. The yield touched 2.75 percent on July 8, the
highest level since August 2011, and was at 2.63 percent today.  “The  U.S. economy  is in a more advanced position in the
business cycle than Asia or  Europe  at the moment,”  Paul Robson ,
a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in London, said in an Aug. 6 phone interview. “The main risk is
how the economy navigates higher U.S. yields,” though as more
data point to a recovery, the dollar “should do reasonably
well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Morgane Lapeyre in London at 
 mlapeyre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  