-- Morrison & Foerster, Vinson & Elkins, Cravath: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-07T04:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/morrison-foerster-vinson-elkins-cravath-business-of-law.html
Finance lawyer Mark Wojciechowski
joined  Morrison & Foerster LLP ’s financial transactions group in
 New York  as a partner. He was previously with Allen & Overy LLP
in New York, where he served as head of the firm’s North
American leveraged finance group.  Wojciechowski has spent most of his career handling finance
matters in the New York markets such as leveraged finance and
M&A transactions, as well as advising investment funds and other
non-traditional investors on hybrid mezzanine transactions
involving debt and equity investments.  “His practice complements our financial institutions
practice and expands our capacity to represent parties to
financing transactions in a variety of contexts, particularly
with respect to acquisition financings,” Jill Feldman,
chairwoman of MoFo’s financial transactions group, said in a
statement.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers at 16
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .  Former Coventry Healthcare General Counsel Joins Morgan Lewis  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP said Thomas Zielinski, former
executive vice president and general counsel at Coventry Health
Care, Inc., joined the firm as a partner in its litigation
practice, in Philadelphia.  Zielinski, who was Coventry’s general counsel from 2001,
focused on healthcare transactional, regulatory, provider
reimbursement and litigation matters for at one of the country’s
largest health insurers before its acquisition by Aetna, Inc. He
also was named executive vice president, expanding his
operational and financial duties and responsibilities within the
company.  “Tom’s extensive litigation experience, coupled with the
healthcare regulatory expertise he developed during his time at
Coventry, will prove invaluable to our clients in and beyond the
healthcare industry,” chairman Francis M. Milone said in a
statement.  Zielinski joins a team of nearly 700 litigators working
from 20 offices around the world.  Morgan Lewis  has more than
1,600 lawyers and professionals in 24 offices across the U.S.,
Europe, and Asia.  Securities, Corporate Governance Lawyer Joins Vinson & Elkins  Securities litigation and enforcement lawyer, Michael Charlson has joined Vinson & Elkins LLP in  San Francisco  and
will help lead that office alongside Matt Jacobs, the office’s
managing partner. He joins from Hogan Lovells LLP, where he
spent three years as managing partner of Hogan Lovell’s Bay Area
offices.  “His national practice and extensive experience with both
private securities litigation and the SEC offers key experience
to our clients,” V&E Managing Partner Scott Wulfe said in a
statement.  Charlson has defended shareholder litigation of all types,
handled internal investigations and represented clients in SEC
investigations and enforcement proceedings involving a myriad of
allegations. He also spent 22 years at Heller Ehrman LLP, where
he was the managing partner of that firm’s Silicon Valley office
and co-chair of the firm’s securities and corporate governance
litigation practice.  Vinson & Elkins has more than 675 lawyers at 16 offices the
U.S.,  London , the  Middle East  and Asia.  Cooley Adds Patent Partner Teja in Boston Office  Cooley LLP announced that it has strengthened its patent
counseling and prosecution practice with the addition of Joseph Teja, Jr. as a partner in  Boston . Teja joins the firm from Foley
& Lardner LLP, where he was a partner in the electronics and
green energy technologies practices and a member of its emerging
technologies industry team.  “Joe’s IP expertise in the areas of electrical engineering
and computing will position him as a key resource to many of our
technology clients, both those in the greater New England
region, as well as across the firm,” Al Browne, partner-in-charge of Cooley’s Boston office, said in a statement.  Teja has experience counseling in regard to their overall
IP protection strategies. His patent practice is focused
primarily in the areas of electrical engineering, computer
science, physics and clean energy.  Cooley has 700 attorneys are in 11 major business and
technology centers in the U.S. and  Shanghai .  Capital Markets Partner Rejoins Dentons in Washington  Dentons LLP announced that John P. Holahan, a financial
services regulatory practitioner, has rejoined the firm as a
partner in its capital markets practice in  Washington . He joined
DLA Piper LLP in 2011, the firm said.  Holahan represents clients before all federal and state
regulators, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
He also has experience in various litigation and transactional
matters across the financial services industry.  “We are delighted to welcome John back to the firm,”
Stephen Kudenholdt, co-chair of Dentons U.S. capital markets
practice group said in a statement. “John’s experience greatly
enhances our platform and will benefit all of our clients
involved in the residential mortgage markets.”  Dentons was formed in March 2013 by the combination of
international law firm Salans LLP, Canadian law firm Fraser
Milner Casgrain LLP and international law firm SNR Denton. The
firm has more than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79
locations in 52 countries in  Africa , Asia, Europe the Middle
East and the Americas.  Justice Department Lawyer Marilyn May Joined Arnold & Porter  Marilyn May, a False Claims Act litigator at the U.S.
Justice Department, joined  Arnold & Porter  LLP’s Washington
office as litigation counsel with a focus on healthcare,
pharmaceutical and medical device industry defense work.  May was the head of healthcare fraud enforcement in the
U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Eastern District of  Pennsylvania .
She coordinated healthcare fraud cases and investigations as
well as handled False Claims Act cases involving pharmaceutical
and medical device companies, hospitals, nursing homes and other
healthcare providers, the firm said.  “Marilyn is one of the top False Claims Act litigators in
the country, with a stellar reputation as a fair and tough trial
lawyer,” Arnold & Porter Chairman Thomas Milch said in a
statement. “Her deep knowledge of the law and relationships
within federal and state agencies will be of great benefit to
our clients, particularly as civil and criminal enforcement
activity in the healthcare sector continues to intensify,”  Arnold & Porter has more than 800 lawyers with eight
offices in the U.S. and Europe.  Deals  Cleary, Cravath Advise on Bezos Purchase of Washington Post  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  agreed
to buy the  Washington Post (WPO)  for $250 million, betting that he can
apply his success in e-commerce to the struggling newspaper
industry.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  is representing
Bezos while Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP is advising The
Washington Post.  Bezos is making the deal as an individual and not as part
of Amazon, the world’s biggest online retailer, according to a
statement. Current owner Washington Post Co., which isn’t
selling its Kaplan education division and other businesses as
part of the transaction, now plans to change its name.  The Cleary corporate team is led by partner Paul Shim.
Additional partners include Arthur Kohn on employment matters;
Len Jacoby on IP matters; Steven Horowitz on real estate
matters; and Jason Factor on tax aspects.  The Cravath team representing The Washington Post Co.
include partner Eric L. Schiele on corporate matters and partner
Jennifer S. Conway on executive compensation and benefits
matters.  In acquiring the publication, famed for its coverage of the
Watergate scandal in the 1970s, Bezos becomes the latest
billionaire to try his hand at reviving the newspaper business.
Boston Red Sox owner  John Henry  agreed to buy the Boston Globe
last week, and  Warren Buffett  has assembled an empire of
community papers in recent years.  The deal marks the end of the paper’s stewardship by the
Graham family and its relatives, who acquired the Post in 1933.
Seven years of declining sales, triggered by an industrywide
advertising slump, ultimately pushed the family to sell.
Investment bank Allen & Co. handled the process.  For more, click here.  Video  NYC Gifted Programs Should Rely on ‘Math,’ Lawyer Says  Stewart Karlin, a New York labor and employment lawyer,
talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his
representation of a group of parents challenging the admissions
process for New York City’s highly competitive gifted-and-talented programs.  Karlin, in this “Rainmakers” episode, also explains why
his clients are appealing a recent Manhattan Supreme Court
decision permitting the city to send out admissions offers for
the elite programs.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  