-- Loss of Moscow’s Steve Jobs Hits Yandex: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-08T11:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/moscow-s-steve-jobs-loss-sours-yandex-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) ,  Russia ’s largest search
engine, tumbled for a third day in  New York  on concern the
company will struggle to preserve its lead against  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
following the death of co-founder Ilya Segalovich.  Shares of Yandex, based in  The Hague , slumped 1.8 percent
to $32.76 yesterday, capping the longest slide in almost two
months. Russia’s benchmark Micex Index traded little changed at
3:29 p.m. in Moscow after four days of declines. VTB Group, the
nation’s second-biggest bank, slid 1.9 percent in  London  today.  Segalovich and Chief Executive Officer Arkady Volozh
founded Yandex more than 20 years ago to turn the search engine
into an almost $11 billion operation that controls more than 60
percent of the Russian market, beating Google. Analysts from
Otkritie Financial Corp. to EVA Dimensions cut their
recommendations on the stock since the death of Segalovich with
the number of  buy ratings  sinking to a 13-month low.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
has tumbled in the past year on concern about the lack of a new
hit product since the death of co-founder  Steve Jobs .  “Segalovich’s role at Yandex was comparable to Steve
Jobs’s role at Apple,” Mansur Mammadov, who helps manage $100
million at Kazimir Partners in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
He said the firm sold all of its Yandex shares last month.
“Competition with such a giant as Google is the major risk for
the stock and it remains to be seen how the company is going to
handle it without Segalovich.”  Smartphone Competition  Apple lost as much as 3.9 percent in the seven weeks after
Jobs’ death Oct. 5, 2011. The shares are posting the biggest 12-month  decline  since 2001 amid concern earnings at the maker of
the iPhone and iPad will falter as low-end smartphone
competition grows. Slowing sales and profit growth have put
pressure on Apple to push into new product categories.  Segalovich, who died July 27 at age 48, and Volozh created
software enabling a context search through the Bible on compact
discs and in 1997 set up the Yandex.ru Internet search engine.
The company said last month it signed an agreement to operate
paid search results for  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , Russia’s largest
social network.  “Segalovich’s death is the major risk for Yandex,”
Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie in Moscow, said
by phone yesterday. He cut the stock to hold on July 29.
“Segalovich was the company’s brain when it comes to
innovations and the market is yet to realize the longer-term
risks for the stock following his death.”  Russian Economy  Yandex lifted its annual sales  forecast  last month and
reported second-quarter earnings that exceeded estimates as it
benefits from rising demand in Russia for Internet advertising.
The company, which last year got all of its revenue from Russia,
will face the slowest economic growth since 2009’s contraction,
according to a Bloomberg survey with 42 economists.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian stocks in New York declined 0.1 percent at 89.34.  CTC
Media Inc. (CTCM)  dropped 1.8 percent to a five-month low at $10.62
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its rating on the stock to
neutral from the equivalent of buy, citing a “deteriorating
outlook” for the second half of the year. Trading was almost
double the daily average of the past three months.  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  surged 7.6 percent, the most since Jan. 16,
to $10.63 as the wireless carrier controlled by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  was upgraded to buy from hold at
Deutsche Bank AG.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, was unchanged at $25.70 in New
York yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the stock futures, rose 1.6% percent to
23.58.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  