-- Toyota Faces First Trial Over Acceleration-Linked Death
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-08-07T05:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/toyota-faces-first-trial-over-acceleration-linked-death.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  goes before a jury
for the first time in a lawsuit over a claim that unexpected
acceleration of one of its cars caused a death.  Opening statements are scheduled to start as early as today
in California state court in Los Angeles, where about 85
personal-injury and wrongful-death acceleration cases have been
consolidated.  The suit being tried, filed by the husband and son of a
woman who died in a crash, is a bellwether whose outcome may
point the way to out-of-court resolution of others.  Yasuharu Uno, the widower, and his son Jeffrey say Toyota
is liable because it didn’t install a brake override system in
the 2006 Camry that Noriko Uno, 66, was driving when it sped
through oncoming traffic until it hit a tree. Such a system
makes a vehicle’s engine idle when the gas and brake pedals are
pushed simultaneously.  Noriko Uno’s fifth-generation Camry had the most reported
unintended-acceleration claims, Garo Mardirossian, the family’s
lawyer, said in a court filing. Such claims rose 400 percent
from the previous generation, he said June 24 in court papers.  “Toyota knew this,” Mardirossian wrote. “Toyota did
nothing to remedy this. Rather, it recalled and added brake
override to the 2007 Toyota Camry, but left Mrs. Uno’s Toyota
Camry on the roadways unsafe and without brake override.”  The Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker settled economic-loss
allegations brought by U.S. drivers after the recall of more
than 10 million vehicles worldwide in 2009 and 2010 for
potential unintended acceleration with causes such as stuck
accelerators and floor mats that shifted out of position.  $1.63 Billion  That settlement was valued at as much as $1.63 billion by
plaintiffs’ lawyers. It was approved by a judge in Santa Ana,
 California , who oversees the acceleration-related lawsuits
consolidated in federal court. No personal-injury or wrongful-death case among them has gone to trial.  Toyota won a trial in 2011 in a case brought by a Long
Island, New York, doctor who blamed sudden unintended
acceleration for an accident with his 2005 Scion TC. The jury
took less than an hour to find the carmaker wasn’t at fault. The
suit wasn’t one of the consolidated federal cases.  The company in 2010 agreed to pay $10 million to settle
with the family of a California Highway Patrol officer who died
with his wife, 13-year-old daughter and brother-in-law when a
Lexus ES350 loaned by a San Diego dealership accelerated out of
control and crashed. A law enforcement report said an
incorrectly installed, incompatible floor mat trapped the gas
pedal and caused the car to accelerate.  Fatal Accident  Noriko Uno died Aug. 28, 2009. While she was running
errands, her car was struck by one driven by an 86-year-old
driver who ran a stop sign and who is also defendant at the
trial.  The Camry spun, and Uno’s foot got stuck between the gas
and brake pedals, the family said in court papers, and the car
accelerated out of control.  Noriko Uno tried in vain to brake with her left foot,
according to the family. After about half a mile her car struck
a tree as she tried to avoid oncoming traffic, the family said.  If the Camry had had a brake override system, the car would
have stopped when both the gas and brake pedals were pressed,
the family’s lawyer said in the filing.  Toyota said in court papers that it’s impossible for Uno’s
foot to have been stuck for 30 seconds between the brake and gas
pedals.  No Evidence  A brake override system wouldn’t have made a difference
because there’s no substantial evidence that she was trying to
brake, the company said.  “Approximately 14 witnesses observed Uno as she travelled
in the wrong direction,” Toyota said in its memorandum to the
court. “Thirteen witnesses testified they never saw brake
lights on the Camry, and the only witness who said she saw brake
lights, said she saw the Camry brake lights go on for a second
then off, then on and off again.”  The fatal crash occurred because Uno mistakenly stepped on
the gas pedal rather than the brake, Toyota said. Unintended
acceleration is almost always caused by “pedal error,” whose
likelihood increases due to factors such as driver age, gender,
height, medical condition, distractions and unexpected events,
the carmaker said.  Toyota said Uno suffered from medical conditions, including
low blood sugar, which impaired her cognitive abilities and
caused her to drive away after the first accident, when her car
had been stopped.  The cases are In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at +1-   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 