-- Palestinians Say New Israeli Homes in East Jerusalem Hurt Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-07T09:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/palestinians-say-new-israeli-homes-in-east-jerusalem-hurt-talks.html
Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said  Israel ’s plan to start building dozens of new Jewish
homes in east Jerusalem jeopardizes peace talks the sides
renewed last month after a three-year breakdown.  “Some people in Israel continue to believe that the
endgame for negotiations should not be peace, but rather,
further colonization,” Erekat said today in an e-mailed
statement. “We call upon all parties that had vigorously
advocated for the resumption of negotiations to do whatever is
needed to block and to punish the latest decisions made by the
Israeli government and the Occupation Municipality in
Jerusalem.”  Palestinians want to build their capital in east Jerusalem,
home to Muslim, Jewish and Christian shrines, and oppose any
expansion of Israel’s footprint in that sector of the holy city,
which it captured in 1967. Israel says  Jerusalem  should remain
its undivided capital under any accord.  Israeli Minister of Housing and Construction Uri Ariel is
scheduled to attend a cornerstone-laying ceremony next week for
the 63-apartment project, his spokesman Arik Ben-Shimon said.
The construction was approved years ago and is getting under way
now after Israeli courts dismissed Palestinian legal challenges,
Ben-Shimon said in a phone interview.  Ariel belongs to the Jewish Home party, the third-biggest
faction in Netanyahu’s coalition. It opposes any peace deal that
leads to the creation of a Palestinian state.  Talks Resumed  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, brokered
by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , kicked off in  Washington 
on July 29 and are set to continue later this month.  Talks had broken off in 2010 after Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to renew a freeze on new building on
West Bank land Israel occupied in 1967 and Palestinians claim
for a future state. Israel has made no change in its settlement-construction policy, Netanyahu said last month.  Mayor Nir Barkat will also attend the ceremony. “There has
been no change in municipal building policies for the past 40
years,” the Jerusalem municipality said in an e-mailed
statement. “Jerusalem continues to build in all areas and
neighborhoods of the city.”  The land on which the east Jerusalem homes are to be built
was appropriated from residents of adjacent Palestinian
villages, according to Erekat’s statement.  “It is clear there are some elements in the government who
are looking to sabotage the negotiations,” said Lior Amihai, a
spokesman for Peace Now, a non-governmental group that monitors
settlement construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  