-- Pearson Said to Seek Up to $500 Million for Mergermarket
-- B y   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-08-07T18:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/pearson-said-to-seek-up-to-500-million-for-mergermarket.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  is seeking as much as
$500 million for its financial-information division  Mergermarket
Ltd. , with first-round bids due by the end of September,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  The company sent information on the business to potential
buyers last week, said two people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Private-equity
firms including Warburg Pincus LLC are among the interested
parties, the people said.  Mergermarket posted about $150 million in sales last year,
Pearson Chief Executive Officer John Fallon said at the
company’s earnings meeting last month. The company, which has
more than 500 journalists and analysts globally, was founded in
2000 to offer financial news and information to clients
including banks and  hedge funds , according to its website.  Pearson is planning to enter talks with two or three
bidders by November and reach an agreement by the end of the
year, one person said. The London-based publisher and education
company expects private-equity buyers to have committed
financing lined up for bids to be considered, the person said.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. is running the sale.  Mergermarket’s  management team  will have a say in choosing
a winner, one person said. The team, led by CEO Hamilton
Matthews, would prefer a sale to a buyout firm so it can operate
the company outside of the scrutiny of public shareholders, the
person said.  Pearson acquired Mergermarket in 2006 for 101 million
pounds, or $192 million at the time, and it is part of the
company’s FT Group, which also owns the Financial Times
newspaper.  Bloomberg LP, the owner of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Pearson in providing news and information to the financial-services industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  