-- Pena Nieto Delays Mexico Energy Bill Amid Party Negotiations
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-07T21:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/pena-nieto-said-to-delay-mexico-energy-bill-amid-negotiations.html
President Enrique Pena Nieto will
delay the announcement of his proposal to end  Mexico ’s seven-decade state energy monopoly until next week, he said today in a
statement posted to his Twitter page.  “I continue to prepare the presentation of the energy
reform that will stimulate national development,” he said in a
statement confirmed by the presidential press office. “I’ve
decided to announce it next week.”  The delay comes as political parties extend negotiations,
said a person who isn’t authorized to speak publicly about the
president’s plans. Francisco Arroyo, a lawmaker with Pena
Nieto’s ruling party and speaker of the lower house, said in a
Radio Formula interview that the bill will be pushed back a few
days to reach the “broadest consensus possible.”  Pena Nieto is seeking to change the constitution to allow
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to pump
crude in the nation with Latin America’s third-largest proven
oil reserves for the first time since 1938, the president of the
ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party Cesar Camacho said in
an interview yesterday. A more aggressive proposal delivered
last week by an opposition party is increasing Pena Nieto’s
chances of pushing the bill through Congress, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Although we’d like to have the reform approved as is,
it’s obvious that won’t occur,” Camacho said by telephone.
“It’s necessary to listen to many voices and for the
legislators to come to an agreement on the essential topics.”  Pena Nieto said yesterday he was planning to present the
bill this week.  Peso Slides  Mexico’s peso fell 0.5 percent to 12.6857 per  U.S. dollar 
at 12:10 p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest decline among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The proposal’s delay is “seen
in a very bad light,” said Roberto Galvan, a currency trader at
Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “Everyone expected
that today it would be presented.”  Galvan said a delay suggests that there’s been some problem
in the negotiations between political parties even as it remains
a top priority for Pena Nieto. The Democratic Revolution Party,
or PRD, which has said it opposes changing the constitution,
will present its own energy proposal this week.  Pena Nieto delayed the bill “in order to negotiate with
the PRD,”  Jorge Chabat , a political scientist at the Center for
Economic Research and Teaching, a Mexico City-based university,
said in a phone interview. “It’s the only explanation,” Chabat
said. “I think this favors Pena Nieto’s proposal. It allows
more time for the bill to be hammered out.”  Production Sharing  The bill to loosen state-owned  Petroleos Mexicanos ’s grip
on crude output and attract investment would be the economy’s
biggest overhaul since the  North American Free Trade Agreement 
in 1994.  Pena Nieto, a 47-year-old former governor who took office
in December, will propose production-sharing contracts for oil
exploration and output, while drawing the line at offering
private companies equity stakes in concessions, Camacho said. He
declined to say which constitutional articles would be modified.  Exxon, the world’s most valuable energy company, Chevron
and Spanish oil producer  Repsol SA (REP)  are among companies that have
expressed interest in Mexico’s oil fields.  Alan Jeffers , an
Exxon spokesman in Irving,  Texas , wasn’t available for comment,
an assistant said by phone yesterday.  A press official who isn’t an authorized spokesman for
Pemex, as Petroleos Mexicanos is known, said the company won’t
comment until Pena Nieto’s proposal is released.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  