-- Pepco to Exelon Seek Rate Hikes to Deter Power Grid Hacks
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-08-07T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/pepco-to-exelon-seek-rate-hikes-to-deter-power-grid-hacks.html
Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC) 
are among the electric utilities seeking authority to raise
customer rates or take other steps to recoup costs of meeting
U.S. demands to protect the nation’s power grid from hackers.  Utilities face increased expenses to comply with
cybersecurity regulations being developed by President  Barack Obama ’s administration, and representatives of several power
companies said they want regulators to clarify how they can
recover those costs.  Incentives for utilities should include the authority to
raise rates, Edward Goetz, a vice president for Chicago-based
Exelon, said yesterday in an interview in Washington.  Ensuring power generation and distribution networks are
protected from hackers could represent “huge investments for
companies like Exelon,” Goetz said, without providing a cost
estimate. “We would look for some way to recover some of those
costs because this is a national security issue.”  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission requires
about 1,100 utilities to ensure that generators, power meters
and other components that are connected to the Internet are
secure.  Obama has made protecting the  power grid  and other critical
infrastructure from cyber-attacks a top priority, and in
February issued an executive order directing regulators to
review whether rules are needed for industries they oversee.  U.S. Incentives  Obama’s executive order called for offering incentives to
companies responsible for protecting critical infrastructure.  Allowing utilities to increase rates to cover cybersecurity
expenses is one of eight incentives the administration is
considering to encourage companies to better protect their
networks, Michael Daniel, White House cybersecurity coordinator,
wrote in  a blog  yesterday.  “To promote cybersecurity practices and develop these core
capabilities, we are working with critical infrastructure owners
and operators to create a cybersecurity framework,” Daniel
wrote. “While the set of core practices have been known for
years, barriers to adoption exist, such as the challenge of
clearly identifying the benefits of making certain cybersecurity
investments.”  Utilities want to recover costs they are paying now to
protect their networks from digital attacks, Susan Mora,
director of federal affairs for Washington-based Pepco, said in
an interview at a conference hosted by the nonprofit Bipartisan
Policy Center in  Washington  yesterday.  They also want the authority to be reimbursed as new
threats arise and as additional regulations are established, she
said.  Clear Rules  The rules governing how utilities can recover costs need to
be clarified, Tony Clark, a FERC commissioner, said in an
interview.  Costs associated with energy distribution are overseen by
states, while costs associated with power transmission are
overseen by FERC, Clark said.  “The rules of the road have to be clear,” he said. “I
understand their concerns because there are significant costs.”  Utilities are looking to FERC regulators or the Obama
administration to clarify how they can go about seeking to
recover cybersecurity-related expenses, Exelon’s Goetz said.  Doug Myers, chief information officer for Pepco, agreed.
“Having some sort of federal consistency around what utilities
should be able to recover I believe is in our national
interest,” he said.  Rates, Grants  In addition to raising rates, another option could be
allowing utilities to be reimbursed through federal grants, said
Myers. He didn’t have an estimate for how much in expenses Pepco
might seek to recover.  Awareness among utility executives about the potential
damage of cyber-attacks “has risen dramatically” in the past
three years, Chris Peters, a vice president for  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ,
based in  New Orleans , said at the conference yesterday.  “The cyber message needs to come from the top,” he said.
“We have to maintain an accurate security and compliance
state.”  The Stuxnet computer worm was discovered in 2010 to damage
Iranian nuclear facilities, the first time a cyber weapon was
known to have caused physical damage to infrastructure.  An August 2012 cyber attack on the state-owned Saudi
Arabian Oil Co. using the Shamoon computer malware damaged as
many as 30,000 computers, showing that energy company networks
are exposed to significant threats, according to  a September
2012 report  from The Baker Institute at  Rice University  in
Houston, a public-policy nonprofit organization.  “The potential for a real cyberattack capable of
physically impacting electricity generation and transmission as
well as upstream and downstream oil and gas operations has moved
from hypothetical to possible,” the report stated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  