-- Philippines May File Homicide Charges in Taiwan Fishing Case
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o ,   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-07T16:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/philippines-may-charge-coast-guards-with-homicide-in-taiwan-case.html
The Philippines recommended homicide
charges be laid against eight of its coast guard members over
the killing of a Taiwanese fisherman in disputed seas, as  Taiwan 
officials indicated economic ties would soon be restored.  Four people -- two of the 17-member coast guard boat crew
and two others -- may also be charged with obstructing justice
over spliced video evidence, National Bureau of Investigation
Director Nonnatus Rojas told reporters in  Manila  yesterday.
Taiwan justice ministry officials called on the Philippines to
charge and bring the men to trial promptly.  Amadeo Perez, chairman of the Manila Economic and Cultural
Office, plans to visit Taiwan today to convey an apology to the
fisherman’s family on behalf of Philippine President Benigno Aquino, Yin Wei, a spokesman for the ruling Kuomintang party,
said by phone, citing comments by President Ma Ying-jeou.  The May 9 shooting death of 65-year-old fisherman Hung
Shih-cheng by the crew of the Philippine vessel soured ties.  Ma
recalled his representative from the  Philippines , froze the
hiring of workers from the country to protest the killing and
rebuffed an earlier apology from Aquino over the incident.
Taiwan later held military exercises in the area.  “The Philippines would not have recommended the charges
without basis, even if it was under pressure from Taiwan to
ensure there was a liability,” Richard Javad Heydarian, a
political science lecturer at the Ateneo de Manila University,
said by phone. “Allowing the prosecution of coast guard men is
a way for the Philippines to say it’s willing to take
responsibility, renew ties and reverse tensions with Taiwan.”  ‘No Justification’  The Philippine investigation was one of four demands made
by Ma’s administration after the confrontation. Others included
a formal apology, compensation and punishment of the
perpetrators.  “There was no conclusive justification for the use of
deadly force against the fishing boat,” the Philippines’
National Bureau of Investigation said in a separate statement
yesterday. Members of the Hung family who survived the incident
had said the hail of gun fire they encountered was unprovoked.  Rojas added the coast guard crew failed to prove their
claims the Taiwan fishing boat tried three times to ram them.  Taiwan’s Deputy Foreign Minister Joseph Shih told reporters
in Taipei yesterday his ministry would recommend that economic
sanctions on the Philippines be lifted. “We hope the
Philippines will charge these people as soon as possible,” Shih
said.  Disputed Waters  Taiwan employers hadn’t renewed contracts for about 10,000
Filipinos, the Manila Economic and Cultural Office said July 9,
while 77,000 workers from the country remained in Taiwan.  The Hung family said they would be willing to accept an
apology as their vessel, the Guang Da Hsin 28, headed back to
sea for the first time since the incident, the Central News
Agency  reported  Aug. 5.  Homicide charges were recommended instead of murder because
the incident was “unplanned and unpremeditated” with the
Philippine vessel on patrol at the time, the Philippines’
investigation bureau said.  Rojas said the shooting occurred “well within” the
Philippines’ economic zone. The Hungs were within a 200-nautical-mile area representing Taiwan’s fishing territory, the
island’s foreign ministry said in a statement.  Maritime Mechanism  Taiwan and the Philippines in June held preliminary talks
on a mechanism for law-enforcement operations at sea, including
a ban on the use of force, mutual notification of any arrests
and the release of detained fishermen and boats. The Ministry of
Foreign Affairs said authorities are discussing further
meetings.  Taiwan’s goal is to sign an agreement with the Philippines
similar to the accord it reached with  Japan  on April 10, which
gives fishermen access to Japanese-administered waters near
islands also claimed by  China , Ma said in a July 25 interview.  “We are eager to restore relations as soon as possible,
because, prior to this event, relations were quite friendly,”
Ma said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  