-- Portugal Secretary of State for Treasury Resigns Over Swaps
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-08-07T15:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/portugal-secretary-of-state-for-treasury-resigns-over-swaps-1-.html
Portugal’s Secretary of State for
Treasury Joaquim Pais Jorge resigned today following press
reports that he helped try to sell derivatives contracts to the
previous government that would obscure the state of the
country’s accounts when he worked for  Citigroup (C)  Inc.  “I took this difficult decision because I will never allow
controversies created over my professional path, which I never
hid, to be used as a political weapon against the government,”
Pais Jorge said in an e-mailed statement today.  Pais Jorge’s decision to quit comes five weeks after a
political crisis triggered by the resignation of the country’s
finance and foreign ministers led to a government reshuffle.
Maria Luis  Albuquerque  was named finance minister on July 1 and
later appointed Pais Jorge to her former post as secretary of
state for treasury.  Portuguese weekly magazine Visao  reported  on Aug. 1 that
Pais Jorge, while working for Citigroup in Portugal, was in 2005
involved in trying to sell swap contracts to the government,
which rejected the proposal.  A spokesman for Citigroup in  London  declined to comment.  Pais Jorge said in today’s statement that the report about
a Citigroup presentation of the derivatives proposal more than
eight years ago was “forged to include my name and reveals a
level of political action that I consider intolerable.”  “I admit that the presentation existed but I have no
responsibilities over the elaboration or negotiation” of it,
Pais Jorge said at a press conference in Lisbon on Aug. 2.  Portugal’s parliament is holding an inquiry into
derivatives contracts with state-owned companies. The government
says it has reduced potential losses from a number of what it
calls “toxic” contracts by about 50 percent, to 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion), after reaching settlements with banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  