-- Potash Corp. Says Uralkali-Belarus Dispute Won’t Last
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-08-08T15:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/potash-ceo-doesn-t-see-change-for-canpotex-export-venture.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the largest North American producer of its namesake fertilizer,
said it doesn’t expect a dispute between two producers in the
former Soviet Union to last and that forecasts of a price slump
are overdone.  Chief Executive Officer Bill Doyle said yesterday the
duration of the disagreement between  Russia ’s OAO Uralkali and
its Belarusian rival will be “shorter rather than longer.”  The comments were his first since Uralkali last week quit
Belarusian Potash Co., a marketing venture with Belaruskali.
Shares of potash producers around the world plunged after the
Russian producer said it will start selling the crop nutrient
freely in the market for the first time in eight years.  “Logic tends to prevail,” Doyle said in a interview
broadcast live on the company’s website. “I don’t find too many
people who self-destruct intentionally.”  Uralkali CEO Vladislav Baumgertner said last week his
company objected to Chinese potash sales by Belaruskali outside
of their BPC venture. He said the price of potash, which helps
strengthen plant roots and improve resistance to drought, may
now plunge to less than $300 a ton as Uralkali moves to full
production to gain market share. The last potash supply
agreement between BPC and China was at $400 a ton.  Previous Disagreements  Until last week, BPC and Canpotex Ltd., the group that
represents the largest North American potash producers, have
dominated global supply by representing their members in export
pricing negotiations. That has meant that the producers in each
group don’t compete against each other in most export markets.  Canpotex, a Canadian company, has an explicit exemption
under  Canada ’s Competition Act allowing it to operate.  Doyle, 63, said yesterday there have been disputes between
the Russian and Belarusian companies before and that he sees no
changes at Canpotex. Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp.
won’t follow Urakali’s new strategy of putting volume before
price, he said.  “We suspect that price will at some point become more
important than volume too, but Uralkali’s comments have already
dramatically reduced the credibility of business as usual, or of
a quick recovery in the stocks,” Mark Connelly, an analyst at
CLSA Americas LLC in New York, said in a note.  Canada’s  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , which together with Potash Corp. and
Mosaic Co. of the U.S. controls Canpotex, said yesterday that
Uralkali’s strategy “has added to uncertainty” in potash.  Possible Downgrade  “Time will be needed to evaluate how global producers and
customers are likely to respond and what the implications are,”
the Calgary-based company said in its earnings statement.  The after-effects of Uralkai’s move continue to buffet
potash producers. On Aug. 6, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
cut its outlook on Potash Corp.’s A- debt rating to negative
from stable. A day earlier, it put Uralkali’s BBB- rating on
watch for a possible downgrade to junk.  Germany ’s  K+S AG (SDF) , Europe’s largest potash producer, on Aug.
6 abandoned its full-year profit forecast.  Israel Chemicals
Ltd. (ICL) , 14 percent  owned  by Potash Corp., already has a strategic
plan to explore options for increasing potash production, CEO
Stefan Borgas said yesterday.  Recent events also may threaten the viability of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s planned Jansen potash mine in Saskatchewan, said
 Evy Hambro , manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $7 billion World Mining
Fund.  Jansen Project  “The overwhelming view right now on that project is it
doesn’t make sense,” Hambro said yesterday in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  Jansen’s estimated construction cost is about $16 billion,
according to Citigroup Inc.  “We think that the market is likely to evolve into more of
a free market and be less driven by what some would call
cartels,” BHP CEO Andrew Mackenzie said yesterday in an
interview. “We continue to take an interest in Saskatchewan
because we believe we have some great ore bodies there and it’s
also part of our diversification strategy.”  Potash production capacity at Canpotex’s owners accounts
for about 38 percent of the global total of 66.4 million tons,
according to Barclays Plc.  Potash Corp.  rose  2.1 percent to C$31.50 at 11:14 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares have dropped 19 percent since Uralkali said
July 30 it was quitting BPC.  Prices for potash have fallen in the past year on plentiful
producer inventories and historically low import volumes in
 India . Potash Corp. said it sold potash for an average price of
$356 a metric ton in the second quarter, compared with $433 a
year earlier.  The price for  delivery at Vancouver’s  port has fallen to
$410 a ton, 19 percent less than a year earlier, according to
data from Green Markets, a fertilizer-industry information
provider that is a unit of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News.  Potash producers in Canada and the former Soviet Union
accounted for 56 percent of world supply last year, according to
Green Markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  