-- Pound Falls Against Dollar as Gilts Rise Before Forward Guidance
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-08-07T08:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/pound-little-changed-before-inflation-report-forward-guidance.html
The pound fell for a second day
against the dollar and government bonds rose before  Bank of
England  Governor  Mark Carney  gives a review of implementing
forward guidance to signal the direction of U.K. interest rates.  Sterling weakened against most of its 16 major counterparts
before Carney presents the central bank’s assessment of the use
of thresholds along with the quarterly Inflation Report, and
will also hold a press conference in London. The  Federal Reserve 
has pledged to keep its short-term interest-rate target near
zero at least until U.S. unemployment falls to 6.5 percent and
as long as forecast inflation isn’t above 2.5 percent.  “Realistically he’ll probably reiterate that interest
rates will be held low until growth picks up and inflation
stabilizes around the 2 percent target,” said Harry Adams, head
of trading at Argentex LLP,  currency-advisory company in
London. “The more he says, the more he leaves himself open and
the more the pound will move. He could take the Fed approach by
linking policy to  unemployment rate . This would at least give
investors some sort of barometer.”  The pound dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5315 as of 9:55 a.m.
London time after weakening 0.1 percent yesterday. Sterling
declined 0.1 percent to 86.76 pence per euro after depreciating
to 87.70 pence on Aug. 1, the weakest level since March 12.  The central bank will publish its Inflation Report at 10:30
a.m. in London, followed by Carney’s press conference.  Growth Signs  Britain’s industrial production rose more in June than
economists forecast, data showed yesterday, while a report on
August 5 showed services output expanded at the fastest pace in
six years last month.  Signs the economic recovery is being sustained mean it’s
“a strange backdrop to the introduction of forward guidance on
monetary policy,” Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  London , wrote today in a note to clients.
“Telling the people of the U.K. that rates will stay low for a
long time won’t have so much effect. Rate expectations are
already low.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.47 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 rose 0.1, or 1 pound per 1,000-pound face amount,
to 94.21. The yield climbed to 2.51 percent yesterday, the
highest since July 5.  The implied yield on the short sterling contract expiring
in September 2014 slid four basis points to 0.67 percent.  ‘Not Warranted’  Carney has already taken steps to curb higher borrowing
costs. The central bank said in a statement after its July 4
meeting that the “implied rise in the expected future path of
 bank rate  was not warranted” by economic developments. The
pound fell 0.6 percent versus the euro that day.  Carney will align Bank of England policy closer to the Fed
by linking guidance on  interest rates  to economic developments,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of 43 economists published
last month. Twenty-three said he would opt to link a pledge on
loose policy to economic data, while 18 said he will use a
period of time.  The pound has declined 1.7 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-nation currencies. The euro strengthened 5.9 percent and the
dollar gained 5 percent.  U.K. government bonds have lost investors 3.4 percent in
2013, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Treasuries
dropped 2.8 percent and German bonds declined 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  