-- Probiotics Fail to Foil Diarrhea in Setback for Gut-Taming Pills
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2013-08-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/probiotics-fail-to-foil-diarrhea-in-setback-for-gut-taming-pills.html
A daily dose of probiotics failed to
ward off diarrhea caused by antibiotics in a study of thousands
of elderly patients that may deal a blow to the industry.  The study of 2,941 patients found little difference between
the group of hospitalized people who, in addition to a course of
antibiotics, were given strains of gut microbes known as
bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, and those who unknowingly took
a placebo for the same 21-day period.  The trial results, published in  The Lancet  today, run
counter to findings from earlier tests, in which probiotics
showed promise in reducing the risk of antibiotic-associated
diarrhea and infections with the bug Clostridium difficile,
which can cause life-threatening bowel inflammation.  The study may prompt some hospitals and doctors to rethink
whether to routinely prescribe probiotics along with
antibiotics,  Nick Daneman , of the University of Toronto’s
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Center, wrote in a commentary
accompanying the research.  The low risk reductions in the study “question the cost-effectiveness of probiotics,” Daneman wrote. The test, dubbed
Placide, is “a large and rigorous negative study, and we must
judge whether it can tip the balance of probiotic evidence.”  The market for probiotic supplements will be worth an
estimated $2.07 billion by 2015 with sales growing almost 60
percent since 2010, according to a report by BCC Research, a
U.S. market researcher. Demand is booming amid reports of  health
benefits  ranging from improved digestion to better immunity.  ‘Insufficient Evidence’  The patients, age 65 and older, were selected at three
hospitals in south  Wales  and another two in northeast  England .
Neither the patients nor the staff knew who was receiving a
placebo and who got probiotics.  The researchers, led by Stephen Allen of  Swansea
University’s College of Medicine , started out with evidence from
other studies that suggested probiotics would show an impact on
diarrhea as well as Clostridium difficile.  Now that the results are in, “we believe that there is
insufficient evidence to support the use of any microbial
preparation for the prevention of antibiotics-associated
diarrhea in older inpatients,” Allen and his colleagues wrote
in the study paper.  The researchers acknowledged some flaws in the study. The
scientists weren’t able to reliably exclude patients who might
have biased the results because they were prone to episodes of
 diarrhea , for example. Many of the diarrhea episodes were so
short that the researchers failed to collect stool samples for
testing in about 40 percent of the participants, an issue
reported in other, smaller trials.  The U.K.’s National Institute for Health Research and the
Health Technology Assessment program funded the study. Allen
disclosed that in the past he had been an invited guest at the
Yakult Probiotic Symposium and had received research funding
from  Yakult Honsha Co. (2267) , the maker of probiotic dairy drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at  mfourcade@
bloomberg.net  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  