-- Probe of Keystone Contractor Energizes Pipeline Opponents
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-08-07T17:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/probe-of-keystone-contractor-energizes-pipeline-opponents.html
An ethics probe of the contractor
assessing the environmental impact of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
proposed Keystone XL oil pipeline has energized critics who say
it should be grounds for the project to be delayed.  The State Department inspector general’s office said it is
looking at conflict-of-interest complaints relating to the
contractor writing the analysis of the $5.3 billion pipeline,
which would connect  Alberta ’s  oil sands  to refineries in the
U.S. Gulf Coast.  The review is “hopelessly tainted,” because of conflicts
between the contractor, ERM Group Inc., and Calgary-based
TransCanada, said Ross Hammond, a campaign coordinator for
Friends of the Earth in Berkeley,  California . “The review
should be tossed out and the review process started again.”  Known as a supplemental environmental impact statement, the
analysis gained new importance after President  Barack Obama  said
in a June speech on climate change that he would reject Keystone
if it was found to “significantly exacerbate” carbon
pollution.  Environmental groups criticized a draft analysis released
in March that found Alberta’s oil sands would be developed with
or without Keystone, meaning the project would have little
impact on the climate.  Sierra Club  Critics, including the San Francisco-based  Sierra Club , say
Keystone will promote development of oil sands, which have a
larger carbon footprint than conventional crude oil.  Friends of the Earth and The Checks and Balances Project, a
watchdog group,  allege  the London-based ERM didn’t disclose a
financial tie to TransCanada through its venture with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in Irving,  Texas , called the Alaska Pipeline
Project. The  project , underway since 2009, is developing a
natural  gas pipeline .  Marketing materials from the Anchorage-based Alaska
Pipeline Project list ERM among the companies involved. Yet ERM
answered “no” when asked if it had an “existing contract or
working relationship” with TransCanada in filling out the
application to write the environmental analysis on Keystone.  “Unless they have a different definition of ‘no’ that I’m
not familiar with, they’re lying,” Hammond said.  Tom Steyer, a co-founder of the hedge fund Farallon Capital
Management LLC and a critic of the pipeline, said in a statement
that the environmental analysis has “lost credibility.”  ERM didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment.  TransCanada Reaction  “TransCanada has not entered into any contracts with ERM
related to our partnership in the Alaska Pipeline Project, and
we have verified that our project partner has worked with ERM
before,” Shawn Howard, a TransCanada spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The State Department, which is conducting the review of the
project because it would cross the U.S. border, has defended its
selection of the contractor in part by saying that engineering
firms capable of doing broad environmental analysis often have
worked for the oil industry.  “Our rigorous conflict of interest procedures ensure that
no contractors or subcontractors have financial or other
interests in the outcome of a project,” said  Jen Psaki , a State
Department spokeswoman. “The selected contractor works directly
with and under the sole direction of the Department of State
while the applicant pays for the work.”  Inquiry Opened  The inspector general opened an inquiry into the conflict
questions and will complete its work in the next two months,
Douglas Welty, a spokesman for the office, said in an e-mail.
The unit audits the State Department’s operations for
effectiveness and efficiency and investigates fraud and
mismanagement.  Scott Amey, general counsel for the Project on Government
Oversight, a Washington-based watchdog group, said the inspector
general is probably trying to determine whether the potential
conflict is “substantial and material.”  Analysts looking for clues to how Obama will ultimately
decide on Keystone say the biggest one may be the supplemental
environmental impact statement, or SEIS, because it will
evaluate the project under the standard Obama set in a June 25
speech on  climate change .  “From our perspective, we are waiting on the final SEIS,
because that’s what it takes for the pipeline to move ahead,”
Christine Tezak, an analyst with ClearView Energy Partners, LLC,
a financial research group in  Washington , said in an e-mail.  Potential Delay  The inspector general probe is another potential delay to
the release of the environmental analysis, along with a lawsuit
alleging that  Nebraska ’s approval of the section of the pipeline
through the state was improper, Tezak said. She also said there
isn’t any indication that the SEIS has been slowed by the
allegation yet.  The environmental review isn’t the final say. After that is
completed, the State Department will conduct a separate 90-day
assessment to judge whether Keystone is in the national
interest, a decision that weighs other issues including the
impacts to the economy,  energy security  and foreign relations.  Keystone critics, already energized by Obama’s climate
speech, were further emboldened by comments he made in a July 30
speech on the economy in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , dismissing the
pipeline as a job creator. Once completed, the project will
create only about 50 permanent jobs, Obama said.  The environmental review the State Department is overseeing
is necessary to analyze a new route that TransCanada proposed
after Obama rejected an initial pathway. Nebraska officials had
complained the first route threatened the state’s Sand Hills, a
network of dunes and wetlands, and the Ogallala aquifer
underneath. The latest route largely avoids the region.  Previous Conflict  Environmental impact statements are required under the
National Environmental Policy  Act , which hands the agencies
overseeing the project the responsibility for assessing its
environmental risks. The State Department has oversight over
Keystone because it crosses an international border.  Conflict of interest questions have been raised before in
relation to Keystone, including by Friends of the Earth. An
environmental review of the first route prompted complaints that
Cardno Entrix, the contractor writing the report, worked in the
oil industry.  In a February 2012 report, the inspector general said while
it found “specific contractual and financial relationships”
between TransCanada and Cardno Entrix, “these relationships did
not present a conflict of interest” because they didn’t
directly relate to Keystone.  It did question whether the State Department had the
expertise to conduct NEPA reviews, and whether its protocols
were sufficient to ensure conflicts don’t exist. The department
said it was hiring additional staff and would implement new
procedures to examine conflicts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  