-- Prostate Test Warrants Rational Use, Doctors Say
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2013-08-07T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/prostate-test-warrants-rational-use-doctors-say.html
A prostate-cancer test linked to an
over-diagnosis of the disease needs to be used rationally, not
abandoned, surgeons said at a medical meeting in  Australia .  Getting a so-called  PSA test  in their 40s can help men and
their doctors gauge cancer risk, according to a statement signed
by 11 urologists from 10 universities in five nations. Healthy
seniors with at least a decade of  life expectancy  shouldn’t be
denied the exam, the surgeons said at the Prostate Cancer World
Congress in Melbourne today.  The six-point consensus statement is a response to advice
by a U.S. panel against using the PSA test for prostate-cancer
screening. The test measures a protein made by prostate cells
known as prostate-specific antigen and can’t detect cancer or
distinguish between benign tumors and malignant ones. Discovered
in 1970, it has led to earlier diagnoses but also to impotence
and incontinence in men treated for non-lethal tumors.  “Abandonment of PSA testing would lead to a large increase
in men presenting with advanced prostate cancer and a reversal
of the gains made in prostate-cancer mortality over the past
three decades,” the doctors said in the statement. Deaths from
the disease have declined by more than 30 percent since testing
started, they said.  Worldwide, almost  900,000 men  were diagnosed with prostate
cancer in 2008, making it the second most-common malignancy in
males, and about 258,000 men died of the disease, according to
the International Agency for Research on Cancer in Lyon. The
U.S.  Preventive Services Task Force  said last year that the PSA
test isn’t worth the risk.  The statement also called for prostate-cancer diagnosis to
be uncoupled from prostate-cancer intervention.  “Many men with low-risk prostate cancer do not need
aggressive treatment,” according to the statement, which
supports so-called active surveillance or watchful waiting as a
strategy to avoid treating men with indolent tumors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  