-- Prudential’s U.S. Results Improve on Hartford, GM Deals
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-08-07T21:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/prudential-posts-521-million-loss-on-derivatives-yen.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, said results improved in its
home nation after buying a unit from  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG)  and adding pension accounts from General Motors Co.  Operating earnings , which exclude some investments and
results from policies sold before the insurer went public, were
$2.30 per share, beating the $1.99  average estimate  of 20
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company had a  net loss  of
$521 million on costs tied to derivatives and the yen’s decline.  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld, 59, has struck
deals to expand in the U.S. as he targets return on equity of as
much as 14 percent this year, from about 11 percent in 2011 and
2012. The  Newark , New Jersey-based company completed a deal this
year to with Hartford to add 700,000 policies and has taken on
pension obligations from Verizon Communications Inc. and GM.  “Our market-leading pension-risk transfer transactions
late last year contributed to record-high earnings for the
quarter in the retirement business,” Strangfeld said in a
statement today announcing results. “We are continuing to
benefit from the quality book of business” from Hartford.  Strangfeld’s company gained 1.4 percent to $80.50 at 5:20
p.m. in New York, after results were announced. The insurer has
advanced 49 percent this year in regular trading, compared with
the 50 percent rally of larger rival  MetLife Inc. (MET)   Prudential’s U.S. retirement-solutions and investment-management unit recorded adjusting operating income of $847
million, more than double the $306 million profit a year
earlier, as asset prices rose, adding to fees, and the insurer
benefitted from the pension deals.  Life Insurance  At the business that sells individual and group life
insurance in the U.S., adjusted operating income rose to $163
million, from $94 million a year earlier.  Profit rose 25 percent to $850 million in the quarter at
Prudential’s international business, as the company cut about
$55 million in costs tied to the integration of Japanese life
units purchased from  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Prudential bought Star Life Insurance Co. and Edison Life
Insurance Co. from AIG in 2011 to expand in  Japan .  Prudential uses hedges to guard against fluctuations in the
yen. Fluctuations in Japan’s currency contributed to a pretax
charge of about $1.6 billion, and contracts that help the
company manage the duration of its investments drove $953
million in derivatives losses.  Weaker Yen  MetLife said last week that profit fell 78 percent as
rising interest rates and foreign-currency fluctuations weighed
on results.  Yields (USGG10YR)  rose after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled that some of the central bank’s stimulus
efforts could end in 2014. The yen weakened about 5 percent in
the quarter against the dollar.  Book value at Prudential’s main business fell to $71.93 a
share on June 30 from $81.96 three months earlier. The measure
of assets minus liabilities declined at insurers including
MetLife and Allstate Corp. amid a bond slump. Prudential
authorized a $1 billion  share repurchase  in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  