-- Puerto Rico Electric Cheap to Detroit at Record Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-07T13:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/puerto-rico-electric-cheap-to-detroit-at-record-low-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico ’s electric agency is set
to pay record-high yields after Detroit’s bankruptcy helped
drive a cash exodus from the municipal market. OppenheimerFunds
Inc. and Janney Montgomery Scott say now’s the time to buy as
the commonwealth moves to mend its economy.  Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, which serves the most
customers among U.S. public-power systems, plans to sell $675
million of revenue bonds as soon as today, up from the $600
million originally planned. It’s the first muni offer in eight
months from the island. In a sign of stress facing lower-rated
issuers in the $3.7 trillion market, investors are demanding
loftier yields on the Puerto Rico agency’s debt than on some
bonds of bankrupt Detroit’s water utility, with a  credit rating 
four steps lower.  Tax-exempt bonds of the electric agency that mature in 27
years and are rated one level above junk by Moody’s Investors
Service traded last week at 7.1 percent, the highest since their
March 2010 issue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg for
sales of at least $1 million. The 2.7 percentage points of extra
yield over benchmark munis was the most since at least May.  “Puerto Rico debt is a phenomenal opportunity,” said
Michael Camarella, who helps manage $33 billion of munis at
OppenheimerFunds in  New York , including almost $6 billion of
Puerto Rico securities.  “People are unaware of all the positives out of Puerto
Rico and all they hear are the negative headlines,” he said.  Fleeing Funds  The utility is selling less than three weeks after Detroit
entered the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy. The move by
 Michigan ’s biggest city and bets that the  Federal Reserve  will
reduce its bond buying led individuals, who own about 70 percent
of local debt, to pull $4.86 billion from muni mutual funds in
the four weeks through July 24, the most since February 2011,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show. The exiting cash helped push
muni yields to a  two-year high .  Debt of Puerto Rico tends to offer extra yield because the
three major credit-rating companies give the commonwealth the
lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook, as the
island’s leaders struggle with a shrinking economy and one of
the nation’s weakest pension systems. The securities draw demand
because they are tax-free in all U.S. states, allowing state-specific muni mutual funds to hold them.  Trailing Junk  The electric agency’s debt is cheaper than  Detroit ’s water
bonds even though Moody’s rates the water utility four levels
below investment grade.  In trades of at least $1 million, Detroit water bonds due
in July 2041 sold July 29 with an average yield of 5.89 percent,
or 0.6 percentage point less than similar-maturity Puerto Rico
electric debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Puerto Rico yield jump was also caused by money
managers holding off on buying until the new deal came to
market, said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research in
Philadelphia at Janney.  “The spreads now are pretty attractive and it’s probably
the right time to be getting involved with Puerto Rico,”
Schankel said.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 42, who took office in
January, enacted a budget for the fiscal year that began July 1
that uses $750 million of deficit financing, the smallest amount
since at least 2009, according to Puerto Rico’s Government
 Development Bank . The bank handles the island’s capital-markets
transactions. Lawmakers this year raised the  retirement age  and
increased employee contributions to the pension fund.  Governor’s Steps  Garcia Padilla, a member of the Popular Democratic Party,
“has shown to the rating agencies that he’s doing what needs to
get done,” Camarella said.  While the island’s  13.2 percent  June unemployment rate is
the lowest in five years, it’s higher than in any state. The
commonwealth’s economy contracted 4.5 percent in the year
through June, the steepest reduction since 2010, according to
the development bank. Net tax-supported debt of $14,053 per
capita last year was more than in any state, according to
Moody’s.  The development bank declined to comment on the electric
utility’s offer because the bonds haven’t priced yet, the bank
said in an e-mail through Joele Frank, a New York communications
firm.  All Alone  The power agency is the sole provider of electricity on the
island of 3.7 million, with the most clients and revenue among
U.S. public-power utilities, according to bond documents.
Proceeds will finance capital projects. The authority had about
$8.1 billion of debt as of June 30, bond documents show.  To cut costs, the agency plans to reduce its use of oil to
2 percent of energy production in 2017 from 61 percent in 2012
by converting facilities to run on natural gas, according to a
presentation by Juan Alicea Flores, its  executive director , at
the commonwealth’s annual credit conference in May.  The increase in yield “has been a little bit overdone,”
Schankel said. “We’ll see some stability once we get this deal
behind us.”  The agency plans to sell debt due in as long as 30 years
with a preliminary yield of 7.15 percent, according to three
people familiar with the deal who requested anonymity before
prices are final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  