-- Transocean Posts Quarterly Profit on Better Efficiency
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-08-07T20:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/transocean-posts-quarterly-profit-on-better-efficiency.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore rig contractor, posted a second-quarter profit after
running its vessels more efficiently during a surge in demand
from explorers.  Net income of $307 million, or 84 cents a share, compares
with a net loss of $304 million, or 86 cents, a year earlier,
Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean said today in a statement.
Excluding one-time items, the  company  matched the $1.08 average
of 37 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. In addition to
a $750 million charge related to the Macondo oil spill, last
year’s results were affected by maintenance and repair costs as
more vessels were contracted.  The number of  rigs  operating in the U.S.  Gulf of Mexico 
climbed 9 percent to an average of 49 during the second quarter
from 45 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   “As rigs were getting back to work in the Gulf of Mexico
post-Macondo, there were a lot of growing pains as issues would
arise,” Trey Stolz, an analyst at Iberia Capital Partners in
 New Orleans , said in a phone interview before the results were
released. “A year later, a lot of those growing pains have
subsided and rigs are operating more efficiently as a lot of the
equipment issues have been addressed over time,” said Stolz,
who rates the shares the equivalent of a buy and owns none.  Shareholders voted at their annual meeting in May in favor
of one of billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ’s three board
nominees, while rejecting his dividend plan in favor of a lower
payout supported by the company.  Transocean owned the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig
that was destroyed in the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico. The company employed nine of the 11 workers who died in
the April 2010 disaster.  The earnings statement was released after the close of
regular trading in New York. Transocean rose less than 1 percent
to $48.48 at the close. The shares have 23 buy  ratings  from
analysts, 20 holds and 2 sells.  (Transocean scheduled a conference call for tomorrow at 10
a.m. New York time, accessible at  http://www.deepwater.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  