-- RBA Board’s Corbett Sees Critical Point in Australian Transition
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-07T06:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/rba-board-s-corbett-sees-critical-point-in-australian-transition.html
Australia  is at a “critical point”
in its transition from the resource-investment boom that has
underpinned economic growth, and sentiment needs a boost to spur
spending elsewhere, business leader Roger Corbett said.  “Domestic demand is very flat,” Corbett, chairman of
 Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  and a  Reserve Bank  of Australia board member,
told reporters in Sydney today after a speech. “Confidence
generally across our community is at quite a low ebb.”  The RBA cut its key  interest rate  to a record low 2.5
percent yesterday as it seeks to buoy non-mining industries that
struggled with an elevated currency. The nation’s mining
investment boom may have peaked, with declines from elevated
levels set to drag on the economy and threatening a growth gap
next year.  “We are at a very critical point in the transition out of
the resources investment boom,” said Corbett, former chief
executive officer of Woolworths Ltd., Australia’s largest
retailer. “We need to stimulate investment elsewhere in the
economy and the confidence of the business community and the
consuming community, the people.”  Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who called an election for Sept.
7, is framing the vote as a battle between David Cameron- style
austerity from the opposition and his own program that allows
the deficit to widen as it prioritizes jobs. The government on
Aug. 2 cut its growth estimate for this fiscal year to 2.5
percent and said the  unemployment rate  will rise to 6.25 percent
by the middle of 2014.  “The political issue I think is one of leadership,”
Corbett said today. “What’s going to happen next year is
already determined to a very large degree. The real issue is
where we’re going to be in three, five years from today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  