-- RBA Neutral Shift End Seen With December Cut: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-08-07T01:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/rba-neutral-shift-end-seen-with-december-cut-australia-credit.html
Traders see the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  cutting rates by year-end, even after Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled he’s willing to give record-low borrowing costs
time to turn the economy around.  Traders see 76 percent odds the RBA will follow yesterday’s
decision to cut the overnight cash-rate target to 2.5 percent by
reducing it to 2.25 percent or lower by Dec. 3, swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Aussie remains high, Stevens
said yesterday, even after it dropped this year by the most
among major currencies.  Stevens indicated future decisions will be data driven and
said “further effects can be expected over time” from his 2.25
percentage points of rate cuts over the past two years. That
signaled to investors including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  the RBA may pause
to evaluate the economy’s ability to cope with a peak in mining
investment. Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who called an election
for Sept. 7, may benefit politically from yesterday’s move in a
nation where 90 percent of mortgagees have variable-rate loans.  “Having cut rates they’d like to sit back and give some
time to observe the effects of this cut and probably the May
one,” said  Stephen Miller , a managing director in Sydney at
BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager that oversees $3.9
trillion of assets globally. “It’s that transition from a
growth led by mining investment to other parts of the economy
that’s troubling them. If another two or three months went by
and we weren’t to see any signs that transition was occuring, I
think it’s likely that we might get another cut.”  Bond Markets  The yield on Australia’s  two-year  notes was little changed
at 2.30 percent after jumping 10 basis points yesterday. It has
still declined 23 basis points this quarter, the biggest drop
among 11 sovereign bond markets that carry the top grades from
all three major ratings companies. The 10-year yield rose one
basis point today to 3.73 percent, compared with 2.64 percent on
similar-dated Treasuries.  Federal Treasurer  Chris Bowen  said last week the  budget
deficit  will blow out to A$30.1 billion ($27 billion) for the
year ending June 30, from an A$18 billion estimate in May. The
government also lowered its prediction for growth to 2.5
percent, from 2.75 percent previously.  Reports in the past month also signaled the South Pacific
nation’s domestic economy may not be strong enough to weather a
looming peak in resources investment. The statistics bureau said
this week  retail sales  stalled in June. While data today showed
home loans rose more than forecast over the same period, figures
on July 30 indicated building approvals unexpectedly slumped.  Jobless Rate  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict the
 unemployment rate  rose last month to 5.8 percent, the highest in
four years, before data due for release tomorrow. The jobless
rate will probably rise to 6.25 percent by the middle of 2014,
the government estimates.  The rate cut may offset a bleaker economic outlook and
prove a boon to Rudd, who faces the challenge of leading his
 Labor Party  into victory in elections next month after trailing
the opposition in opinion polls for most of the past year.  Rudd
returned to the top job in June after defeating  Julia Gillard  in
a leadership ballot.  Aussie’s Plunge  Stevens said yesterday the Australian dollar “remains at a
high level” and may depreciate further. Even with recent
declines in the currency, “inflation has been consistent with
the medium-term target,” he said. The RBA aims for average
annual inflation of 2 to 3 percent.  The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 89.63 U.S. cents as of 11:43
a.m. in Sydney, extending a 12 percent decline in the past three
months that’s the biggest drop among the Group of 10 major
developed-market currencies. It touched 88.48 on Aug. 5, the
lowest level in almost three years.  “‘There’s not quite the explicit easing bias that the RBA
has shown in the previous statements, but I think there’s still
an implicit easing bias there,” said Ray Attrill, the Sydney-based global co-head of currency strategy at National Australia
Bank Ltd. “The currency would have to fall a lot further before
it would feed a much stronger inflation outlook, that would then
have implications for policy.”  The Aussie will have to drop toward 80 cents to
substantially aid manufacturers, according to  Kim Carr ,
Australian minister for Innovation, Industry, Science and
Research.  Industry Struggling  The falling dollar “will be an improvement over time that
will ease the pressure on Australian manufacturing, but it may
be some distance in time before the full benefit of that is
felt,” Carr said yesterday in a phone interview. “The
Australian automotive industry can start to make money at higher
figures, but it requires figures of around 80 cents to secure
competitive advantage.”  Australia’s real effective exchange rate remains overvalued
by 5 percent to 15 percent, amid a “continued gap between
domestic and foreign interest rates,” the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report published Aug. 1.  Even after yesterday’s cut, the nation’s benchmark
borrowing cost is the highest in the developed world alongside
 New Zealand ’s, and compares with 0.5 percent in euro area and
near-zero levels in the U.S. and  Japan .  “I still think they will cut rates,” Hideo Shimomura, the
chief fund investor who helps oversee the equivalent of $60.9
billion in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., said in
reference to RBA policy makers. “They said the Australian
dollar is still high. It means they need a weaker currency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  