-- Treasuries Snap 2-Day Loss Before $24 Billion 10-Year Note Sale
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-08-07T15:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/treasuries-rise-as-stock-declines-fuel-demand-for-safest-assets.html
Treasuries advanced for the first
time in three days on demand before the U.S. sells $24 billion
in 10-year notes at yields almost at the highest level at an
auction of the maturity in two years.  U.S. debt  rose as stocks fell and risk appetite ebbed with
the yen reaching a seven-week high versus the dollar amid bets
the  Bank of Japan  at its policy meeting tomorrow will refrain
from adding to stimulus. The Treasury sold $32 billion in three-year notes yesterday and is scheduled to sell $16 billion in
bonds tomorrow in three auctions this week totaling $72 billion.  “Equities have softened and Treasuries, which have sold
off quite a bit of late, are offering much more attractive
yields, which is helping to bring in buyers,” said Aaron Kohli,
an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York , one
of 21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The
yen rally into the day set the tone for the more bond-friendly
backdrop.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  declined three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.61 percent at 11:10 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.75 percent
note due in May 2023 rose 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face amount,
to 92 19/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks dropped 0.6
percent.  Yield Forecast  Ten-year note yields will rise to 2.75 percent by the end
of the year, according to 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News from Aug. 2 to Aug 6. Yields on the 30-year bond will rise
to 3.75 percent, according to a survey of 38 economists during
the same period.  U.S.  government bonds  lost 2.8 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
securities fell 1.5 percent.  The 10-year notes being sold today yielded 2.63 percent in
pre-auction trading. The previous 10-year auction on July 10
drew a yield of 2.67 percent, the highest level since July 2011.  Ten-year notes are at almost the cheapest they’ve been in
more two years, according to the  butterfly chart spread  formed
by Treasury five-, 10- and 30-year bond yields.  The spread, which measures how well the 10-year note is
performing against the two other securities, is about 16 basis
points, almost the highest since July 2011. A positive reading
indicates investors are more bearish on the middle security,
making it relatively cheap versus the others. The average during
the past five years has been 12 basis points.  Market Levels  Ten-year notes “look relatively cheap on the curve,”
 George Goncalves , the head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at Nomura Holdings Inc., a primary dealer, wrote in a note to
clients. “The continued Fed-tapering talk hurts the
intermediates most. There is significantly less uncertainty now
regarding tapering compared with the July auction and we argue a
large proportion is already priced in.”  The BOJ won’t expand stimulus at the end of its meeting
tomorrow, according to all 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The central bank currently buys more than 7 trillion yen
($72 billion) of government bonds every month as part of its
effort to increase annual inflation toward 2 percent in two
years.  The yen has gained 4.5 percent over the past three months,
the best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 3.9
percent and the dollar strengthened 1.7 percent.  Note Sale  A $32 billion three-year sale yesterday drew the most
demand in two years from the investor class that includes
foreign central banks. Indirect bidders purchased 41.4 percent,
the most since August 2011. The figure compared with an average
of 26.1 percent at the previous 10 sales.  The securities were allotted at a yield of 0.631 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.636 percent in a  Bloomberg News 
survey of eight primary dealers, the companies that underwrite
the U.S. debt.  Investors bid $2.92 for each dollar of the $1.289 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  The increase in yields is making Treasuries more appealing,
said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, head of fixed income at Fukoku Mutual
Life Insurance Co. in  Tokyo , which has the equivalent of $58.5
billion in assets.  “U.S. government bonds have not been a good place to bet,
but now is a good opportunity to invest,” Suzuki said. “Yields
are getting more attractive.” Fukoku bought earlier this year,
he said.  Fed Tapering  Treasuries trimmed gains along with German government bonds
as a report showed industrial production in  Europe ’s largest
economy rose more in June than analysts forecast. Output in
 Germany  increased 2.4 percent from May, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said today. Economists forecast a gain of 0.3 percent,
according to the median of 41 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Fed Bank of  Chicago  President  Charles Evans  indicated a
tapering of the central bank’s bond-buying program in September
is possible. The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month to put downward pressure on  interest
rates .  Evans said yesterday the central bank probably will have
bought at least $1.2 trillion of bonds from January 2013 until
the time he sees the current quantitative-easing program ending
in mid-2014.  “We’ve seen good improvement in the labor market,” Evans
said in Chicago. “I’m still wanting to see greater evidence
that it’s a sustainable improvement” and “I would clearly not
rule” out a decision to begin dialing back the purchases in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  