-- Russian Billionaire to Cut Anzhi’s Funding as Player Exodus Seen
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-07T13:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/russian-billionaire-to-cut-anzhi-s-funding-as-player-exodus-seen.html
Russian billionaire Suleiman Kerimov
is scaling back sponsorship of Anzhi Makhachkala, forcing his
 soccer club  to part ways with star players that include striker
Samuel Eto’o, Chairman Konstantin Remchukov said.  Anzhi will be “re-formatted,” with many expensive players
leaving as the team’s annual budget is reduced to $50 million to
$70 million, Remchukov said on his Twitter account. The club
isn’t planning a “mass selloff” of players and will comply
with its contractual obligations, according to a  statement 
published on Anzhi’s website today.  Kerimov, who was ranked Russia’s 20th-richest person by
Forbes with a $7.1 billion fortune, has fielded a star-studded
lineup at Anzhi after bringing in Eto’o, who won  Europe ’s
 Champions League  twice with Barcelona and once with  Inter Milan ,
former Brazil defender Roberto Carlos and ex-Chelsea defender
 Yuri Zhirkov  to the team, which was founded in 1991. Kerimov,
47, bought Anzhi, based in his native Dagestan, in 2011.  “Changes in the club’s budget parameters are a result of
current demands by  UEFA  and related to the need to comply with
financial fair-play rules,” Anzhi said in the statement. “At
the same time, there will be no substantial strains in the life
of the team and the club’s entire structure.”  Former Chelsea, Russia and Holland manager  Guus Hiddink ,
who coached Anzhi to a third-place finish in the Russian Premier
League last season, resigned on July 22. The team entered
Russia’s top division in 2000 and was relegated two years later
before returning to the Premier League in 2009.  $180 Million  Anzhi’s budget for 2013 was $180 million, the second-highest in the Premier League behind OAO Gazprom-backed Zenit
Saint-Petersburg, according to the news website Sports.ru.
Anzhi, currently at  13th place , started this season with two
draws and two losses.  Kerimov’s fortune is now at least $3.7 billion, according
to  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His wealth has taken a hit
after OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer part-owned by Kerimov, upended the market for the fertilizer in July
by quitting a trading joint venture with Belarus, which
controlled more than 40 percent of global potash exports, and
abandoning limits on output that underpinned prices. Uralkali’s
stock has fallen 31 percent in  London  since July 19, wiping out
$6 billion of market capitalization.  Anton Averin, a spokesman for Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva
investment firm, declined to comment.  A “sudden worsening” of Kerimov’s health is the chief
reason for changes at Anzhi, Remchukov, who’s also publisher and
editor-in-chief of  Nezavisimaya Gazeta ,  told  the newspaper.
Kerimov is experiencing no health problems, according to Averin.  Kerimov survived a car crash in 2006, in which he received
severe burns, and still has to wear protective cover over his
hands. The billionaire, burnt on 70 percent of his body, spent
time in a medically induced coma after he crashed his Swiss
lawyer’s black Ferrari Enzo on the Promenade des Anglais, in
Nice on the French Riviera.  “Suleiman Kerimov is in full control of the situation,”
Remchukov said on Twitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  