-- Russia Stocks Fall Fourth Day as Commodity Producers Decline
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-08-07T16:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/russia-stocks-gain-in-recovery-from-biggest-plunge-in-six-weeks.html
Russian stocks fell for the fourth
day, erasing earlier gains as declines by commodity producers
overshadowed advances by consumer-related and telecommunications
shares.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,362.91,
extending the four-day slump to 2.5 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel,  Russia ’s biggest producer of the metal, fell 2.7
percent, OAO Mechel, a steel and coal producer, sank 1.7 percent
and OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-biggest natural gas producer,
slid 1 percent.  Brent crude , Russia’s main export earner, retreated 0.6
percent to $107.51 a barrel in  London . Russia receives about
half of its budget revenue from oil and natural gas sales.
Copper dropped as much as 1.4 percent before trading little
changed.  “Investors are switching to non-commodity stocks as oil
and metal prices are weak,” Vitaly Kupeev, an analyst at
Allianz Investments in Moscow, said by phone. “The situation in
the metal sector is particularly poor.”  Norilsk Nickel  dropped to the lowest level since December
2009 after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut the stock to the equivalent
of sell from neutral, citing a “mismatch” between expectations
of rich cash returns and weakening commodity prices.  Oil, gas and basic resources stocks account for at least
55 percent of the Micex index, compared with about 17 percent
for consumer services and telecommunications shares, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  OAO Mobile TeleSystems, Russia’s biggest mobile-phone
operator, increased 1 percent to 285.69 rubles. OAO Magnit, OAO
Dixy Group and OAO M.video gained 0.3 percent each.  Fed Stimulus  The Micex tumbled the most in a year on May 23, the day
after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank could reduce the pace of its asset purchases if
officials see signs of sustained improvement in growth. The Fed
buys $85 billion of debt a month to support the economy by
putting downward pressure on  interest rates .  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , who has been
among the strongest proponents of record monetary accommodation,
said yesterday he “would clearly not rule” out a decision to
begin reducing bond purchases in September.  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg at 5.2 times 12-month
estimated earnings, compared with a  multiple  of 9.9 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index.  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  dropped 0.3 percent to
1,301.28, the third day of declines. The volume of shares traded
on the Micex was 42 percent below the 30-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, while  10-day price swings  rose to
15.425.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  