-- S&P Said to Face SEC Probe on 2011 Commercial-Mortgage Bond
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-08-07T19:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/s-p-said-to-face-sec-inquiry-on-2011-commercial-mortgage-bonds.html
Standard & Poor’s  is facing scrutiny
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for how it
rated a commercial-mortgage bond in 2011, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The inquiry extends beyond the securities and period that
are the subject of a lawsuit brought in February by the U.S.
 Justice Department  against New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial
Inc. (MHFI)  and its S&P unit, according to two of the people, who asked
not to be identified without authorization to speak publicly.
Massachusetts has also looked into S&P’s post-crisis methods,
 Bloomberg News  reported Feb. 21.  “We reviewed the application of our CMBS methodology and
determined that the approach used for new transactions rated in
2011 produced results that were consistent with Standard &
Poor’s rating definitions and resulted in no ratings changes,”
 Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman in Washington, declined to
comment on whether the agency was scrutinizing the deal, as
reported earlier today by Dow Jones Newswires.  In July 2011, S&P pulled assigned grades on a $1.5 billion
offering from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
prompting the banks to abandon the deal after it was placed with
investors. S&P yanked the rankings after discovering potential
discrepancies in how its methodology was being applied, the
company said at the time.  CMBS Halt  The credit rater then halted rating any new commercial-mortgage bonds, saying it had to review a potential discrepancy
in its model. That August, the company said the conflict had
turned out not to be significant and it would resume grading
deals.  The disruption kept S&P, the world’s biggest credit rater,
out of the commercial-mortgage backed  securities market  for more
than a year. The company revised its criteria in September and
reentered the market later that month, awarding investment-grade
ratings on a $1.5 billion offering from JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Moody’s Investors Service, the second-largest credit rater,
criticized its competitor, saying the underlying loans in the
securities did not “merit” the ranking.  ‘Inherent Conflict’  U.S. lawmakers targeted the credit-grading business as part
of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act after the collapse of top-ranked
mortgage-backed securities helped spark the longest recession
since the 1930s. The legislation removed some rating references
from regulation without changing the model of issuers paying the
companies to grade their bonds.  “The inherent conflict of interest in the issuer-pay
system hasn’t been resolved in any way, shape or form,” Jeffrey Manns, an associate professor of law at George Washington
University, said in a telephone interview.  Grading securities tied to debt on skyscrapers, hotels and
shopping centers is one of the most lucrative businesses for
ratings companies. The firms generally charge $1 million to $2
million to grade a commercial-mortgage bond, which bundles the
loans into securities of varying risk, according to an October
2011  paper  by  Andrew Cohen , a researcher at the  Federal Reserve .  The Justice Department sued S&P Feb. 4 in federal court in
Los Angeles, accusing the company of inflating grades to win
business on bonds backed by home loans made to the riskiest
borrowers from September 2004 to October 2007. The U.S. is
seeking more than $5 billion in damages, or more than five years
of profit.  S&P denies the allegations and said in a Feb. 5 statement
it will defend itself “vigorously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  