-- Scientists Solve DNA Puzzle of Cord Stem Cell Infection
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-08-07T22:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/scientists-solve-dna-puzzle-of-cord-stem-cell-infection.html
Researchers studying diseases with an
unknown cause may have a new method to try, as scientists
reverse engineered a new bacterium responsible for a syndrome
discovered fewer than two years ago.  The quest began in 2011, after doctors  reported  a syndrome
they called cord colitis in a small group of patients treated
with umbilical cord stem cells for blood cancer and other
hematologic diseases. Researchers at  Dana-Faber Cancer Institute 
in  Boston  hypothesized that the new ailment, which responded to
antibiotics, stemmed from a previously unknown infectious agent.  Bacteria are typically identified after investigators
obtain a living sample and grow it in laboratory dishes. In the
case of cord colitis, all the researchers had was preserved
biopsy specimens from colons of treated patients that weren’t
alive and couldn’t grow. After sequencing the DNA from the
specimens and eliminating those identified as human, they began
assembling pieces of the genetic jigsaw puzzle that was left.  “If these patients had an infection, there should be human
cells and bacterial cells,” said  Ami Bhatt , the lead researcher
and a clinical fellow in hematology and oncology at Dana-Faber.
“What I expected to find was some weird variety of E. coli” or
a similar bacteria found in the gut, she said in a telephone
interview. “We didn’t find much of those at all.”  Meticulously fitting the DNA pieces together, aided by
overlapping sequences that provided some continuity, the
researchers assembled a draft genome that seemed to resemble a
 bacteria  typically found in agriculture. They named it
bradyrhizobium enterica.  First Feat  “This is to my knowledge is the first example of
discovering a new bacteria using sequencing of a human disease
tissue specimen,” Bhatt said. “It is a proof of concept: That
from a human disease tissue specimen, you can go in with the
hypothesis that the disease is caused by an infection and you
can identify a yet undiscovered bacterium.”  The researchers compared DNA from the bacteria they
assembled using tissue from two patients to biopsy specimens
taken from three others with cord  colitis . Testing showed
similar genetic traits in all three. Another test run against
samples taken from healthy people and those with  colon cancer  or
graft-versus-host disease failed to find a match.  The assembly of the B. enterica genome by sequencing DNA
taken from biopsy samples “is an amazing accomplishment,”
wrote Eric Pamer, from  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in
 New York , in an editorial that accompanied the report in the  New
England Journal of Medicine . It doesn’t, however, prove the
bacteria caused the infection, he wrote.  Distinct Species  There are hundreds of distinct bacterial species in the
healthy human gut, he wrote. The treatment stem-cell transplant
patients first undergo to wipe out their immune system and allow
the new cells to engraft can increase their susceptibility to
microbial invasion, he said. Some microbes, meanwhile, don’t
cause disease and are instead targets of the immune system.  The new bacteria may be a target of the patient’s immune
system after it starts to recover from treatment, he said.  “For now, B. enterica stands indicted and presented as a
possible perpetrator,” he wrote. “The final verdict, however,
awaits additional evidence.”  Publication of the work thus far should help the
researchers, Bhatt said. She is hoping doctors treating
umbilical cord stem-cell transplant patients with cord colitis
may led to samples that could be conventionally tested and
grown. Researchers working in agricultural genetics may be able
to run the new bacteria against their own databases, and help
further identify the microbe.  “We have the genome sequence but we don’t yet have the
organism,” she said. “There is a lot of work to be done to
determine if this is the cause of the disease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  