-- Second-Half U.S. Rebound Intact Even After Hiring Cools: Economy
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-08-07T14:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/second-half-u-s-rebound-intact-even-after-hiring-cools-economy.html
Economists are sticking with
forecasts that the  U.S. economy  will pick up in the second half
of the year even after a slow start in employment.  Gross domestic product will climb at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate from July through December, up from a 1.4
percent gain in the first six months of 2013 and little changed
from the pace projected last month, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 59 economists conducted Aug. 2 to Aug. 6. Labor
Department figures last week showed employers added 162,000
workers to payrolls in July, the fewest in four months.  Gains in manufacturing, record  exports , looser bank lending
and a sustained housing recovery are raising the odds the
economy will accelerate after government cutbacks slowed growth.
Economists this month also projected unemployment will drop to 7
percent by the middle of 2014, matching the timeline Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  laid out in predicting when the
central bank’s monthly bond purchases will end.  The Fed “wanted to see consistent job gains rather than a
dramatic pickup and that’s what we’re seeing,” said  Maury Harris , the New York-based chief U.S. economist for UBS
Securities LLC and the best GDP forecaster over the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He projects
growth will average 3.1 percent in the last six months of 2013.  Harris said his estimates got a boost this week when a Fed
survey showed banks are seeing an increase in demand for credit
and are providing loans more readily to home buyers and
businesses. Banks reported easing lending terms to businesses of
all sizes as demand picked up and competition increased.  ‘Leading Indicator’  “We continue to see further easing of bank-lending
standards, and that is a leading indicator,” said Harris.  Stocks fell today, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (COMFCOMF) 
down for a third day, as investors speculated an improving
economy would mean Fed policy makers would soon cut back on bond
purchases. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.7 percent to 1,685.75 at 10:15
a.m. in  New York .  Central bankers on the other side of the Atlantic are
echoing the Fed’s labor-market peg. Bank of England Governor
 Mark Carney  today for the first time linked the monetary policy
outlook to unemployment, saying officials are unlikely to
tighten policy as long as the jobless rate exceeds 7 percent.  More freely flowing credit can help to further unleash
pent-up demand for cars and houses that will propel  consumer
spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
 Auto sales  are heading for their best year since 2007, while
combined purchases of new and existing houses have climbed to
the highest point since a government first-time buyer credit was
first set to expire more than three years ago.  Household Wealth  “With the strength we’re seeing in household wealth,
consumer sentiment, housing, and manufacturing, we think there’s
definitely more room to grow this year,” Kurt McNeil, a vice
president at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on an Aug. 1 conference
call.  While the gain in payrolls last month was shy of the
185,000 the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the report, sustained increases in hiring and falling
unemployment are helping boost confidence and spending.  The jobless rate dropped more than projected last month,
reaching a four-year low of 7.4 percent, Labor Department data
showed. The average increase in payrolls so far this year is
192,000 a month, compared with 183,000 in 2012.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached a five-year
high in July as Americans gained confidence the economic
expansion was gaining momentum.  Jobs ‘Key’  “The key thing, of course, is jobs,” said  Michael Carey ,
chief economist for  North America  at Credit Agricole CIB and the
second-best New York-based GDP forecaster over the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The downside
is still that earnings are soft, but we are seeing slow
improvement in employment prospects.”  Carey projects payrolls will climb by about 190,000 a month
on average over the next year.  “I think it’s pretty easy to get to 3 percent growth by
the end of the year,” said Carey. “Then I think it begins to
feed on itself.”  The recovery in housing is rippling throughout the economy,
from retailers such as  hhgregg Inc.  to flooring products-maker
 Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK)  Sales at hhgregg stores open at least 12
months climbed last quarter from a year earlier for the first
time since the end of 2011, the Indianapolis-based electronics
and appliances retailer reported Aug. 1.  Improved Outlook  “We think the industry’s got some tailwind,” Dennis May,
president and chief executive officer, said on an earnings call.
“Business is going to continue to improve.”  Net sales at Calhoun, Georgia-based Mohawk rose about 35
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the company
said on Aug. 2.  “The U.S. flooring industry continues to improve, with new
residential construction up significantly for the year,
remodeling gaining strength and commercial construction
continuing to grow,” Jeffrey S. Lorberbaum, chairman and chief
executive officer at Mohawk, said on a conference call.  After expanding at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter,
household purchases will gain traction for the rest of 2013,
culminating in a 2.4 percent fourth-quarter gain, according to
the median forecast in this month’s Bloomberg survey.  Consumer Spending  Spending in the first six months of the year was restrained
by a 2 percentage-point increase in the payroll levy used to
fund  Social Security , which reverted to its 2010 level of 6.2
percent from 4.2 percent. Income taxes for the highest earners
also went up.  “The risk is to the upside in our forecasts, mostly with
consumer spending faring better,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York. “Consumers
survived the increase in taxes in the first half of the year.”  At 2.25 percent, Bank of America is projecting a slightly
slower rebound in growth in the second half of this year than
the survey median, followed by a more pronounced 3 percent
advance in the first six months of 2014. The automatic across-the-board government budget cuts known as sequestration that
took effect in March will continue to weigh on growth, said
Meyer.  “We don’t think we’ve seen the full impact from the
sequester just yet, and that not only means  government spending 
will keep dropping, but it will also hurt business investment,”
she said.  Fed Purchases  Fed policy makers have focused on the job market to
determine when to begin scaling back the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases. Officials have said they will
continue the program until the labor market has improved
“substantially.”  Bernanke said in a press conference after the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s June 18-19 meeting that the Fed may trim its
program later this year and halt it around mid-2014, at which
time the  jobless rate  will probably be around 7 percent. The
Bloomberg survey this month showed economists agree the rate
will reach that level by the end of the second quarter.  While the timing of an announcement of a reduction in bond
purchases is a close call between the September and December Fed
meetings, economists at Bank of America are leaning toward the
latter, said Meyer.  Because Commerce Department revisions last week showed the
world’s largest economy grew less than previously projected in
the year through March, Fed officials will probably need to
lower their 2013 growth forecasts at the September meeting, said
Meyer. That may “complicate the message around tapering,” she
said. “There’s a marginally better chance in our view for
December, but we don’t have a strong conviction.”  UBS’ Harris is more confident the announcement of a change
in course will come next month.  “The fact that you no longer have the downside risks, in
and of itself, is enough of a positive,” Harris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  