-- Serbia Seen Holding Rates as Cabinet Shuffle Puts Brake on Cuts
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-07T08:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/serbia-seen-holding-rates-as-cabinet-shuffle-puts-brake-on-cuts.html
Serbia ’s central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged for a second straight month as a
government overhaul sidelines a push for monetary easing.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade will leave its  one-week repurchase rate  at 11 percent, according to 14 of 24
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Eight predict a quarter-point
reduction, one sees a half-point cut and one forecasts a 0.75
percentage point drop. The monetary authority will announce the
decision tomorrow at about noon.  The Balkan nation’s political leaders averted early
elections on July 31 after the largest party agreed to the
premier’s cabinet shuffle that led to the ouster of the finance
minister and his party. The threat of a snap ballot sent yields
on state bonds to the highest level in a month. The Serbian
Progressive Party of Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic and Prime
Minister Ivica Dacic’s Socialists are expected to reach a new
coalition agreement and appoint new ministers by September.  “They will probably hold the rate because of the
government reshuffle although everything else,” including a
credit crunch, weak consumption and struggling investment,
“warrants a cut,” Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at Hypo
Alpe-Adria Banka AD in Belgrade, said by phone yesterday.  The dinar traded little changed at 113.9335 against the
euro at 8:50 a.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the government 10-year Eurobonds
maturing in 2021 was unchanged at 7.22 percent after rising 75
basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, since July 30, when the
finance minister was ousted.  Surprise Moves  Serbian rate setters surprised most economists for two
consecutive months by lowering the benchmark rate by a quarter
point in June, bringing the total easing since May to 75 basis
points, and holding borrowing costs in July after the
International Monetary Fund said policy relaxation was
premature.  With the Progressive Party taking over the ministries of
finance and economy, investors will wait to see which policy
changes are implemented, said Ljiljana Grubic, analyst with
Raiffeisen Banka AD in Belgrade.  “Usually, the reason to oust the finance minister is to
signal future policy direction except that reasons for the
ouster this time are unclear,” Grubic said by phone.  Rate setters should proceed with caution because of a
mounting fiscal risk after Dacic’s cabinet slipped behind its
deficit target, Grubic said. The IMF has warned the fiscal gap
may soar to 8.3 percent of gross domestic product this year
without additional cost cuts, compared with a revised deficit
target of 4.7 percent of GDP.  IMF Advice  The IMF last month urged restraint in further policy easing
while fiscal consolidation is implemented to avoid risks to
inflation, the dinar and economic stability.  The central bank sees inflation falling within its target
band of 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points, by
October. Price growth slowed to 9.8 percent in June. It peaked
at 12.9 percent in October, fueled by regulated price increases
and rising dinar liquidity, which forced the central bank to
raise borrowing costs eight times in nine meetings through
February even as the economy shrank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  