-- SocGen Leads Corporate Bond Returns in Europe After Earnings Win
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-08-07T11:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/socgen-leads-corporate-bond-returns-in-europe-after-earnings-win.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s bonds are
providing the best returns among investment-grade corporate
securities in euros this month after it said second-quarter
profit beat analysts’ estimates.  The 4 percent subordinated notes maturing in June 2023 from
France’s second-largest bank have handed investors 2.8 percent
so far this month, while investment-grade notes in euros
returned an average 0.13 percent, Bloomberg  index  data show. The
lender’s profit more than doubled in the second quarter, aided
by an increase in corporate and investment-banking revenue, the
bank reported on Aug. 1.  Notes from  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and BPCE SA are also among
the best-performing in the region after both French banks
reported profit increases yesterday. The cost of insuring
European financial corporate debt against losses fell to the
lowest in more than two months on Aug. 5, while swaps on  France 
dropped 15 basis points in July, the biggest monthly decline
since October.  “Bank bonds got beaten up more than corporates in the
sell-off in May and June but now better market sentiment, good
economic data and favourable earnings are boosting
performance,” said Roger Francis, a credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. “French sovereign risk improved in
July and the banks are very correlated with that.”  The worst-returning notes this month are  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) ’s 5.25 percent securities due March 2055 that lost 3.9
percent, according to the index. Fitch Ratings cut Italy’s
largest phone company’s credit ranking to BBB- on Aug. 5,
leaving it ranked one step above junk by the three major rating
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  