-- Solarworld Investors Approve Restructuring to Save Panel Maker
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-08-07T20:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/solarworld-investors-approve-restructuring-to-save-panel-maker.html
Solarworld AG (SWV)  shareholders backed
restructuring proposals that will see them lose 95 percent of
their holdings as part of a last-ditch effort to save  Germany ’s
biggest solar-panel maker.  More than 99 percent of shareholders voted in favor of the
plan for debt and capital reductions at an extraordinary general
meeting in Bonn, spokesman Milan Nitzschke said in a text
message today. Holders of two corporate bonds due July 2016 and
January 2017 backed the restructuring earlier this week.  Solarworld, which in 2009 had the world’s second-biggest
solar wafer production capacity behind LDK Solar Co., has
slumped to ninth place, overtaken by competitors from  China  that
cut prices about 20 percent last year as they increased output,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its revenue fell by
more than 50 percent to 606 million euros ($808 million) last
year from 1.3 billion euros at their peak in 2010.  More than a dozen German firms including  Solar Millennium
AG (S2M)  and Q-Cells SE, once the world’s largest cell maker, have
filed for insolvency in the past two years amid below-cost sales
by Chinese peers, a practice known as  dumping . The European
Commission on Aug. 3 approved a plan for curbs on Chinese solar
panels in an effort to stabilize the European market, which is
80 percent-controlled by Chinese companies.  Qatar Solar S.P.C. is seeking 29 percent of Bonn-based
Solarworld through a purchase of new shares after the current
share capital is reduced by a ratio of 150:1, Solarworld said in
June. Bondholders would receive proceeds from the Qatari deal
and a separate purchase of shares by Chief Executive Officer
Frank Asbeck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  