-- Won Drops the Most in a Week on Fed Tapering Concern; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-07T08:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/south-korean-bonds-drop-on-fed-tapering-concern-won-fluctuates.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in a
week as global investors sold local shares on concern the
Federal Reserve will rein in stimulus. Sovereign bonds declined.  The government said today it will strengthen monitoring of
the currency market as the prospect of the U.S. tapering and the
possibility of a hard landing in the Chinese economy pose risks
to growth. A recovery in the nation’s private sector is weak,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in  Seoul . Fed officials
signaled this week that asset purchases could be cut next month.
Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser and Cleveland Fed’s
Sandra Pianalto are due to speak today.  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,118.58 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest drop since July 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The currency earlier rose as much as 0.2 percent. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, dropped 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 6.92 percent.  “Offshore investors sold won-denominated assets after Fed
officials’ comments on the tapering strategy yesterday and ahead
of speeches by other Fed chiefs,” said Han Sung Min, a currency
trader at Busan Bank in Seoul.  Overseas investors sold more South Korean shares than they
bought for a second day following 11 straight days of net
purchases, exchange data show. Global funds were net buyers of
1.3 trillion won ($1.2 billion) of local stocks and 1.7 trillion
won of bonds in July, the Financial Supervisory Service said in
a statement today.  Fed Officials  Fed Bank of Chicago President Charles Evans, among the
strongest proponents of the monetary accommodation in the U.S.,
said yesterday he “would clearly not” rule out a decision to
begin curbing asset purchases in September. Dallas Fed President
Richard Fisher said on Aug. 5 the central bank is closer to
slowing $85 billion in monthly bond buying and warned investors
not to rely on the stimulus that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 rose four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.95 percent, the
first increase this week, according to Korea Exchange Inc.
prices.  Bank loans to households rose to a record 470 trillion won,
the Bank of Korea said today. The monetary authority is forecast
to hold interest rates at 2.5 percent at a policy meeting
tomorrow, according to 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  