-- Spanish Bad Bank Sareb Sells First Property Portfolio
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-08-09T08:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/spain-s-bad-bank-sells-first-property-portfolio-in-h-i-g-deal.html
(Corrects first paragraph of story published on Aug. 7 to
show that H.I.G. bought stake in portfolio valued at 100 million
euros.)  Spain ’s bad bank agreed to sell a
majority stake in a group of almost 1,000 homes known as Project
Bull to private-equity firm  H.I.G. Capital LLC , its first
divestment of a real estate portfolio. The properties are valued
at about 100 million euros ($133 million).  Sareb, set up last year to absorb the souring property
assets of eight lenders, will keep a share of future gains from
the portfolio, which includes homes in Madrid, Valencia,
Andalucia, Murcia and the  Canary Islands , storage space and
garages, the bank said in a statement after the market closed
yesterday.  Spanish officials set up Sareb as part of their strategy to
clear the backlog of foreclosed homes and bad loans that are
clogging up the banking system after the collapse of the
country’s construction boom.  Sareb has taken on about 200,000 assets. This includes
107,000 properties, 76,000 of which are empty homes, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos told Congress in March. The bad bank
plans to sell assets with a value of 1.5 billion euros this
year, he said.  H.I.G. in May raised more than $1 billion for a loan fund
that will buy European company debt. The Miami-based firm is
seeking to capitalize on the bank deleveraging process in
 Europe , which has made it harder for smaller businesses to gain
access to capital, H.I.G. founders Sami Mnaymneh and Tony Tamer
said in a statement at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  