-- Stoltenberg Warns on Krone as Solberg Slams Norway Oil Risk
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-08-08T08:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/stoltenberg-warns-on-krone-as-solberg-targets-norway-oil-policy.html
Norway  Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg warned a change in government may result in krone
and interest-rate volatility as he struggled to regain the lead
against  Conservative Party  head Erna Solberg before next month’s
elections.  An opposition win would be a “whole new direction for
Norway and it creates uncertainty for what’s the most important
for Norway: security for businesses,” Stoltenberg said late
yesterday in a televised debate on TV2. “If there’s something
we need, it’s to watch over the future, that Norwegian companies
have good a framework, that there’s order in the krone and
 interest rates  -- it’s important for every one with debt.”  Solberg, who has led the Conservative Party since 2004, is
trying to unseat Stoltenberg’s  Labor Party  in the Sept. 9
election in western  Europe ’s largest oil producer. The
Conservatives are leading in the polls, attracting voters with
promises of tax cuts and more spending on roads, railways, and
education. Stoltenberg counters that Norway needs to extend its
welfare model, which is financed by the nation’s oil wealth.  Campaign Promises  Both Solberg and Stoltenberg have sought to entice voters
with campaign promises that risk stoking demand further in
Norway’s $480 billion economy.  Norway emerged as a haven during the  European debt crisis 
and the krone is up 23 percent against the euro since the end of
2008. The krone, which was little changed today at 7.8771 per
euro, has averaged 8.03 against the common currency since its
inception in 1999. The nation’s central bank has been struggling
to balance monetary policy, weighing the need to keep rates low
to limit krone gains against preventing potential financial
imbalances as borrowing has surged.  “We need to expand the country in more areas,” Solberg
said. “We should look at areas where we can make our companies
more competitive than they have been and lower the cost-burden
in the non-oil oriented companies in Norway.”  Support for Solberg as premier was at 42.1 percent,
according to a poll by Norstat for Norwegian broadcaster NRK
released today. Stoltenberg was backed by 37.7 percent.  A Conservative-led bloc, which includes the anti-immigration Progress Party, would get 105 seats in parliament,
versus 62 seats for the Labor-led government, according to a
separate poll published yesterday.  Different Spending  Solberg, 52, has said lower taxes and cutting red tape will
do more to ease the pain exporters are feeling from the surging
krone than the spending measures favored by the current
government.  The Conservative Party is also considering plans to split
its $740 billion sovereign wealth fund, the world’s biggest, to
boost returns, Solberg said last week.  Since Norway struck oil in the  North Sea  more than 40 years
ago it has funneled its petroleum wealth into the fund, which
invests money abroad to avoid stoking inflation at home.  Whether a government spends on welfare or decides to lower
taxes is a political question,  Erik Bruce , senior economist for
Nordea AB, said by telephone in Oslo. What’s important is that
both contenders for prime minister plan to stick to Norway’s
fiscal spending rule.  “For the market, interest rates and exchange rates, there
won’t be that big of a difference between the Labor Party and
the Conservative Party,” Bruce said.  Business Impact  Norway uses money from the fund to pad its budget. Though
the use of the fund is limited to 4 percent, the amount of money
that figure represents is growing. The oil fund has quadrupled
in size since 2005 and will grow by about 50 percent by 2020,
the government estimates.  “How the governments spend the money will differ, but the
impact on the business cycle wouldn’t be that different,” Bruce
said.  A native of Bergen, Solberg joined parliament in 1989, just
three years after finishing a degree in sociology, political
science, statistics and economics at the University of Bergen.  The 54-year-old premier faced calls for his resignation
last year after a formal probe into the July 22, 2011, mass
killings that left 77 dead. The inquiry revealed the
government’s failure to take measures that could have prevented
right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik from executing his
attacks.  Breivik was sentenced in August to 21 years in prison with
an option to extend his term.  Besides the terror response, the premier has also struggled
amid controversy over an overhaul of some of the nation’s
biggest hospitals. Higher import tariffs on cheese and meat and
slow progress in building infrastructure have also eroded the
government’s popularity.  Stoltenberg clung to power in the 2009 elections, becoming
the first leader in 16 years to win re-election after steering
the Nordic economy out of a recession by tapping a record amount
of the nation’s oil wealth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  