-- Swiss Stocks Rise Fifth Day as Swisscom Beats Forecasts
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-07T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/swiss-stocks-rise-fifth-day-as-swisscom-beats-forecasts.html
Stocks in Switzerland  were little
changed, near the benchmark Swiss Market Index’s highest level
in three weeks, as Swisscom AG reported better-than-expected
results, while Swiss Re Ltd. fell.  Swisscom rose 1.9 percent after the country’s biggest phone
company posted second-quarter profit and revenue that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. Swiss Re lost 1 percent.  Meyer Burger (MBTN) 
Technology AG, the supplier of machinery to solar-panel makers,
slumped 6.9 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  gained 0.1 percent to 8,005.41 at 11:27 a.m. in
Zurich. The equity benchmark rallied 2.1 percent last week as
the  European Central Bank  said  interest rates  will remain low
for an extended period and the  Federal Reserve  kept its monthly
bond purchases unchanged. The broader Swiss Performance Index
climbed 0.1 percent today.  “I think investors are hanging in the air a bit,” said
Christian Gattiker, the head of research at Julius Baer Group
Ltd. in Zurich. “Investors are focusing on the timing of the
Fed tapering again as there’s no major news out otherwise.
Volume is low and market participants are waiting for a clearer
direction.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 9.3 percent below the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Bank of  Chicago  President  Charles Evans , a proponent of
monetary stimulus, said late yesterday he would not rule out a
decision to begin reducing bond purchases from September.  “We’ve seen good improvement in the labor market, there’s
no question in my mind about that,” Evans said in a meeting
with reporters in Chicago. “I’m still wanting to see greater
evidence that it’s a sustainable improvement.”  Fisher Comments  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher , one of the
most vocal critics of quantitative easing, had said Aug. 5 that
policy makers were “closer to execution mode” in considering
the right time to begin reducing purchases.  Data today may show  industrial output  in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, added 0.3 percent in June after dropping 1
percent in May, according to the median forecast of 41
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The report is due at noon in
Berlin.  Swisscom (SCMN)  rose 1.9 percent to 420.90 francs. Net income
dropped 6.8 percent to 427 million francs ($461 million). That
still exceeded the 408 million-franc average analyst estimate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 1.5 percent
to 2.86 billion francs, compared with the 2.8 billion-franc
estimate.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, dropped 1
percent to 72.35 francs, bringing its two-day decline to 3.3
percent, the most in two months.  Meyer Burger  Meyer Burger tumbled 6.9 percent to 6.64 francs, snapping
the longest winning streak since August 2012. Shares rallied 19
percent in the past six days. First Solar Inc., the largest U.S.
solar-panel manufacturer, reported lower second-quarter profit
as sales slid 46 percent, sending shares lower.  Novartis AG added 0.8 percent to 68.45 francs, even as the
company’s Afinitor drug failed to meet its primary endpoint in
an advanced liver cancer study.  “The setback is not grave as the liver cancer indication
was always regarded as risky,” David Kaegi, an analyst at J.
Safra Sarasin in Zurich, wrote in a note to clients today.
“With the other cancer indications for Afinitor still in place,
Novartis’ plate remains full and Afinitor is still on track to
reach consensus 2015 sales expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  