-- Switzerland's FX Reserves Held Steady in July
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-08-07T07:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/switzerland-s-fx-reserves-held-steady-in-july.html
The  Swiss National Bank ’s  foreign-currency reserves  remained little changed in July.  Holdings stood at 434.9 billion francs ($470 billion), from
a revised 434.8 billion francs in June, the Zurich-based Swiss
National Bank  said  on its website today. The holdings,
calculated according to International Monetary Fund standards at
the beginning of each month, hit an all-time high of 444 billion
francs in May.  The SNB, which committed to defend a ceiling of 1.20 per
euro in September 2011, has amassed foreign-currency reserves
equal to about three-quarters of  Switzerland ’s annual economic
output as a result of its efforts to protect the limit.  Abolishing the ceiling is a way off, SNB President Thomas Jordan said at the central bank’s most recent policy review on
June 20. The SNB cited the risk of deflation as its
justification for the currency cap, and it expects consumer
prices to fall 0.3 percent this year.  Last month, the franc lost about 0.2 percent versus the
euro and appreciated 2 percent against the dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with the recession in the neighboring euro area, the
Swiss economy has continued to grow and the SNB forecasts an
economic expansion of between 1 percent and 1.5 percent this
year.  Domestic demand is the biggest growth driver, accounting
for about 57 percent of output last year. The KOF barometer,
which seeks to predict the economy’s direction about six months
ahead, signaled brighter prospects for the economy, when it rose
for the fourth month in July.  At the end of the second quarter, the SNB held 48 percent
of its reserves in euros, 27 percent in dollars, and 9 percent
in yen. The bulk is held in top rated government bonds with 15
percent in equities, an allocation little changed compared with
the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  