-- U.K. Airports Review Seeks Quick Narrowing of London Hub Options
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-07T07:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/u-k-airports-review-seeks-quick-narrowing-of-london-hub-options.html
The U.K. government commission
exploring the future of  London Heathrow ,  Europe ’s busiest hub,
said it’s pressing ahead to narrow options on how to develop the
airport infrastructure around the U.K. capital.  “We need to move quickly to winnow down the options and
reduce uncertainty for potentially affected communities,”
 Howard Davies , chairman of the Airports Commission, said in a
statement today as the group published submissions it has
received on how to evolve capacity in southeast  England .  The commission has received 48 proposals as  Boris Johnson ,
the city’s mayor, favors development of Stansted airport to the
north or a completely new base in the Thames estuary costing 65
billion pounds ($100 billion). Heathrow has proposed adding a
third runway by 2025-29 for as much as 18 billion pounds.  “The proposals that we have received and that we have
published today demonstrate imaginative and thoughtful responses
to the challenges that the Airports Commission has been set but
also show clearly the wide spectrum of views that exist on these
issues,” Davies said.  An interim report from the panel is due later this year,
with the final document slated to be published in 2015. The
public has until Sept. 27 to comment on the proposals.  Submissions run from Johnson’s plan to shutter Heathrow in
favor of another site to adding no additional runways and
linking the current five airports surrounding the city with a
high-speed train to create an interconnected hub.  Short-Term Plans  London Gatwick , Europe’s busiest single-runway airport, is
advocating expansion and told the commission it could deliver
the added capacity for as little as 5 billion pounds. Global
Infrastructure Partners Ltd., which acquired the site in 2009
after U.K. regulators ordered a breakup of Heathrow owner BAA
Ltd., said July 23 it favored a “constellation” of airports
ringing London rather than one hub maximizing inter-continental
connections.  Stansted airport could lift annual capacity to 90 million
passengers with the addition of one runway, or to 160 million
travelers with a four-runway layout, owner Manchester Airports
Group said last month.  In addition to long-term plans, the commission is exploring
measures that could be taken in earlier, some within 5 years, to
alleviate constraints.  The 65 submissions for such steps range from changing
operating rules now in place at Heathrow to enable more
departures and arrivals to raising the U.K.’s air passenger duty
to curb demand for flights.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  