-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Aug. 2 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2013-08-07T14:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-aug-2-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.9 million barrels per
day during the week ending August 2, 2013, 72 thousand barrels
per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated
at 90.9 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging about 9.6 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging over 4.9 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged over 7.9 million barrels per day
last week, down by 254 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports
averaged about 8.0 million barrels per day, 946 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 635 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 54 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.3 million barrels
from the previous week. At 363.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are near the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
0.1 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 0.5 million barrels last week and
are near the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.5 million
barrels last week and are in the upper half of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 0.8
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period averaged
about 19.7 million barrels per day, up by 3.7 percent from the
same period last year. Over the last four weeks, motor gasoline
product supplied averaged over 9.0 million barrels per day, up
by 3.3 percent from the same period last year. Distillate fuel
product supplied averaged 4.0 million barrels per day over the
last four weeks, up by 11.1 percent from the same period last
year. Jet fuel product supplied is 1.6 percent higher over the
last four weeks compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  