-- U.S. Lawmakers and Staff to Keep Health-Premium Subsidy
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-08-07T16:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/u-s-lawmakers-and-staff-to-keep-health-premium-subsidy.html
U.S. lawmakers and members of their
staffs can keep receiving the federal government’s medical
insurance premium subsidy next year after the 2010 health-care
law forces them into new insurance exchanges, according to a
proposed Obama administration rule issued today.  Starting Jan. 1, members of Congress and their aides must
purchase coverage on health-insurance exchanges created by the
law and being set up in each state. Ambiguities in the law had
raised questions about whether congressional staff members would
continue receiving government subsidies of as much as 75 percent
of their health-care premiums, as they do under the benefits
plan covering all federal employees.  The rule comes as the administration prepares to implement
key provisions of the health-care law that have drawn Republican
threats to shut down the government unless funding to carry out
the programs is withheld.  Lawmakers and staff members purchasing family plans faced
the prospect of paying an additional $11,000 a year for medical
insurance if the administration determined that they were
ineligible for the subsidy.  The rules proposed by the  Office of Personnel Management 
would allow lawmakers and members of their official staffs to
keep receiving a premium subsidy. The regulations would enforce
a provision of the health-care law that makes lawmakers and
those aides ineligible at year’s end to purchase medical
insurance through the  Federal Employees Health Benefits Program .  “These proposed regulations implement the administrative
aspects of switching members of Congress and congressional staff
to their new insurance plans -- the same plans available to
millions of Americans through the new exchanges,” Jon Foley,
OPM’s planning and policy director, said in a statement.  Republican Amendment  The provision was inserted into the health-care overhaul
bill in 2009 by Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , then the top
Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, which drafted the
legislation. Grassley said at the time that members of Congress
should be forced to live under the laws that apply to other
Americans.  Under the regulations, members of Congress and their staffs
will be eligible to purchase insurance on the exchange in the
state where they live, OPM said.  The proposed rule attempts to clarify which aides will have
to obtain health insurance through the exchanges. Questions
arose because the law states that “congressional staff”
includes people who work in “the official office” of a member
of Congress.  OPM said that “because there is no existing statutory or
regulatory definition of the term ‘official office,’” each
lawmaker will “determine whether an employed individual meets
the statutory definition.” The decision must be made by Oct. 1
every year, OPM said.  Final Authority  Lawmakers will be the “final authority” on whether a
staff member who is assigned to perform work for both a
legislative committee and the member’s personal office is
eligible for the subsidy, the regulation states.  Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  has held up
Senate confirmation of Katherine Archuleta to be the next OPM
director until receiving answers from the agency to his
questions about the subsidy.  He said last week that if OPM didn’t provide a satisfactory
answer, he was ready to propose legislation that would preserve
the premium subsidy for congressional staff. His legislation
wouldn’t have covered members of Congress.  “I am not going to punish federal employees because they
happen to work for Congress,” Coburn said in an interview last
week.  Coburn will lift the hold on Archuleta’s nomination now
that OPM has proposed regulations, said an aide, who wasn’t
authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition
of anonymity.  Support Staff  The subsidy provision for purchasing insurance on the
exchanges doesn’t apply to support staff or to employees of
other legislative-branch offices, such as the  Library of
Congress , the Architect of the Capitol or the Office of the
Senate Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper. Those employees remain
eligible to purchase health coverage under the federal
government’s benefits plan.  The proposed regulation becomes final following a notice
and comment period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  