-- Luis Suarez Prepared to Submit Transfer Request: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-07T09:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/luis-suarez-prepared-to-submit-transfer-request-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Broken Promise?  Luis Suarez  is prepared to submit a written transfer
request by the end of the week if Liverpool continues to block a
move to Arsenal, the  Guardian said .  Suarez says he has little alternative after Liverpool
failed to fulfill a promise it made last year to let him leave
if it failed to qualify for the  Champions League , the Guardian
said. He maintains a clause in his contract allows him to leave
if someone offers more than 40 million pounds ($61 million),
with Arsenal having bid 40 million plus one pound, the newspaper
said.  “Last year I had the opportunity to move to a big European
club and I stayed on the understanding that if we failed to
qualify for the Champions League the following season I’d be
allowed to go,” Suarez told the Guardian. “I gave absolutely
everything last season but it was not enough to give us a top-four finish. Now all I want is for Liverpool to honor our
agreement.”  Liverpool denies that the clause forces the Reds to sell to
any club that offers more than 40 million pounds, the newspaper
added.  No Sale  Liverpool owner  John W. Henry  told a supporter group in
Norway that Suarez is not going anywhere,  the Mirror said .  “We have no intention of selling one of the best players
in the world to one of our rivals,” Henry told the fans ahead
of the Reds’ preseason game in Oslo. “Luis Suarez is very much
a Liverpool player and there is no real value in discussing it
unless someone comes close to the valuation.”  Miami Meeting  Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  will meet with Real Madrid
President  Florentino Perez  in Miami to discuss Gareth Bale’s
transfer to the Spanish club, the  Daily Mail  said.  Spurs are trying to get as much as they can for the winger,
with the fee rising to 105 million pounds, the Mail said. Real
wants to only pay 100 million pounds, which would eclipse the
world-record 80 million pounds it paid to sign  Cristiano Ronaldo 
from  Manchester United , the newspaper said.  Fellaini Bid  Manchester United will turn its attention to Everton
midfielder Marouane Fellaini after it failed in a move for
Barcelona’s  Cesc Fabregas , the  Mirror said .  New United manager  David Moyes  will return to his former
club as Fellaini has a 23.5 million-pound buyout clause that
allows him to move a club in the Champions League, the Mirror
said. United’s valuation of the Belgian isn’t that high so the
club may face a battle to land him, according to the newspaper.  Rooney Move  Wayne Rooney  will look to go a move abroad if he can’t move
to Chelsea from Manchester United, the  Daily Mail said .  The England striker is expected to submit a formal transfer
request in a bid to facilitate a 30 million-pound transfer to
Chelsea, the Mail said. United has already rejected two bids
from the Blues and is maintaining its stance of not selling
Rooney to a Premier League title rival, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 