-- Lundbeck to Hire More Than 200 Reps to Market Brintellix
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-08-07T10:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/lundbeck-to-hire-more-than-200-reps-to-market-brintellix.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , Denmark’s second-largest drugmaker, plans to hire more than 200 salespeople in
the U.S. to market its new anti-depressant Brintellix ahead of
anticipated approval from regulators.  Peak sales of Brintellix, which will be co-promoted with
Japanese partner Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., may reach $1 billion
to $2 billion, Chief Financial Officer Anders Gotzsche said in a
phone interview today. “It will be a significant sales force
that Takeda and Lundbeck are providing for the launch of
Brintellix,” he said. “It will definitely be more than 200.”  Brintellix will probably be prescribed as a second-line
treatment for patients who don’t respond to, or can’t tolerate,
cheaper generic options, Chief Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg
said last year. It will help offset declining revenue from
Lexapro, another antidepressant, which lost patent protection in
the U.S. in March 2012. Sales of that drug, known as Cipralex
outside the U.S., dropped to 6.4 billion kroner ($1.1 billion)
last year from about 8.5 billion kroner in 2011, according to
the company.  An application for the distribution of Brintellix was filed
in  Europe  in September and accepted by U.S. regulators for
review three months later.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
will make a decision on whether to approve the drug by Oct. 2,
Lundbeck said in December.  Increased Forecasts  Lundbeck raised the bottom of its estimated range for 2013
sales to 14.6 billion kroner from 14.4 billion kroner today. It
increased the lower end of the range for anticipated earnings
before interest and taxes to 1.3 billion kroner from 1.2 billion
kroner.  Lundbeck introduced its anti-alcoholism drug Selincro in 12
European countries including  Poland ,  Norway ,  Finland  and the
U.K. earlier this year, Gotzsche said. The drug will be rolled
out to more markets in Europe over the next two years, including
France and  Germany , he said. The drug has yet to be submitted
for approval in  Russia , and that process may take “a couple of
years”.  The company booked a fine of $125.6 million from the
European Commission, which found that Lundbeck held back sales
of cheaper generic versions of the anti-depressant citalopram.
The company plans to appeal the decision, and it may take as
many as five years to achieve an outcome, Gotzsche said.  “We still think it was a totally wrong conclusion,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  