-- USDA Chief Says Congress Risks Sanction Without Farm Bill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-08-07T20:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/usda-chief-says-congress-risks-sanction-without-farm-bill.html
A failure by Congress to pass a new
agriculture law by Sept. 30 could void a trade agreement that
has kept  Brazil  from imposing sanctions on U.S. imports,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  The 2010 deal through which the U.S. pays Brazil $147
million a year to aid its cotton industry won’t be funded once
the current farm law starts expiring at the end of next month,
Vilsack said today in a telephone interview from Brasilia. He
met in the Brazilian capital with the acting foreign minister
and agriculture minister of the biggest South American economy.  Vilsack said the ministers both raised the issue of
retaliatory measures “and expressed concern that we can’t make
the payment and don’t have the policy right.”  Brazil is taking the money in exchange for holding off on
$830 million a year in tariffs it can impose against U.S.
imports by a World Trade Organization ruling on U.S. cotton
subsidies. Under the agreement, the $147 million in payments
would continue until a new farm bill changed cotton programs.  Efforts to pass that legislation have stalled in the  U.S.
Congress . The current law, passed in 2008, expired last year,
and then was extended until the end of September.  Automatic  federal budget  cuts, known as sequestration, also
may keep the U.S. from making the payments, Vilsack said.  Congressional Action  Vilsack has been in Brazil since Aug. 2. Also traveling
with him are Senators  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat and
chairwoman of that chamber’s Agriculture Committee, and  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican.  The  U.S. Senate , which in June passed a reauthorization of
agricultural and nutrition programs that would cost $955 billion
over 10 years, last week named its negotiators to work out a
final bill with the House, which has approved a plan for farm
programs without including food aid to needy families.  Food stamps, the biggest U.S. Department of Agriculture
expense, has emerged as the most significant point of
disagreement between the two chambers. House Republicans will
look in September to move a nutrition bill that would cut $40
billion over 10 years from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program and similar initiatives, about 10 times the size of cuts
the Senate has already approved,  Agriculture Committee  Chairman
 Frank Lucas  said last week.  The bill will probably meet with stiff resistance from
Democrats. The Agriculture Committee’s ranking member,  Collin Peterson , said last week the move “kills any hopes of passing a
five-year farm bill this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 