-- Vale Says China Proving Pessimists Wrong on Steel Output
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-08-08T21:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/vale-profit-tumbles-on-lower-iron-ore-sales-and-weaker-currency.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the biggest iron-ore
producer, forecast a 10 percent increase in steel output this
year in  China , the world's largest steelmaker.  China probably will produce 780 million metric tons of
steel this year compared with 683 million tons two years ago,
underpinning a favorable view on the world’s largest emerging
market, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said today.  “China has once more proved the pessimists wrong,”
Ferreira said during a conference call to discuss quarterly
earnings. “Our view related to China continues positive.”  The shares of Vale and major rivals BHP Billiton Plc and
 Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  rallied today after Chinese imports climbed to the
highest in 14 months and an iron-ore index reached a three-month
high. The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s shares are  down  27
percent this year after a slowdown in commodities demand and
rising costs crimped miners’ earnings.  After tumbling 15 percent in the second quarter,  iron-ore
prices  entered a bull market on July 26 after China replenished
inventories and boosted steel output. In a presentation on its
website today, Vale said a sharp drop in steel inventories in
recent months opens the door to greater consumption growth.  Vale said late  yesterday  that second-quarter adjusted
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization,
or Ebitda, fell to $4.96 billion from $5.5 billion a year ago,
beating the $4.79 billion average estimate. Per-share earnings
excluding items beat the average estimate by 14 percent,
according to  data  compile by Bloomberg.  Shares Gain  “The beat was driven by yet another quarter of solid cost
performance, which more than offset weaker than expected iron-ore shipments,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including Rodolfo Angele wrote in a research note. “The shares are not pricing in
the implementation of changes by management, more specifically
on cost reduction and growth.”  Vale shares  gained  3 percent to 29.93 reais at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, its highest since June 4.  Iron-ore prices 
rose to $133.10 a ton yesterday, according to data from The
Steel Index Ltd. The price has rebounded from $110.40 on May 31.
Prices traded at an average of $125.60 a ton in the second
quarter, 9.9 percent less than last year.  Chinese steel production probably will grow between 3
percent and 7 percent in coming years, Vale Executive Director
for Ferrous and Strategy Jose Carlos Martins, said on today’s
call. Iron-ore prices are unlikely to fall below the $100 to
$110 per ton level on a sustained basis, he said.  Real Weakness  “I don’t lose my sleep over China,” he said.  Net income fell to $424 million, or 8 cents a share, from
$2.64 billion, or 52 cents, in the second quarter last year,
after a weaker real generated losses on its $30 billion debt,
Vale said yesterday. Profit was expected at 24 cents a share,
the average of three analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.
The real was the worst-performing emerging market currency in
the quarter after losing 9.4 percent against the dollar.  “The lower real impacts Vale’s indebtedness in dollars,”
Rafael Weber, who helps manage about 5.4 billion reais at
Geracao Futuro Corretora, said by telephone from Porto Alegre,
 Brazil . “Operationally, the negative highlights were the lower
iron-ore volumes and margins a bit below what I was expecting.”  Vale produced 73.2 million metric tons of iron ore in the
quarter compared with 80.5 million tons a year earlier after
rains at Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore complex, and
permit delays, the company  said . Citigroup Inc. had estimated
the company would produce 81 million tons.  Currency Losses  The company booked foreign exchange and monetary losses of
$1.97 billion compared with $1.77 billion a year earlier, while
posting currency swap losses of $814 million.  Net sales fell 12 percent to $11 billion in the period
after Vale sold iron ore at an average $99.21 a metric ton, 12
percent less than a year earlier. That was above the $95.30 per
ton average of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This reduced net income doesn’t mean that the company is
in a worse situation, it’s just an accounting effect,” Chief
Financial Officer Luciano Siani said in a video posted on the
company’s website with the earnings report. “This doesn’t
increase the size of our debt when measured in reais.”  Total debt as of June 30 declined to $29.9 billion from
$30.2 billion in the previous quarter.  Metal Output  Vale, the world’s biggest nickel producer after Moscow-based OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, said output of the metal gained
6.6 percent to 65,000 metric tons, while shipments rose 3.2
percent. Copper production advanced 30 percent to a record
91,300 metric tons and total coal output increased to 2.4
million tons, also a record. Potash production fell 12 percent.  Iron-ore production for the first half of the year was
140.8 million tons, 6.5 percent below 2012, and Carajas missed
its output target for the period by 4 million tons. Operating
performance at the mine has recovered in July and Carajas is
expected to meet its 67 million ton target for the second part
of 2013, it said.  “With the dry season already under way, operating
performance in Carajas is improving and we are still aiming to
produce close to the budgeted volume for 2013,” Vale said.  Production of the steel-making ingredient was the “main
negative” in Vale’s results, which were “mostly positive,”
Citigroup analysts Alexander Hacking and Thiago Ojea said.  “We expect Vale to trade slightly higher on these
results,” the analysts wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday. “Subsequent Brazilian real depreciation will help
further on operational expenditures and capital expenditures in
the coming quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  