-- VimpelCom Earnings Drop on Currency, Regulatory Changes
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-08-07T09:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/vimpelcom-earnings-drop-on-currency-regulatory-changes.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the wireless carrier
controlled by Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman, reported a 2
percent drop in second-quarter earnings, citing exchange-rate
and Italian regulatory changes.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to $2.43 billion from $2.48 billion a year
earlier, VimpelCom said today. Analysts  projected  $2.45 billion,
the average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company
also named Andrew Davies chief financial officer.  VimpelCom, which operates in 15 countries, said revenue was
little changed at $5.7 billion. Sales rose in  Russia , the
Amsterdam-based company’s biggest market, and other former
Soviet countries. Revenue fell in  Italy  amid changes in the
regulation of so-called termination rates.  The company, part-owned by  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) , is
struggling to reduce spending and boost profitability to help
cut $27.4 billion of debt stemming from the acquisition of
telecommunications assets, including in Italy and Algeria, from
Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris in 2011.  Net income increased 17 percent to $573 million, helped by
lower taxes and financial expenses. The Ebitda margin narrowed
to 42.4 percent of sales from 43.2 percent.  Russia Improvement  Mobile subscribers rose 5 percent from a year earlier to
215 million users. Investors are monitoring VimpelCom’s efforts
to stabilize its market share in Russia, where it has been
lagging behind rivals in network development, said Ivan Kim, an
analyst at VTB Capital, before the report. Fridman’s holding
company may seek to remove VimpelCom’s Russian head, Anton Kudryashov, newspaper Vedomosti reported today.  “Russian unit showed substantial improvement in the last
18 months,” VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer Jo Lunder said
today in an interview. “I have no intention to remove Anton
Kudryashov. He is part of my management team and reports to me,
not to the shareholders.”  VimpelCom fell 1 percent to $9.88 yesterday in New York,
valuing the company at $17.4 billion. The  stock  has declined 5.8
percent this year.  VimpelCom said today it will transfer its listing to the
Nasdaq Stock Market from the New York Stock Exchange. The move
will reduce costs and get VimpelCom included in more stock
indexes, Lunder said.  Davies is joining from Verizon Wireless, where he has been
finance chief since 2010.  Canada, Pakistan  Lunder also said VimpelCom’s units in countries including
 Canada  and  Pakistan  may get involved in market consolidation. In
Canada, where the company co-owns Wind Mobile, it may take about
three months to study options and agree with the Canadian
government on the configuration of a deal, he said.  In June, VimpelCom’s Egyptian unit withdrew a request for
regulatory approval to buy Wind Mobile entirely. Wind Mobile has
also drawn interest from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which said
in June that Wind Mobile is “one of many” options it’s
considering.  “We are in discussion with different parties,” Lunder
said, declining to elaborate on company names. “We see growing
interest in the asset.”  In Pakistan, consolidation “will happen,” with all the
carriers, including VimpelCom, talking to each other, Lunder
said. In  Algeria , VimpelCom is continuing talks to settle an
ownership dispute over its local unit with the government, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  