-- Vodafone Group Begins 4G Mobile Service in London This Month
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-07T13:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/vodafone-group-to-begin-4g-wireless-service-in-london-this-month.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  plans to introduce
its faster, fourth-generation wireless service in the U.K. on
Aug. 29, bringing the network up-to-date with its two largest
competitors, O2 and EE.  The service will be offered in  London  this month and in 12
additional cities before the end of the year, Newbury, England-based Vodafone said in a statement on its  website  today.
Vodafone “Red” plans compatible with 4G will go on sale on
Aug. 12, the company said.  The 4G service, which is about five times faster than older
technology, makes downloading videos, uploading photos and
playing games on mobile devices quicker, giving networks the
ability to carry more data. Carriers are counting on the
technology to encourage customers to pay more for data plans.  “It’s a nudge for customers to buy higher-value
packages,” Emeka Obiodu, an analyst at researcher Ovum, said in
an interview before the announcement. “Having 4G will not make
you the market leader, but not having 4G will mean you fall out
of the market.”  Vodafone spent 790.8 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in
February for spectrum to carry 4G signals in the U.K., paying
the most out of the five successful bidders. EE is the U.K.’s
biggest wireless carrier and began selling 4G service on its
network last year, getting a head start on competitors.  4G Red  Vodafone also announced partnerships with streaming music
service Spotify and  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s Sky
Sports pay-TV, so customers can choose access to either in their
4G contracts.  Vodafone Red 4G-ready plans are priced from 26 pounds a
month for unlimited calls and texts and 2 gigabytes of data for
a SIM-only contract, which doesn’t include a phone.  The 12-month contracts including a subsidized phone start
at 52 pounds a month for 2GB of data.  The same plan on a 24-month contract starts at 34 pounds a
month. A similar 4G plan from EE costs 41 pounds for a 24-month
contract.  “Our view on what 4G brings is very different from our
competitors,” Vodafone U.K. Chief Executive Officer Guy Laurence said on a conference call. “We believe it’s all about
entertainment.”  Vodafone plans to cover 98 percent of the U.K. population
indoors by 2015, the company said in a statement. The markets
going online after London include Edinburgh, Glasgow, Leeds,
Liverpool and Manchester.  O2 Offering  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 unit said this month that it will begin
selling 4G in London, Leeds and Bradford on Aug. 29, followed by
10 additional cities by the end of the year.  Vodafone’s rollout is part of the company’s partnership
with Telefonica, which means that the two mobile providers will
offer 4G in similar areas, Laurence said.  U.K. carriers are rushing to build out the networks after
falling behind peers in  Germany ,  Sweden  and the U.S. as they
seek to overcome relatively low customer bills that are
contributing to declining service sales. Vodafone’s service
revenue, excluding the effect of currency swings and
acquisitions, fell 3.5 percent in the three months through June,
the company’s fourth consecutive quarterly decline.  EE said that customers who upgrade to 4G pay about 10
percent more for their service on average. The average European
customer spent $38 per month in 2012 compared with $69 in the
U.S., the GSMA industry group said in a report in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  