-- Will Medicare Fixes Lead to Hospital Mergers?
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-08-07T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/will-medicare-fixes-lead-to-hospital-mergers-.html
Improving the U.S. health-care system
requires encouraging low-value doctors and hospitals to practice
as well as high-value ones do. The gap between the two is wide,
but that only shows how much room we have for improvement.  Costs vary wildly across regions, among hospitals within a
region, and even among doctors within a given hospital. Because
this variation doesn’t appear to be reliably correlated with
differences in quality, value seems to be much higher in some
settings than in others. What is causing this, and what might we
do about it?  A  new report  from the Institute of Medicine provides some
answers. A blue-ribbon panel, asked by Congress to examine
whether Medicare should pay more in high-value areas of the
country than in low-value ones, concluded that would be unwise;
instead, the agency should reward value provided by individual
doctors and hospitals. In studying this question, the panel also
provided new answers to why spending varies across the country.  The report confirmed that Medicare spending varies widely,
as Dartmouth College researchers  had found  earlier. In some
areas, spending per beneficiary was found to be about 40 percent
higher than in others. And the same amount of variation was
found among commercial health insurers. This persisted over
decades; regions that spent the most in 1992 tended to remain
big spenders in 2010.  Market Power  There is one important difference between Medicare and
commercial insurance, the institute found, and that is in the
causes of spending variation. With commercial insurance,
spending is higher in some areas because of markups -- that is,
the difference between the charge for a service and the cost of
providing that service. Seventy percent of the variation in
commercial spending was attributed to differences in markups,
which in turn probably reflect local differences in market power
among hospitals and other providers relative to insurance
companies and beneficiaries.  The story for Medicare is much different. Here the
variation is driven by use. In some regions and at some
hospitals within a region, Medicare spends more because
beneficiaries there use more services. (The greater use of
services couldn’t be fully attributed to differences in the
population’s health.)  That difference between Medicare and private insurance, by
the way, poses a fundamental dilemma for policy makers. The
 Institute of Medicine  panel, like most other health economists
and experts, strongly supports the health-care system’s shift
away from fee-for-service payment and toward paying for value --
through bundled payments or accountable care organizations, for
example -- because this should discourage unnecessary care. At
the same time, it also loads more risk onto doctors and
hospitals, as if they were the insurers. Yet many of them lack
the scale to spread the risks efficiently. This is one reason so
many providers are looking to merge with one another.  As a result, there’s even more pressure for concentration
in local hospital markets. That means even higher price markups
for private insurers.  Ultimately, then, value-based payments, by discouraging
unnecessary care, may narrow the spending variation in Medicare
but, by encouraging consolidation and increased markups, widen
price and spending variation in commercial insurance.  The institute thus raises one issue not mentioned in the
report itself: a growing tension between the trend toward
consolidation in health care and the effort to move away from
fee-for-service payment.  That shouldn’t discourage Medicare from adopting value-based payments. It does suggest, however, that policy makers
will need to watch for excessive local hospital concentration
and markups and to stay alert to any violations of antitrust
laws.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 