-- WTI Crude Declines on Signs Fed to Curb Stimulus
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-07T19:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/wti-crude-falls-on-signs-fed-to-curb-stimulus.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
dropped, capping the biggest four-day slide in nine months, as
Federal Reserve officials indicated that they may pare bond
purchases that have bolstered the economy and energy demand.  Futures declined 0.9 percent after Fed Bank of Chicago
President Charles Evans said yesterday he “would clearly not”
rule out a decision to begin curbing buying in September. An
Energy Information Administration report showed that U.S. crude
supplies fell for the fifth time in six weeks.  “Concerns that the Fed may soon begin to reduce stimulus
permeate all the markets,” said Adam Wise, who helps manage a
$6 billion oil and gas bond portfolio as a managing director at
Manulife Asset Management in  Boston . “There have been a series
of significant draws in crude stockpiles but overall levels
remain fairly robust.”  WTI crude for September delivery fell 93 cents to $104.37 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since July 30. Futures have tumbled 3.3 percent in
four days, the most since October. The volume of all futures
traded was 5.6 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent oil for September settlement dropped 74 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $107.44 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 10 percent above the 100-day
average. The European benchmark grade traded at a $3.07 premium
to WTI, up from $2.88 yesterday.  Fed Comments  Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher said on Aug. 5 that the
central bank is closer to slowing bond purchases and warned
investors not to rely on stimulus. Dennis Lockhart, president of
the Atlanta Fed, told Market News International that should
economic growth and job creation pick up as expected, policy
makers should proceed with the “removal” of asset purchases.  “If you look at the big picture, obviously the market is
looking more bearish every day,” said Phil Flynn, senior market
analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “The Fed is
talking about tapering.”  Equities also declined on speculation the U.S. central bank
may end the $85 billion a month bond-buying program. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
each declined 0.4 percent.  Inventories of  crude oil  fell 1.32 million barrels to 363.3
million, the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit,
said. Supplies were forecast to slide 1.5 million barrels,
according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Stockpiles surged to 397.6 million on May 24, the most
since 1931.  ‘Rounding Errors’  “Inventories are all within rounding errors of what was
expected,” Flynn said.  Crude output  rose 0.2 percent to 7.56 million barrels a day
last week, the highest level since December 1989, the EIA said.
Production has surged as the combination of horizontal drilling
and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies
trapped in shale formations in the central part of the country.  Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for
WTI, dropped 2.25 million barrels to 39.9 million last week, the
lowest level since March 2012, according to the EIA. Supplies
reached a record 51.9 million barrels in the week ended Jan. 11.  ‘Normal’ Pattern  “Stockpile withdrawals are normal for this time of year,”
said Hans van Cleef, an energy economist at ABN Amro Bank in
Amsterdam. “Draws in the past few weeks have supported prices
somewhat, but from a historical point of view, we’re at
relatively high levels, meaning there shouldn’t be any panic.”  Gasoline inventories  rose 135,000 barrels to 223.6 million
last week, the EIA said. Supplies of  distillate fuel , a category
that includes diesel and heating oil, increased 469,000 barrels
to 126.5 million.  Refineries operated  at 90.9 percent of capacity, down 0.4
percentage point from the prior week. Utilization rates usually
peak during the summer when U.S. gasoline demand rises.  Crude in New York surged 8.8 percent in July, the biggest
monthly gain since August 2012, on concern that political
turmoil in  Egypt  may disrupt oil supplies from the Middle East.  “The decline will be limited because there are a number of
outside factors supporting the market,” said Carl Larry,
president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston.  Egypt’s prime minister warned backers of ousted President
Mohamed Mursi to end their sit-ins after the presidency said
international efforts to mediate the standoff failed, signaling
a crackdown may be imminent. Envoys from the U.S., Europe and
Gulf Arab states had flown to Cairo to try to help ease the
crisis triggered by the military’s July 3 removal of Mursi.  Terror Threat  The U.S. closed diplomatic posts this week across the
Middle East,  Africa  and South Asia after intercepting a message
from Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin Laden’s successor as al-Qaeda
chief in  Pakistan , to the head of al-Qaeda’s Yemen branch, Nasir
al-Wuhayshi.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.8 percent, up from 21.6 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 571,255
contracts as of 2:43 p.m. It totaled 543,412 contracts
yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  