-- Yemen Says It Foiled Al-Qaeda Plot to Seize Energy Plants
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-08-07T15:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/yemen-says-it-foiled-al-qaeda-plot-to-seize-energy-plants.html
Yemen’s government said it uncovered
an al-Qaeda plot to seize port facilities in the volatile
southeastern province of Hadramut after the U.S. and Britain
urged their nationals to leave the country.  Islamic militants were prevented from attacking the al-Dhabah oil export terminal, where foreign nationals were
working, Rajeh Badi, adviser to Yemen’s Prime Minister Mohamed Salem Basindwah, said today in a telephone interview. They had
also planned to seize the port city of Mukalla in Hadramut and
attack a liquefied natural gas installation in Shabwah province,
he said.  Yemen, where popular unrest in 2011 led to the toppling of
President Ali Abdullah Salehas ruler of the poorest country in
the  Middle East , has struggled to contain the threat from
Islamic militants even with U.S. military assistance. The U.S.,
Britain,  France  and other countries have closed their embassies
in Yemen following an unspecified threat to personnel.  The mountainous country, described by the Central
Intelligence Agency factbook as mostly desert, has become a
battleground against al-Qaeda militants planning attacks on
Western targets and on  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil
supplier. “Concerns remain high about other plots and plans by
al-Qaeda,” Badi said.  Missile Attacks  The U.S. has responded to the al-Qaeda plot by stepping up
attacks by missile-armed drone aircraft, the Washington Post
reported yesterday. At least seven of the group’s militants died
in a drone strike today in the southeastern province of Shabwah,
Barakish news website reported, while an air strike yesterday in
Marib province killed four suspected al-Qaeda members, the
state-run Saba news agency reported.  On Aug. 4, the Obama administration shut 22 embassies and
consulates from West Africa to  South Asia  after intercepting a
message from  Ayman al-Zawahiri , Osama bin Laden’s successor as
al-Qaeda chief in  Pakistan , to the head of al-Qaeda’s Yemen
branch, Nasir al-Wuhayshi.  The U.S. flew government personnel out of Yemen and urged
other Americans to leave immediately after the interception of
communications about a planned al-Qaeda attack heightened
security concerns in the Arabian Peninsula country. Britain
removed its Yemen-based personnel and advised its nationals to
leave, as did the U.S.  Security Boosted  France extended the closure of its embassy in Sana’a
through “at least” Aug. 11 and reduced its diplomatic presence
to the “strict minimum necessary,” the country’s Foreign
Ministry said in response to an e-mailed question today. The
embassy had initially been closed through today.  Across Sana’a, the government has boosted security around
government buildings and embassies. Security checkpoints have
been set up and soldiers in armored vehicles are patrolling the
streets.  “The situation in Yemen is continuously bad because of the
inability of the central government to control any part of the
country,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai,
said in a phone interview. “Within al-Qaeda military doctrine,
attacking energy infrastructure, such as pipelines or ports, is
seen as a potent tool. It is a major part of their doctrine.”  Al-Qaeda-linked militants have hindered economic recovery
in the country by targeting energy infrastructure, including a
Yemen LNG Co. supply pipeline running to its plants in the port
of Balhaf. Crude production has also slowed, with repeated
attacks on the Marib oil pipeline.  The country’s economy may grow 4.4 percent this year from
0.1 percent in 2012, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. Gross domestic product contracted 10.5 percent in
2011 amid the uprising that ended Saleh’s presidency.  Last September, protesters in Sana’a breached the U.S.
embassy compound’s security perimeter following the killing of
the American ambassador to  Libya , Chris Stevens, and three
colleagues in the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi on Sept. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  