-- Euro Rises to Seven-Week High After German Exports; Aussie Jumps
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-08T07:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/yen-retreats-from-seven-week-high-before-boj-s-policy-decision.html
The euro strengthened to a seven-week
high against the dollar after a government report showed German
exports increased in June, adding to signs the region’s largest
economy is strengthening.  The shared currency advanced versus all most of its major
counterparts as the  trade surplus  widened to 16.9 billion euros
($22.6 billion) from a revised 13.6 billion euros in May. The
yen rose for a fifth day against the dollar as the  Bank of Japan 
refrained from boosting it stimulus measures that tend to weaken
a currency.  Australia ’s dollar climbed to its highest level this
month after China, its biggest trading partner, reported  imports 
and exports for July that beat economists estimates.  “The euro is being bought back as some of the economic
data in the region has been improving,” said  Marito Ueda , a
senior managing director at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin
company in  Tokyo . “The euro is likely to remain stable.”  The euro rose 0.2 percent to $1.3357 at 8:32 a.m. in London
after climbing to $1.3369, the highest since June 19. The 17-nation currency was little changed at 128.44 yen. The yen rose
0.2 percent to 96.14 per dollar after appreciating to 96.10,
also the strongest since June 19.  German exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, increased 0.6 percent from May, when they dropped a
revised 2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said.
Economists predicted an increase of 0.9 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Growth Signs  Manufacturing in the euro region expanded last month for
the first time in two years, London-based Markit Economics said
Aug. 1, citing a survey of purchasing managers. German  consumer
confidence  this month will rise to the highest level since
August 2007, GfK SE said on July 30.  The euro has strengthened 5.6 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 4.2 percent,
while the yen tumbled 7.1 percent.  Japan’s currency reversed earlier declines after central
bank Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s board stuck with an April pledge
to expand the monetary base by 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion
yen per year.  “There may have been some people, especially those
overseas, expecting additional BOJ easing,” said Takuya Kawabata, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in
Tokyo. “If there were to be additional stimulus, it will likely
come after the increase in the  sales tax .”  Current Account  Japan’s  current-account surplus  was at 336.3 billion yen in
June, the  Finance Ministry  said, trailing the 400 billion yen
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The balance dropped 20.3
percent from a year ago.  Separate data showed Japanese investors increased their
holdings of  overseas bonds  for a fifth week, purchasing 689.9
billion yen of the securities in the period ended Aug. 2. Those
flows help to weaken the yen and are part of a portfolio shift
among Japanese investors that Kuroda is trying to encourage with
bond purchases that keep yields low.  The Aussie advanced for a fourth day versus the U.S.
currency as traders pared bets the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
will lower the benchmark  interest rate .  The currency briefly fell after a report showed Australian
employers unexpectedly cut workers last month. Chinese imports
gained 10.9 percent in July compared with a year earlier, the
General Administration of Customs said, after unexpectedly
falling 0.7 percent in June.  “The worst of China slowdown fear may have passed for now,
and that’s helping the Australian dollar,” said  John Horner , a
Sydney-based strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest
currency trader. “There’s been considerable short positioning
in the currency, and given the rally we have seen in the past
few days, those positions may come under further pressure.” A
short position is a bet an asset will decline.  The Australian dollar jumped 0.8 percent to 90.68 U.S.
cents after advancing to 90.89, the highest since July 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  