-- YRC Focused on Less-Than-Truckload Market After Merger Spurned
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-07T19:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/yrc-focused-on-less-than-truckload-market-after-merger-spurned.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the trucker that
stumbled after reaching No. 1 in the U.S. through mergers, said
it’s focused on restructuring its main freight business after
 Arkansas Best Corp. (ABFS)  spurned talks on a takeover this year.  “We are not going down that path any further,” Chief
Financial Officer Jamie Pierson said in an interview of YRC’s
March bid for Arkansas Best’s largest unit. “That was very
short lived and a long time ago.”  YRC in May said it remained interested in acquiring ABF
Freight Systems Inc. even after parent Arkansas Best rejected an
offer to begin talks. That strategy would have shifted  Overland
Park , Kansas-based YRC’s focus away from restructuring its own
freight operations, which carry goods from multiple customers on
each truck.  Pierson reiterated YRC’s expectation that its freight unit
restructuring, the second-largest in company history, will
improve earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation by $25
million to $30 million a year. Changes include cutting 800 jobs,
shedding 29 facilities, optimizing its shipping network and
leasing new tractors and trailers.  “We are laser focused on the North American LTL market,”
he said, referring to the so-called less-than-truckload segment.
“We are not trying to be all things to all people. It’s not
sexy, but it’s what we do best. We are going to continue to
double down on our core competency.”  Loss Narrows  YRC negotiated credit agreements to avoid bankruptcy in
2011 and 2009 after taking on debt to finance more than $2
billion in  acquisitions  last decade. The trucker has reported
six straight annual losses.  It had a second-quarter net loss that narrowed to $15.1
million, or $1.72 a share, from $22.6 million, or $3.21, a year
earlier, according to a statement today. Revenue fell less than
1 percent to $1.24 billion, trailing the $1.26 billion average
of   analysts ’ estimates.  YRC  tumbled  19 percent to $23.01 at 3:42 p.m. in  New York .
The shares had increased more than fourfold this year through
yesterday.  “We continue to make progress” on the restructuring,
Pierson said. “That’s proven out in the numbers. People take a
snapshot of time and underestimate how difficult it is to change
the direction of a $5 billion company.”  YRC hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to work with financial
adviser MAEVA Group on options for $1.35 billion in debt
maturing in 2014 and 2015, including possible refinancings, the
company said today. Pierson declined to provide additional
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  