-- Myriad, Apple, Warner Music, Comcast: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-08-07T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/myriad-virnetx-warner-music-comcast-intellectual-property.html
Ambry Genetics Corp. , a seller of
tests for genetic risks of  breast cancer , accused  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  of misusing its patents to “intimidate and chill
competition” in the market.  Myriad sued Ambry and another closely held company,
Houston-based Gene By Gene Ltd., in July, claiming their tests
infringe its patents for the testing process and synthesized
DNA. The tests look at genes known as BRCA to determine if there
is a hereditary risk of developing breast or ovarian cancers.  Myriad, based in Salt Lake City, filed the suits when the
companies began offering competing tests hours after a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling that invalidated some of Myriad’s patents
on genes linked to the diseases.  Ambry said Myriad is sending threatening letters to doctors
with false allegations meant to confuse genetic counselors. The
antitrust contentions, which are only against Myriad and not the
other patent owners, were part of a filing in which Ambry
responded to the Myriad claims.  The patents are invalid, Ambry says, based on the high
court’s ruling in the Myriad case and a March 2012 decision
involving diagnostic tests.  The patent claims asserted in the lawsuits weren’t those
invalidated by the high court.  “The BRCA patent owners will demonstrate that the testing
process employed by Ambry infringes 10 patents covering
synthetic primers, probes and arrays, as well as methods of
testing, related to the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes,” Myriad
spokesman  Ron Rogers  said.  Myriad denies that its tests are unreasonably expensive,
saying the average cost to patients is less than $100. Many
patients will be able to get them for free once provisions of
the federal Affordable Care Act take effect.  In addition to Myriad, the other owners of the patents --
the University of Utah, the  University of Pennsylvania , the
Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and Endorecherche Inc. --
also joined in the suits against Ambry and Gene by Gene.  The Ambry case is University of Utah Research Foundation v.
Ambry Genetics, 13cv640, The Gene By Gene case is University of
Utah Research Foundation v. Gene By Gene LTD., 13cv643, both
U.S. District Court for the District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  VirnetX Receives Two New Patents, Adds One to Case Against Apple  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) , whose $368.2 million jury victory
against Apple Inc. over patents for virtual-private-network
technology was upheld by a federal judge, has added one new
patent to a different suit against the Cupertino, California-based company.  Apple was sued by VirnetX in federal court in  Texas  in
November 2012, three days after a jury handed down the company’s
$368.2 million verdict against Apple. That new case alleged that
Apple products, including the iPhone5, infringed four patents
related to network protocols for secure communications.  Yesterday, Zephyr Cove, Nevada-based VirnetX was issued two
new patents -- 8,504,696, and 8,504,697 -- and said in a
statement that it was filing papers with the court to add the
second of these two new patents to that suit.  The company, which relies on patent licensing for its
income, said in the statement the two new patents “will
strengthen or ongoing licensing efforts to the mobile markets.”
VirnetX claims its parent portfolio includes 23 U.S. and 41
international patents and more than 100 pending applications.  Its earlier jury award against Apple was upheld in February
by a judge in the same court. U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis
in Tyler, Texas, denied Apple’s requests for a new trial or a
reduction in the damage award.  That case is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 6:10-cv-00417-LED, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas (Tyler).  The case to which the new patent was added is VirnetX Inc.
v. Apple Inc., 6:12-cv-00855-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Texas (Tyler).  Google Asks to Overturn Mobile Phone Import Ban Won by Microsoft  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility told a U.S. appeals court
yesterday a  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  patent that led to an import ban on
its phones is the “poster child” for common ideas being
applied to new devices and labeled an invention.  Microsoft’s patent for a way phones synchronize calendars
with computers is little different from techniques used by Apple
Inc.’s failed Newton personal digital assistant of the 1990s, or
Microsoft’s desktop software, Motorola Mobility counsel Charles
Verhoeven said.  Motorola Mobility is seeking to invalidate patent
6,730,566, which it concedes it has infringed. The U.S.
International Trade Commission in  Washington  issued an import
ban in May 2012 after finding that Motorola Mobility devices
violated the patent.  The commission rejected infringement claims on four other
patents, and Microsoft appealed that part of the case in a
second argument heard yesterday by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit.  The patent is part of Microsoft’s ActiveSync software that
Motorola Mobility used to license before the two companies
started fighting.  The case is part of a broader argument by Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft that Google’s market-dominant Android
operating system uses its technology. Motorola Mobility, which
was acquired by Google in 2012, is one of the biggest holdouts
of a licensing program that Microsoft started three years ago.  While the synchronization was common with computers,
software engineers who thought “wouldn’t it be great to have
this on a mobile device” were initially prevented by their
limited power, said Microsoft lawyer Constantine Trela.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is seeking to
revive Motorola Mobility’s smartphone business. On Aug. 1 it
announced a new flagship Moto X smartphone with customizable
colors that will be assembled in the U.S. -- probably putting it
outside the ITC’s jurisdiction.  Microsoft contends any Motorola Mobility phone that has the
syncing feature infringes the patent, and has sued  U.S. Customs ,
saying its officials aren’t stopping phones from crossing the
U.S. border.  The cases are Microsoft Corp. v. ITC, 12-1445, and Motorola
Mobility LLC v. ITC, 12-1535, both U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The ITC case is In the Matter of
Certain Mobile Devices, Associated Software and Components
Thereof, 337-744, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  California Doughnut Shop Changes Name of Product to Avoid Suit  A doughnut shop in  Santa Monica , California, is changing
the name of one of its products in the wake of complaints from a
New York-based pastry-maker, the Los Angeles Times  reported .  Counsel for New York’s Dominique Ansel sent DK Donuts &
Bakery a cease-and-desist letter demanding the California bakery
quit using the term “Dkronut” for its hybrid croissant-doughnut pastry, according to the Times.  Ansel, who filed an application in May to register the term
“cronut” as a U.S. trademark, said through counsel that his IP
rights were infringed and customers were confused by DK Donuts’
unauthorized use of such a similar term, the newspaper reported.  DK Donuts said it was disappointed, and has changed the
name of its pastry to the “DK Double Decker O-Nut,” the Times
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Music Sues Fullscreen Over Copyrighted YouTube Videos  Fullscreen Inc., a YouTube content provider, was sued by
music publishers including  Warner Music  Group over claims it
promotes music videos without paying royalties.  Fullscreen, based in Culver City, California, has engaged
in “willful copyright infringement” by using music videos
without obtaining licenses or paying royalties, according to the
complaint filed yesterday in federal court in  Manhattan  by the
National Music Publishers’ Association. The trade group
represents American music publishers and their songwriting
partners.  “Fullscreen’s success and growth as a digital business is
attributable in large part to the prevalence and popularity of
its unlicensed music videos,” David Israelite, NMPA’s president
and chief executive, said in an e-mailed statement. “We must
stop the trend of ignoring the law, profiting from someone
else’s work, then asking forgiveness when caught.”  Fullscreen is a multichannel network that operates and
aggregates thousands of YouTube channels, with content that is
comprised mainly of cover song videos, according to the
complaint.  Founded by former YouTube manager George Strompolos,
Fullscreen claims to have 200 million subscribers across 15,000
YouTube channels with more than 2.5 billion monthly views,
according to its website.  Among the songs allegedly infringed are hits by  Kanye West ,
Justin Bieber, Ke$ha, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry. The NMPA said
today the group settled similar copyright issues with Maker
Studios Inc., another multi-channel network.  Jen Lum, a spokeswoman for Fullscreen, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Warner/Chappell Music Inc. v. Fullscreen
Inc., 13-cv-5472, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Comcast Suggests New Anti-Piracy Initiative to Content Owners  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable provider, is in
discussions with movie and television studios and  Internet
service providers  about a new technology that would give those
who are downloading content without authorization an opportunity
to pay for legal access to what they are downloading, the
entertainment-industry trade paper  Variety reported .  Under this system, a pop-up message would provide links to
buy or rent the content the user is trying to download without
permission, according to Variety.  This system would provide an alternative to a system used
by many content owners in which warnings are issued to
unauthorized downloaders that they could have their  Internet
access  limited, Variety reported.  One key difference between the two systems is that the buy
or rent opportunity pop-up would occur in real time, as the
consumer is attempting a download, while the warning system
generally works after the fact, according to the publication.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 