-- Yuan Advances to 19-Year High on PBOC Fixing, Convertibility Bet
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-08-07T04:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/yuan-advances-to-19-year-high-on-pboc-fixing-convertibility-bet.html
China ’s  yuan  rose to a 19-year high
as the central bank boosted the currency’s reference rate and on
speculation the government will further open the nation’s
capital markets to offshore investors.  The People’s Bank of China strengthened the yuan’s daily
fixing 0.04 percent to 6.1726 per dollar, after the Bloomberg
 Dollar Index  lost 1 percent in the last three days. China should
make monetary controls more coordinated and use multiple tools
to ensure stable and moderate credit growth, according to a
front-page commentary in today’s Financial News, which is
published by the central bank. The nation will push forward with
capital-account convertibility, the State Administration of
Foreign Exchange said this week.  “The dollar is overall a bit weaker and continued yuan
appreciation will help China to rebalance the economy,” said
 Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce. “The internationalization of the
yuan will need a balanced supply and demand as there’s still
plenty of money that wants to go into China. We believe the
yuan’s equilibrium is at a stronger level.”  The currency traded at 6.1221 per dollar as of 12:18 a.m.
in  Shanghai , compared with 6.1217 yesterday, China Foreign
Exchange Trade System prices show. It touched 6.1203 earlier,
the strongest level since the government unified the official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The spot rate was
0.83 percent stronger than the PBOC’s fixing, compared with the
maximum allowed divergence of 1 percent.  Widening Spread  “The widening spread of the fix and the spot suggests
there’s demand for both onshore yuan and offshore yuan,”
Bennett said.  The yuan has appreciated 1.8 percent against the dollar
this year, making it the sole gainer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded
currencies and the best performer in 24 emerging-market pairs
tracked by Bloomberg.  Japanese yen  was the region’s worst-performer, while  India ’s rupee has tumbled 10 percent this year
to a record low today.  Sentiment on Chinese assets recovered in late July as local
media cited Premier  Li Keqiang  as saying the government sees 7
percent growth as the bottom line. The nation set a 7.5 percent
full-year expansion goal in March.  “Expectations of yuan depreciation have declined after the
government signaled it’ll work toward realizing its growth
target,” said Eliza Liu, chief economist in  Hong Kong  at CCB
International Holdings Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest
bank. “However, the yuan is unlikely to gain significantly
going forward on gloomy export prospects and unfavorable capital
flows.”  Trade Data  China’s trade growth may slow in the second half as the
external environment is “not optimistic,” according to a State
Information Center report published in China Securities Journal
today. The government needs to maintain a stable yuan in the
short term to support exporters, the report said.  Shipments probably rose 2 percent from a year earlier in
July, compared with a 3.1 percent decrease in June, according to
the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey before data due
tomorrow. That’s below last year’s monthly average of 8.3
percent growth.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan traded at 6.1204
per dollar, little changed from yesterday’s 6.1209, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards fell 0.03 percent to 6.2793, a 2.5 percent  discount  to
the onshore spot rate.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
fell five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.21
percent today. That’s the lowest level since April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  