-- Yue Xiu Said to Consider Takeover Bid for Chong Hing
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-08T02:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-07/yue-xiu-said-to-consider-offer-for-hong-kong-s-chong-hing-bank.html
(Corrects date of earnings announcement in eighth
paragraph.)  Yue Xiu Group, a trading arm of
 China ’s Guangzhou city government, is considering a bid for  Hong
Kong  family-run lender Chong Hing Bank Ltd., according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Talks are at an early stage and Yue Xiu is arranging
financing for an acquisition, said the person, who didn’t
disclose the size of the stake and asked not to be identified
because discussions are confidential. The founding Liu family
had about 60 percent at the end of December, according to Chong
Hing’s annual report. That was valued at about HK$5.86 billion
($755 million) yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chong Hing Chief Executive Officer Lau Wai-man said in
March that the lender was open to proposals from prospective
buyers for all or part of the bank. Takeover speculation has
mounted since November, when Lau became the first CEO from
outside the Liu family. The  shares  rallied 38 percent this year.  “This would suggest that the interest in Hong Kong banks
could also be coming from mainland conglomerates instead of
mainland financial institutions only,” Grace Wu, an analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by phone yesterday.
“Cross-border financing is the key growth driver for Hong Kong
banks in the next few years. Getting a mainland partner will be
good for mid-cap banks.”  An independent third party has approached the controlling
shareholder of  Liu Chong Hing Investment (194)  Ltd. about the possible
purchase of interests in Chong Hing Bank, the parent company and
the lender said in a joint statement yesterday. The companies
didn’t identify the potential buyer.  No Agreement  The controlling shareholder and Liu Chong Hing haven’t yet
entered into any agreements with the potential buyer and will
make further announcements as necessary, according to the
statement. Liu Chong Hing holds a 50.2 percent stake in Chong
Hing Bank, according to the lender’s 2012 annual report.  The shares of Liu Chong Hing and Chong Hing Bank, suspended
yesterday, will resume trading today, according to the filing.  First-half  net income  at Chong Hing, the smallest of Hong
Kong’s four family-run banks, rose 6.4 percent from a year
earlier to HK$276 million, the bank said in a filing yesterday.  Dah Sing Banking Group Ltd. (2356) , the second-smallest family-run
bank in Hong Kong, jumped 14 percent, the most since its 2004
initial public offering, to close at HK$11.24 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. , the largest family-run bank in Hong Kong, rose 0.3 percent.  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302) 
gained 4.8 percent, the most in more than a year, to HK$78.65.  Family Banks  The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong Kong
has fallen to four from six more than a decade ago after the
industry drew buyers including China Merchants Bank Co., which
paid $4.7 billion in 2009 for the Wu family’s Wing Lung Bank
Ltd.  Chong Hing is  trading  at 1.3 times its book value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compared with 1.1 times at Bank
of  East Asia .  The lender, founded in 1948 by Liu Po-shan, dropped the Liu
family name from Liu  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  in December 2006 to
“more accurately reflect the public nature of the bank,”
according to its  website . Lau replaced Liu Lit-chi, a member of
the founding family who spent more than 50 years at the bank.  The Hong Kong Economic Journal, which reported the talks
earlier, said Yue Xiu is eyeing the stake held by the Liu
family.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  