-- Achillion Is Focused on Advancing Drugs Rather Than Sale
-- B y   S a s h a   D a m o u n i   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-09-12T20:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/achillion-is-focused-on-advancing-drugs-rather-than-sale.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) , a
maker of hepatitis C therapies, is focused on advancing the
drugs it has in development rather than selling parts of the
company, new Chief Executive Officer Milind Deshpande said.  In the two years since Achillion was in talks with
potential buyers, its hepatitis C treatments “have progressed
nicely” and put the company in a different position, Deshpande
said in an interview. Deshpande, who was promoted to president
and CEO in May, said the company isn’t interested in licensing
or selling off just one or two of its experimental drugs.  If Achillion was to do a deal, it would be for the  New
Haven , Connecticut-based drugmaker’s entire portfolio, Deshpande
said. His predecessor, Michael Kishbauch, said in 2011 that the
company was looking to do licensing deals, asset sales or sell
the entire company and was in advanced talks with potential
partners and buyers.  “It is best for us to focus on clinical development on the
assets we have,” Deshpande said. “Some things haven’t changed,
hepatitis C remains a very significant opportunity in terms of
overall market size as well as the good we can do for patients
and if we continue to do development the way we have planned out
good things will happen for the company.”  Achillion fell 1.5 percent to $7.18 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The stock has dropped 5.4 percent since Deshpande was named CEO
on May 28.  The company is competing with drugmakers including  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to develop new treatments for the
liver disease, a market that analysts’ estimate may be $20
billion. Hepatitis C affects 170 million people worldwide.  Achillion suffered a setback in July when a study of one of
three drugs it has in clinical testing for hepatitis C was
delayed because of abnormal liver results. The company expects
to hear back from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by the
end of September on whether it can resume the study of the drug
called sovaprevir, Deshpande said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  