-- Macy’s CEO Store Visits Gain Urgency Amid Shares Slump: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-09-12T14:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/macy-s-ceo-store-visits-gain-urgency-amid-shares-slump-retail.html
Macy’s Inc. Chief Executive Officer
 Terry Lundgren  calls store managers from his car as little as 10
minutes before conducting a surprise visit.  “The first five minutes are a little uncomfortable,” he
said in a recent interview at the chain’s New York office.  Lundgren, 61, spends 40 weeks a year visiting stores to
make sure his handpicked managers are stocking merchandise that
appeals to local shoppers. The regular store visits also help
Lundgren keep in touch with the marketplace and maintain annual
sales growth that in the past two years has outstripped that of
rivals including  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)   The drop-ins have taken on added urgency since Americans
began pulling back on such discretionary purchases as clothing;
apparel, cosmetics and accessories account for about 84 percent
of Macy’s revenue. Last month, the largest U.S. department store
chain reported second-quarter profit that missed estimates and
lowered its forecast.  “In soft times, if you’re able to give the customer what
she wants, the size of the pie may be shrinking but you’ll be
able to capture a greater share of the customer and market,”
said  Craig Johnson  of researcher Customer Growth Partners.  In such an environment, Lundgren’s localization strategy --
dubbed My Macy’s -- is all the more important, said Johnson,
who’s based in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut .  Cincinnati-based Macy’s  shares  fell the most in more than
eight months on Aug. 14 after missing second-quarter profit
estimates. They rose 0.3 percent to $44.28 at 9:38 a.m. in New
York. Through yesterday, they had gained 13 percent this year,
compared with an 18 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Grilling Associates  The My Macy’s concept stands out in an industry that
increasingly relies on sales data to figure out which items to
stock next season. Lundgren was once a buyer and spent much of
his time grilling store associates about what customers wanted.  During the interview in a paneled boardroom, Lundgren said
technology alone can’t provide an answer to what customers want.  “Only people can answer that question,” he said.  Lundgren recently learned that the  Macy’s (M)  store in McAllen,
 Texas , was stocking more smaller-sized denim for Mexican
tourists. In landlocked Indianapolis, he saw the men’s shoe
department had a big display of boating shoes and recalls
wondering “Where’s the water, where is the ocean?”  Turns out the store had identified a major men’s fashion
trend. In  Portland ,  Oregon , associates told him shoppers wanted
boots, especially Western styles, and lots of them.  “The unanticipated bonus that we received was the
engagement from the associates, who asked for it, received it
and then became totally engaged in selling it,” Lundgren said.
“That for me is what really makes it work.”  Potential Pitfalls  The My Macy’s program isn’t without potential pitfalls,
said Brian Yarbrough, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis . Left-over localized inventory cannot easily be sold in
other locations, and the chain might lose buying power, since
some merchandise for local shoppers isn’t purchased in bulk.  “You are also putting a lot of faith and trust into local
management, so there could be some risk,” said Yarbrough, who
recommends holding the shares.  In 2003, Lundgren became CEO of the Federated department
store chain. Two years later, he merged with rival May and went
on to create the modern Macy’s, finally achieving his dream of
creating a national chain under one nameplate. His triumph was
shortlived when sales struggled. As he sought ways to boost
growth, Lundgren recalled that as a buyer in the late 1970s, he
knew every one of his store managers, department managers and
key sales associates in 23 locations.  Easier Response  “I remembered those times as being easier to respond to
the needs of individual customers,” Lundgren said.  In 2008 and 2009, he populated cities around the country
with 1,600 talented and experienced merchandising and planning
executives, redeployed from Macy’s regional headquarters, which
he collapsed. Each of the 69 new district teams consisted of
about 18 to 20 executives responsible for eight to 15 stores,
compared with as many as 200 stores before.  Lundgren’s My Macy’s strategy is a unique competitive
advantage, said Mark Cohen, a professor at  Columbia University ’s
business school in New York. It helped accelerate Macy’s same-store sales growth to 3.7 percent last year, as the department-store average fell 2 percent, according to the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  in New York.  Still, Cohen questions whether the costs to maintain My
Macy’s are sustainable.  “These people are expensive,” he said. “There is always
pressure to rein in costs.”  Embedded Talent  Lundgren says the depth of Macy’s embedded talent is a
“huge” advantage because none of its rivals were or are in a
position to match it. They don’t have the pools to tap that he
did in his former regional operations, and building such teams
piecemeal would be time-consuming and costly, he said. Macy’s
declined to make any of its frontline managers available for
interviews, saying it feared they would be poached.  Lundgren’s oft-repeated mantra to his centralized buyers is
“Just say yes,” and signs bearing those words have hung in the
office elevators.  “‘When you get a request, it may seem unusual to you,’”
Lundgren recalls telling the buyers. “‘But they will know more
about the customer wants in Phoenix,  Arizona , than you will ever
know here in  New York .’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  