-- Madrid Hospital Privatization Frozen Amid Legal Challenge
-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 2013-09-12T10:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/madrid-hospital-privatization-frozen-amid-legal-challenge.html
A  Madrid  court halted a regional
government plan to replace doctors and nurses at six public
hospitals and 10 clinics that triggered protests against
privatization across the Spanish capital.  Judge Fatima Arana Azpitarte ordered the temporary
suspension until both criminal-law and constitutional challenges
can be settled, according to her ruling dated yesterday.  The decision freezes the region’s biggest-ever public-health privatization, begun by the conservative People’s Party-led administration and valued at 44 million euros ($58 million).
About 5,100 medical professionals are affected and 1.15 million
potential patients in 92 towns in the Madrid region.  “This is a step forward to protect public employment and
health services for the people of Madrid,” Cristina Cano,
spokeswoman for the Comisiones Obreras union that represents
some of the medical professionals at risk of losing their jobs,
said today in an interview. “Private contracting is well under
way with other hospital services, such as cleaning, and we’re
disappointed at the deterioration of service.”  Arana’s ruling was on an appeal by the Madrid Association
of Medical Specialists. The lobby group is one of several
organizers of periodic protests that have coincided with strikes
by doctors and nurses.  Private contracting now may be delayed by at least 18
months to 24 months, according to a report today in El Pais
newspaper that cited unidentified lawyers.  Yesterday’s injunction, which may be appealed, suspended
the public tender offer for services announced in May. Contracts
with private companies have been awarded though not signed, El
Pais said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd White  in Madrid  at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  