-- Taiwan Parliament Speaker Challenges Expulsion From Ruling Party
-- B y   A r g i n   C h a n g   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-09-12T05:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/taiwan-parliament-speaker-challenges-expulsion-from-ruling-party.html
Taiwan ’s parliament speaker
challenged his expulsion from the ruling party over influence-peddling claims, complicating President Ma Ying-jeou’s bid to
focus attention on policy after a series of scandals.  Wang Jin-pyng, 72, sought an injunction from the Taipei
District Court after the Kuomintang Party expelled him
yesterday. The court will hear arguments on whether to freeze
the process today, said Lai Chien-yi, divisional chief judge at
the court.  The court proceeding may bog Ma down in another protracted
conflict after at least five cabinet-level officials resigned
this year. The president, battling record-low 13-percent
approval ratings, had pressed for Wang’s ouster as he seeks to
jumpstart his stalled policy agenda, which includes finishing a
nuclear power plant and lowering trade barriers with  China .  Any “severe conflict” that develops between Ma and
parliament, where Wang held sway and had acceded to opposition
demands to scrutinize some policies, could affect the island’s
economy, said Eric Hsing, a trader at First Securities Inc. said
by phone in Taipei. “Some important bills affecting Taiwan’s
economic infrastructure including the service pact may not
pass.”  Taiwan’s  benchmark  Taiex index gained 0.2 percent to close
at 8,225.36 today. Ma is seeking to strengthen the Taiwan
economy, which expanded 1.32 percent in 2012 at the slowest pace
in three years and lagging the growth of neighboring economies
such as the Philippines and  Indonesia .  Wang’s Pursuit  A Kuomintang disciplinary committee ruled yesterday that
Wang had damaged the party’s reputation when he asked
prosecutors to drop an opposition lawmaker’s breach-of-trust
case.  Wang apologized for “creating this situation” and said he
would pursue ways to try and stay in the Kuomintang, or
Nationalist Party, according to comments carried on television
network CtiTV. He denied the allegations against him, saying in
a statement to the party yesterday he made the phone calls to
remind justice officials not to abuse the appeals process.  Wang was recorded on a tapped mobile phone line in June
telling opposition Democratic Progressive Party whip Ker Chien-ming that prosecutors wouldn’t appeal a not-guilty verdict on
him, according to a Supreme Prosecutors Office  statement  on
Sept. 6. Ker had been accused of breach of trust in a commercial
case.  Transcripts released by investigators show the speaker had
told Ker the appeal was dropped after intervention from then
Justice Minister Tseng Yung-fu. Tseng resigned on Sept. 6
without admitting wrongdoing.  Take a Stand  It wasn’t immediately clear who would replace Wang.
Candidates for speaker need the support of one-third of
lawmakers to be nominated, and two-thirds of those present to be
elected. Hung Hsiu-chu, deputy legislative speaker, will be
acting speaker, according to parliamentary rules.  Wang’s is the latest in a series of Ma-government
departures. Defense Minister Kao Hua-chu stepped down last month
following criticism over the military’s handling of the death of
an army conscript. His successor, Andrew Yang, resigned just six
days after taking office amid allegations of plagiarism.  Premier Sean Chen resigned in January for family and health
reasons following opposition demands that he be held accountable
for the economy’s slow growth. Expansion lagged growth in the
 Philippines  and Indonesia, both of which expanded by more than 6
percent last year.  “I have no choice but to take a stand,” Ma said of Wang’s
case at a conference broadcast live by Taiwan television
networks. He said Wang’s disregard for judicial independence is
unacceptable.  Market Uncertainties  A services trade pact with China, allowing companies to
take controlling stakes in joint ventures across the Taiwan
strait and easing restrictions on Taiwanese businesses looking
to set up in China, was negotiated under Ma’s administration and
signed in  Shanghai  in June. A few days later, Wang agreed to
opposition demands for a detailed examination of the pact.  Ma’s administration has sought a popular vote on the fate
of an almost-completed fourth nuclear power plant that has cost
$8.9 billion so far. Tens of thousands of people protested in
March against using nuclear power, which accounts for one-fifth
of the island’s energy supply.  Ma, who beat out Wang for the party chairmanship in 2005,
said the speaker was no longer fit to lead. Removing Wang, a
politician who oversaw parliament for 14 years, may backfire on
Ma, according to Liao I-ming, a professor of government and law
at  National University  of Kaohsiung.  “Ma was trying to win the public over by showing strength,
integrity and wielding a large stick in his pledge to reform,”
Liao said. “The biggest victim in all of this is Ma as a large
swath of people including his enemies will strike back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  