-- Taiwan Parliament Speaker Fights Ruling Party on His Ouster
-- B y   A r g i n   C h a n g   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-09-12T11:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/taiwan-parliament-speaker-fights-ruling-party-on-his-ouster-1-.html
Taiwan ’s parliament speaker
challenged his expulsion from the ruling party over influence-peddling claims, complicating President Ma Ying-jeou’s bid to
focus attention on policy after a series of scandals.  Wang Jin-pyng, 72, sought an injunction from the Taipei
District Court after the Kuomintang Party expelled him
yesterday. The court will hear arguments on whether to freeze
the process today, said Lai Chien-yi, divisional chief judge at
the court.  The court proceeding may bog Ma down in another protracted
conflict after at least five cabinet-level officials resigned
this year. The president, battling record-low approval ratings,
had pressed for Wang’s ouster as he seeks to jumpstart his
stalled policy agenda, which includes finishing a nuclear power
plant and lowering trade barriers with  China .  Any “severe conflict” that develops between Ma and
parliament, where Wang held sway and had acceded to opposition
demands to scrutinize some policies, could affect the island’s
economy, said Eric Hsing, a trader at First Securities Inc. said
by phone in Taipei. “Some important bills affecting Taiwan’s
economic infrastructure including the service pact may not
pass.”  Taiwan’s  benchmark  Taiex index gained 0.2 percent to close
at 8,225.36 today. Ma is seeking to strengthen the Taiwan
economy, which expanded 1.32 percent in 2012 at the slowest pace
in three years and lagging the growth of neighboring economies
such as the Philippines and  Indonesia .  Opposition Demands  China Politburo member Yu Zhengsheng told Taiwan
negotiators today the two sides should seal their economic
agreements soon, according to the state-run Xinhua News Agency.
A pact signed this year lowering barriers for services sectors
such as banking and brokerages is beneficial to Taiwan, Yu said.
Wang agreed to opposition party demands for a detailed review
and examination of the pact days after it was signed between
cross-strait negotiators.  A Kuomintang disciplinary committee ruled yesterday that
the speaker, whom Ma beat out for the party chairmanship in
2005, damaged the party’s reputation when he tried to stop a
prosecution case against another lawmaker and revoked his
membership. Wang denied the allegations, saying in a statement
to the party yesterday that he called justice officials to
remind them not to abuse the appeals process.  Appeals Process  In late June, Wang was recorded on a tapped mobile phone
line telling opposition Democratic Progressive Party whip Ker Chien-ming that prosecutors wouldn’t appeal his not-guilty
verdict, according to a Supreme Prosecutors Office  statement  on
Sept. 6. Ker had been accused of breach of trust in a commercial
case.  Transcripts released by investigators show the speaker had
told Ker the appeal was dropped after intervention from then
Justice Minister Tseng Yung-fu. Tseng resigned on Sept. 6
without admitting wrongdoing.  The speaker, who had held the position since 1999,
apologized for “creating this situation” and said he would
pursue ways to try and stay in the Kuomintang, or Nationalist
Party, according to comments carried on television network
CtiTV.  It wasn’t immediately clear who would replace Wang.
Candidates for speaker need the support of one-third of
lawmakers to be nominated, and two-thirds of those present to be
elected. Hung Hsiu-chu, deputy legislative speaker, will be
acting speaker, according to parliamentary rules.  Series of Departures  Wang’s is the latest in a series of Ma-government
departures. Defense Minister Kao Hua-chu stepped down last month
following criticism over the military’s handling of the death of
an army conscript. His successor, Andrew Yang, resigned just six
days after taking office amid allegations of plagiarism.  Premier Sean Chen resigned in January for family and health
reasons following opposition demands that he be held accountable
for the economy’s slow growth. Expansion lagged growth in the
 Philippines  and Indonesia, both of which expanded by more than 6
percent last year.  “I have no choice but to take a stand,” Ma said of Wang’s
case at a conference broadcast live by Taiwan television
networks. He said Wang’s disregard for judicial independence is
unacceptable.  Besides trade with China, Ma’s administration has sought a
popular vote on the fate of an almost-completed fourth nuclear
power plant that has cost $8.9 billion so far. Tens of thousands
of people protested in March against using nuclear power, which
accounts for one-fifth of the island’s energy supply.  Party Chairmanship  Ma’s approval rating hit a new record low of 11 percent,
according to a survey conducted by cable network TVBS this
month. Wang’s removal may backfire for Ma, according to Liao I-ming, a professor of government and law at  National University 
of Kaohsiung.  “Ma was trying to win the public over by showing strength,
integrity and wielding a large stick in his pledge to reform,”
Liao said. “The biggest victim in all of this is Ma as a large
swath of people including his enemies will strike back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  