-- American Airlines’ Plan Wins Bankruptcy Judge’s Approval
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-09-12T21:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/american-airlines-plan-wins-bankruptcy-judge-s-approval.html
American Airlines’ plan to exit
 bankruptcy protection  by merging with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  was
approved by a judge who said a U.S. antitrust lawsuit seeking to
block the deal was no reason to delay it.  The Chapter 11 reorganization plan by  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the parent
of American Airlines, can’t take effect until the combination
gets regulatory clearance, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane said
today in  Manhattan  before approving the deal.  “There can be no dispute that the plan is feasible if the
merger succeeds,” Lane said. Lane, who challenged a $20 million
severance under the turnaround plan for AMR Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton , said it’s not uncommon for plans to be
accepted under a cloud of regulatory uncertainty.  The decision is a win for Fort Worth, Texas-based American,
which had urged the judge to confirm the plan even with the
trial of the U.S. antitrust  lawsuit  months away. The airline
argued that failure to approve the proposal would be
“destabilizing” for the company and create uncertainty.  The U.S. Justice Department sued American and US Airways in
August, seeking a court order to block the merger. The
government argues that the combination, which would create the
world’s largest airline, would harm consumers.  The government has argued that American can emerge from
bankruptcy and compete on its own without the merger. U.S.
District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in  Washington  has
scheduled the antitrust case to go to trial beginning Nov. 25.  Merger Defense  American Airlines  and US Airways defended their proposed
merger in court filings Sept. 10. The deal would be good for
passengers, giving them more choices and generating more than
$500 million a year in benefits, they said.  Lane said today that the plan would be put at “unnecessary
risk if confirmation is delayed” and divert AMR’s resources
away from the antitrust case.  Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for American, told Lane today
that Horton’s $20 million severance would be removed from the
plan after the judge said he was inclined to reject it.  Horton will ask American’s board at a Sept. 18 meeting to
drop the payment from the plan to ensure it can be implemented,
the carrier said in statement after the hearing.  US Airways  CEO
Doug Parker would hold that title at the combined airline, while
Horton would serve as chairman until the first annual meeting of
the merged carrier.  Horton “feels that any delay or uncertainty places a
further burden on those who have worked so hard to achieve one
of the most successful restructurings in aviation history,”
American said in a statement. Removing the severance “will
allow the plan and merger agreement to move forward.”  U.S. Trustee  The U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings,
had objected to the payment, saying the airline hadn’t shown
that it complies with bankruptcy law.  The merger with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways forms the
basis of American’s proposal to emerge from bankruptcy
protection after almost two years and pay creditors.  The agreement gives 28 percent of the stock of the combined
company to US Airways  shareholders , with the remaining 72
percent going AMR creditors, unions, certain employees and
shareholders.  AMR rose 4 percent to $3.65 in over-the-counter  trading . US
Airways fell 0.5 percent to $17.63 in  New York  after earlier
 climbing  as much as 1.3 percent on the news of the judge’s
approval.  If the government succeeds in blocking the merger, American
will have to develop a new plan to exit court protection.  ‘Right Direction’  “The judge’s ruling today shows that American is heading
in the right direction,” said  Michael Trevino , a spokesman for
the airline. “We are focused on the antitrust case and will
show that our planned merger with US Airways is good for
consumers and competition.”  In a related development today, a New York appeals court
upheld a ruling that AMR wasn’t required to pay a make-whole
amount to noteholders when it called bonds early to arrange $1.5
billion in aircraft refinancing.  AMR had sought court approval for the financing to take
advantage of lower  interest rates , saying it may save more than
$200 million in interest expense. The airline said it would use
proceeds to repay about $1.3 billion in debt backed by aircraft
under three series of notes.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in Washington
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 