-- ANA Considers Pilot-Training Facility in Thailand
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-09-12T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ana-considers-pilot-training-facility-in-thailand.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) ,  Japan ’s largest
airline, is considering building a pilot-training facility in
 Thailand  as rising travel in  Southeast Asia  spurs carriers to
expand their fleets.  The base is part of ANA’s plan to expand Pan Am Holdings
Inc., a pilot-training company it is buying, ANA President
Shinichiro Ito said in a Sept. 4 interview in Tokyo. He didn’t
give a timeframe for setting up the facility.  “We’re looking at Thailand,” Ito said. “There’s demand
for a huge number of pilots in  Asia .”  Asian carriers will need to hire 192,300 pilots to keep
pace with aircraft orders over the next 20 years,  Boeing Co. (BA) 
predicted last month. Tokyo-based ANA has stepped up attempts to
capture demand outside Japan, tapping into 174 billion yen ($1.7
billion) it got from a sale of shares to purchase a stake in
Myanmar’s Asian Wings Airways Ltd.  The  carrier  advanced 0.5 percent to 219 yen in  Tokyo 
trading yesterday. It has risen 21 percent this year, compared
with a 38 percent gain for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  “It won’t be our last purchase,” Ito said. “Asia has
great potential. We’ve had lots of offers. However, we’re not in
a hurry.”  ANA agreed to buy 49 percent of Asian Wings for $25 million
after restarting flights to Myanmar last year as the country’s
moves toward democracy prompted the U.S. to ease sanctions. The
carrier said in July it would pay $139.5 million for Miami-based
Pan Am Holdings, the only remaining division of Pan American
World Airways, to expand into aviation-related services.  “Both have promising business potential,” Ito said.
“Myanmar is going to attract a lot of investment and it gives
us a base to tap demand in other ASEAN countries.”  International Slots  The carrier is also vying for more than half of the new 20
international slots at Tokyo’s Haneda airport that the nation’s
transport ministry will distribute to local carriers for flights
starting next year, Ito said.  Japan Airlines (9201)  Co., the only other local airline that flies
overseas from Haneda, relisted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange last
year following a trip through bankruptcy and a turnaround after
it was supported by 350 billion yen of government-backed
financing.  ANA Holdings operating profit margin was 7 percent in the
year ended March, compared with Japan Airlines 13.8 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We can’t catch up with Japan Airlines finances and
profitability by ourselves after the support it had under
restructuring,” said Ito. “One of the few ways the government
could help correct that imbalance would be to give priority over
the new slots to us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  