-- Mark Cuban-Backed Rentrak Seen Luring Bids: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-09-12T20:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/mark-cuban-backed-rentrak-seen-luring-bids-real-m-a.html
Rentrak Corp. (RENT) , whose technology
tracks how consumers watch movies and TV shows, is shaping up as
a takeover target for companies including Google Inc. seeking
more data as viewers shift to smartphones and the Internet.  Rentrak, which counts billionaire investor  Mark Cuban  as
its second-largest  shareholder , is poised to double sales over
the next three years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg,
as companies demand more precise ratings analysis of mobile and
digital content. Rentrak’s technology and growth prospects could
appeal to Google, offering the Internet search giant a means to
bolster its share of the online and mobile-ad market, BWS
Financial Inc. said.  The company also could attract advertising firms seeking to
hone marketing efforts, or even larger rival  Nielsen (NLSN)  Holdings
NV, according to Perritt Capital Management Inc. Suitors could
pay three times the Portland, Oregon-based company’s market
value, or as much as $1 billion, said Brean Capital LLC, which
also sees  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  as a potential bidder.  “For what they do and the technologies they develop for
tracking data, it makes a lot of sense for someone bigger to
seriously look at them and buy them,” Hamed Khorsand, a
Woodland Hills, California-based analyst at BWS Financial, said
in a phone interview. “If you’re in any kind of media or
advertising, it gives you full control over it.”  Antoine Ibrahim, a spokesman for Rentrak, declined to
comment on whether the company has been approached or would be
open to a sale.  Cuban Stake  Rentrak attracted interest from Cuban in 2004 when its
primary business was distributing videocassettes. Rentrak shares
have since more than doubled to $28.54 yesterday as the company
established a foothold in media measurement. Cuban, the founder
of Broadcast.com, sold the multimedia company to Yahoo! Inc. in
1999.  Cuban, also the owner of the Dallas Mavericks National
Basketball Association team, didn’t respond to e-mailed requests
for comment on whether he would support a sale of Rentrak. He
holds an 8.2 percent stake in the company, according to the most
recent data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rentrak uses big-data technology that sifts through large
sets of digital information to track media consumption on a
variety of platforms. Services include monitoring social-media
sites to gauge whether marketing dollars spent on movies that
haven’t yet been released are sparking audience interest, and
analyzing viewership of downloaded and streaming content.  Valuable Data  The company’s digital and mobile tracking capabilities are
becoming more valuable to advertisers, with U.S. adults
estimated for the first time this year to spend more hours with
digital media per day than watching TV, according to research
from EMarketer Inc. U.S. mobile ad spending will grow to $13.1
billion in 2014 from an estimated $8.5 billion this year,
EMarketer said in an August report.  Rentrak  sales  are projected to jump to $203 million in the
fiscal year ending in March 2016, up from $99 million in the
most recent year, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s database approach provides more precise
audience information than the sampling used by larger rival
Nielsen, said  Todd Mitchell , a New York-based analyst at Brean
Capital. With Nielsen, a $13.4 billion company, poised to bulk
up further through the planned acquisition of Arbitron Inc.,
Rentrak is likely to lure clients -- and acquirers -- seeking a
nimbler and more innovative alternative, Mitchell said.  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  Rentrak “would be very attractive” as a takeover target,
Mitchell said in a phone interview. “You can basically have a
much more comprehensive solution set for your customers.”  The company’s  shares  gained 12 percent in two days after
Mitchell published a report on Sept. 10 that said the company
could be a takeover target.  Today, the shares rose 6.2 percent to $30.32, leading
stocks in the Russell 2000 Consumer Discretionary Index and
reaching their highest closing level since January 2011.  Advertising agencies looking to bring Rentrak’s data-tracking expertise in house are among potential suitors, with
 WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Interpublic (IPG)  Group of Cos. as the most likely among
the larger firms to bid, according to Mitchell. WPP could look
to bolster its Kantar data-management business, while
Interpublic may be lured to Rentrak to stay competitive as
rivals Publicis Groupe SA and Omnicom Group Inc. merge, he said.  A representative for London-based WPP declined to comment,
while New York-based Interpublic didn’t return a phone message
seeking comment.  Nielsen Possibility  In addition to advertising firms, Rentrak’s technology
could even attract Nielsen as the company seeks to maintain its
position in the ratings market, said Michael Corbett, chief
investment officer at Perritt Capital, which owns Rentrak
shares. Nielsen’s takeover of Arbitron has faced antitrust
scrutiny.  Rentrak’s “technology is impressive,” Corbett, whose
Chicago-based firm oversees about $600 million, said in a phone
interview. “I’ve always kind of thought that it would make
sense in a bigger company’s portfolio.”  Google (GOOG)  also could be interested in acquiring the company,
said Khorsand of BWS Financial. The YouTube website owner is the
No. 1 digital-ad publisher in the world across all devices,
according to EMarketer.  “Google is the one really that would make a lot of sense
just because of everything they do in advertising and what they
want to achieve as far as media goes,” he said.  Another possible scenario is a combination with digital-media data tracker  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , according to Mitchell of
Brean.  TiVo Interest  TiVo also could be interested in combining Rentrak’s
viewership analysis tools with its data on users’ clicks and
preferences, although its management has signaled it would
prefer to return cash to shareholders, Mitchell said.  Representatives for TiVo and  Mountain View , California-based Google declined to comment on whether their companies
would be interested in buying Rentrak. Representatives for
Reston, Virginia-based ComScore and New York-based Nielsen
didn’t return phone messages seeking comment.  Rentrak still has its video-distribution business, which
 comprised  45 percent of the company’s revenue in fiscal 2013,
down from more than three-quarters just four years earlier. With
that unit in decline, buyers may not be willing to offer a
premium high enough to entice  managemen t to sell, particularly
with the stock already at its highest level in more than two
years, said Rich Tullo of Albert Fried & Co.  “It’s fairly valued on a sum-of-the-parts basis,” the New
York-based analyst said in a phone interview. “If a company is
trading at a high multiple and it’s got a business in decline,
then it’s harder to create  shareholder value .”  While the shrinking video-distribution unit has been a drag
on results, it has helped provide Rentrak with money to build
out its growing data-tracking division, said Corbett of Perritt
Capital.  “This is a crossover story,” he said. “It’s going from
an old, legacy, boring, declining business to a more exciting
business. The new advertising tracking service is much more
exciting to anybody out there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  