-- Harper Lee’s Suit Against Former Literary Agent Dismissed
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-09-12T18:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/harper-lee-s-suit-against-former-literary-agent-is-dismissed.html
A lawsuit by Harper Lee, the author
of “To Kill a Mockingbird,” against her former literary agent
for allegedly depriving her of royalties was dismissed.  Lee agreed to terminate the suit against her former agent,
Samuel Pinkus, and other defendants, according to a federal
court filing in  Manhattan  yesterday. No details of the agreement
were disclosed.  “The parties have reached an agreement; the case has been
dismissed; and Harper Lee, a very private person, is resuming
her private life,”  Gloria Phares, a lawyer for Lee with
Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler LLP, said in an e-mail.  Lawyers for the 87-year-old author had claimed the agent
and others took advantage of her age and infirmity to deprive
her of royalties. Lee was in an assisted-living facility when
she signed a document that assigned her copyright to the book to
Pinkus’s company, according to the complaint.  “All of my clients are pleased to reach a resolution of
this with Ms. Lee,” Vincent Carissimi, a lawyer for the
defendants with Pepper Hamilton LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “Her interests were never in jeopardy. The
assignment of the copyright expressly reserved to her all income
generated by ‘To Kill a Mockingbird.’”  The defendants also included Leigh Ann Winick, described as
Pinkus’s wife, and Gerald Posner, a  New York  lawyer and
journalist who incorporated one of Pinkus’s businesses,
according to the complaint.  “To Kill a Mockingbird,” a novel about racial inequality
in the American South, was published in 1960 and won a Pulitzer
Prize. The 1962 film won three Oscars, including one to Gregory Peck as best actor and one to Horton Foote for the screenplay.  The case is Lee v. Pinkus, 13-cv-03000, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  