-- Asiana to Strengthen Pilot Training After San Francisco Crash
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-09-12T11:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/asiana-to-strengthen-pilot-training-after-san-francisco-crash.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) , the South
Korean carrier that suffered a fatal jet crash in San Francisco
July 6, said it will strengthen training for pilots and increase
their evaluations after its first accident since 2011.  The airline will increase the number of hours of simulated
training to help improve approaches at airports that lack proper
landing guidance systems, Seoul-based Asiana said in an e-mailed
statement today. It will also have an outside company evaluate
the carrier’s safety standards.  Three people died after an Asiana Boeing Co. 777 struck a
seawall short of a runway at San Francisco International
Airport, sending the plane spinning off the tarmac. More than
300 survived the crash, the first fatal airline accident in the
U.S. since 2009.  Asiana will also increase the number of safety experts to
strengthen safety evaluation procedures and will boost
maintenance of its aircraft, the airline said.  Chief Executive Officer Yoon Young Doo said July 9 that the
company will look at strengthening training of its pilots.  The July 6 accident was Asiana’s worst since 1993, when a
 Boeing 737  crashed in Mokpo, south of Seoul, killing 66 people,
according to the  National Archives  of  Korea . The airline’s
previous disaster was the crash of its cargo freighter in the
sea south of Jeju island in July 2011.  The accident dented Asiana’s reputation as one of the top
carriers in the world for service, honed over a quarter century
since its formation in the run-up to the 1988 Seoul Olympics.
 South Korea  plans to tighten aviation rules as the crash
triggered concerns about the nation’s safety regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  