-- Asian Stocks Fall From 3-Month High Before FOMC Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-09-12T10:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/asian-stocks-near-three-month-high-after-japan-machinery-orders.html
Asia’s benchmark  stock  index
retreated from a three-month high as investors await the outcome
of the  Federal Reserve ’s meeting next week.  Toyota Motor Corp. dropped 1.1 percent, pacing losses among
Japanese exporters as the yen rose for a second day.  Sino
Biopharmaceutical Ltd. tumbled 16 percent, prompting a trading
suspension, after a report by state-run Chinese Central
Television alleged bribery at a unit of the medicine maker.
 Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s largest carrier, climbed 2.9
percent after the Australian Financial Review reported it may
share its Sydney terminal with unit Jetstar Airways.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell less than 0.1 percent to
137.5 as of 7:31 p.m. in  Tokyo , for its first decline in 11
days. The gauge climbed 6.6 percent in the past 10 days. The
gauge’s 14-day relative strength index, an indicator of trading
momentum, is at 66, near a threshold of 70 that may signal to
some analysts shares may have risen too far.  “Investors are skittish as global recovery remains on an
uneven path,” Desmond Chua, at analyst at brokerage CMC Markets
in Singapore, said in a telephone interview. “Investors are
waiting for more positive catalysts from economic data. They are
looking ahead for the outcome of the Fed meeting and the Syrian
dialogue.”  The U.S. central bank has said any reduction in stimulus
will be tied to a sustained recovery in employment. The Fed will
decide to cut its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases when it
meets Sept. 17-18, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  Interest Rates  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, which kept its key
interest rate at a record-low 2.5 percent today, said it is
likely to raise borrowing costs in 2014. Central banks in  South
Korea  and the Philippines also kept their benchmark rates
unchanged, while Indonesia unexpectedly increased its  reference
rate .  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  index slipped 0.4 percent. The nation’s
machinery orders rose 6.5 percent in July from a year earlier
after gaining 4.9 percent in the previous month, according to a
government report released today. That missed economist
estimates for a 7.7 percent increase.  The Topix has advanced 7.1 percent this month amid optimism
about Tokyo hosting the 2020 Summer Games, taking its gains for
the year to 38 percent, the best among developed markets tracked
by Bloomberg. India’s S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.7 percent. The
Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 0.3 percent, while the
Jakarta Composite Index was little changed.  ‘Wait-and-See Mode’  “We’re in wait-and-see mode ahead of next week’s  Federal
Open Market Committee  meeting,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
 fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “While
the situation in  Syria  has calmed for now and China looks like
it’s seen the worst of its slowdown, buying after the Olympics
news seems to have run its course and the yen has stopped
weakening, making exporters less attractive.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong closed little changed. It climbed
20 percent from a June 25 low this week, entering what some
investors consider a  bull market , as China’s manufacturing
output accelerated to a 17-month high.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.6 percent,
while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained less than 0.1 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index added 0.2 percent and Singapore’s Straits
Times Index increased 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index was
little changed.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.2 percent to close at
a five-year high. The nation’s unemployment rate climbed to a
four-year-high 5.8 percent in August from 5.7 percent in July,
the statistics bureau reported.  New Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index rose
0.1 percent.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1
percent. The equity gauge gained 0.3 percent to a one-month high
in New York yesterday as diminishing concern over a military
strike against Syria offset Apple Inc.’s biggest decline since
April after the company introduced a cheaper iPhone.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 6.4 percent this year
through yesterday. Shares on the Asia-Pacific gauge traded at
13.4 times estimated earnings, compared with 15.3 times for the
 S&P 500 , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese exporters declined after the yen rose as much as
0.7 percent today against the  U.S. dollar , its second day of
advance. A stronger yen reduces the value of overseas income at
automakers and electronics manufacturers when repatriated.  Toyota, Asia’s biggest carmaker, fell 1.1 percent to 6,270
yen in Tokyo.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , partly owned by Renault SA, slid
1.2 percent to 996 yen. Sony Corp., the maker of Bravia
televisions and PlayStation game consoles, dropped 1.2 percent
to 2,103 yen.  Share Sales  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. slumped 8.1 percent to 1,028 yen.
The maker of Lancer sedans is nearing a decision to raise as
much as 200 billion yen ($2 billion) via a public offering of
new shares as it seeks to buy back preferred stock held by other
Mitsubishi companies, two people with direct knowledge of the
plan said.  Sharp Corp. declined 6 percent to 363 yen following
Japanese media reports the TV maker may announce a share sale to
bolster its balance sheet as early as next week.  Sino Biopharm tumbled 16 percent to HK$4.76 before trading
was suspended in  Hong Kong , the biggest decline since October
2000. Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the stock to
underperform from neutral after the CCTV bribery report.  Among shares that rose, Qantas climbed 2.9 percent to
A$1.445. The company may consider moving its unit Jetstar to
Sydney airport’s international terminal, the Australian
Financial Review quoted chief executive Alan Joyce as saying.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  