-- Stocks Rise While Oil, Gold Fall as Syria Tensions Ease
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-13T20:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/asian-fuures-drop-as-silver-rebounds-crude-holds-advance.html
U.S. stocks extended a weekly gain,
while oil and gold helped lead commodities lower, amid talks on
a plan for Syria to surrender chemical weapons as investors
weighed prospects for the  Federal Reserve  to cut stimulus.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.3 percent to
1,687.99, capping a weekly gain of 2 percent, and the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index climbed 0.2 percent. Oil slipped 0.4 percent to
$108.21 a barrel. Gold for December delivery lost 1.7 percent to
$1,308.60 an ounce. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , a gauge of
the currency against 10 major peers, lost 0.1 percent after
erasing early gains. The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell two
basis points to 2.89 percent and German bund yields dropped two
basis points to 1.98 percent.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  reported a
“constructive” start to talks in Geneva today with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  over Syria’s chemical weapons.
U.S. retail sales rose less than projected by economists and a
gauge of consumer confidence decreased more than forecast,
reports showed today. The Fed will decide to cut monthly
purchases of Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion and keep
mortgage-bond buying at $40 billion at its Sept. 17-18 meeting,
another Bloomberg survey showed.  “Concern over Syria seems to be abated,” Channing Smith,
who helps oversee about $1.2 billion at Capital Advisors Inc. in
Tulsa, Oklahoma, said in a phone interview. “The next potential
market moving event will be the Fed. The view is that we’re
recovering and continue to do it in a slow pace. The Fed will
begin to taper but will be on a magnitude of $10 billion, which
shouldn’t have an impact.”  Fed Poll  The anticipated reduction in stimulus by the Fed that has
roiled the financial markets for months will be seen as no big
deal if it goes ahead next week, according to a Bloomberg Global
Poll of investors. Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed say
they don’t expect a sudden change in the markets because
investors already anticipate tapering action by the U.S. central
bank. Eight percent see a rally on such news, while just under a
third are looking for declines, based on the Sept. 10 poll of
900 investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg
subscribers.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell about 2 percent over
five days,its first weekly decline in three weeks, as tensions
over Syria eased.  Brent crude  traded in London was little changed today and
down almost 3 percent for the week, the most since June.  ‘Deflated’ Risk  “A lot of the geopolitical risk in prices linked to Syria
has deflated over the past week as the U.S. accepts to explore
alternative diplomatic routes with the Russians to solving the
Syrian crisis,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Lead, wheat, corn and aluminum fell more than 1 percent to
lead losses in the S&P GSCI Index of commodities, which fell 0.4
percent today and 2.2 percent this week. Wheat declined 1.8
percent and corn fell 1.6 percent after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast more supplies.  Data today showed U.S. retail sales increased 0.2 percent
last month, the smallest in four months, and followed a revised
0.4 percent July gain that was bigger than previously estimated.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.5 percent advance. Sales excluding motor vehicles rose
0.1 percent.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. declined in September to
the lowest level since April, indicating household spending may
take time to pick up. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of consumer sentiment this month fell to 76.8
from August’s 82.1. Economists in a Bloomberg survey called for
82, according to the median projection.  ‘Slow Pace’  Among stocks moving in the U.S. today, commodity, utility
and consumer-staples companies led gains in all 10 of the main
industry groups in the  S&P 500 .  Intel Corp . gained 3.6 percent
after Jefferies Group LLC raised its rating on the stock and
Safeway Inc. climbed 6.1 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG
raised its recommendation for the shares.  Twitter Inc. disclosed it had filed to go public in one of
its 140-character postings yesterday, giving no other financial
figures or details on when it will actually list. Twitter’s
market debut will be led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and is
likely to be the most anticipated initial public offering since
Facebook Inc. listed last year.  Twitter IPO  “What Twitter management and Goldman are doing is
observing that valuations are at healthy levels and that it’s a
good time to attempt an IPO of this scale,”  Lawrence Creatura ,
a Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $364 billion, said in a phone
interview.  The S&P 500 trades at 16.2 times reported earnings, above
the average multiple of 15.3 over the past five years, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark index has rallied 18
percent in 2013.  The Stoxx 600 finished with the day with an advance of 0.2
percent, erasing an earlier decline of as much as 0.4 percent.
TDC A/S dropped 3.1 percent as a group of private-equity firms
sold a 4.17 billion kroner ($743 million) stake in Denmark’s
biggest phone company. That amounted to a stake of about 11
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., which managed the
sale.  Fresenius SE climbed 3.6 percent after its Helios unit
agreed to buy 43 hospitals from Rhoen-Klinikum AG. The 3.07
billion-euro ($4.1 billion) acquisition will create Europe’s
largest chain of private clinics. Rhoen-Klinikum rallied 11
percent. Kabel Deutschland Holding AG jumped 6.3 percent after
Vodafone Group Plc said that investors representing at least 75
percent of the German company’s shares backed its 7.7 billion-euro bid.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for a second day,
losing 0.4 percent. The gauge has gained 3.2 percent this week,
the biggest weekly advance since June. The Shanghai Composite
Index lost 0.9 percent today, and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies traded in Hong Kong slid
1.4 percent.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell five basis points this week
after surging 15 points and reaching a two-year high of 2.99
percent last week. Bonds fell earlier today after Nikkei
reported that former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers 
will be named as Fed chairman. Summers would tighten Fed policy
more than  Janet Yellen , his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll. President
Obama hasn’t made a decision on whom to nominate as Fed
chairman, White House spokesman  Amy Brundage  said on Twitter.  “We are in line with the market expectations and think
tapering will start next week,” said  Carl Hammer , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “The news
about Summers is interesting if it is true, and is a small
dollar positive. Everyone thinks he is going to be more
hawkish” than his main rival Yellen, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  