-- Massmart Leads Best South Africa Retail Rally in 9 Months
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-09-12T16:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/massmart-leads-best-south-africa-retail-rally-in-9-months.html
Massmart Holdings Inc. (MSM) , the South
African supermarket chain owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , gained,
leading the country’s index of retailers to the longest winning
streak in nine months.  The 11-member FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index,
which includes clothing sellers  Truworths International Ltd. (TRU)  and
the  Foschini (TFG)  Group Ltd., gained for a sixth day, the longest
stretch since the seven days through Dec. 7. The gauge advanced
2.2 percent to 63,441.67, the most since Aug. 30, by the close
in Johannesburg.  South African  retailers  lost 9 percent this year, compared
with the all-share gauge’s 11 percent gain, as investors sold
stocks on concern that consumers are struggling to pay debt.
 African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) , the nation’s largest unsecured
lender, said May 20 that net income for the six months through
March dropped 26 percent as bad debts rose.  “People are becoming a little bit less worried about the
credit environment of the South African consumer,” Diane Laas,
an equity analyst at Cape Town-based Investec Asset Management,
which manages the equivalent of $105 billion, said by phone.
“Given the African Bank bad debt news, the market has been
negative on the bad debt experience of credit retailers
Truworths and the Foschini Group. People have been pricing a
higher bad-debt scenario.”  Massmart, the country’s largest wholesale distributor,  rose 
11 percent from Sept. 5, when the retailers gauge’s rally
started. The shares advanced 4.1 percent to 173.25 rand today,
the highest in more than a month. Foschini, which owns the
Fabiani and Charles & Keith brands in  South Africa , surged 9.1
percent in the period and increased 1 percent to 108 rand today,
the highest since May 30.  Reversal Due  The retailer index’s 14-day  relative strength index  rose to
71, a level that indicates to technical traders it may be
overbought. The gauge also pushed through the upper limit of its
 Bollinger band , a sign it may be due for a reversal. Its
 stochastic oscillator  is at 95, also implying an imminent turn.  South African consumers’  indebtedness , measured as a
percentage of disposable income, rose 0.4 percentage point to
75.8 percent in the three months through June from the previous
quarter, the  Reserve Bank  said in its quarterly bulletin
released in  Pretoria , the capital, yesterday. The cost to
service debt as a percentage of disposable income remained
unchanged at 7.7 percent.  Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL) , which sells international brands
such as Country Road clothing and organic, free-range and
specialty foods, reported a 27 percent increase in net income to
2.6 billion rand ($262 million) in the fiscal year through June.
Its stock climbed 0.5 percent to 74 rand today, extending a 14
percent advance since the results were released Aug. 29.  “The outcome of Woolworths’ year-end results and
presentation is that there’s still some life left in the South
African consumer environment,” Laas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  