-- AT&T’s Europe Threat Has Incumbents Weighing Ways to Bulk Up
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-13T14:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/at-t-s-europe-threat-has-incumbents-weighing-ways-to-bulk-up.html
Europe’s biggest phone companies
have put the brakes on a flurry of asset sales as they brace for
the likely entry by  AT&T Inc. (T)  into the $313 billion market.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Orange SA (ORA)  of France, among those
evaluating options, have slowed an effort to sell their 50-50
U.K. wireless venture known as EE, according to people with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified
discussing internal deliberations. To the south,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
is using a planned exit by its partners in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to
seek greater influence in the former monopoly with businesses in
Brazil and Argentina, people familiar with the matter said.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s $130 billion agreement this month to
exit its U.S. venture with Verizon Communications Inc. has made
the U.K. mobile-phone company a potential takeover candidate for
AT&T. A new owner of Vodafone, with more than 140 million
customers in 14 European countries including  Germany , the U.K.
and Spain, would instantly become the region’s biggest mobile
carrier and may trigger a series of mergers and acquisitions.  “It’s a potentially seismic event, the first real entry of
a major international telco into the European space,” said Paul Marsch, a London-based based telecommunications analyst at
Berenberg Bank. “Other industry players would be expecting,
given AT&T’s rhetoric, that they would be trying to accelerate
capital expenditure and see more aggressively the kind of tariff
structures you’ve seen in the U.S.”  Slim, Li  Europe’s debt crisis, which resulted in a slump in  consumer
spending  -- along with the valuations of the region’s phone
assets -- has attracted bargain-hunting investors including
Mexico’s  Carlos Slim  and Hong Kong’s  Li Ka-shing . AT&T may be
next, having scoured Europe for takeovers this year and examined
candidates from EE and Telefonica to Newbury, England-based
Vodafone, people familiar with the matter have said.  The combined market value of Europe’s telecommunications
companies shrank 28 percent between 2006 and 2012, compared with
a 7 percent increase for their U.S. counterparts, according to a
 report  by researcher Arthur D. Little and the French
Telecommunications Federation. This year, the Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index is up 17 percent, almost double
the gains by the Bloomberg World Telecommunications Index, amid
takeover speculation.  Status Quo?  EE, the largest wireless carrier in the U.K., has been
planning an initial public offering or a sale to a private-equity firm. In the wake of the Vodafone-Verizon deal, EE’s
owners have started weighing alternatives, including keeping the
status quo, and even an eventual buyout by one of the partners,
people familiar with the matter said.  At the same time, the German and French shareholders are
concerned that ending the collaboration would eliminate the
possibility of closer integration or a full merger, which may be
necessary in the event of an aggressive push by AT&T into
international markets, one of the people said.  Andreas Leigers, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman in Bonn, said
no decision has been made about EE’s future. Jean-Bernard Orsoni, an Orange spokesman in Paris, declined to comment, as
did  Brad Burns , an AT&T spokesman in Dallas.  Orange slipped 1.1 percent to 8.76 euros at 3.56 p.m. in
Paris trading. Deutsche Telekom added 0.2 percent to 9.92 euros
on the Frankfurt exchange. AT&T rose 0.6 percent to $34.58 in
New York.  Eastern Europe  Deutsche Telekom, which ended a lengthy search for a new
strategy in the U.S. by merging its T-Mobile unit with MetroPCS
Communications Inc. this year, has gained a U.S. listing and
freed management time to tackle its shrinking European business.
Acquisitions being considered include Eastern European network
operator GTS and Poland’s Netia SA, people familiar with the
matter have said.  Orange Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard told
reporters this week he would seek to consolidate the carrier’s
position in countries such as Poland and Spain, and may make
fixed-line acquisitions in Belgium and Romania.  Much of that will depend on whether regulators approve an
attempted merger of Telefonica and Royal KPN NV’s German assets,
which would create the country’s biggest mobile-phone company by
customers.  “If Germany accepts to go from four carriers to three, it
will create an earthquake in  Europe ,”  Richard said in Paris.
“It will force other countries to reconsider their positions on
consolidation.”  Roaming Fees  The French carrier has also sought growth in the past years
in African countries including  Morocco  and the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo. Along with Vodafone’s Johannesburg-based unit
Vodacom Group Ltd., Orange has been among challengers to  MTN
Group Ltd. (MTN)  on the continent. Orange would be interested in
assets that come up for sale there, said a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Another impetus for mergers and acquisitions is pressure
regulators have put on carriers’ revenue and profitability. The
European Commission this week supported a proposal to ban phone
companies from charging premiums for roaming services and from
blocking or slowing Internet content. Those measures are part of
EU Digital Agenda Commissioner  Neelie Kroes ’s plan to unify
rules for communications networks and to spur investments.  The U.S., Japan and Korea now account for 88 percent of all
fourth-generation  mobile subscriptions , while the EU, once the
world leader in wireless technology, has only 6 percent,
according to Kroes. Intense competition among more than 100
carriers in Europe’s fragmented market -- with tariffs costing
as little as 2 euros ($2.70) a month at France’s  Iliad SA (ILD)  --
continues to bring phone bills down.  Network Sharing  “There’s a necessity for consolidation among European
carriers as they invest in 4G and fiber networks,” said Erhan Gurses, a telecommunications analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  Network-sharing agreements can also serve as the basis for
further consolidation, Gurses said. Orange and T-Mobile this
week extended their network-sharing agreement to their 4G system
in Poland, the latest example of carriers divvying up investment
costs.  Even Telefonica, Europe’s most-indebted phone company, has
resumed investments after selling assets from China to Ireland
to avert a downgrade by rating agencies.  It agreed last month to sweeten a bid for KPN’s E-Plus unit
in Germany to 8.55 billion euros.  As Telecom Italia’s largest shareholder, Telefonica has a
first right of refusal as three financial investors --
Assicurazioni Generali SpA, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Mediobanca
SpA -- are allowed to sell their holdings this month. Telefonica
is examining options that range from a takeover of their stakes
to a full merger with Telecom Italia, people familiar with the
matter said.  New Alliances?  Representatives of Madrid-based Telefonica and Telecom
Italia, whose headquarters are in Milan, declined to comment.
Telecom Italia’s board is due to meet next week.  AT&T, which is looking for an international footprint as
Japan’s  SoftBank Corp (9984)  enters the U.S. market, would revive a
transatlantic strategy not seen since the dot-com bust of the
early 2000s by expanding into Europe. In the 1990s, companies
including Deutsche Telekom, BT Group Plc and MCI Worldcom Inc.
built a series of alliances to provide international services
that eventually disintegrated amid strategy disputes and slowing
growth.  “The valuation of the European companies reflects the last
two years’ horrendous events, but we are at an inflection point
both for the U.S. and for Europe,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London. “There will be one
or two big alliances of footprints that run across Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  