-- Australia’s Jobs Drop Underscores Challenge for Abbott
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-12T03:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/australian-employers-unexpectedly-cut-payrolls-in-august-1-.html
Australia  recorded its first back-to-back jobs decline in more than two years, sending the local
currency lower and underscoring the challenge for Prime
Minister-elect Tony Abbott to boost the nation’s economy.  The number of people employed fell 10,800 in August from
the previous month, when it dropped a revised 11,400, the
statistics bureau said in Sydney. That compares with the median
estimate for a 10,000 increase in a Bloomberg survey of 28
economists. Unemployment rose to a four-year high of 5.8
percent, from 5.7 percent in July.  “It’s softer than expected and disappointing,” said
Justin Smirk, senior economist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
Sydney. “It’s a sign the economy is not firing on all cylinders
and there’s still a need for the Reserve Bank to lower rates.”  Labor market weakness complicates the task for Abbott’s
coalition, which won office Sept. 7 pledging to lower taxes and
cut red tape in order to spur the $1.5 trillion economy as a
China-led mining investment boom crests. The Reserve Bank of
Australia forecasts a softer labor market and below-trend growth
and reduced the overnight cash-rate target by 2.25 percentage
points since late 2011, including a quarter-point cut last month
to a record-low 2.5 percent.  “We’ve had confirmation the economy is growing a little
below trend,” Stephen Koukoulas, managing director of Canberra-based Market Economics Pty., who predicted a 10,000 drop, said
before the release. “The trend softness in the labor market
continued leading up to the election.”  The Australian dollar fell to 92.61 U.S. cents at 1:31 p.m.
in Sydney from 93.42 cents before the report. Traders are
pricing in a 40 percent chance the RBA will cut rates by the end
of this year, compared with 38 percent before the release,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Participation  The number of full-time jobs declined by 2,600 in August,
and part-time employment fell by 8,200, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, a measure of the labor force in
proportion to the population, dropped to 65 percent in August
from 65.1 percent a month earlier, it showed.  The fall in participation, “reflecting a combination of
demographic forces as the population ages and more retire and
workers leaving the job market after becoming disillusioned in
the search for a job, has clearly had the effect of understating
the true weakness in the jobs market,” said Shane Oliver,
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd. If the participation rate was still at its June
2009 level, the  unemployment (AULFUNEM)  rate would be 6.5 percent, he said.  Improved Confidence  National Australia Bank Ltd.’s  business confidence  index
released this week showed a slump in employment conditions in
August to the weakest since May 2009, and capacity utilization
remained subdued. Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s
job ads series fell 2 percent in August, the sixth monthly
decline. The nation expanded 2.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, and the RBA this month said it expects
growth will be “a bit below trend” in the near term “as the
economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment.”  Industry has been squeezed by a currency that held above $1
from mid-June last year to May 9, the longest stretch above
parity with the U.S. dollar since the Aussie was freely floated
in 1983. The local dollar declined 12 percent in the three
months through June.  Elders Cuts  Elders Ltd. said this week it will cut about 10 percent of
its workforce as the Australian agricultural company reorganizes
and reduces debt. Newcrest Mining Ltd., an Australian gold
producer, said in July it plans to cut staff and contractors at
its Telfer mine as part of an operational review prompted by
falling prices.  Abbott said in an Aug. 29 interview that Australian
manufacturers have to find a way to cope with a “market-driven
currency.” He told reporters the previous week that his
government wouldn’t wave a “blank check” at automakers.  Ford Motor Co. announced in May it would end production in
the country after nine decades, with the loss of 1,200 jobs.
General Motors Co.’s Holden division said in April it will cut
about 500 positions in Australia, citing the currency’s
strength.  Since Labor won office in November 2007 through May this
year, a net 962,800 jobs were created, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from labor force by industry figures.
While the resources-investment boom has powered economic growth,
the 122,300 mining jobs created is less than half the 303,500 in
healthcare and social assistance roles. The manufacturing
industry lost 112,400 workers over the period.  Elsewhere, New Zealand’s central bank said it expects to
raise interest rates next year as the economy strengthens and
inflation picks up after leaving the official cash rate at 2.5
percent. The Bank of  Korea  held its key rate steady, while the
 Philippines ’ central bank is also likely to keep borrowing costs
unchanged later today, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted.  Euro zone industrial production data for July is scheduled
for release. In the U.S., initial jobless claims climbed 7,000
to 330,000, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  