-- Accidental Senator a Kingmaker in Australia Micro Party Era
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-12T05:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/australia-s-accidental-senator-a-kingmaker-as-micro-parties-rise.html
David Leyonhjelm realized he could
win an  Australian Senate  seat when his small  Liberal Democratic
Party  scored the plum spot for the Sept. 7 election -- the top,
left-hand corner of the ballot sheet in New South  Wales  state.  “That was just complete luck,” said the 61-year-old
former veterinarian, who said he wants to broker deals with the
Liberal-National coalition government if his place in the 76-seat upper house is confirmed. Some “confused” voters may have
mixed up his group with the Liberal party of Prime Minister-elect  Tony Abbott , he added.  Leyonhjelm and six others from tiny, mostly center-right
parties are set to hold the balance of power in the upper house
from July 1, complicating Abbott’s legislative agenda even as
his coalition won a majority in the lower house. While they may
back Abbott on his promise to repeal the previous Labor
government’s carbon price mechanism and mining tax, his
maternity-leave plan costing A$5.5 billion ($5.1 billion) a year
could be blocked.  The success of the parties dubbed the “micro right” in
the Senate, plus a greater share of the primary vote in the
lower house, reflects a drift from the major political groupings
at the election as voters tired of years of Labor infighting and
a lack of policy heft from the coalition.  “Abbott will be under pressure to build relationships with
these people to get deals done,” said Haydon Manning, a
politics professor at Flinders University in Adelaide. “While
their agendas are vague at this stage, it’s fair to say most of
the parties seem right of the center. The result shows voters
are a bit disenfranchised with the major parties.”  Labor Woes  The micro parties benefited from voter dissatisfaction with
Labor in particular, as it earned its smallest primary vote in
the lower house in almost eight decades, according to  University
of Western Australia  data.  Australia ’s oldest party was hurt by
infighting that saw it swap leaders twice in three years.
Outgoing education minister Bill Shorten today said he will vie
for the leadership, which may be decided as early as tomorrow.  Forty of the 76 Senate seats were up for grabs, with the
new-look upper house to take its place on July 1. Until then the
balance of power is held by the Greens, giving them final say
over legislation introduced by the new government.  Australian Electoral Commission  preliminary results  point
to the coalition holding 34 Senate seats from July 1, Labor 25,
the Greens 10, and micro parties seven, according to Australian
Broadcasting Corp. calculations. They include Bob Day from the
Christian-right Family First party, re-elected independent Nick Xenophon and newcomer Wayne Dropulich of the Australian Sports
Party.  Tea Party  Glenn Lazarus, a former rugby league star dubbed “The
Brick With Eyes,” of the nascent Palmer United Party, is set to
win a Senate seat in a bid bankrolled by mining magnate  Clive Palmer . Palmer himself may win a place in the lower house after
his party secured 5.5 percent of the primary vote nationally,
compared to the more established Greens on 8.4 percent.  Palmer, 59, who plans to build a full-scale replica of the
Titanic, claimed voters were tired of the major parties,
creating his party in April and mustering candidates for all 150
lower-house seats, as well as 18 Senate positions.  “Palmer’s rise looks a bit like a Sarah Palin-style surge
in the politics of personality,” said Ron Levy, a lecturer in
law and politics at Griffith University in Brisbane. “The step
away from the major parties to the right-wing fringe could also
be interpreted as an Australian-version of the  Tea Party 
phenomenon in the U.S.”  ‘Unrepresentative Swill’  Leyonhjelm, who supports lower taxes and the repealing of
restrictions on gun ownership, saw his party win  8.9 percent  of
the primary vote for the upper house in New South Wales state,
where 42 parties vied for six Senate seats, leading to a ballot
paper that sprawled over 3 feet, 3 inches (1 meter).  Joining Leyonhjelm may be Ricky Muir of the Australian
Motoring Enthusiast Party, which claimed just 0.5 percent of the
vote in Victoria state and campaigns to take souped-up vehicles
on roads. Muir declined to be interviewed after he was shown in
a Youtube clip throwing kangaroo feces at friends.  The make-up of the Senate, where a state such as New South
Wales has the same amount of representatives as Tasmania despite
a population that’s about 15 times larger, has long been a bone
of contention among politicians in the major parties. In 1992,
then-Labor Prime Minister  Paul Keating  referred to the members
of the upper house as  “unrepresentative swill.”   Abbott Negotiations  While Abbott has indicated he will consider any proposed
changes from a parliamentary committee report on the Sept. 7
election to the system for selecting members of the upper house,
he’s indicated the make-up of the Senate should be workable.  “I’m confident that we will return to strong and stable
government that calmly, purposefully, methodically sets about
implementing its commitments,” Abbott said in a Sept. 10 Nine
Network television interview. “Elections do sometimes throw up
quirky and interesting characters. That’s not always a bad
thing.”  While Leyonhjelm’s position on the paper was an advantage -
- the ordering is randomly done -- his bid was aided by his
ability to negotiate with other candidates on the sharing of
preferences. Australia’s complex system sees Senate contenders
ranked from highest to lowest, with preferences cascading to
other candidates as those with fewer votes are knocked out.
Voters can either rank the contenders themselves, or tick just
one box on the ballot paper and let their preferred party decide
on how the preference votes are distributed.  Tiny Fractions  “That we can elect the parties that get tiny fractions of
the primary vote to our parliament, seemingly by accident, is a
scandal,” said Graeme Orr, an electoral law analyst at the
University of Queensland and the author of “The Law of
Politics.” “It’s becoming more of a problem.” The number of
registered parties more than doubled from the 2010 election.  To outsiders the system looks chaotic, said Canadian-born
Levy. “While it’s good that marginal voices are represented,
the downside of these preference deals is they don’t feel very
democratic.”  One beneficiary of the process may be Dropulich, who is set
to represent Western Australia state despite his  Australian
Sports Party  winning just 0.2 percent of first-preference votes.
Beyond promoting physical activity among school children to
discourage obesity, he says he has no political agenda at this
stage.  Better Chance  Before the election, the 42-year-old former American
Football state representative spoke with other micro parties and
decided they had a better chance if they asked supporters to
preference the major parties last.  While he’s working as an engineer creating a new iron ore
mine, he says people shouldn’t assume that means he will support
Abbott’s bid to scrap the carbon price and mining tax. “We’ll
listen to all the arguments and make an informed decision,” he
said.  Leyonhjelm and Family First’s Day have already said they’ll
probably support Abbott’s bid to scrap the carbon price.  Pressure will be on Abbott, whose negotiations to form a
minority government with independents in the lower house in 2010
failed, to get his pledges through. Leyonhjelm, who said he
hopes to form a type of caucus of minor parties to vote
“reasonably consistently” on issues, is adamant he won’t
support a parental leave program that would pay some high-earning new mothers up to A$75,000 over six months.  “If it doesn’t get through, Abbott will just be able to
blame us dirty rotten little parties,” Leyonhjelm said. “That
doesn’t worry me, I’ve got a thick skin. At the end of the day,
we may have our own barrows to push but it’s in our own
interests to make the new government work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  