-- Lavrov Brings Acerbic Pragmatism to Syria Meet With Kerry
-- B y   K e n   F i r e m a n ,   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-09-12T03:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/lavrov-brings-acerbic-pragmatism-to-syria-meet-with-kerry.html
When  New York City  instituted a ban
on indoor smoking in 2003, United Nations officials told
everyone working in the East Side headquarters to comply.  Sergei Lavrov ,  Russia ’s then-UN ambassador, was having none of it.  Lavrov kept right on smoking cigarettes, arguing that the
world body wasn’t under the jurisdiction of the city, according
to a Russian Foreign Ministry official who requested anonymity.  Lavrov, 63, who was promoted to Russian foreign minister in
2004 and still holds that position, will bring the same hard-edged attitude to the application of international law when he
meets with U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  today in Geneva to
discuss the crisis over the Syrian civil war.  “He is clearly more tough-minded than other Russian
diplomats,” said Dimitri Simes, president of the Center for the
National Interest, a Washington-based research organization
specializing in foreign policy.  President  Vladimir Putin  named Lavrov foreign minister 
precisely because of this attitude, Simes said. “Putin saw in 
him a kindred soul, one prepared to stand for Russian national 
interests, who would not hesitate to be acerbic in debates,” 
Simes said. Lavrov was picked “to project Russian power, Russian 
pride, and that’s what he’s doing.”  Frequent Clashes  In the course of fulfilling that mandate, he clashed
frequently and publicly with U.S. Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice  during her 2005-2009 tenure. In May 2007, after a meeting
in  Germany , they traded barbs at a press conference over U.S.
plans to install a missile-defense system in  Europe .  Lavrov called the U.S. contention that the system wasn’t
aimed at Russia “ludicrous.” Rice cited Putin’s remark that
Russian missiles could destroy any defense system the U.S. might
build, adding, “We agree.” Lavrov shot back: “I hope that
nobody has to actually prove that Condi’s right about that.”  Lavrov’s relationship with Rice’s successor,  Hillary Clinton , at first comparatively cordial, became less so over the
course of her 2009-2013 term.  At the same time, Simes and other observers who know Lavrov
describe him as witty, urbane, and respectful of professionalism
when he finds it in diplomatic counterparts. And he puts Kerry
in that category, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , head of the Moscow-based
Council on Foreign and Defense Policy.  Good Relationship  “Lavrov finds it boring to talk to non-professionals,”
Lukyanov said. “With Kerry, he finds it interesting, and
despite all the last Syrian developments they maintain a good
relationship.”  The diplomats begin their two days of meetings in the Swiss
city spearheading their countries’ efforts to seek a political
solution to the dispute over  Syria . The crisis intensified last 
month when some 1,400 Syrians, including about 400 children, 
were killed in what the U.S. calls a chemical weapons attack by
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. Assad and his Russian
allies dispute that account.  Lavrov and Kerry will discuss a Russian initiative to place
Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal under international control in
order to forestall a threatened U.S. military strike.  Take Advantage  “The  United States , Russia and all members of the
international community must take advantage of the Syrian
government’s willingness to place its chemical arsenal under
international control for subsequent destruction,” Putin wrote
in an opinion article in the  New York  Times published tonight.  The possibility of a diplomatic solution emerged earlier
this week when Lavrov seized on an offhand remark by Kerry that
a punitive U.S. strike could be averted if Assad would surrender
his chemical arsenal. President  Barack Obama  then agreed to
explore the Russian proposal and asked congressional leaders to
postpone a vote on a resolution authorizing a strike.  “A strike would increase violence and unleash a new wave
of terrorism,” Putin wrote in the article. “It could throw the
entire system of international law and order out of balance.”  Kerry, 69, and Lavrov know each other well, having met many
times during Kerry’s service in the  U.S. Senate , which included
a stint by the Massachusetts Democrat as chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, Simes said.  A Pragmatist  Lavrov, in an April  interview  with Foreign Policy Magazine,
described himself as a pragmatist who believed ideology had no
place in international affairs -- and said Kerry shared that
view.  “Kerry is a professional,” Lavrov said in the interview.
“He is pragmatic. And this is a very important quality for a
diplomat and especially for a secretary of state.”  The one request Lavrov is known to have made to Putin when
he was appointed foreign minister was to be able to take a
vacation without a security detail once a year to indulge his
passion for river rafting, according to the website of Russia’s
Whitewater Federation.  He has gained another perk: residence in a closely guarded
Moscow apartment building located about a kilometer (0.6 of a
mile) from the Kremlin that houses the elite of the Putin era,
including VTB Group CEO Andrey Kostin and Gunvor Group oil-trading billionaire  Gennady Timchenko .  While Putin clearly is the dominant figure in setting
Russian foreign policy, Lavrov is more than merely an
implementer of it, Simes and Lukyanov said.  Lavrov has good access to the president and his opinion
carries weight with him, in part because he instinctively grasps
Putin’s approach to world affairs, Lukyanov said.  “He is not the man who needs to be given instructions
every day,” said Lukyanov. “He understands the word and the
spirit of diplomacy exactly how Russian leadership understands
them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken Fireman in Washington at 
 kfireman1@bloomberg.net 
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Franklin in Washington at 
 Tfranklin14@bloomberg.net  