-- Taxation Aid to Companies Examined by EU’s Competition Arm
-- B y   G a s p a r d   S e b a g
-- 2013-09-12T14:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/tax-aid-probed-by-eu-competition-arm-in-several-member-states-.html
The European Union is quizzing
Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands on the legality of their
tax deals with certain companies amid a global crackdown on tax
avoidance.  The European Commission’s competition arm is seeking
information on whether selective advantages were granted,
Antoine Colombani, spokesman for EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia , said today. It’s too early to say whether
formal state aid investigations will be opened, he said.  With European governments struggling to increase revenue
and reduce deficits, company taxes have come under intense
scrutiny. The Group of 20 nations last week endorsed the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
blueprint for cracking down on tax-avoiding strategies used by
companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  The
U.K. Parliament has held three hearings since November on
corporate tax dodging -- examining strategies used by Google,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   “What the request for information shows is that we are
ready to use all tools at our disposal in our fight against tax
avoidance, corporate tax avoidance in particular,” Emer
Traynor, a spokeswoman for EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta,
told reporters in Brussels.  Closer Look  The commission decided to take a closer look at tax deals
with certain companies following debates in national parliaments
and articles in the press, Colombani said.  “These agreements are not always transparent so we are
asking for more information,” Colombani said. The requests were
sent in June and July and the commission has already received
some responses, he said.  Most government support, including specific tax breaks,
that enable companies to gain an unfair advantage over
competitors is illegal under EU rules.  Jean-Claude Juncker , Luxembourg’s Prime Minister, said the
information request “doesn’t particularly worry” him. “There
won’t be a probe,” he said today at a press conference.  The Dutch Finance Ministry declined to comment on the
information-gathering exercise.  “Ireland does not do special tax rate deals with
companies,” the Irish Finance Ministry said in an e-mail. “The
essence of state aid is about aiding a particular sector or type
of investor –- the Irish rules do not do that.”  “Ireland, like all member states, from time to time
receives queries from the commission on a variety of issues,
including tax, and we always cooperate fully with such requests
for information,” the Irish Finance Ministry said.  The Financial Times reported on the EU’s information-gathering exercise earlier today, saying that Apple and
Starbucks were among the companies mentioned in the request for
details sent by the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gaspard Sebag in Brussels at 
 gsebag@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  