-- Baht Gains to Three-Week High on Capital Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-09-12T08:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/baht-gains-to-three-week-high-bonds-advance-on-capital-inflows.html
Thailand ’s baht climbed to a three-week high as overseas investors added to their holdings of the
nation’s assets on optimism China’s economy is gaining traction.  The baht advanced for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak in almost eight months, after global funds  boosted 
holdings of Thai stocks by more than $100 million on each of the
last two days, the biggest net purchases since June 28. Chinese
Premier Li Keqiang said yesterday that Asia’s largest economy
can achieve its main targets this year, bolstering the outlook
for Thai exports to its biggest market.  “Risk sentiment is improving and funds are flowing into
the nation, supporting the baht,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “But I see this as a temporary rally
in a weak market environment.”  The baht appreciated 0.8 percent to 31.74 per dollar as of
3:44 p.m. in Bangkok, the biggest gain in almost three weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 31.625
earlier, the strongest level since Aug. 21. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, jumped 17 basis points to 7.93 percent.  Foreigners turned net buyers of Thai debt yesterday for the
first time in a week, purchasing 7.5 billion baht, the  most 
since July 30, according to the Thai Bond Market Association.  China ’s  export  growth accelerated to 7.2 percent in August
from 5.1 percent the previous month, and industrial  production 
grew 10.4 percent following a gain of 9.7 percent, official
reports showed the past week. The nation bought 11.4 percent of
Thai goods shipped overseas in the first seven months.  Baht gains accelerated on speculation automatic orders to
buy the currency were triggered near 31.80 per dollar, in
addition to demand from exporters, Disawat Tiaowvanich, a
currency trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl, said in an interview.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2023 was little changed at 4.37 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  