-- Banco do Brasil Failed Deals Reward Investors: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/banco-do-brasil-failed-deals-reward-investors-corporate-brazil.html
Banco do Brasil SA ’s failed
attempts to expand through acquisitions are making the
government-run lender the best-performing stock in the nation’s
financial industry.  The bank has gained 14 percent including dividends in Sao
Paulo trading since Aug. 20, the day before it postponed talks
to increase its 50 percent stake in auto lender Banco Votorantim
SA. Banco Daycoval SA, based in Sao Paulo, has the second-best
return during that period, advancing 12 percent.  The Votorantim deal as well as proposed acquisitions in the
U.S. would have consumed cash Brasilia-based Banco do Brasil
needs to fund loan growth while reducing chances that the lender
would increase its dividend, said analysts including Rodolfo Amstalden of Empiricus Research in Sao Paulo. Banco do Brasil
would have funded the purchases with part of the 11.5 billion
reais ($5.1 billion) it raised in April from the initial public
offering of insurance unit  BB Seguridade Participacoes SA. (BBSE3)   “Investors were skeptical of Banco do Brasil making
acquisitions as it has been growing its portfolio of loans at a
very fast pace,” Amstalden said in a telephone interview Sept.
9. “We always have to calculate whether an acquisition is the
best capital allocation.”  Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s largest lender by assets,
increased its loan book 26 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, according to filings. That compares with growth of
8 percent and 10 percent, respectively, for Itau Unibanco
Holding SA and Banco Bradesco SA, the nation’s biggest banks by
market value. The government-run firm paid 1.99 reais per share
in dividends this year, the most among Brazilian banks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Talks  Banco do Brasil sought to buy the preferred shares of
Votorantim it didn’t already own and boost its stake in the
company’s capital to 75 percent, two people with direct
knowledge of the plan said in January. Votorantim would have
remained a private company, allowing Banco do Brasil to use its
brokerage to build an investment bank with a more flexible wage
policy than state-owned firms must follow, the people said.
Banco do Brasil, which paid 4.2 billion reais for its 50 percent
stake in 2009, agreed last month to postpone the discussions
indefinitely, according to a filing.  Spokesmen for Banco do Brasil and Banco Votorantim declined
to comment in separate e-mailed statements. Sao Paulo-based
Votorantim Financas SA, which owns the remaining half of Banco
Votorantim, didn’t immediately return e-mails and a telephone
call.  Banco do Brasil was in talks to make acquisitions in
 Florida  and New Jersey to provide banking services to Brazilians
living in those states, Paulo Rogerio Caffarelli, the firm’s
vice-president for international business, said in January. He
declined to name the companies involved.  ‘Still Interested’  In May, Banco do Brasil was near a deal with Spanish lender
 Bankia SA (BKIA)  to buy its City National Bank of Florida unit for
about $900 million, two people familiar with the negotiations
said at the time. It was beat out by  Chile ’s Banco de Credito e
Inversiones, which agreed to pay $882.8 million for the Miami-based lender.  Chief Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine said last month
that Banco do Brasil is “still interested” in a U.S.
acquisition, though it’s being more “prudent” in its approach.  Had the U.S. and Votorantim deals been successful, it would
have diverted Banco do Brasil from returning capital to
shareholders while adding “unnecessary risks” to the bank’s
auto-loan portfolio, said Henrique Kleine, head analyst at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage Magliano SA. He calculates Banco do Brasil
could pay about 6 billion reais in dividends this year.  Cash Injection  “Now Banco do Brasil is a very attractive stock for
investors seeking dividends,” Kleine said in a telephone
interview Sept. 10. “Banco do Brasil has a lot of cash.”  Votorantim posted eight straight quarterly losses through
the three months ended June 30 as delinquency rates on its auto-loan portfolio increased, according to earnings statements. The
losses led Banco do Brasil and Votorantim Financas to inject 1
billion reais each in the company last year. Banco do Brasil
expects the auto-loan lender to post its first profit in more
than two years by the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer
Ivan Monteiro said last month.  Banco do Brasil’s shares are rising faster than those of
privately owned competitors in  Brazil  because of its growth
strategy, said  Pedro Galdi , head strategist at SLW Corretora, a
Sao Paulo-based brokerage.  ‘Stealing’ Share  “Banco do Brasil and the other state-controlled banks are
boosting credit and stealing market share from privately owned
banks, which are restraining credit expansion,” Galdi said in a
telephone interview Sept. 10. Improving economic indicators in
 China  and the U.S. are also helping the firm’s shares, he said.  Expanding in the U.S. by buying City National would have
been “irrelevant” when compared to Banco do Brasil’s size in
its domestic market, Empiricus’s Amstalden said, while
increasing its Votorantim stake “isn’t exactly a very good
deal.”  “The money Banco do Brasil raised with the IPO of its
insurance unit should finance organic growth, which is the
biggest bet of Banco do Brasil,” Amstalden said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  