-- Banks Warned Not to Flout $25 Billion Foreclosure Deal
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/banks-warned-not-to-flout-25-billion-foreclosure-deal.html
When the largest U.S. banks agreed
to pay $25 billion last year to settle claims of abusive
foreclosure practices, they promised to stop seizing homes from
borrowers who had completed applications for mortgage help.  Now regulators say lenders may be flouting the spirit of
the deal by repeatedly asking for additional paperwork from
borrowers seeking loan modifications and then foreclosing while
treating the applications as incomplete.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the court-appointed monitor of the 2012 foreclosure settlement are among
those moving to tighten oversight of the process known as dual-tracking, when borrowers facing the loss of their homes are
simultaneously negotiating changes in their loans. Mortgage
servicers who violate the rules or the terms of the deal could
face sanctions including fines of $1 million per infraction.  “It is an important outstanding issue of unfinished
business,” Joseph A. Smith, the monitor, said in an interview.  Smith, who is responsible for ensuring  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  live up to their promises, said he is
preparing to start measuring how well banks are communicating
with borrowers about loan-workout applications. That could
determine whether the servicers or homeowners are at fault for
incomplete files.  Separately, the consumer bureau this week plans to complete
proposed changes to pending mortgage-servicing rules aimed at
tightening restrictions on dual-tracking, according to a person
briefed on its work. The rules, to take effect in January, would
cover all lenders, including those who aren’t parties to the
settlement such as Ocwen Financial Corp. and  Nationstar Mortgage
Holdings. (NSM)   ‘Major Priority’  Richard Cordray, director of the consumer bureau, said in
an interview that he has personally met with the heads of the
top 25 mortgage servicers -- banks and non-banks alike -- “to
tell them face to face that this is a major priority for the
bureau and that it’s something they need to focus on.”  Other U.S. and state agencies also have vowed to pursue
banks that violate the settlement terms. U.S. Housing and Urban
Development Secretary Shaun Donovan has said that authorities
would fine banks or “haul them back into court” if they failed
to improve treatment of borrowers. New York Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman said he is preparing to sue Bank of America
and Wells Fargo for breaching the terms of the settlement.  Paul Leonard, a senior vice president at the Housing Policy
Council, a group representing mortgage servicers, said
complaints about dual-tracking partly reflect a
“misunderstanding” of what the settlement requires.  ‘In Compliance’  “Some people think that if there is any contact from the
servicer to the borrower that any part of the foreclosure
process stops,” Leonard said in an interview. “That is not the
case.”  Bank of America “is in compliance with all standards
related to dual-tracking,” spokesman Rick Simon said in an e-mailed statement.  Even as foreclosures decline and the housing market turns
around, nearly 2.9 million borrowers have missed at least three
mortgage payments and remain in danger of losing their homes,
according to data compiled by the housing department. Loan
modifications, which reduce monthly payments, are meant to help
delinquent borrowers become current again.  HAMP Workouts  Lenders have completed nearly five million mortgage
workouts since 2009, about 1.2 million of them through the Home
Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, in which the U.S.
Treasury offers incentive payments to lenders for each loan
modified for a delinquent borrower. The median HAMP workout
reduced borrowers’ monthly mortgage payments by nearly 40
percent, or $547, according to Treasury data.  During the same time period, servicers repossessed about
3.7 million homes, according to data compiled by RealtyTrac Inc.  While no national data has been published that measures the
scope of dual-tracking, housing lawyers and advocates said that
they continue to see homeowners who were wronged in the workout
process.  “We’re hearing complaints from customers of every major
servicer, ” said Gary Klein, a Massachusetts attorney whose
clients have sued Bank of America for failing to modify their
mortgages.  ‘Kafkaesque Bureaucracy’  U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel in  Boston  last week denied
the request of homeowners in 26 states, including Klein’s
clients, to be considered for class-action status because their
claims were not similar enough. Still, Zobel said that Bank of
America had a “Kafkaesque bureaucracy” that determined which
documents homeowners had to submit and said the borrowers’
claims “may well be meritorious.”  John Bartholomew, an attorney with the Atlanta Legal Aid
Society, said an example of the pattern is how Citigroup dealt
with one of his clients, Gwendolyn Green, a drugstore employee
in Loganville,  Georgia .  Green, 52, said in an interview that she fell behind on her
mortgage payments after her former husband’s truck-parts
business went bankrupt and they divorced. She first applied to
Citigroup for a loan modification in October 2012. On July 1,
the bank notified her she’d have one. Then came the bad news:
Her monthly payment would be reduced by only $1.01, to $984.49.  Even though she began making the payments under the
program, Green said, Citigroup notified her it still plans to
seize the ranch home, which has an assessed value of $115,000,
on Oct. 2.  ‘Same Things’  Green said Citigroup repeatedly demanded paperwork she had
already faxed multiple times, notably a document confirming her
sole ownership of the home. She said she kept records to prove
it.  “They keep asking for the same things over and over and
over again,” Green said. “They change people who handle the
case, and each time a new person comes on, they ask for the same
things.”  Citigroup spokesman Mark Rodgers declined to discuss
Green’s case other than to say that the bank “correctly
followed strict guidelines set forth by governmental agencies”
when dealing with her loan modification.  The HAMP program, under which Green applied for help, also
bars dual-tracking. Still, the HAMP rulebook “does not say that
foreclosure sales cannot be scheduled and postponed,” Rodgers
said.  ‘No Universe’  “There is no universe where Citi is allowed to schedule
homeowners like Ms. Green for three consecutive foreclosures
after they’ve accepted and are current on a trial
modification,” Bartholomew said.  Like the national settlement, the consumer bureau’s rules,
which were first published in January, will bar foreclosure when
a homeowner has submitted a complete application for a loan
modification. The new language to be inserted this week could
also bar foreclosure if a servicer has told a borrower that an
application is complete and subsequently discovers that more
documentation is required.  The agency also has been soliciting public feedback about
whether it needs to be even more prescriptive in defining what
constitutes a finished application so that isn’t left up to the
banks. Commenters including Massachusetts Attorney General
Martha Coakley responded that there should be a more uniform
definition of when the paperwork is complete.  Cordray said the regulations will be “very specific”
about the requirements.  ‘Serious Problem’  “I would have been glad to be able to think that we could
oversee the industry with looser rules, but I just don’t think
we can,” Cordray said.  Katherine Porter, who monitors the mortgage settlement on
behalf of California Attorney General Kamala Harris, identified
the lack of a concrete definition of a complete loan-assistance
application as a “serious problem” in a June report.  Porter said she has received more than 3,300 complaints
from homeowners that banks aren’t following the rules. The
breakdowns usually involve communication failures between
departments of the same bank or the incompatibility of computer
systems containing different pieces of information about a loan
file, she said in an interview.  The banks “do make calls. They do send letters,” Porter
said. “And I think many of the consumers are really desperately
trying to get their documents in. There’s a mismatch in the way
that they’re communicating with each other.”  One Wish  Porter said that if she had one wish, “I would wish for
deep investment in better technology.”  Technology woes were at the root of Smith’s findings in a
June report that monitored the settlement banks’ servicing
practices. The report showed that Citigroup, Bank of America and
Wells Fargo had failed to meet deadlines for notifying borrowers
that their workout applications were incomplete.  “Areas in which our performance has temporarily fallen
outside of the allowable thresholds did not result in inaccurate
foreclosures or improper loan-modification denials, and
corrective action plans for those areas are being submitted to
the monitor and implemented,” Simon, the Bank of America
spokesman, said.  Under the settlement, states can file their own lawsuits if
they deem that banks aren’t compliant. Schneiderman of New York
is the only attorney general who has announced so far that he is
planning to do that. Still, other attorneys general have
publicly criticized banks’ behavior.  In a June 4 complaint letter to Bank of America, Florida
Attorney General Pam Bondi described one homeowner who was
denied a loan modification without explanation. The bank also
refused to allow the woman to pay off her loan balance of
$23,000 and moved to foreclose. At a meeting with mediators,
Bank of America’s lawyers said they hadn’t received the bank
account statements that the borrower had submitted to them
twice.  “Astoundingly,” Bondi wrote, the customer’s bank
accounts “were with none other than Bank of America.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  