-- Bank of America Said to Be Raising $832 Million CLO for Symphony
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D e R e z a
-- 2013-09-12T19:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/bank-of-america-said-to-be-raising-832-million-clo-for-symphony.html
Bank of America Corp.  is raising a
$832 million collateralized loan obligation for Symphony Asset
Management LLC, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  The Symphony CLO XII may include a $485 million slice rated
AAA, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
terms aren’t final. Ares Management LLC raised the largest fund
of the year in March, the $940 million Ares XXVI fund, according
to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  There had been $62 billion of CLOs raised globally this
year as of Sept. 6, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  There were
$52.6 billion of CLOs backed by widely syndicated loans raised
in the U.S. in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Global CLO issuance slowed in the last two weeks of August with
two U.S. deals completed, compared with 14 during the first two
weeks of that month, according to JPMorgan.  Symphony, the San Francisco-based unit of Nuveen
Investments Inc., which oversaw about $13.2 billion in  assets  on
June 30, also raised an $827.5 million CLO with Bank of America
in January, according to Bloomberg and RBS data. Nuveen is owned
by Chicago-based private-equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners
LLC.  Kathleen Cardoza, a Nuveen spokeswoman, declined to comment
about the CLO.  JPMorgan revised its year-end forecast for new-issue AAA
CLO spreads to between 125 basis points and 130 basis points
more than the London interbank offered rate up from 100 basis
points. Libor is the rate banks say they can borrow in dollars
from each other.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and returns. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher DeReza in New York at 
 cdereza1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  