-- Batista’s OGX Faces Ibovespa Removal as Shorts Limit Raised
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R i c h t m y e r   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-12T16:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/batista-s-ogx-faces-ibovespa-removal-as-short-sale-limit-raised.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA, the  oil company  founded by  Eike Batista  that has dropped the
most on the Ibovespa this year, faces removal from  Brazil ’s
benchmark index and the prospect of more bets against the stock.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  will exclude from the gauge any companies
whose shares trade for less than 1 real (44 cents), the exchange
operator said in a statement yesterday. The limit on equity
lending for OGX, which has plunged 91 percent this year to 38
centavos in  Sao Paulo , was raised to 50 percent of shares
available for trading from 45 percent, the bourse said in a
separate statement. Stock loans, used in  short sales , climbed to
44.9 percent on Sept. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  OGX’s  relative importance  in the gauge has grown because of
the index’s reliance on trading volume for determining equity
weightings. While the oil producer is the index’s third-smallest
company by market value, it has the third-biggest weighting of
73 Ibovespa stocks. OGX has been responsible for about half of
the measure’s 12 percent drop this year through yesterday as
trading in the stock rose to all-time highs.  Market Cap  In addition to excluding penny stocks, the new methodology
will determine company weights on the gauge by the free-float 
market value, adjusted for liquidity. Positions will be limited 
to 20 percent of the index, the bourse said.  “Using market capitalization and liquidity to calculate
each stock’s weighting on the gauge will make it easier for
investors to replicate the index and will avert distortions,”
Eduardo Guardia, BM&FBovespa’s investor relations director, told
reporters today in Sao Paulo. “The new methodology provides a
better representation of the companies that are present on the
Brazilian stock market.”  The index changes will be implemented in two steps starting
in January 2014, and will be fully effective by May, BM&FBovespa
said. The exclusion of penny stocks will be effective in
January, according to Guardia.  While OGX, the most volatile stock in the 823-member MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, was considered in the overhaul of
Brazil’s main stock gauge, the process was started before the
stock’s plunge overwhelmed the Ibovespa, according to
BM&FBovespa’s Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto.  Pre-Operational  Batista, whose $34.5 billion fortune in early 2012 made him
the world’s eighth-richest person, ceased to be a billionaire in
July, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires index. All six
companies that Batista listed since 2006, which have dropped as
much as 93 percent this year, came to the market in pre-operational stages.  “Pre-operational projects represent an opportunity, but
investors will be more cautious about these companies now,”
Pinto said today.  A committee of exchange executives, banks and brokerages
developed the changes to the benchmark index. BM&FBovespa said
on its website that it hadn’t made changes to the gauge’s
 methodology  since its inception in 1968.  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , the
shipping unit that Batista founded, is the second-lowest priced
stock on the Ibovespa after dropping 36 percent this year to
1.53 reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Richtmyer in  New York  at 
 rrichtmyer@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  