-- Berlin to Turn Cold-War Airlift Site Into 1,700 Affordable Homes
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-09-12T15:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/berlin-to-build-homes-at-airport-used-for-cold-war-airlift.html
Berlin’s city government plans to
build as many as 1,700 affordable homes at the  Tempelhof airport 
complex that was used for the Allied airlift during the Cold
War.  Development of the site that’s currently being used as a
park will begin in 2016, according to a statement from the
Berlin City Planning Office today. Once this project is
complete, the city will add buildings including a library to
three additional sites on the complex, using up about a quarter
of the airfield.  The new properties will help meet rising demand for homes
in the German capital, where new construction has lagged
household growth, said Michael Mueller, the head of planning.  “It’s in the interests of all Berlin that we create
affordable housing in the city center,” Mueller said.  Tempelhof, whose stone-clad terminal built by the Nazis in
the 1930s, was closed to air traffic in 2008 and its main
building is used for events including an annual beer festival.
The airfield, which has two runways, has been turned into
parkland where visitors jog, roller-blade on the tarmac and
barbecue.  Brandenburg Gate  The airfield, covering an area of 380 hectares (939 acres)
and located about 7 kilometers (4 miles) south of Berlin’s
 Brandenburg Gate , is slightly bigger than  London ’s Hyde Park.
About 230 hectares of the airfield will be left once all four
projects are complete, according to today’s statement.  Following the defeat of  Adolf Hitler ’s  Third Reich  in 1945,
 Germany  was divided into four zones of occupation by the U.S.,
the  Soviet Union , the U.K. and  France . Berlin was located in the
middle of the Soviet zone, trapped behind what became the Iron
Curtain, and was also divided into four sections held by the
victorious allies.  In 1948, in a bid to take control of the entire city, the
Soviets blocked all roads, railways and canals leading to West
Berlin which included the U.S., British and French sectors of
the divided city. The Western allies responded with an airlift
of supplies for the besieged city including food and fuel using
Tempelhof airport. In 1949, the Soviets lifted the blockade.  Prolonged Protests  Activists have been protesting plans to develop the area
since Berlin’s government first raised the idea in 2007.  “The character of Tempelhof will get lost if they build on
it,” said Felix Herzog, a spokesman for 100% Tempelhofer Feld
e.V., a group that’s planning a demonstration against the
development on Sunday. The group will collect signatures for a
petition calling for the project to be scrapped.  The construction will cut the airfield’s expanse and
threaten local flora and fauna, Herzog said. There are other
empty plots that could be used instead, he said.  Protests against gentrification often accompany development
plans in Berlin. Rents have climbed about 33 percent and home
prices have jumped 48 percent in the past five years, according
to data compiled by Immobilien Scout GmbH.  In March, protesters including Hollywood actor and singer
David Hasselhoff temporarily halted construction on an apartment
building that involved removal of parts of the  Berlin Wall . Last
year, police evicted artists squatting in the Tacheles building,
a former department store that had become a tourist attraction,
after a legal battle that lasted more than a decade.  Price Curb  New construction will help curb rising housing costs, Maren
Kern, head of the BBU Association of Berlin-Brandenburg
Residential Companies, said by e-mail.  “Berlin is growing and by 2030 we’ll need another 130,000
apartments,” she said. “That’s why construction on the
Tempelhof airfield is necessary.”  The Tempelhof homes will be built by the city’s state-owned
residential landlords Degewo AG and Stand und Land Wohnbauten
GmbH. Berlin has six such companies which own about 280,000
apartments in Berlin, most of which are rented for less than
market rates.  Private developers were not invited to participate because
Berlin wants to ensure that the new apartments are affordable,
Mueller said at the press conference.  “Every day I have a letter on my desk from a private
investor who wants to take a piece of the land off my hands,”
said Mueller. “That’s exactly what we don’t want.”  Private developers may be invited to participate at a later
date, he said.  Tempelhof is  Europe ’s largest landmarked building, said
Martin Pallgen, spokesman for the Tempelhof Projekt GmbH, the
state-owned manager of the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  