-- Billionaire Steinmetz Said to Agree to Prosecutor Meeting
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-12T22:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/billionaire-steinmetz-said-to-agree-to-prosecutor-meeting.html
Beny Steinmetz,  Israel ’s richest
person, agreed to be interviewed by Swiss authorities as part of
an investigation relating to ownership of a Guinean iron-ore
project, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Steinmetz is expected to meet with the office of Geneva’s
public prosecutor in the city within the next four weeks, said
the person, who was briefed on the matter and asked not to be
identified as the investigation is confidential. Henri Della
Casa, a spokesman for the prosecutor’s office, declined to
comment on the planned interview.  Steinmetz has a net worth of $7.4 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and his BSG Resources Ltd. owns a
49 percent stake in a venture that controls half of the giant
Simandou iron ore deposit in  Guinea . Steinmetz has offered to
collaborate with Swiss authorities and is co-operating fully,
his lawyer Marc Bonnant said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Steinmetz’s Geneva home was raided two weeks ago by Swiss
Police following a request by the government of Guinea, a person
familiar with the matter said Sept. 11, asking not to be
identified as the probe isn’t public. No documents were taken
away, that person said.  Guinea’s actions against Steinmetz and BSG Resources are a
“campaign of intimidation and malicious lies, which are an
attempt to damage his impeccable reputation,” Bonnant said.  The West African country is reviewing mining licenses
including the one for Simandou, which was once described as the
world’s largest untapped deposit of the steelmaking raw
material. In April, a U.S. grand jury investigation began into
claims that bribes were paid by BSG Resources for mining rights
in Guinea. No charges have been filed.  Onyx Raid  Geneva’s public prosecutor said last month it opened an
investigation into Onyx Financial Advisors U.K. at the request
of Guinea. Swiss police last month raided the Geneva offices of
Onyx, a London-based company whose chief executive officer, Dag Cramer, is a director of BSGR.  Onyx “provided the Swiss authorities with information
following a request to  Switzerland  by the Government of
Guinea,” it said in an Aug. 29 statement.  Guinea’s request for assistance from Swiss authorities is
part of ongoing attempts to “expropriate illegally” mining
rights over Simandou held by BSG Resources, the company said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement that included Bonnant’s
comments.  BSG Resources said in March that Guinea was preparing to
remove mining rights from its joint venture with  Brazil ’s Vale
SA, which plans a $10 billion mining operation at Simandou. The
deposit is split into four blocks. Steinmetz’s company gained
control of blocks 1 and 2 after the government ordered Rio Tinto
Group to hand them over in 2008.  Confiscated Blocks  In April 2010, Vale agreed to pay BSG Resources as much as
$2.5 billion for a 51 percent stake in deposits in the country
including Rio’s confiscated blocks. The two blocks were legally
stripped from Rio because the company failed to proceed with
development, BSG Resources said last month.  Frederic Cilins, a French citizen who says he has worked
for BSG Resources in Guinea, was denied bail in July while
awaiting trial on charges he interfered with the U.S. grand jury
probe. He’s charged with witness tampering, obstructing a
criminal investigation and destruction of evidence in a federal
investigation. The witness-tampering and record-destruction
charges carry maximum prison terms of 20 years.  BSG Resources “is seemingly being punished for refusing to
engage in bribery or corruption and for focusing singularly on
trying to bring development to the country,” Bonnant,
Steinmetz’s lawyer, said yesterday.  ‘Malicious Allegations’  Cilins, who was described by Guinea as an “agent” of BSG
Resources, said he was arrested after trying to stop an
extortion attempt by the government’s main witness. He has
pleaded not guilty. Guinea hasn’t provided any evidence to
support “false and malicious allegations” against both
Steinmetz and BSG Resources, Bonnant said.  “What is taking place in Switzerland is a part of an
international investigation which involves many countries,”
Albert Damatang Camara, a spokesman for Guinea’s government,
said by phone yesterday. “Guinea’s policy concerning review of
mining agreements does not aim at expropriating a particular
company.”  Steinmetz amassed his fortune initially in the diamond
trade, according to his personal  website . Working from a base in
Antwerp,  Belgium , in the 1980s and 1990s, he joined forces with
his brother Daniel Steinmetz to conduct business deals in  South
Africa ,  Namibia ,  Botswana  and  India . Beny Steinmetz and his
family moved to Geneva in 2010, according to the website.  In addition to diamonds, mining and mineral assets, the
Steinmetz family has interests in real estate, financing and the
oil and gas sector.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  