-- BlackRock Bid to Block Richmond Plan Seen Premature
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-12T19:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/blackrock-bid-to-block-richmond-plan-seen-premature.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s request with other
bondholders for a court order to block a plan by Richmond,
 California , to take over underwater mortgages through eminent
domain is “not ripe,” a federal judge said while declining for
now to issue an injunction against the city.  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco said
during a 40-minute hearing today that the bank trustees for the
bondholders could renew their request for an injunction if
Richmond’s city council votes to begin seizing the loans.  While lawyers for the trustees argued that such a vote is
just “ministerial” and the city is “committed” to implement
the plan, Breyer said courts shouldn’t “jump in” before other
steps are completed to allow seizure of the loans.  “That’s called the democratic process,” Breyer said. He
didn’t rule on the merits of the bondholders’ lawsuit, which
alleges that taking control of loans through eminent domain
violates the U.S. Constitution.  Breyer said he will issue a ruling Sept. 16 on an
injunction and the city’s request to dismiss the case. He said
today that he could put the case on hold, rather than dismiss
it. He gave attorneys for the banks and the city until tomorrow
afternoon to file arguments.  The city’s plan violates constitutional protections
governing private contracts, interstate commerce and the taking
of private property for public use without just compensation,
according to complaints filed by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Deutsche
Bank AG and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  on behalf of investors
that hold bonds backed by the Richmond mortgages. The investors
include Pacific Investment Management Co. and DoubleLine Capital
LP.  Supermajority Vote  John Ertman, a lawyer for Wells Fargo, acknowledged that
the city council must vote before using eminent domain. He said
the council has voted twice before in support of moving ahead
with the plan, including this week when a supermajority of the
7-member panel voted 5-2 not to shelve the plan.  “That is true, but given their commitment to going ahead
with the program, that’s just a ministerial act,” he told
Breyer. He alleged that the city and its financing partners are
trying to avoid having to face investors’ claims in federal
court. To seize the loans, Richmond must file an action in state
court and could then come back to Breyer and argue that the
banks’ claims should be transferred to the state proceeding.  “That can’t be the right outcome,” Ertman said. “We are
entitled to be in federal district court.”  Ertman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on Breyer’s decision.  While the banks can still seek a federal court injunction
if the city council approves using eminent domain, Breyer could
abstain from ruling, and such a move would require the banks to
seek an injunction from the state court, Scott Kronland,
Richmond’s attorney, said at the hearing.  Richmond’s Footsteps  A ruling favoring bondholders would dissuade other cities
from following in Richmond’s footsteps, Dan Schechter, a law
professor at Loyola Law School,  Los Angeles , said by phone
yesterday.  A decision for Richmond won’t encourage other
municipalities to follow suit because it wouldn’t deal directly
with the merits of bondholders’ claims that the Richmond plan is
unconstitutional, he said by phone.  Richmond Mayor Gayle McLaughlin said she’s  spoken to El
Monte, California, officials about having a joint powers
authority with Richmond to participate in the plan and La
Puente, California, officials, who are also interested in the
plan.  ‘Good Scenario’  Today’s ruling “is a good scenario for those of us who
support the plan,” McLaughlin said in an interview after the
hearing.  The city council voted at about 2 a.m. yesterday to move
forward with a program to reduce the principal on troubled
mortgages. Under the plan proposed by Steven Gluckstern’s
Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC, the city would seize the loans
and refinance them, providing borrowers with built-in equity, to
avert foreclosures.  San Francisco-based Mortgage Resolution Partners would
provide services and arrange for private investment funds that
would profit by buying the loans for less than property values.  The company is shopping around the plan to several
communities; Richmond is the only one to pursue the plan, City
Manager Bill Lindsay told the council Sept. 10.  The cases are Wells Fargo Bank v. City of Richmond,
13-03663, and Bank of  New York  Mellon v. City of Richmond,
13-03664, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net  