-- BOE Defends Capital Rules That Make Banks Bear Cost of Risks
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-09-12T23:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/boe-defends-capital-rules-that-make-banks-bear-cost-of-risks.html
The  Bank of England  defended its
capital rules, saying they ensure that banks bear the costs of
taking risks, rather than the state.  Lenders “may prefer to operate with lower levels of
financial resources than is socially optimal,” the London-based
BOE, whose Prudential Regulation Authority unit took over bank
supervision in April, said in a report published today.  “Prudential regulation seeks to address this problem by
ensuring that credit and liquidity risks are properly accounted
for, with the costs borne by the bank and its customers in the
good times, rather than the public authorities in bad times,”
according to the report, written by BOE and PRA officials Marc
Farag, Damian Harland and Dan Nixon.  The Bank of England in June ordered the five largest U.K.
lenders, including Barclays Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, to plug a 13.4 billion-pound
capital shortfall by the end of the year. International banks
have raised about $500 billion in capital in the aftermath of
the financial crisis and fall of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
five years ago.  “We don’t believe that putting more capital into the
system is detrimental,”  Andrew Bailey , chief executive officer
of the PRA, told Bloomberg Television this week. “A better-capitalized system, a more stable system, is good for financial
stability, will be good for the banking system and good for the
economy,” Bailey said.  ‘High Cost’  Regulators have come under pressure to relax  capital
requirements .  “Adding layers and layers of conservatism may reduce the
risk of future financial crises, but this comes at a high cost
in terms of a permanent reduction on annual growth rates,” New-York based accounting firm KPMG LLP said in a report published
yesterday.  The eight biggest U.K. banks by assets may need to boost
their capital levels by 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) or
shrink their balance sheets by 20 percent to meet tougher
international rules in the future, KPMG said.  Global banks had core capital reserves averaging about 9
percent of their risk-weighted assets at the end of 2012, more
than the 7 percent required under the updated standards, the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said in a report last
month. The minimum ratio of equity to debt, known as the
 leverage ratio , is 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  