-- Boeing Targets Jet Against Airbus Prop for U.K. Sub-Hunter Plane
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-12T13:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/boeing-targets-jet-against-airbus-prop-for-u-k-sub-hunter-plane.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is pitching its P-8
maritime-patrol aircraft to the U.K. as Airbus SAS promotes an
offshoot of its C-295 turbo-propeller transport plane to meet a
British aerial submarine-hunting requirement.  “Looking at the strategic needs of the U.K., we think the
P-8 is a natural fit,” said Egan Greenstein, director of
business development for the Boeing plane, which is based on the
commercial 737 airliner. The U.S. and  India  are already
customers for the maritime surveillance version.  The U.K. has a gap in airborne submarine hunting. It
canceled the  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  Nimrod MRA4 program in its 2010
defense review after years of delay and cost overruns. The
defense ministry has been assessing alternatives in recent
months to address capability shortfalls.  “Existing systems can’t fill the gap,” Air Chief Marshal
Andrew Pulford said at the DSEI security and defense conference
in  London . By the next strategic review in 2015, the military
wants to have drawn up options so policy makers can decide
whether to pursue a new program.  The U.K. has dispatched staff to work with other militaries
and help preserve maritime patrol skills under an effort called
Project Seedcorn. Some of those personnel are serving as
instructors with the U.S. Navy on the P-8, Greenstein said at
DSEI.  Airbus Model  A British program would probably encompass 8 to 12
aircraft, although the final number would depend on the exact
requirement, he said. The P-8 used by the U.S. could be adapted
to address unique U.K. needs, as was the case with the Indian
aircraft, Greenstein said.  Airbus would build its proposal around the C-295 military
airlifter in a configuration similar to one already in service
with the Chilean military, Gary Soul, head of strategy at Airbus
Military U.K., said in an interview.  “The big factor favoring the C-295 is its affordability,”
he said, with a lower purchase and operations cost. The system
would include about six workstations. Introducing the aircraft
could happen relatively quickly once a decision to purchase is
taken, Soul said.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is another likely contestant. The
company has said previously it would promote a maritime patrol
system based on its C-130 transport plane.  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ,
developer of the British Sentinel R1 ground surveillance plane,
also is tracking the maritime patrol program.  The company could upgrade the Sentinel to take on some of
the surveillance roles, Phil Nettleship, chief engineer at
Raytheon Airborne Solutions, said at a press briefing at DSEI.  The U.K. is still studying how to retain the five Sentinel
aircraft in its fleet after it they were earmarked for
retirement mid-decade in the last defense review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  