-- Boeing Poised to Be Sole Bidder on Air Force One Jet Replacement
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-12T15:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/boeing-poised-to-be-sole-bidder-on-air-force-one-jet-replacement.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , whose aircraft have
ferried U.S. presidents for more than half a century, is poised
to be the only contender for a Pentagon contract to provide the
next  Air Force  One jetliner early next decade.  Boeing said it’s reviewing an Air Force request for
information about the plane issued Sept. 9 and isn’t ready to
announce a bid. Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS doesn’t intend
to make a proposal based on its double-decker A380 jet.  That leaves Boeing as the “only credible offerer” for the
iconic jet, said  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with the
Arlington, Virginia-based Lexington Institute. The Air Force
wants a four-engine plane, and the A380 and Boeing’s 747-8 are
the only Western commercial models that fit the bill.  “The government might accept bids from companies other
than Boeing, but I don’t believe it would actually award the
program to them,” Thompson said in an e-mail. “It isn’t going
to buy an Airbus plane, and the integration challenge of turning
a 747 into a next-generation Air Force One is just too demanding
for anyone other than Boeing.”  It’s still premature to say whether Boeing intends to bid,
Dianna Ramirez, a spokeswoman for Boeing’s military aircraft
business, said this week in a phone interview.  The survey, an early step in the process, aims to identify
sources with the expertise, capability and experience to deliver
the next presidential aircraft, Charles Gulick, an Air Force
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Potential participants could range
from a single large contractor to a systems integrator that
modifies a four-engine airframe, he said.  Boeing Boost  Winning the next version of Air Force One would provide a
boost to Boeing’s 747-8 Intercontinental, its largest and most
expensive passenger jet with a list price of $356.9 million, as
it slows production amid slumping sales for four-engine
aircraft. Boeing, based in  Chicago , has sold nine customized
versions of the jumbos to clients that include foreign heads of
state, Doug Alder, a Boeing spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The Pentagon is looking to replace its aging fleet of
Boeing 747-200 aircraft, which will reach their planned 30-year
service life in 2017. The next Air Force One jets are estimated
to begin operations in fiscal 2023, Gulick said.  The Air Force expects the next jets to have the range to
fly between continents and comparable interiors to the current
747, whose features include work and sleeping quarters for the
president and first family, according to the survey, which is
posted on a government website.  Strong Incumbent  The Obama administration’s budget for fiscal 2014 has
allocated $1.14 billion to be spent on research and development
of the new presidential aircraft through 2018. The total
includes one aircraft, which would be purchased in fiscal 2017
and modified for system integration and developmental testing
before it is added to the presidential fleet, Gulick said.  After supplying Air Force One aircraft since 1962, Boeing
“is in a pretty strong incumbent position including political
backing” for the next contest, Robert Stallard, a New York-based aerospace and defense analyst with  RBC Capital Markets ,
wrote in a Sept. 10 research note to clients.  Airbus parent  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD) 
doesn’t plan to duel with Boeing as it did over an earlier Air
Force contract for aerial refueling tankers.  “We do not anticipate bidding for Air Force One,”   Guy Hicks , a spokesman for EADS North America, said in an e-mail.
“Our strategic intent when we bid on our major programs is to
industrialize in the U.S. to support production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  