-- Brazil Aviation Minister Says He’s Pushing for Cheaper Jet Fuel
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   R a c h e l   G a m a r s k i
-- 2013-09-12T22:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/brazil-aviation-minister-says-he-s-pushing-for-cheaper-jet-fuel.html
Brazil ’s Civil Aviation Minister
Wellington Moreira Franco said he’s pushing the government to
exempt airlines from federal taxes on the purchase of jet fuel
as a weaker real increases operational costs.  Almost 60 percent of airline costs, such as fuel and
aircraft leasing, are dollar-based, according to the Brazilian
Association of Airline Companies. The real has weakened 9.8
percent this year as investors exit  emerging markets  in
anticipation of a U.S. Federal Reserve decision to curtail its
monetary stimulus.  Moreira Franco also is asking the government to allow
foreign companies to increase their share in local airlines to
more than 20 percent in a bid to boost investment in the
industry. President Dilma Rousseff will decide whether to back
the proposals in about 10 days, said the minister.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA may trim seating capacity
further in 2014 to stem losses amid rising costs for fuel and
stagnant travel demand, the Brazilian carrier’s chief executive
officer, Paulo Sergio Kakinoff, said in an interview in Sao
Paulo yesterday.  Gol fell 1.43 percent to 10.35 reais today. The real was
little changed at 2.2747 per U.S. dollar.  Airline companies need government assistance, especially as
the exchange rate increases costs,  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist
of SLW Corretora, said today.  “Allowing foreign capital would be very relevant,” he
said by phone from Sao Paulo. “We might see some improvement,
but Gol is still having a loss.”  As costs rise, Brazilian domestic demand for air travel is
leveling off. The number of domestic passengers, which almost
tripled from 2002 to 2012, is starting to stabilize at 100
million a year, according to the nation’s airline association.  Gol reduced its workforce by 13 percent in the first half
from a year earlier to trim expenses.  Fuel accounted for 41 percent of Gol’s second-quarter
operating expenses, the most among 16 carriers in the Americas
with at least 100 planes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Gamarski in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rgamarski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  