-- Brazil July Retail Sales Rise Ten Times Faster Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-12T14:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/brazil-s-july-retail-sales-rise-ten-times-faster-than-forecast.html
Brazil ’s July  retail sales  rose
almost 10 times faster than economists forecast, adding pressure
on the central bank to keep raising borrowing costs. Swap rates
jumped.  Sales rose 1.9 percent from the previous month, after
rising a revised 0.4 percent in June, the national statistics
agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The number was higher than
all but one forecast from 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median  estimate  was for a 0.2 percent increase. Retail
sales jumped 6 percent from the same month last year, above the
median  forecast  for a 3.1 percent rise.  Brazil’s central bank has undertaken the largest cycle of
interest rate increases among major economies in a bid to tame
above-target inflation, which hampered consumers in the first
half of the year. With price increases easing, shoppers are once
again opening their wallets, said Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega .  The retail data “prove consumption is recovering in the
country, and shows the fall in inflation is giving the consumer
more purchasing power,” Mantega told reporters today in
Brasilia. “Credit is also improving a little and that is
reflected in today’s retail sales, which were very good.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose seven basis points to 10.43
percent at 11:16 a.m. local time. The real weakened 0.3 percent
to 2.2820 per  U.S. dollar .  Cars, Construction  The broader retail index, which includes cars and
construction materials, rose 0.6 percent from the previous
month, the agency said today. That’s down from an increase of
0.9 percent last month.  Textiles, clothing and shoe sales rose 5.4 percent after a
2 percent fall in June, and furniture and home appliances rose
2.6 percent, up from 2.1 percent the previous month. Sales at
supermarkets and hypermarkets jumped 1.5 percent after
contracting 0.2 percent in June. In June, the government offered
subsidized credit for low-income families to buy furniture and
appliances.  “Today’s number was outside the trend, and I attribute it
to supermarket sales of non-food products, like appliances,
based on government incentives,” said Roberio Costa, chief
economist at Banco Rabobank International Brasil, whose forecast
was closest to the result. “It’s a credit that the government
is giving and it won’t necessarily remain.”  Monetary Policy  The retail sales surprise may complicate matters for
 monetary policy  makers. Economists are forecasting the benchmark
Selic rate will end the year at 9.75 percent, with the central
bank increasing the rate a total of 75 basis points in its
coming two meetings.  “If the July trend is confirmed, Brazil’s central bank is
in trouble,”  Pedro Tuesta , a Latin America economist at 4Cast.
Inc., said by phone from  Washington . “It would mean domestic
demand is still very strong and they have more trouble with
inflation than we were considering.”  The bank may tack on an additional 25 basis points in its
final meeting of 2013, Tuesta said.  Inflation in August slowed to 6.09 percent, the lowest
level of 2013. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points. Brazil’s economy
grew by 1.5 percent in the second quarter, led by investments,
surprising analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median estimate
was for a 0.9 percent increase.  Since the second-quarter surprise, economists surveyed by
the central bank have raised their 2013 GDP growth forecast to
2.35 percent from 2.2 percent on Aug. 23.  Demand Side  There are other signs of improvement on the demand side.
Consumer  confidence  in August rebounded from a four-year low the
prior month, according to the Fundacao Getulio Vargas. Consumer
credit delinquency rates fell 5.5 percent in August, according
to Serasa Experian, a consumer-credit rating firm. The consumer
 default  rate in July stayed at its lowest level in two years.  The MSCI index of Brazilian consumer-discretionary stocks,
which include Lojas Americanas,  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3)  and  Cia. Hering (HGTX3) ,
tumbled 18.1 percent this year. That compares with a 25 percent
surge in the last six months of 2012. The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  stock
exchange as a whole has lost 12.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  