-- British Columbia Planned LNG Wealth Fund to Focus on Debt
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-09-12T20:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/british-columbia-sovereign-wealth-fund-plans-to-wait-for-lng.html
British Columbia Finance Minister
Michael de Jong says plans for a wealth fund from liquefied
natural gas tax revenues in coming years will focus on debt
reduction.  The government’s objective is to “systemically and
statutorily prevent governments from raiding the cookie jar”
and devote proceeds first to debt reduction, de Jong said today
at the Bloomberg Canadian Bond Conference in New York.  British Columbia,  Canada ’s third-most-populous province, is
grappling with a slowing economy and rising debt relative to
gross domestic product. Premier Christy Clark said earlier this
year that tax revenue from LNG projects could be as high as
C$260 billion ($252 billion).  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BG Group (BG/)  have
proposed projects along Canada’s Pacific Coast to liquefy
natural gas produced from shale formations for shipment by
tanker to Asian markets, where buyers will pay almost five times
the North American price. Uncertainty for LNG prices threatens
some investment in the sector, de Jong said.  “The greatest measure of uncertainty that I sense from
agencies on the verge of making investments is the uncertainty
around pricing,” he said. The minister said four unnamed LNG
projects in the northern part of the province will be a
“renaissance” for the economy.  Gas Prices  Supplies of the power-station fuel for delivery over the
next four to eight weeks in Northeast Asia rose to $15.35 per
million British thermal units in the period ended Sept. 9, from
$15.25 the previous week, Energy Intelligence Group, a New York-based research company, said on the website of its World Gas
Intelligence publication. That compares with $3.638 per million
British thermal units for October delivery on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund, the world’s largest at $760
billion, would be more of a model for British Columbia than
Alberta’s Heritage Fund, which was set up by former Premier
Peter Lougheed in the 1970s to capture royalties from oil and
gas extraction and which has languished at about C$15 billion.  “We’ll be consulting with citizenry on the form that fund
takes,” de Jong said. “We don’t see funds flowing into it
until industry is up and ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in New York at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  