-- Brown Says He’ll Sign California Bill Regulating Fracking
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-09-12T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/brown-says-he-ll-sign-california-bill-regulating-fracking.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown 
said he’ll approve regulations for hydraulic fracturing
criticized by environmental groups as the state prepares for
development of the largest shale-oil reserves in the U.S.  The  third-largest  oil-producing state, under a bill
approved yesterday, would for the first time require permits to
inject millions of gallons of chemically treated water
underground to break up rock. Energy companies would also have
to disclose the ingredients in fracking fluid and notify nearby
landowners of their plans.  Technological advancements in fracking have ignited a boom
in development of wells once deemed uneconomical, particularly
shale oil. California’s Monterey Shale may hold 15.4 billion
barrels -- two-thirds of the nation’s shale-oil reserves,
according to federal estimates.  “There are still many unanswered questions,” the bill’s
author, Senator Fran Pavley, a Democrat from Agoura Hills, near
 Los Angeles , said yesterday. “It is in the interest of all
Californians to monitor and regulate these practices.”  Evan Westrup, a spokesman for the 75-year-old Democratic
governor, said Brown intends to sign the bill into law.  The measure “comprehensively addresses potential impacts
from fracking, including water and  air quality , seismic activity
and other potential risks,” Westrup said by e-mail yesterday.  Watered Down  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , California  League of
Conservation Voters , Clean Water Action and Environmental
Working Group, which backed earlier versions of the measure,
withdrew their support, saying the bill was too watered down.  “This bill will not protect Californians from the enormous
threats of fracking pollution,” Kassie Siegel, senior counsel
of the  Center for Biological Diversity ’s Climate Law Institute,
said yesterday “Fracking poses unacceptable risks to the air we
breathe, the water we drink and our climate.”  The measure would require a study of potential air and
water pollution and public health threats posed by fracking and
other “enhanced extraction” methods including the use of acid
to dissolve rock.  Lawmakers turned down proposals to suspend fracking until
more is known and to require detailed disclosure of the
chemicals used in fracking.  60 Years  Oil companies  have safely used fracking in California for
more than 60 years, according to the Western States Petroleum
Association, a Sacramento-based industry group.  “Most of the oil that we’re going after is a mile and a
half below the surface, even though the water table is only 500
feet,” Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, a Republican from Twin Peaks,
said yesterday. “All that really matters is that well casing
holds up, and in 60 years we haven’t had a single one fail.”  California’s 1,750-square-mile (4,530-square-kilometer)
Monterey Shale formation, threading lengthwise through the San
Joaquin Valley southeast of  San Francisco , in the center of the
state, may hold the largest deep-shale oil reserves in the
world, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  The 15.4 billion barrels would be enough to supply the U.S.
for more than two years, the agency has said.  Development  of the deposits could mean 512,000 to 2.8
million jobs by 2020, and add $4.5 billion to $24.6 billion to
state and local tax revenue in that period, according to a March
report by the  University of Southern California , in Los Angeles.
USC said the research, partially funded by Western States
Petroleum, was conducted by an independent team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  