-- California Bill Would Expand Solar, Add Monthly Power Fee
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-09-12T21:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/california-bill-would-expand-solar-add-monthly-power-fee.html
California lawmakers sent
legislation to Governor Jerry Brown that would give regulators
the ability to authorize a $10 monthly fee on power bills and
expand a program requiring utilities buy excess solar
electricity from customers.  The State Assembly today gave final approval to the  bill ,
which amends restrictions put in place during the 2000-2001
power crisis that limited the California Public Utilities
Commission’s ability to raise rates for certain customers. The
regulator would be able to approve fixed charges of no more than
$10 a month to customer bills starting in 2016.  It also calls on regulators to revise the net-metering
solar program, previously slated to end, under which utilities
credit back customers with rooftop panels for producing more
power than they use. The legislation would allow regulators to
remove a cap on the amount that can be credited. In addition,
the bill gives the commission the authority to require utilities
to buy more than 33 percent of their power from renewable
sources.  “This is very positive for the solar industry,”  Lyndon Rive , chief executive officer of rooftop panel company  SolarCity
Corp. (SCTY) , said in a phone interview. “It removes a net-metering
cap and that is a good thing.”  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,  Edison International (EIX)  and  Sempra Energy (SRE) , owners
of the state’s largest investor-owned utilities, supported the
bill. The Sierra Club has called the $10 fixed charge, which
can’t be offset by solar production, “excessive and
unnecessary.”  A spokesman for the governor declined to comment on whether
he would sign the measure.  “This bill allows state regulators to make the most
significant reforms to residential electric rates since the
energy crisis,” said Matt Freedman, staff attorney with the
Utility Reform Network, a consumer advocacy group that supports
the legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  