-- Canadian Natural Gas Under Pressure Through October, Simard Says
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-12T22:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/canadian-natural-gas-under-pressure-through-october-simard-says.html
Canadian  natural gas  prices will be
depressed through October while the crude market is vulnerable
to pipeline disruptions, the head of National Bank of  Canada ’s
commodities derivatives business said.  Canadian natural gas prices fell sharply in July after
pipeline company  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  raised short-term tolls on
its cross-country natural gas main line in an effort to get
shippers to sign up for long-term contracts. Simard said
producers have responded by putting more gas into storage rather
than shipping it.  “We are in for six more weeks of ugly pricing” before the
onset of the winter season at the end of October means buyers
will draw natural gas out of storage for home heating, Tim Simard said today at the Bloomberg Canadian fixed-income
conference in  New York . In the meantime, he said there’s “real
concern” that storage in Canada will run out, meaning further
price decreases.  Gas shipped from the  Alberta  AECO hub  traded  at $1.59 per
million British thermal units below the U.S. benchmark Henry Hub
price today compared with an average discount of 54 cents over
the past year. On Sept. 6, the discount reached $1.72 per MMBtu,
the widest since November 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Simard said swings in Canadian crude oil prices have
lessened since the price of Western Canadian Select heavy oil, a
benchmark grade for the country’s oil-sands production, reached
a record discount of $42 barrel below U.S. benchmark prices in
December.  ’Precarious Balance’  But he said that prices remain on a “precarious balance,”
and any disruptions to pipeline or rail transportation could
cause discounts to widen again. Any cuts in the available space
on the  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  Mainline would cause Western Canadian
Select price discount to U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil widen
to $35 a barrel, Simard said.  Calgary-based Enbridge’s  Mainline  is Canada’s largest oil
export pipeline system that sends as much as 2.5 million barrels
a day from Alberta to Chicago-area refineries and the U.S.
supply hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Western Canadian Select prices weakened by $1.25 to a $27-a-barrel discount to WTI today, according to Calgary oil broker
Net Energy Inc. It was the steepest discount for the grade since
March 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The grade
weakened as refinery maintenance this fall at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting,
Indiana, refinery and other plants is expected to decrease
demand for Canadian crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  