-- Canadian Economy and U.S Growth to Bolster Loonie, Panel Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-12T21:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/canadian-economy-and-u-s-growth-to-bolster-loonie-panel-says.html
The Canadian dollar, the sixth
worst performer against the U.S. dollar this year among major
currencies, is poised to rebound on North American growth amid
dwindling safe assets globally, according to panelists at the
Bloomberg Canadian Fixed Income Conference.  “In this uncertain world where you are looking for safer
assets, there are still significant assets to be put to work in
the Canadian dollar,” said  Stefane Marion , chief economist and
strategist with  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in  Montreal . Over the
longer term, “the fundamentals should support the Canadian
dollar.”  The currency has fallen 3.9 percent this year against its
U.S. counterpart, a drop that has accelerated since May 22 when
U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central
bank could begin tapering monthly asset purchases if the economy
showed continued growth. The quantitative-easing program is
thought by some to weaken the greenback.  The Federal Open Market Committee, which meets Sept. 17-18,
may decide to reduce monthly purchases of Treasuries to $35
billion from $45 billion, according to the median of 34
responses in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The Fed pulling back accommodation means “the Canadian
dollar is overvalued and the U.S. is poised to outperform,”
over the short term, said Joshua DeMasi, a global currency
strategist in  Boston  at Loomis Sayles & Co., which manages $188
billion.  Still, he said, in the longer term, “the U.S. will be the
tide that lifts the Canadian boat in investors’ minds.”  Stored ‘Value’  The Canadian dollar, known as the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell less than 0.1 percent to
C$1.0323 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0306, strongest since Aug. 16. One loonie buys 96.87 U.S.
cents.  The Bank of  Canada  forecasts third-quarter growth at 3.8
percent at an annual rate in its July monetary policy report.
Gross domestic product grew 1.7 percent in the second quarter.
Annual growth will rise to 2.3 percent in 2014 and 2.7 percent
the next year, according to economists in Bloomberg surveys.  The U.S. economy is forecast to gain 2.65 percent and 3
percent the next two years, compared with advances of 1 percent
and 1.4 percent for the euro zone and 1.55 percent and 1.3
percent for  Japan , according to separate surveys.  The Canadian dollar will be bolstered as investors consider
it a safe asset amid global turmoil, said Steven Hess, Moody’s
Investors Service senior vice-president and lead sovereign
analyst for the U.S. and Canada.  “Central banks are viewing the Canadian dollar as a store
of value,” Hess said. Canada maintains a top AAA credit rating
with Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  