-- Canada Dollar Falls 1st Time in 5 Days on U.S. Jobless Claims
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-12T21:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/canadian-dollar-gains-on-bets-central-bank-will-follow-kiwi-peer.html
Canada ’s dollar fell for the first
time in five days as U.S. jobless claims reached the lowest
level since 2006 last week, boosting bets the  Federal Reserve 
will slow asset purchases at its policy meeting next week.  The currency erased gains after earlier touching an almost
four-week high versus its U.S. peer as fewer Americans than
forecast filing for jobless benefits bolstered the case for the
U.S. central bank to scale back the quantitative-easing program
some consider negative for the  U.S. dollar . The Fed meets Sept.
17-18. The data followed a U.S. payrolls report last week that
showed slower-than-projected August job growth, while Canada
added positions at three times estimates.  “As the Fed starts to wind up its QE program, more
Canadian weakness should be expected against the U.S. dollar,”
said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank. “The economic recovery in Canada is still weak
and continues to lag the U.S, for the most part.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell less than 0.1 percent
to C$1.0323 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching
C$1.0306, strongest since Aug. 16. One loonie buys 96.87 U.S.
cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  were little
changed, yielding 2.78 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 traded at C$89.18.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, added 1.1
percent to $108.75 per barrel in New York and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 0.3 percent.  The loonie ended its longest winning streak since July
after first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  in the U.S.
 fell  by 31,000 to 292,000 in the week ended Sept. 7, which also
included the Labor Day holiday, according to Labor Department
data released today in Washington. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for 330,000 applications.  Loonie weakness is “a response to the U.S. data,” said
 Greg Anderson , New York-based head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal, adding today’s price action may
signal the Canadian dollar’s rally is over. “The Fed may see
past the weakness in the August report and taper anyway.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will decide to reduce
monthly purchases of Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion,
according to the median of 34 responses in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Policy makers will maintain mortgage-bond buying at
$40 billion, the survey shows.  ‘Slightly Hawkish’  The loonie strengthened earlier after the  Reserve Bank  of
New Zealand said interest-rate increases “will likely be
required next year” as the economy strengthens and inflation
picks up, spurring bets Canada will follow its commodity-exporting peer’s lead.  New Zealand’s dollar, or kiwi, advanced against all 31 of
its most-traded rivals, gaining 0.7 percent to 81.38 U.S. cents.  “The RBNZ was interesting yesterday because they certainly
shifted from a slightly hawkish bias to a fully hawkish bias,
suggesting they’ll hike rates next year,”  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from
Toronto. “The performance of the  New Zealand dollar  is
interesting in relation to Canada, as at some point the  Bank of
Canada  will likely make a similar shift.”  The loonie has fallen 0.6 percent in the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The only currencies to gain in that
period were the Australian dollar, the British pound and the
kiwi. The U.S. dollar fell 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  