-- Carney Takes Exception to Putin Denying U.S. Exceptional
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o e   S o b c z y k
-- 2013-09-12T20:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/carney-takes-exception-to-putin-denying-u-s-exceptional.html
President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman
took exception to Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s assertion
that the U.S. isn’t so special.  “Russia offers a stark contrast that demonstrates why
America is exceptional,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said today when asked for the administration’s reaction to
Putin’s opinion article in the  New York  Times.  The column under Putin’s name was published last night as
the U.S. and Russia were entering negotiations on a way to
defuse the confrontation with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Putin referred to a nationally televised speech on the issue
that Obama delivered Sept. 10.  Saying he “carefully studied” the address, Putin wrote
that “I would rather disagree with a case he made on American
exceptionalism, stating that the  United States ’ policy is ‘what
makes America different. It’s what makes us exceptional.’” The
Russian leader called that attitude “dangerous.”  Putin, whose government has restricted political opposition
and enacted a law banning the spread of so-called gay
propaganda, wrote that countries are different, “but when we
ask for the Lord’s blessings, we must not forget that God
created us equal.”  Carney said that “unlike Russia” the U.S. stands up for
democratic values and human rights around the world. “There’s a
great irony,” he said, in Putin’s placement of the essay in a
U.S. newspaper “because it reflects the truly exceptional
tradition in this country of freedom of expression.”  Boehner ‘Insulted’  Putin’s article has drawn strong reactions in Washington.
New Jersey Democratic Senator  Robert Menendez , chairman of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on MSNBC that the
Russian leader’s observations on U.S. exceptionalism “turned my
stomach.” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said
at a news conference that he was “insulted” by Putin’s words.  The notion of American exceptionalism -- the idea that the
U.S. plays a unique and elevated role internationally because of
the freedoms at its foundation -- was a theme that ran through
the 2012 presidential election.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  questioned
whether Obama viewed the U.S. as exceptional. Obama, in an April
2012 joint news conference with the president of Mexico and the
Canadian prime minister, defended his views.  “It’s worth noting that I first arrived on the national
stage with a speech at the Democratic convention that was
entirely about American exceptionalism, and that my entire
career has been a testimony to American exceptionalism,” Obama
said.  Carney used the term “exceptional” three times during his
daily briefing today in comparing the U.S. with Russia.  “Unlike Russia,” Carney said, “the United States stands
up for democratic values and human rights in our own country and
around the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  