-- McConnell Eschews Senate Dealmaker Role in Campaign Bid
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-09-12T15:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/mcconnell-eschews-senate-deal-maker-role-in-campaign-bid.html
Mitch McConnell  cut deals with the
White House to head off steep tax increases for 2013 and to keep
the U.S. from defaulting on its debt in 2011.  Don’t look for the  Kentucky  Republican to play the same
role this year, though the fiscal fights ahead in Congress are
just as fierce. And that may make it tougher to avert a
budgetary crack-up in coming weeks and months.  The Senate’s top Republican is showing signs of abandoning
the deal-maker role he’s played with President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, as he faces a Tea-Party-backed primary
challenger and a Democratic general-election opponent with
national support. He can’t afford to look cozy with Obama.  “McConnell will likely not be front and center during the
budget negotiations but rather leave it to other Republican
senators to do it,” said Republican strategist Ron Bonjean.  McConnell’s efforts to ensure his political survival are a
pivotal part of Republican efforts to gain control of the
Senate. Republicans need a net gain of at least five seats to
win the majority in the 100-member chamber, and a loss in
Republican-leaning Kentucky would make that goal tougher to
reach.  Electoral pressures help explain why McConnell was the only
one of the top four leaders in Congress to oppose Obama’s call
for military action to punish Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
alleged use of chemical weapons against civilians.  Opposing Obama  McConnell, 71, lately has been opposed Obama’s nominees to
executive posts and has been one of the loudest critics of the
 Internal Revenue Service  for giving extra scrutiny to groups
aligned with the  Tea Party  when they applied for tax-exempt
status. The senator said his first move if he were to become
majority leader would be to repeal Obama’s 2010 health-care law.  He had strong words for Obama Sept. 10, saying he was
“dumbfounded at the ham-handed manner” in which the White
house announced its plans for a military strike in  Syria .  “There is absolutely no reason to signal to the enemy when
and how, and for how long, you plan to strike them — none,”
McConnell, who voted for the October 2002 resolution authorizing
the use of force in  Iraq , said on the Senate floor. “You don’t
send out a save-the-date card to the enemy.”  McConnell said he would oppose the use-of-force resolution
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee passed last week because
“a vital national security risk is clearly not at play,”
adding that “there are just too many unanswered questions about
our long-term strategy in Syria.” The Senate has since delayed
action on Syria amid signs of a diplomatic breakthrough.  Seen ‘Nowhere’  So far, McConnell has been circumspect about backing a
specific budget or spending plan this year, topics that will be
joined when Congress starts the debt ceiling debate.  “As we move towards the upcoming debates over fiscal and
tax policy, Senator McConnell, who in the past has proved
constructive, is going to be nowhere to be seen,” said  Jim Manley , a former aide to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Democrat. A hands-off approach wouldn’t “bode well for trying
to get work done in the Senate in the fall,” Manley added.  This shift is part of McConnell’s campaign strategy in
Kentucky: framing the race as a referendum on Obama, with the
senator cast as the president’s chief congressional adversary.  “If the election is about whether you like Mitch McConnell
and if you think he’s been in  Washington  too long, Mitch
McConnell is going to lose,” said  Nathan Gonzales , political
editor for the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in
Washington.  Leadership Role  McConnell’s recent posture on legislation has been
influenced by his efforts “to pick which of those frames this
election will be played out in,” Gonzales said.  McConnell didn’t respond to repeated requests for an
interview. His camp disputed that the Kentucky senator’s re-election effort was influencing his leadership role.  “Politics are never a factor when Senator McConnell makes
leadership decisions in Washington,” said campaign manager
Jesse Benton. “He listens to all sides of an argument.”  McConnell is among the Republican incumbents who could
become casualties of an intra-party squabble as he seeks a sixth
term. A group founded by former South Carolina Republican
Senator  Jim DeMint  announced Sept. 5 that it would spend
$340,000 on television ads urging McConnell to find “the
courage to lead” and demand that funding for the 2010 health-care law be cut off.  McConnell will face Louisville investor Matt Bevin in the
state’s May 20 primary.  Daschle’s Defeat  For Democrats, McConnell is next year’s high-profile Senate
target. The party has been eager to avenge Senate Democratic
Leader Tom Daschle’s 2004 defeat to  John Thune , who is now the
chamber’s third-ranking Republican leader.  Missouri Senator  Claire McCaskill  and Montana Senator Jon Tester are among Democrats representing Republican-leaning
states who e-mailed supporters urging them to help Secretary of
State Alison Grimes, the Democrat seeking McConnell’s seat.  McConnell went on offense during an Aug. 30 Louisville
rally, accusing Democrats of casting him and other Republican
lawmakers as anti-women.  “What you’re going to see by my opponent obviously is the
Barack Obama playbook, to try to divide people with gender-based
attacks,” he said, flanked by female supporters from across the
state.  ‘Empty Dress’  Democrats and Bevin have tried to link McConnell to
National Republican Senatorial Committee spokesman  Brad Dayspring ’s comment, made to The Hill newspaper, dismissing
Grimes as an “empty dress” who “babbles incoherently” on
issues.  Democrats cite McConnell’s opposition to military action in
Syria and a July showdown over Obama’s nominees -- in which
 Arizona  Republican  John McCain  acted as the chief negotiator
with Democrats -- as evidence that McConnell isn’t eager to make
deals with the other party.  Without congressional action, funding for federal
government operations will run out Oct. 1. House Republican
leaders are trying to find the votes to pass a stopgap measure
to fund the government through mid-December in the new fiscal
year by tying the measure to another proposal defunding the
health-care law.  While he’s been a vocal critic of the  Affordable Care Act 
and an advocate of curbing federal spending, McConnell has
stopped short of linking votes on the two issues.  His campaign released a radio ad this week touting the
minority leader as “the No. 1 opponent of Obamacare from the
start” and accusing Grimes of being “President Obama’s
Kentucky spokesperson for Obamacare.”  Health-Care Law  Among a team of female supporters that McConnell has
assembled is former Republican Representative Anne Northup, who
said to cheers from McConnell backers at an Aug. 20 rally in
Louisville: “Aren’t we proud that he has been the leader to say
Obamacare will not work?”  “From the first day he understood it was a problem, he
knew it was wrong and he spoke up,” she said.  McConnell also has been a reliable opponent of Obama’s
nominees for executive-branch positions. In July alone, he voted
against choices to head the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau; the Labor Department; the Environmental Protection
Agency; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
the Export-Import Bank and the  National Labor Relations Board .  ‘Big Bullseye’  His involvement in future legislative battles probably
“will all be going on behind the scenes, deep in the corridors
of the Capitol building, far from the cameras,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist at  Claremont McKenna College  in
Claremont,  California . “He knows he’s walking around with a big
bullseye on his back.”  McCain said his role in negotiating the nominations
compromise had been exaggerated and he was in close contact with
McConnell, talking with him as many as 10 times a day.  “When someone is facing the challenges that he is -- in
both the primary and the general election -- it’s a very
difficult challenge, but I think he’s handling his leadership
responsibilities extremely well,” McCain said in an interview
late last month. “You never want to underestimate him.”  With more than eight months before the primary and more
than a year until the general election, McConnell will continue
“getting hit on all sides,” Gonzales said. “McConnell is
fighting a two-front war -- that can be difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  