-- CFR Jumps in Chile on Deal to Buy Adcock for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-12T18:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/cfr-jumps-in-chile-on-deal-to-buy-adcock-for-1-3-billion.html
CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) ,  Chile ’s
largest drug maker, rose to a two-year high after agreeing to
terms for its deal to buy  South Africa ’s  Adcock Ingram Holdings
Ltd (AIP)  for $1.3 billion.  CFR increased 3.4 percent to 131 pesos at 3:17 p.m. in
Santiago, the highest since July 2011 on an intraday basis.
Trading volume was about seven times the full-day average of the
past three months. The IPSA benchmark index retreated 1.9
percent.  CFR reached an accord with Adcock’s board to pay 51 percent
to 64 percent of the $1.3 billion offer in cash, with the
balance in shares from a capital increase, according to a
statement yesterday. Several Adcock holders had said they
opposed the takeover, first announced in July, as they didn’t
want to receive CFR shares. The Public Investment Corp., which
oversees pensions for South African government workers and is
Adcock’s largest investor, said it wanted the offer to be at
least 50 percent cash.  “The deal with Adcock’s board brings CFR closer to a
binding offer,” BTG Pactual analysts JC Santos and Pedro Montenegro wrote in an e-mailed note today. “Though the deal
involves high execution risks, we think the potential synergies
make it compelling for CFR shareholders.”  CFR said combining the companies would produce annual cost
savings of at least $440 million. BTG Pactual reiterated a buy
rating and set a price target for the end of 2014 of 160 pesos.  Adcock will generate as much as 40 percent of the group’s
combined revenue, according to yesterday’s statement. Adcock
will be delisted from the Johannesburg exchange and CFR plans a
secondary listing on the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  