-- Chile Likely to Keep Key Rate on Hold as Consumers Boost Economy
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-12T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/chile-likely-to-keep-key-rate-on-hold-as-consumers-boost-economy.html
Chile ’s central bank board probably
will keep its  key interest rate  unchanged for the 20th straight
meeting today after consumer spending helped reverse a slowdown
in economic growth.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will
hold the benchmark rate at 5 percent, according to 15 of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other four predict a
quarter-point reduction after the central bank trimmed its gross
domestic product growth forecast for this year. The decision is
slated to be published after 6:00 p.m. local time.  Retail sales beat estimates in July, fueling the fastest
economic growth in six months, according to central bank data.
Signs the world’s biggest copper producer is rebounding after
two straight quarters of slower growth led traders to pare bets
Chile will follow  Mexico ’s lead and cut interest rates to stave
off a deceleration.  “The scenario the central bank is waiting for to cut rates
hasn’t happened,” Nathan Pincheira, senior economist at
Banchile Inversiones in Santiago, said in a phone interview.
“In fact, we have seen a re-acceleration.”  One-year swap rates have increased 16 basis points, or 0.16
percentage point, to 4.72 percent in the past 30 days as traders
scrap bets the central bank will cut interest rates by a half-point this year. Traders are now forecasting a quarter-point cut
by December.  In  Peru , the world’s third biggest exporter of copper,
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg also forecast the central bank
will keep interest rates unchanged today at 4.25 percent.  Below Target  Chile’s central bank has the highest benchmark  interest
rate  among major Latin American economies after  Brazil , which
has increased borrowing costs in its past four meetings to slow
inflation that twice this year breached the upper limit of its
target range. Chile’s 2.2 percent inflation rate in August was
the lowest amid major economies in the region and shy of the
central bank’s 3 percent target.  GDP growth eased to 4.5 percent in the first quarter and
4.1 percent in the second after climbing 5.6 percent in 2012
from the previous year. The economy as measured by the central
bank’s Imacec index, which is a proxy for GDP, climbed 5.3
percent in July, the fastest expansion since January.  Retail sales in July surged 10.3 percent, beating the 9.2
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.
Manufacturing expanded 4.7 percent following two straight months
of declines, and unemployment in the three months through July
fell to 5.7 percent from 6.5 percent a year before.  Higher demand didn’t prevent policy makers last week from
reducing their 2013 growth estimate to a range of 4 percent to
4.5 percent from 4 percent to 5 percent. They raised domestic
consumption forecasts to 5.6 percent from 5 percent while
cutting the global growth outlook.  “ Consumer spending  is not easing because the labor market
is still tight and there are expectations this momentum will
continue,” said Alejandro Alarcon, an economist at the
University of Chile in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  