-- China’s Commodity Demand Seen by Goldman Rising Rest of Year
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-09-12T11:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/china-s-commodity-use-to-rebound-on-infrastructure-goldman-says.html
Commodity demand in  China , the
world’s largest user of  iron ore , copper and tin, will rebound
through the end of the year as infrastructure projects gather
pace and users restock, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The key demand driver is infrastructure and fixed-asset
investment, analyst Julian Zhu told reporters at a briefing in
 Singapore  today. Steel prices in the world’s largest producer
were seen higher through the end of December, Zhu said.  Goldman’s assessment adds to signs that a slowdown in the
second-largest economy may be ending, lifting the outlook for
commodities from iron ore to base metals. While Premier  Li
Keqiang  said yesterday that the foundations of a recovery aren’t
solid, policy makers have signaled that they will defend a 7.5
percent expansion goal for 2013. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
today raised its growth forecast for China.  “From now till the end of this year, we anticipate China
demand for commodities to continue to recover,” Zhu said. “The
current commodities inventory in China is still quite low and
with the further demand rebound, we should see the ongoing
restocking to continue as well.”  Commodities as tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 raw materials are little changed this year, after
advancing in July and August. Iron ore with 62 percent content
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin rose 0.1 percent to
$135.20 a ton today, up from this  year’s low  of $110.40 in May,
according to figures from The Steel Index Ltd.  Higher Forecast  Data this month showed industrial production beat estimates
and manufacturing resumed growth, signaling that the economy is
strengthening after a two-quarter slowdown. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch said China will grow 7.7 percent in 2013, up from
7.6 percent previously forecast, according to a report.  “People are getting more positive, but they’re not super
bullish, not yet,” said Zhu “You’re going to see further
upside. If you look at the early indicators in September, it
seems like the overall economic activity is picking up.”  China’s GDP growth slowed to 7.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, extending the longest streak of
sub-8 percent expansion in at least two decades. Li signaled in
July he won’t tolerate a slowdown beyond 7 percent.  The government used measures from extra spending on
railways to tax cuts to respond to the slowdown. The State
Council is targeting 690 billion  yuan  ($113 billion) of fixed-asset investment in the railway industry this year, the Beijing
News reported in July.  Steel reinforcement-bar futures ended at 3,713 yuan a
metric ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange today, after
advancing in August for a third month, the best run of gains
since January 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  