-- China Statistics Chief Says No Tolerance for Fake Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T10:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/china-statistics-chief-says-no-tolerance-for-fake-data.html
China ’s statistics-bureau chief
said the agency has “zero tolerance” for falsified data after
it publicized cases of manipulated local numbers and the customs
bureau cracked down on fraudulent export invoices.  Incidents exposed by the agency are isolated and won’t
affect the broader quality of data,  Ma Jiantang , head of the
National Bureau of Statistics, said today in Beijing at an
“open day” attended by officials, journalists and school
students.  China’s government has struggled to win the trust of
investors and economists for data ranging from  gross domestic
product  to trade.  Li Keqiang , who became premier this year, said
in 2007 that GDP figures were “man-made” and “for reference
only,” according to a WikiLeaks cable.  Ma said that his agency has gained better control over the
numbers through a direct reporting system that limits local
officials’ ability to manipulate the numbers.  “Previously, for monthly data, industrial firms reported
to the town, and then to the county, and then to the province,
and then to us -- making it hard for us to spot any errors or
even fraud,” Ma said. “But with the direct reporting system,
raw data from enterprises will directly go to the National
Bureau of Statistics, and it’s fair to say that we can now see
any abnormal situations in data.”  Ma was referring to a system implemented from 2012, which
allows 800,000 enterprises to submit numbers directly to Beijing
instead of to local authorities.  Falsified Data  Still, problems persist. The  statistics bureau  found
inflated data on industrial output in Henglan town in southern
 Guangdong province , according to a June 14 report by the state-run Xinhua News Agency. A county in the southwestern province of
Yunnan falsified industrial output and fixed-asset investment
figures, according to a China Information News report posted on
the bureau’s website Sept. 5.  In June, Ma said that China would start an investigation to
ensure the accuracy of numbers filed by companies and said that
violations could be “severely punished.” At today’s
“statistics for you” event, dozens of visitors saw exhibits
including an abacus, old calculators and a model of a rural
cottage said to have housed the Communist Party’s first
statistics unit in 1933.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  