-- Cisco’s Own Chip Lifts EZchip Volumes: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-09-12T22:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/cisco-s-own-chip-lifts-ezchip-volumes-israel-overnight.html
Trading volumes on  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) ,  Israel ’s second-largest chipmaker, jumped to
more than 40 times its 90-day average after  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
became the fourth customer to announce development of in-house
processors.  The Yokneam, Israel-based chipmaker sank 21 percent to
$24.52 yesterday in  New York , with trading volumes 42 times the
daily average volume over the past three months. EZchip led
declines in the Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most
traded Israeli shares in New York.  Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX) 
dropped the most in two years after announcing it will raise $60
million through a private placement of convertible notes.
SodaStream International Ltd. rose 4.1 percent.  Cisco, EZchip’s biggest customer with 40 percent of
revenue, said yesterday that it developed its own nPower
integrated network processor, reducing their need for the
Israeli company’s technology. The shift follows Huawei
Technologies Co.’s decision to produce its own chip as well as
Juniper Network Inc. and Alcatel-Lucent SA’s switch.  “Four of the eight major router companies are looking to
build chips in-house and the market for EZchip will eventually
shrink,”  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets
LLC, said by phone from New York yesterday. “The platform for
Cisco’s next-generation solutions incorporate EZchip’s products.
It could affect products down the line.”  EZchip fell 21 percent on Feb. 13 when another customer,
Shenzhen, China-based Huawei, announced it was developing its
own processors.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  switched to their own chip
in 2009.  Sales Growth  “We still see over 30 percent growth in the top-line in
2013,” said Jeffrey A Schreiner, analyst at Feltl & Co. The
market’s reaction to the news is “exaggerated,” he said.  Sales will rise 29 percent in 2013, according to the
average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income will surge 35 percent, the data showed. Schreiner
recommends buying EZchip and has a share-price estimate of $39,
implying a 59 percent jump over the next 12 months.  “Near-term, there is very little risk to EZchip’s
numbers,” said Srivatsa, who recommends investors buy the stock
and predicts a 31 percent price gain. Cisco’s current product
line, which uses EZchip’s products, will run for “at least the
next eight to twelve months, if not longer,” he said.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  advanced to a two-month high,
with trading volume exceeding the 90-day average by 40 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
debuted a fifteen second commercial featuring SodaStream’s
product at a Goldman Sachs Group conference, Jim Chartier, an
analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. in New York, said by phone
yesterday.  Protalix, a drug developer based in Carmiel, Israel, sank
15 percent, the biggest plunge since February 2011. The company
announced a $60 million offering of convertible notes due 2018
in a private placement on Sept. 11.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. rose 1 percent to a
three-week high of $38.88. The Petach Tikva, Israel-based drug
maker disclosed a new partnership with Baltimore-based  Champions
Oncology Inc. (CSBR)  after U.S. markets closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  