-- Citigroup Hires Morgan Stanley’s Gelblum for Tech Stock Research
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/citigroup-hires-morgan-stanley-s-gelblum-for-tech-stock-research.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, hired Ehud Gelblum from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as a
managing director to cover makers of computer-networking and
phone equipment.  Gelblum, 44, will join Citigroup on Oct. 29, Sophia Stewart, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Gelblum, who left Morgan Stanley in July, had followed
firms including smartphone maker BlackBerry Ltd., Aruba Networks
Inc. and Juniper Networks Inc. He has been named a top-ranked
analyst 10 times by Institutional Investor magazine, according
to his  profile  on LinkedIn Corp.’s website.  Rising stock markets have lured investors back into
equities, leading to a renewed focus on stock-picking. Revenue
at Citigroup’s stock-trading business, run from  London  by Derek Bandeen, increased 68 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier to $942 million. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed 18 percent this year after rising 13 percent in 2012.  Gelblum joined Morgan Stanley in 2009 from New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , where he had worked since 2002, according
to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records. He
previously worked for Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. and
Merrill Lynch & Co., the records show.  He has a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Pennsylvania and a doctorate from Columbia University, both in
electrical engineering, according to his LinkedIn profile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  