-- Clarus Proposes Alternative to Swaps Rate Regulators Are Probing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-09-12T17:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/clarus-proposes-alternative-to-swaps-rate-regulators-are-probing.html
Software services company Clarus
Financial Technology has proposed an alternative to a benchmark
measure of  interest-rate swaps  that’s based on trades submitted
to a derivatives repository.  The so-called SDRfix measure is based on cleared interest-rate swaps denominated in U.S. dollars and euros, Clarus said in
a  statement  yesterday. The benchmark ISDAfix rate is under
investigation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the U.K.-based Financial Conduct Authority for possible
manipulation, FCA head Martin Wheatley said earlier this week.  “In our benchmark design and construction work, we have
considered how to make the index as transparent and free of
conflicts as possible,” Amir Khwaja, chief executive officer of
London-based Clarus, said in the statement. “We have also
benchmarked how SDRfix performs over a period of time against a
comparable index such as ISDAfix.”  CFTC investigators have uncovered evidence that banks
reaped millions of dollars in trading profits at the expense of
companies and pension funds by manipulating ISDAfix, a person
with knowledge of the matter, said in August.  Recorded telephone calls and e-mails reviewed by the CFTC
show that traders at Wall Street banks instructed  ICAP Plc (IAP) 
brokers in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , to buy or sell as many
interest-rate swaps as necessary to move ISDAfix to a
predetermined level, the person said.  Trading Profits  By rigging the measure, the banks stood to profit on
separate derivatives trades they had with clients who were
seeking to hedge against moves in  interest rates . Banks sought
to change the value of the swaps because the ISDAfix rate sets
prices for the other derivatives, which are used by firms such
as Pacific Investment Management Co., said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the details aren’t public.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act mandated that all swap transactions
be reported to data repositories to provide regulators with a
view into the market and to keep track of risks. The SDRfix rate
is derived from cleared trades submitted to the data repository
owned by the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. and is
calculated each day, Clarus said in the statement.  ISDAfix is determined by a panel of banks daily based on
their submissions of the midpoint of their rate swap trades. The
measure is used to price options trades on swaps and
transactions in the $379 trillion rate swap market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 