-- Close Calls in U.S. More Than Doubled Last Year, FAA Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-09-12T21:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/close-calls-in-u-s-more-than-doubled-last-year-faa-says.html
Documented close calls between
aircraft in U.S. skies shot upward last year as the government
switched on more automatic monitors to track the incidents, a
new report says.  Cases in which aircraft came closer together than U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration rules allow rose to 4,394 in the
year ending Sept. 30, 2012, from 1,895 the previous year,
according to agency data released today.  The increase indicates there have been many more close
calls in U.S. aviation than the FAA knew about when it largely
relied on humans to report errors. Through better reporting, the
agency can identify hazards more precisely and improve safety,
according to the report.  “Collaboration is now the rule, not the exception,” David Grizzle, chief operating officer of the FAA’s Air Traffic
Organization, said in the report. “We’ve gone from counting
errors to identifying and mitigating safety risk.”  The most high-risk incidents, those that came closest to an
accident such as a mid-air collision, declined as a percentage
of total incidents. This shows that risks in the system have
declined, according to a presentation today by Joseph Teixeira,
vice president of the air traffic unit.  The results continue a trend of increasing air-traffic
controller errors logged by the FAA since 2009, when the agency
began a series of initiatives to discourage cover-ups and
identify cases that weren’t being noticed.  Controller Errors  In fiscal 2009, there were 1,234 errors connected to
controllers who allowed planes to get too close. Near airports,
planes usually must be separated by 3.5 miles (5.6 kilometers)
or 1,000 feet (305 meters) of altitude.  The FAA has attributed the increase to an initiative that
encourages controllers to report errors without fear of
punishment. The agency also stopped basing air-traffic managers’
raises in part on the number of controller errors reported at a
facility.  Airlines have used similar safety-improvement measures by
studying incidents that wouldn’t have come to light without
reports by pilots and mechanics.  “We are proud of the collaborative efforts we have
undertaken with the FAA to reduce safety incidents and increase
reporting opportunities for controllers and FAA employees,”
 Doug Church , a spokesman for the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association, the union representing more than 15,000
controllers, said in an e-mail statement.  New Technology  At the same time, new technology at radar facilities
monitoring air traffic near large airports has for the first
time begun automatically identifying near-misses.  Close calls on runways also were up last year, according to
the report. Incidents that came closest to a collision between
two planes, or a plane and ground equipment, totaled 18 last
year, more than twice the seven that occurred in 2011.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office and the
Transportation Department’s  inspector general  have each found
evidence that at least some of the increase in near-misses was
due to factors other than more complete reporting.  Errors at centers guiding high-altitude flights rose 39
percent from 2009 to 2010, an inspector general report found.
Those centers had the same computerized error-monitoring systems
during that time frame, so the increase was due to factors other
than how incidents were reported, the inspector general said.  Questions Remain  The data released today doesn’t clarify whether there are
more air-safety incidents or just better reporting of what was
previously occurring.  In addition to switching on automatic reporting at all FAA
air-traffic facilities, the agency changed some of its
definitions for counting incidents, making it difficult to
compare against data from previous years.  Instead of ranking the risk of all incidents, the FAA last
year identified 41 instances it called “high risk,” according
to the report. That category didn’t exist in previous years.  The data doesn’t include any mid-air collisions or other
accidents, only incidents.  The FAA is focusing on five safety hazards it identified
from examining the incidents, according to the report. They
include how controllers turn planes onto final approaches at
airports using multiple runways, and miscommunications between
controllers and pilots on altitude assignments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  