-- Codere Seen Triggering Swaps on Coupon Miss: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-09-13T17:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/codere-seen-triggering-swaps-on-coupon-miss-corporate-finance.html
Codere SA’s decision to delay
payment of a bond coupon until two days after the money is due
may trigger payouts on credit-default swaps insuring $444
million of the Spanish gaming company’s debt.  “I personally think they’ll trigger the CDS,” said Stan Manoukian, founder of Independent Credit Research, which
supplies analysis to distressed debt investors. “It was their
intention to let people make money on the CDS and keep the
company afloat.”  Codere  said today  that it paid a penalty to change the
terms of a 99 million-euro ($132 million) loan from private-equity firms Canyon Partners LLC and Blackstone Group LP’s GSO
Capital Partners requiring the facility to be repaid should the
coupon be paid. It will now miss a payment on its $300 million
of 9.25 percent bonds due Sept. 15 and pay the money two days
later, according to the statement.  That delay will enable buyers of credit-default swap
protection to seek a ruling from the International Swaps &
Derivatives Association that there’s been a failure-to-pay
credit event and that the contracts should be settled. That may
simplify a restructuring of Codere because the company could
then work with the remaining creditors to repair the business,
according to Manoukian.  ‘Cash Out’  “Non payment of the coupon would trigger the CDS and allow
some funds involved in the restructuring to cash out,” said
Manoukian.  Some of Codere’s senior lenders agreed to increase the loan
from Canyon and GSO Capital by 35 million euros, according to
the statement. The facility matures on Jan. 5 and can be drawn
down as many as three times between Sept. 17 and Dec. 5. The
commitment fee is 3.25 percent per year on the undrawn borrowing
and the company has to pay the greater of 7 percent over
benchmark rates or 8 percent a year for any money taken,
according to the statement.  Investor confidence in the company deteriorated as it
negotiated with lenders, with its 8.25 percent notes due June
2015 falling to 51 cents on the euro from 80 cents in May,
according to Bloomberg data. The 9.25 percent bonds on which the
interest payment is coming due were quoted at 51 cents compared
with 73 cents in May.  Terms Amended  The majority of holders of Codere’s 8.25 percent bonds
agreed to amend the terms to allow the loan to be increased,
according to the company. Investors in both Codere’s dollar- and
euro-denominated notes agree they won’t force repayment when the
coupon is paid late.  A total of 3,192 swaps contracts insuring Codere’s debt
were outstanding as of Sept. 6, according to the  Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp . There were 24 trades covering $60 million
of the company’s obligations last week.  Five-year contracts signaled a 97 percent chance of the
company defaulting during that period and cost 5.2 million euros
in advance and 500,000 euros annually to insure 10 million euros
of Codere’s debt.  “It’s conceivable that many investors in Codere would like
to see the CDS triggered.” Giovanbattista Caracciolo, a bond
trader specializing in distressed debt at  AdviCorp Plc , an
independent investment bank based in London and Rome, said
before the company’s statement.  Bonds Outstanding  Codere has about 1 billion euros of bonds outstanding and
had 109 million euros of cash at the end of June, according to
an Aug. 30 earnings statement. Bondholders seeking to take
control of the company for 95 percent of its shares, would
forgive 350 million euros of its debt, a person familiar told
Bloomberg News last month.  The company posted  losses  for six straight quarters, hurt
by a smoking ban in Argentina and strict gambling laws in
Mexico. An event of default won’t damage the company’s betting
licences, Chief Financial Officer Angel Corzo Uceda said in an
earnings call with investors on Aug. 30.  Codere is 51 percent-owned by  Masampe Holding BV (CDR) , a company
controlled by members of the founding Martinez Sampedro family,
according to a statement on its website citing December 2012
data. The remainder of the shares are listed on the Madrid stock
exchange and owned by the Martinez Sampedro family, board
members and management. The stock closed at 1.18 euros in
Madrid, down from 4.2 euros in February.  Default Rating  Codere’s bonds are the highest-yielding among western
European companies that haven’t restructured or filed for
bankruptcy and the company’s debt is the second-most expensive
to insure in the world after Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
Bloomberg data show.  Codere’s probability of default rating was downgraded to Ca
by Moody’s, defined as “in or very near default”, when the
company deferred paying a June 15 coupon on its 8.25 percent
notes maturing in June 2015. The New York-based ratings company
affirmed the company’s credit grade at Caa3, nine levels below
investment grade.  “It looks like the company is headed for a default event,
and then credit-default swaps will probably be triggered,” said
Ivan Palacios, an analyst at Moody’s in Madrid, said before the
company released its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  