-- Colonial Offers Discount Rates on Main Product Pipelines
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-09-12T18:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/colonial-offers-discount-rates-on-main-product-pipelines.html
Colonial Pipeline Co. is offering
discounts to shippers willing to make a commitment of as much as
10 years on its main lines carrying refined product from Houston
to  North Carolina .  Open season, a time when a company accepts bids for future
space on a line, began today and is expected to last until Oct.
28 for Lines 1 and 2, the company said today in a shipping
bulletin. The company will also consider open-ended contracts
beyond that, said  Steve Baker , a company spokesman.  Colonial is offering the discount as an incentive to secure
longer-term certainty and improve allocations along the two
lines. A company allocates shipments when demand exceeds a
line’s capacity.  “This is an opportunity to commit volumes, improve
allocation and get a discount for the term of the contract,”
Baker, who is based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , said by phone.
“Today, they’re paying the rate that everybody pays.”  Terms of the discount and ways to improve allocation will
be discussed with shippers over the next 45 days, Baker said.  “We’ve been on allocation for a number of years now so
this is a way to improve that for committed shippers,” he said.  Line 1, the company’s main gasoline line, has a capacity of
about 1.5 million barrels a day. Line 2 can move more than 1
million barrels of distillate a day. Both originate in Houston
and carry product to Greensboro in North Carolina.  The Colonial system includes 5,500 miles of pipelines
originating in Houston and ending in Linden,  New Jersey , on the
 New York  harbor. The company says it transports approximately
100 million gallons of fuels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  