-- Comex Suspended Gold Trading for 20 Seconds After Price Slump
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-09-12T15:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/comex-suspended-gold-trading-for-20-seconds-after-price-slump.html
CME Group Inc.’s Comex halted
trading in December gold futures for about 20 seconds today at
2:54 a.m.  New York  time after prices declined, said Damon Leavell, a spokesman for the exchange.  The December contract fell almost $12 within two minutes
before trading was suspended, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The so-called Stop Logic halt, engineered by the exchange, is
designed to prevent excessive price movements, Leavell said,
while declining to comment on the size of the trade that led to
the halt.  “The stop-logic functionality happens across all markets
at different times, and can even happen several times in a
day,” Leavell said by telephone from New York.  Gold prices dropped 19 percent this year through yesterday
as equities rallied and amid concern that the  Federal Reserve 
will slow the pace of its stimulus program, eroding demand for
the metal as a hedge against inflation. A Bloomberg survey on
Sept. 6 showed that the Fed will probably reduce its monthly
bond purchases by $10 billion at its meeting next week. Bullion
climbed 6.3 percent in August amid concern that the U.S. would
launch a military attack on  Syria .  “Gold is playing chicken with the Fed,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Archer Financial
Services Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Investors are reassessing the premium on gold as the worries
about war are drifting away and the world economy is showing
signs of improvement.”  The so-called Stop Logic creates a momentary halt in the
market, giving the trading community the opportunity to provide
additional liquidity so proper prices can be re-established and
the market can regain its equilibrium, CME said in a statement
in May.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  