-- Consumer Comfort Steadies After Four-Week Fall: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-09-12T21:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-stabilizes-after-falling-for-four-weeks.html
Confidence among American consumers
stabilized last week after four straight declines even as their
views of the economy deteriorated.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 32.1 in
the week ended Sept. 8 from minus 32.3. The drop was within the
survey’s margin of error of 3 percentage points. A measure of
households’ assessment of the economy fell to the lowest level
since mid-May.  The smallest back-to-back payroll gains in a year and
rising mortgage interest rates are weighing on consumers’ moods.
The restrained pace of hiring makes it harder to spur growth in
the second half of 2013, at the same time that gains in stock
and home prices help mend household balance sheets.  “ Consumer confidence  is going to be in a holding pattern
for some time,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist for Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “On the
economy, it’s just more of the same. We’re not seeing a whole
lot of wage increases.”  Another report today showed  jobless claims  plunged last
week to the lowest level since April 2006 as work on computer
systems in California and  Nevada  caused those state employment
agencies to report fewer filings.  First-time claims for unemployment insurance fell by 31,000
to 292,000 in the week ended Sept. 7, which also included the
Labor Day holiday, according to Labor Department data. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for 330,000
applications.  California Processing  California switched to a new system over the Labor Day
weekend, which slowed the processing of applications, said Kevin
Callori, the state’s Employment Development Department
spokesman. Nevada was replacing its 30-year-old  unemployment
insurance  system with a new computer interface that came online
Sept. 4, said Kelly Karch at the state’s Department of
Employment, Training and Rehabilitation.  The decrease in filings doesn’t signal a change in job-market conditions because most of it was caused by computer-network conversions in the two states, according to a Labor
Department spokesman.  Stocks fell, halting a seven-day rally for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The  S&P 500  dropped 0.3 percent to 1,683.42 at
the close of trading in  New York .  Two of the three components of the Bloomberg comfort index
worsened last week. The gauge assessing Americans’ views on the
current  state of the economy  fell to minus 55.5, the lowest
since the week ended May 12, from minus 55.3. The measure of
consumers’ views on their  personal finances  dropped to minus
1.9, from minus 1.1 the prior week.  Wage Gains  “Consumers have adopted a wait-and-see attitude,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York. “Americans remain unimpressed with the pace of  job
creation  and wage gains. They’re waiting for the long-promised
acceleration in second-half growth.”  The index of the  buying climate  rose to minus 38.9 from
minus 40.6, the report showed. The figure may reflect gasoline
prices that have declined this month. The average price of a
gallon of gas was $3.55 yesterday, down from $3.59 at the end of
August, according to figures from AAA, the largest U.S. motoring
association.  Vehicle sales have been a bright spot for the economy. Cars
and light trucks  sold  in August at the fastest annualized rate
since November 2007, according to data from Ward’s Automotive
Group. Results at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , and Toyota
Motor Corp. exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Even with the gains in sales, executives at automakers are
watching the signals from the labor market and other parts of
the economy to gauge future demand.  Ford’s Outlook  Recent “job growth is consistent with lackluster gains and
after-tax incomes which are running at less than 1 percent year-over-year growth during the January-to-July period,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford, said on a Sept. 4 conference call. “As an offset, low
borrowing costs and rising consumer wealth should continue to
support spending growth going forward.”  Payrolls expanded by 169,000 workers last month after
rising 104,000 in July, Labor Department data showed on Sept. 6.
The jobless rate dropped to  7.3 percent  in August, the lowest
since December 2008, as workers left the  labor force .  Job openings fell in July to the lowest level in six
months, figures showed this week.  Housing Market  At the same time, the recovery in the housing market has
driven up home values, which together with advances in  equity
prices  are boosting household wealth and helping to sustain the
consumer purchases that account for about 70 percent of the
economy.  Federal Reserve officials, who meet Sept. 17-18, are
debating whether the job market has improved enough to warrant
trimming $85 billion in monthly bond purchases.  The comfort  index (COMFCOMF)  among the lowest income earners, or those
making  less than $15,000  a year, dropped to minus 69.7 last
week, the weakest reading this year. For Americans at the top
end, who earn more than $100,000 annually, confidence fell to a
three-month low of 8.9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  