-- Cooper China Hearing Postponed, Weihai Court Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T07:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/cooper-hearing-in-china-postponed-weihai-court-official-says.html
A Chinese court has postponed a
hearing on the  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  joint venture that’s
complicating  India ’s biggest acquisition in North America.  The Weihai Intermediate People’s Court pushed back the
Sept. 24 hearing to an undetermined date, said a court official,
who asked not to be identified, citing court rules. In the July
29 lawsuit,  China ’s Chengshan Group sought the dissolution of
its venture with Cooper, saying the U.S. partner’s proposed $2.5
billion buyout by India’s  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  would undermine the
Chinese venture’s operations. Cooper has said the litigation
lacks merit.  The Chinese joint venture operates Cooper’s biggest
manufacturing facility worldwide, according to the venture’s
union, and workers at the factory have stopped producing Cooper
tires since July 13 in protest of the Apollo deal. The Indian
company has said the litigation is “immaterial” to the
acquisition and that the only pending approval is from
shareholders on a vote at the end of the month.  “The lawsuit may lead to some further delay in the closing
of the deal as it may change the value of the transaction,”
said Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst at Quant Broking Ltd. in
Mumbai. “If the JV is dissolved, then it may reduce the price
for Apollo.”  The Chinese venture’s prospects have been jeopardized by
the deal, with suppliers calling to press for payments and some
orders being canceled, according to a June 18 letter posted on
Chengshan Group’s website. Cooper also didn’t meet its
obligations by failing to consult with the union, it said.  Bond Issue  Apollo is planning to fund the purchase partly through a
$1.875 billion sale of high-yield bonds issued by Cooper. The
timing of the bond sale will be determined this week, Apollo CFO
Sunam Sarkar said yesterday.  Cooper Chengshan (Shandong) Tire Co., founded in 2006 in
the eastern Chinese city of Rongcheng, has more than 5,000
workers and has the capacity to produce 15 million tires a year,
according to its website.  The venture earned $106.5 million in pretax profit in 2012,
according to its union. By comparison, Cooper’s pretax income
almost tripled to $368 million last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  