-- Cordray Says Lenders Ready for Compliance With Mortgage Rule
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-12T17:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/cordray-says-lenders-ready-for-compliance-with-mortgage-rule.html
Mortgage lenders will be ready to
follow a new underwriting rule that takes effect in January, the
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,  Richard Cordray , said today.  “Most of the institutions have told us that they will be
in compliance,” Cordray said at a hearing of the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington.  As part of its overhaul of mortgage rules in the wake of
the 2008 financial crisis, CFPB finalized a regulation in
January, to take effect one year later, that imposes new
mortgage underwriting requirements on lenders. In exchange, they
can receive a measure of protection from lawsuits associated
with loan origination.  Among the requirements of the qualified mortgage rule, as
it is called, is that lenders take certain steps to confirm a
borrower’s ability to repay the mortgage. The rule will apply
equally to banks such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  that originate mortgages, and non-bank lenders such as  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN)  and  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)   Smaller banks have complained that the rule is burdensome
enough to drive them out of mortgage lending. Cordray stressed
that there are exemptions that often apply to them. For example,
if a bank keeps a loan in its portfolio and has less than $2
billion in assets, the loan is automatically a qualified
mortgage.  “Many of them don’t seem to fully appreciate that,”
Cordray said. Later he added, “it would be a bad business
decision if they left that money on the table and did not make
those loans.”  Some Democrats who support the CFPB also raised the issue
of the regulatory burden associated with the qualified mortgage
rule.  “Paperwork is a nebulous term until you see what paperwork
means to a smaller bank,” Representative  Al Green , a Texas
Democrat, told Cordray.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  