-- Crude Rises a Second Day Amid U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-12T19:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/crude-rises-a-second-day-amid-u-s-russia-talks-on-syria.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed a second day ahead of talks between the U.S. and  Russia 
to resolve the crisis in Syria, a conflict that’s bolstered
concern that Middle Eastern oil supplies may be disrupted.  Futures rose 1 percent as U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  met in Geneva with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
to discuss a plan for Syria to surrender its chemical weapons.
President  Barack Obama  has made their use the rationale for a
potential attack on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s war-making ability. Assad made what may be unacceptable conditions
for the U.S., saying that threats and arming rebels must end.  “We’re up on continuing angst about the Syria situation,”
said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond
portfolio as senior managing director at Manulife Asset
Management in  Boston . “The chances that there will be a
positive resolution to these complicated issues are slim.  Middle
East  concerns will override the fundamentals in the near term.”  WTI crude for October delivery advanced $1.04 to settle at
$108.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The volume
of all futures traded was 6 percent lower than the 100-day
average at 3:36 p.m.  Brent oil for October settlement gained $1.13, or 1
percent, to end the session at $112.63 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. October futures expire
tomorrow. The more actively traded November contract rose $1.34,
or 1.2 percent, to $111.53. Volume was 27 percent above the 100-day average.  The front-month European benchmark crude traded at a $4.03
premium to WTI, up from $3.94 at yesterday’s close.  Geneva Talks  Kerry and Lavrov’s talks are slated to run through
tomorrow. The focus will be on the practicalities of securing,
transporting, destroying and monitoring  Syria ’s chemicals
arsenal, a U.S. official said. Negotiations won’t be about the
text of a United Nations resolution that could govern the
enforcement of a plan, the official told reporters on condition
of anonymity.  The official also acknowledged the difficulty of
establishing security for weapons inspectors in the middle of
the Syrian civil war that has killed more than 100,000 people.
The U.S. says Assad’s regime used sarin gas Aug. 21 outside of
Damascus, killing more than 1,400 people.  ‘Increasing Skepticism’  “There’s increasing skepticism that the talks will pan
out,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “Prices are up on the
likelihood this won’t work out. Chances are that this will fall
apart and Obama will have to either put up or shut up.”  One test would be how quickly Assad discloses his full
1,000-ton inventory of chemical weapons, the official said. The
official also said it will be difficult to provide security for
weapons inspectors in the middle of a civil war.  Assad set conditions in an interview broadcast today by
Russia’s state Rossiya 24 news channel. “First of all, the U.S.
needs to stop its policy of threats against Syria,” Assad said,
according to a translation of his first public comments since
Russia announced its diplomatic initiative this week.  Syria delivered to the UN a document to begin the process
of joining the Chemical Weapons Convention, Farhan Haq, a UN
spokesman, said in New York today.  “There’s a growing recognition that the disarming of
Syria’s chemical weapons isn’t achievable,” said  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy. “This has led to increasing skepticism,
which has led to an increase in the security premium.”  Middle East  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil output in the first quarter of this year, according to the
IEA. Syria borders both  Iraq , the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries’ biggest crude-producing country after Saudi
Arabia and  Turkey , a major conduit of supplies from northern
Iraq and  Azerbaijan  to global markets.  “The market has a good entry point to go long oil again as
the Syrian issue is far from being solved,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “Perhaps we are just postponing an
inevitable re-escalation in tension.”  Long positions are wagers that prices will increase.  The  International Energy Agency  cut estimates for the
amount of crude OPEC will need to provide next year as supplies
from North America surge. Demand for crude from OPEC in 2014
will be 29.2 million barrels a day, or 1.3 million lower than
the group’s current production levels, the IEA said today in its
monthly market report.  Naimi Statement  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said today that the
global crude market is well-supplied and geopolitical concerns
are dominating. He spoke at a conference in Seoul. OPEC
Secretary-General Abdalla El-Badri echoed similar views at the
same event and said that there’s no need for the 12-member group
to act even as  Libya  struggles to end protests at  oil fields  and
ports that have reduced exports.  “Most of Libya’s output is offline, which is helping
support the market,” Hodge said. “Rising production in the
U.S. means that the overall supplies are ample. Events like
Libya, though, will have a temporary impact on the market.”  Libya declared force majeure on loadings from Mellitah,
Hariga, Zawiya ports, a note from state-owned National Oil Corp.
showed. Force majeure is a legal step that protects a company
from liability when it can’t fulfill a contract for reasons
beyond its control. Libya declared force majeure at Es Sider,
Ras Lanuf and Zueitina harbors on Aug. 18.  ‘Swiftly Reversed’  “Most of the sentiment earlier in the week that some parts
of Libyan production could be returned has been swiftly reversed
today,” said Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research company in London.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.8 percent, down from 22.6 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 520,042
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. It totaled 535,263 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.92 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  