-- DBS to Maybank Return Least Among Banks on Expansion Push
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-09-13T01:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/dbs-to-maybank-return-least-on-expansion-spree-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia’s biggest lenders
including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  have performed the worst among
the region’s bank stocks in the past five years on concern
overseas expansion plans will fail to boost earnings.  Singapore’s DBS and Malaysia’s  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , which
get at least 30 percent of revenue outside their home markets,
have given annualized returns including dividends of no more
than 15 percent in the five years to Sept. 6, data on 15 banks
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Krung Thai Bank Pcl (KTB) , which gets all
its revenue in  Thailand , returned the most with 28 percent.  The weaker returns underscore investors’ concern that banks
in the region -- which have spent $5.3 billion on overseas
acquisitions since September 2008 -- may be overly ambitious in
stepping outside their domestic markets. Building their own
operations abroad or buying local banks, as DBS sought to do
with the $6.5 billion bid for PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  that
failed six weeks ago, hasn’t immediately yielded results.  “If you can’t make money at home, why do you think you can
make money in another market where you don’t have the brand
name, you don’t have the local knowledge,” Jim Antos, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said by phone
on Sept. 10. “Why does Krung Thai Bank get such a great return?
They’re totally local.”  Within Southeast Asia, Singapore banks have the lowest
average net interest margin, a measure of lending profitability,
at 1.8 percent, while  Malaysia  has the second lowest at 2.22
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
companies’ latest exchange filings. Indonesian banks have the
highest average NIM in the region, at 6 percent, which has
helped attract regional banks.  Tough Competition  Banks with regional aspirations don’t earn enough income to
justify their spending on acquisitions or franchise building in
the initial years of their expansion, Jens Lottner, a Singapore-based senior partner and managing director at Boston Consulting
Group, said by phone on Sept. 4. These lenders find it tough to
compete with the top four or five local banks that are dominant
in each market, he said.  DBS had a five-year annualized total return of 8.6 percent,
the second-worst performance in the group of 15 Southeast Asian
lenders.  “Stock markets have been volatile over the past five
years, and share price performance was affected by factors other
than business fundamentals,” Edna Koh, a spokeswoman, wrote in
a Sept. 11 e-mail. DBS’s strategy had increased the bank’s
access to “higher-growth markets,” she wrote.  Expensive Strategy  In February 2010, DBS announced it’s seeking to reduce
dependence on  Singapore  from about two-thirds of revenue to 40
percent in five years. The bank wants to increase Greater  China 
revenue to 30 percent, with South and Southeast Asia excluding
Singapore accounting for the remainder.  DBS derived 38 percent of its profit from outside Singapore
in 2012, compared with 35 percent in 2008, according to the
bank’s annual reports.  “A regional strategy is far from easy, plus when one does
acquire, it can be pricey,” Hugh Young, Singapore-based
managing director of Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., wrote
in an e-mail, citing as examples DBS’s attempted purchase of
Danamon and its 2001 acquisition of Hong Kong’s Dao Heng Bank
Group Ltd. for $5.4 billion -- considered expensive by some
analysts at that time.  His firm, which manages $318 billion globally, holds shares
of DBS, Malaysia’s  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  and Thailand’s
 Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Diversified Exposure’  Investors in  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  had a five-year
annualized return of 8.2 percent, the least in the group of
regional lenders. The Singaporean company has been setting up
units in the past year in countries from Indonesia to China to
advise firms investing in Southeast Asia.  The bank’s expansion strategy “offers investors
diversified exposure across various markets compared with the
concentration risk inherent in businesses operating in one
market,” Jimmy Koh, UOB’s head of investor relations, wrote in
a Sept. 10 e-mailed response to questions.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., third-worst in the group
with a 12 percent return, got 38 percent of its 2012 pre-tax
profit from overseas, compared with 31 percent in 2008. The
Singaporean bank announced the purchase of ING Groep NV’s Asian
private-banking assets for $1.4 billion in October 2009.  OCBC’s share price has outperformed the benchmark Straits
Times Index in the past five years, helping the bank achieve
total shareholder returns that are “favorable in relation to
comparable peers,” Collins Chin, the firm’s head of investor
relations, wrote in a Sept. 10 e-mail. The company had a
dividend payout ratio of between 40 percent to 50 percent of
core earnings in the period, he wrote.  Malayan Banking  OCBC’s  share price  gained 11 percent each year on average
in 2008-2012, more than double the Straits Times Index’s 5.6
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. DBS posted an average
gain of 6.5 percent, while UOB had 4.7 percent.  OCBC shares dropped 0.1 percent as of 9:34 a.m. in
Singapore, while DBS added 0.9 percent and UOB gained 1.2
percent.  Maybank, as Malaysia’s largest lender by assets is known,
returned an annualized 15 percent including dividends in the
past five years. Former CEO Abdul Wahid Omar said in an August
2011 interview the bank was aiming to earn 40 percent of
operating profit outside Malaysia by 2015. Overseas earnings
represented 30 percent of group profit in 2012, according to the
bank’s annual report.  ‘Modestly Successful’  The lender is “committed” to its regional strategy to
sustain “long-term shareholder return,” Chief Financial
Officer Rafique Merican wrote yesterday in an e-mail. The lender
cited as an example its 2008 purchase of PT Bank Internasional
Indonesia, a unit that is now “gaining strength” in terms of
profit generation. BII reported a 15 percent increase in first-half net income on July 29.  Shares of Maybank  trade  for 13.9 times reported profit, a
17 percent premium to the 11.9 average multiple of the 15
Southeast Asian banks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. OCBC is
valued at 9.3 times, DBS at 10.2 times and UOB at 11.5.  Mizuho’s Antos cites Malaysia’s CIMB, which acquired
control of Indonesia’s PT Bank Niaga in 2002, as the sole
Southeast Asian lender with a “modestly successful regional
strategy.”  PT CIMB Bank Niaga (BNGA) ’s annual net income has climbed
sixfold since Bloomberg began compiling data in 2004. The lender
is now Indonesia’s fifth largest by assets.  Best Performers  CIMB, which bought most of Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Asia-Pacific investment banking assets in 2012, returned
16 percent including dividends annually to shareholders over the
five years.  Malaysia’s  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  returned 26 percent in that
period, while Thailand’s Kasikornbank gave 24 percent, for the
second- and third-best performances among Southeast Asian
lenders. Both derive at least 95 percent of their revenues from
their home markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors are voting with their wallets and putting their
money in the better domestic banks in the market,” Vincent Chin, a Kuala Lumpur-based senior partner and managing director
at Boston Consulting, said by phone on Sept. 4. “Going regional
is not for the faint-hearted as you need capital and a certain
scale and position in a non-home market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  