-- De Blasio Rallies NYC Supporters in Bid to Avoid Mayoral Runoff
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-09-12T18:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/de-blasio-rallies-nyc-supporters-in-bid-to-avoid-mayoral-runoff.html
Bill de Blasio, the top vote-getter
in New York’s Democratic mayoral primary, rallied hundreds of
supporters amid reports of mounting pressure for second-place
finisher  William Thompson  to back out of the race.  Unofficial results from the Sept. 10 election show de
Blasio hovering above the 40 percent mark. If that holds, it
would allow him to avoid an Oct. 1 runoff with Thompson, a
former city comptroller, who received 26 percent. Allowing more
time for Democrats to coalesce could help the eventual nominee’s
chances against the Republican candidate, former Metropolitan
Transportation Authority Chairman Joseph Lhota.  “If you want to see what victory looks like, just look
around me, ladies and gentleman,” De Blasio told a cheering and
clapping crowd gathered today outside  Brooklyn ’s Borough Hall.
Later, he hurried into a car past reporters without responding
to questions about a potential runoff.  A decision on how to proceed will come after all votes are
counted, said  John Collins , a Thompson spokesman. The campaign
has been told there are as many as 50,000 paper ballots
outstanding, he said. The actual number of absentee and
affidavit ballots to be counted hasn’t yet been determined, said
Valerie Vazquez, a Board of Elections spokesman. The count won’t
begin until next week, she said.  New Endorsements  “Bill has said repeatedly we’re going to wait for all the
votes to be counted,” Collins said.  The physical show of force by de Blasio’s campaign today
coincided with an e-mailed list of new endorsements, including
the Local 32BJ of the  Service Employees International Union ,
which represents doormen, and the Retail, Wholesale and
Department Store Union. Both had supported Christine Quinn, the
City Council speaker, in the seven-way primary. The e-mail
called de Blasio’s showing a “decisive victory.”  Quinn, who finished third, was asked at a news conference
at  City Hall  today whether Thompson should withdraw.  “I will enthusiastically support the Democratic nominee,”
she said. “I think it’s clear to most folks that it’s Bill de
Blasio, but that’s a decision for Bill Thompson to make.”  De Blasio, 52, campaigned on what he calls a “Tale of Two
Cities,” promising to help the almost half of  New Yorkers  who
he says have been left behind as luxury condos and boutiques
rose during 20 years of Republican and independent mayoral rule.
He now serves as the city’s public advocate, a watchdog post.  Black Vote  Thompson, 60, was the only black candidate in the race.
Black voters gave equal support to Thompson and de Blasio, who
is white and married to a black woman, according to exit polls.  Thompson will meet with U.S. Representative Charles Rangel,
a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, today to
discuss the candidate’s options, Collins said. The Reverend  Al
Sharpton , a prominent black powerbroker and fixture of New York
City politics, failed to endorse Thompson in the months leading
up to the primary. He will have de Blasio on his MSNBC talk show
tonight.  Merryl Tisch, chancellor of the state Board of Regents and
a Thompson backer, said in an interview that the decision to
withdraw is Thompson’s. She called the candidate a wise and
thoughtful man.  “At some point you have to decide whether there’s a path
to victory,” Tisch said. “You have to look at what the
election results say and make a decision, and in this election
de Blasio won a broad victory among all demographic groups of
the city. I see that as very persuasive.”  Ferrer, Weiner  In 2005, when former Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer neared 40 percent of the vote in a mayoral primary,
second-place finisher Anthony Weiner conceded the race, saying
he didn’t want to divide the party.  In an interview today, Ferrer called Weiner’s decision
“undeniably gracious.” Ferrer, who ran against Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  in 2005 and supported Thompson in the primary this
year, said he talked with Thompson after the election and wanted
to keep that discussion private. He would support de Blasio
“unquestionably and happily,” Ferrer said.  Bloomberg, whose 12-year tenure as mayor concludes at the
end of December, is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  At the Brooklyn rally today, City Council member Stephen
Levin, who represents parts of Brooklyn, including  Brooklyn
Heights  and Greenpoint, said he’s backing De Blasio after
Quinn’s loss because “the people have really spoken.”  “If it’s not 40 percent, it’s damn close,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  