-- Deere Lures Africa’s First-Time Buyers of Tractors
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-12T14:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/deere-lures-africa-s-first-time-buyers-of-tractors.html
The world’s largest makers of
agricultural equipment are looking in  Africa  for more people
like Levy Sinyimba.  The businessman bought his first tractor, a 60-horsepower
model, about three months ago after becoming fed up with paying
others to plow his 1,000 acres (405 hectares) in Zambia.
Sinyimba says he knows other farmers who want to do the same.  Those Zambians are part of an emerging agricultural class
in Africa increasingly courted by foreign manufacturers. Sub-Saharan Africa’s 5.6 percent economic growth forecast for 2013
will outpace the developed world’s, generating wealth to invest
in crops. Almost half the land available for sustainable farm
expansion lies in Africa, meaning it can better feed itself and
the growing global population if productivity can be boosted.  Dealers for  Deere & Co. (DE) , the biggest farm-machinery maker,
are opening new African sites to sell equipment such as the 5503
tractor, its most popular in the region. The $24,000 price is
less than a 10th of some of its machines selling in the U.S.  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) ’s  CNH Global NV (CNH)  unit says African sales
are jumping as much as 20 percent year on year, boosted by
farmers making their first purchase.  The companies “are all racing to get there for the next
growth wave,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for
William Blair & Co., said in a Sept. 5 telephone interview. “It
could be a lucrative situation for the equipment makers and
solve the potential food shortages in Africa.”  Self-Sufficiency  A lot has changed in the five decades since Moline,
Illinois-based Deere entered the continent through apartheid-era
 South Africa .  Greater political and economic stability and a push by some
nations for food self-sufficiency has made the continent more
attractive, said Ganesh Jayaram, Deere’s vice president of
agriculture and turf sales and marketing for most of  Asia  and
Africa. An abundance of arable, uncultivated land and untapped
water supplies also offer “strong tail winds,” he said in a
phone interview.  Africa has 45 percent of the land suitable for sustainable
agricultural expansion, meaning it isn’t protected or forested
and has a low population density, according to the  World Bank .  Gross domestic product in sub-Saharan Africa will increase
5.6 percent this year, compared with the 1.2 percent expansion
in the developed world, according to International Monetary Fund
 estimates .  Green Revolution  The value of the African food market may triple to $1
trillion by 2030 on population growth and urbanization, the
World Bank estimates. African machinery demand will rise on the
back of that growth while Asia slows,  De Maria  said.  The level of mechanization in African farming is still very
low. Kenya had 25 tractors per 100 square kilometers (39 square
miles) of arable land in 2009 while  Nigeria  has almost seven,
according to the most recent  data  from World Bank. That compares
with an average of 271 machines in the U.S.  The size of the farm-equipment market in Africa will be
about 24,000 to 30,000 machines in 2013, according to Duluth,
Georgia-based tractor maker  Agco Corp. (AGCO)  By comparison, U.S.
industrywide tractor sales were 137,776 this year through
August, according to the Association of Equipment Manufacturers.  Africa was largely bypassed in the last few decades by the
 Green Revolution , the name given to the series of improvements
in grain and fertilizer technology and in irrigation that
boosted crop yields in Asia and Latin America. Sub-Saharan
Africa has the biggest gap between actual and potential yields,
according to the World Bank.  Learning Center  In Nigeria, the continent’s most populous country, only 40
percent of arable land is cultivated. It plans to stop importing
rice by 2015. Agriculture is Nigeria’s “new frontier for
growth,” President  Goodluck Jonathan  said in July.  As in much of Asia, African farmers work small lots,
limiting their access to financing. An average of 1.1 tons of
grain per hectare was reaped from 2008 to 2010 in the sub-Saharan region, roughly one-third of the world average, partly
because farming technology is costly and under-utilized, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said  in a September  2012 report.  To address those issues, Agco has opened a 150-hectare
learning center and farm near Lusaka, the Zambian capital, to
train local farmers and dealers in modern farming technology.
According to Agco, 65 percent of African farmers work manually.
Deere and CNH also help with training.  New Products  “The demand for technology is growing,” Nuradin Osman,
Agco’s director of operations for Africa and the Middle East,
said in a phone interview from  Switzerland . “The demand for
higher horsepower is growing.”  Agco, the third-largest farm equipment maker, already has
150 to 200 dealer outlets in Africa. It has opened a parts
distribution center in Johannesburg and has started assembling
Massey Ferguson tractors in a joint venture in  Algeria .  Next year, the company plans to introduce 15 new products
for the African market including planters, harvesters and
storage units, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Martin Richenhagen said in an interview. Agco may add to the $100
million it has already committed to investing in Africa, he
said.  Deere had 30 dealer locations in east, west and central
Africa excluding South Africa in 2010, and according to Jayaram
the number will double this year. Deere set up a parts
distribution center in South Africa in 2012 to serve the whole
continent and has tripled its parts inventory in Africa in the
last few years.  U.S. Decline  Dealers for CNH, the second-largest farm equipment maker,
have added 20 to 30 new sites in the last three years for a
total of about 300 sales and service locations, said Diego de la
Calle, the business director in Africa for Case IH and New
Holland equipment. It plans to continue expanding, particularly
in distribution in West Africa.  “There is substantial growth for farming equipment, for
more mechanization,” De la Calle said in a telephone interview
from Lugano, Switzerland. “The trend has intensified in the
last three to five years.”  Africa still accounts for a small slice of business at
Deere, where sales in  Canada  and the U.S. represented 64 percent
of revenue in its last fiscal year, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  That core business is facing pressure after prices for corn
and soybeans dropped. U.S. farmers’ cash receipts, the main
indicator for agricultural machinery purchases, will fall 5.5
percent to $211.1 billion this year, the Department of
Agriculture said Aug. 27.  Asian Competition  Deere’s sales will dip 0.5 percent in the year through
October, according to the average of 17 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Deere dropped 0.6 percent to $83.83 at 9:58 a.m. in New
York. The shares have fallen 3 percent this year while CNH has
gained 17 percent and Agco has climbed 21 percent.  In Africa, the big three face stiff competition from Asian
players who are more established in that market. The tractor
bought by Sinyimba, the businessman with four farms in Zambia,
was made by  India ’s  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , he said in a phone
interview.  “I have never heard about the American tractor brands, but
I believe they must be expensive,” said Dennis Kamoga, 34, who
plans to start farming in Mpigi district about 30 kilometers
west of  Kampala , Uganda. While he currently has no plans to buy
a tractor, Kamoga said that if he were to do so, “I would go
for those from Asia as they are cheaper and their spare parts
are readily available.”  ‘Strong Opportunities’  Most tractors sold in Africa are have less than 100
horsepower, according to Deere’s Jayaram. The company’s 5503 75-horsepower model, made in Pune, India, is its bestseller in
Africa, according to Afgri Equipment, a Deere dealer.  Despite the competition from rival manufacturers, Afgri is
planning to add two more outlets in South Africa, Zambia and
 Ghana , Patrick Roux, the Pretoria-based company’s managing
director, said in a telephone interview.  “Africa is a continent with strong opportunities for years
to come,” CNH’s De la Calle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  