-- Derivatives Would Face Transaction Fees Under Obama Proposal
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/derivatives-would-face-transaction-fees-under-obama-proposal.html
Derivatives would face new
transaction fees to pay for the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission budget under a proposal President  Barack Obama ’s
administration submitted to Congress.  The CFTC, starting in the 2014 fiscal year, would set a fee
for futures, options on commodities, and swaps to fund the
agency, according to the proposal that Democratic CFTC member
Bart Chilton said the Office of Management and Budget sent
yesterday to House and Senate lawmakers. Firms using the
derivatives to hedge business risks would be exempt from the
charges under the plan. Congress would need to pass legislation
setting a fee before it could take effect.  The fee is necessary to ensure the CFTC has adequate
resources to oversee derivatives markets, Chilton said yesterday
in a letter to Congress supporting the proposal. “A targeted
transaction fee (one exempting end-users) can remedy these dire
circumstances,” Chilton said in the letter.  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME Group Inc.,
operator of the world’s largest futures exchange, has opposed
setting a fee on transactions to fund the agency.  “Imposing this new tax would also increase the cost of
business for all customers, even those the administration wants
to exempt, because it would reduce liquidity, increase
volatility, and impair the efficient use of U.S. futures
markets,” Duffy said in July 17 testimony at the Senate
Agriculture Committee.  The CFTC is implementing Dodd-Frank Act requirements that
are designed to reduce risk and increase transparency in the
swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the
2008 credit crisis. The agency’s budget is currently $195
million, Gensler said in testimony in July. Obama has requested
an increase in the budget to $315 million for fiscal year 2014.  OMB spokesmen didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  