-- Deutsche Boerse Said to Consider Clearinghouse in Asia
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-09-12T14:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/deutsche-boerse-said-to-consider-clearinghouse-in-asia.html
Deutsche Boerse  AG, owner of the
 Frankfurt  stock exchange and the Eurex futures market, is
considering opening a clearinghouse in Asia, according to two
people familiar with the situation.  The exchange may seek to work with a partner or set up the
clearing venue on its own and hasn’t yet decided how to proceed,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as the plans are
private. While the proposals are at an early stage, Singapore is
a possible location for the clearinghouse if construction goes
ahead, the people said.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for
Deutsche Boerse in Frankfurt, declined to comment.  The Frankfurt-based company is focused on expanding in Asia
after European regulators blocked its purchase of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
last year. Deutsche Boerse said yesterday that its Clearstream
settlement unit will work on a joint collateral-management
service with  Singapore Exchange  Ltd.  New regulations are pushing more transactions through
clearinghouses for processing, in a bid to cut financial risk.
The venues operate as central counterparties for every buy and
sell order executed by their members, who post collateral,
reducing the threat from a trader defaulting.  Singapore Exchange and Korea Exchange Inc. said in March
they’re exploring joint trade-processing projects for over-the-counter financial derivatives. KRX is also looking at OTC
clearing opportunities with Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
and Japan Exchange Group Inc. is seeking to expand its post-trade operations.  The Financial Times reported Deutsche Boerse’s plans
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  