-- Discovery Channel’s Chiefs; Ambassadors Feted: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-12T15:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/discovery-channel-s-chiefs-ambassadors-feted-d-c-scene.html
It’s a tradition at the annual
Ambassadors Ball for members of the diplomatic corps to wear a
red rose boutonniere.  Standing in the JW Marriott last night, Swiss Ambassador
Manuel Sager was conspicuously sans.  “She’s my red rose,” he said, pointing to his wife,
Christine, who blushed rosily.  Across the room, Senator Bob Casey, the Pennsylvania
Democrat, and Republican Congressman Greg Walden of  Oregon 
played arm candy in the receiving line to their wives, Terese
Casey and Mylene Walden, event co-chairmen.  “May I pin you?” asked a young volunteer, rose in hand.
 France ’s Ambassador Francois Delattre grinned and said, “With
pleasure.”  The already floral Italian Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero
huddled with his Egyptian counterpart, Mohamed Tawfik.  In the lobby, Republican Senator Richard Shelby of  Alabama 
and his wife, Annette, perused the silent-auction items. Kevin Madden, the George Clooney lookalike and executive vice
president of JDA Frontline Inc., chatted with Paul Dyck, the
senior vice president of APCO Worldwide, and his wife, Jennifer
Millerwise Dyck.  Running for 35 years, the Ambassadors Ball has helped
raise almost $18 million for the National Capital Chapter of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society.  Leaders Recognized  In addition to honoring diplomats, it recognizes leaders
who have fought the disease. Senator Richard Burr, North
Carolina Republican, and Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Maryland
Democrat, were last night’s honorees for their efforts as
members of the Congressional Multiple Sclerosis Caucus.  Guests dined on braised beef short ribs and dark-chocolate
mousse. Burr quoted Alexis de Tocqueville: “You rise to the
occasion to help people we’ll never meet.”  Van Hollen said he felt a certain kinship with the crowd
“as the son of a foreign-service officer.”  Many Chiefs  The Discovery Channel hosted a screening and buffet dinner
Tuesday night in honor of its new documentary “The Presidents’
Gatekeepers,” which interviews all 20 living White House chiefs
of staff.  Former Reagan chief Kenneth Duberstein, now the chairman
and chief executive of the Duberstein Group Inc., said being the
president’s right hand is far headier than running his own
company. After all, he said, when you’re that close to the
president, “you’re balancing the world.”  Other attendees included Delattre, and his wife, Sophie,
and a gaggle of other former chiefs such as John H. Sununu, who
served under the first Bush, Joshua Bolten, who served Bush No.
2, and Jim Jones, who worked for Lyndon Johnson.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on new Thomas
Pynchon book,  Patrick Cole  on musician Shakey Graves.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 