-- Disney Repurchasing $8 Billion of Stock as Spending Slows
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-13T20:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/disney-planning-to-repurchase-up-to-8-billion-of-shares.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , saying it expects
to increase  cash flow  after years of spending to upgrade its
resorts, announced plans to buy back $6 billion to $8 billion of
stock starting in 2014.  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, will borrow to
finance some of the  repurchases , Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said yesterday at an investor conference in Beverly
Hills, California, sponsored by Bank of America Corp. The
company intends to maintain its debt ratings, he said.  The buyback comes as  capital spending  shrinks from a peak
of $3.78 billion in fiscal 2012. In recent years, Disney has
expanded parks in California and Florida, built  cruise ships  and
developed a resort in  Hawaii . A new destination in Shanghai is
scheduled to open at the end of 2015.  “Based on the investment we have been doing, we will see
an increase in cash flow,” Rasulo said. “We just worked our
way through a huge capital cycle.”  Disney  rose  1.8 percent to $66.69 at the close in  New York 
and has gained 34 percent this year. The company could
repurchase about 6.7 percent of the  stock  at current prices.  Spending on projects and acquisitions will continue, Rasulo
said, citing as examples Marvel, Lucasfilm and purchases in
games and international TV networks. The company is interested
in deals that increase its distribution capability.  “We want to invest in our businesses either through
organic growth initiatives or to grow our company through
acquisitions,” Rasulo said.  Buyback History  Disney is a regular buyer of its stock. The company
repurchased $800 million in the recently completed third quarter
and $3.2 billion for the year to date, Rasulo said on an Aug. 6
 conference call .  Spending on parks, resorts and other properties totaled
$1.81 billion through nine months of the fiscal year, according
to the latest quarterly  regulatory filing , and Disney bought
Lucasfilm in December for $4 billion in cash and stock.  Debt totaled $15 billion as of June 29, according to the
filing. Shares outstanding totaled 1.79 billion shares as of
July 31. The annual dividend was increased 25 percent last year
to 75 cents a share.  After a summer movie season that saw one of its biggest
financial flops ever, the Jerry Bruckheimer-Johnny Depp film
“The Lone Ranger,” Rasulo said Disney plans to limit the
budgets on motion pictures to limit risks.  The curbs will apply to major films that aren’t part of
movie series, he said.  “We feel very, very good about the direction our slate is
headed in,” Rasulo said. “We’ve also learned that there needs
to be a cap on tentpole, nonfranchise films.”  Disney said on Aug. 6 it expects to record a loss of as
much as $190 million from “The Lone Ranger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  