-- DNB Slides as Capital Buffers Seen Denting Dividends: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-09-12T10:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/dnb-slides-as-capital-buffers-seen-denting-dividends-oslo-mover.html
DNB ASA (DNB)  fell the most in 12 weeks
in Oslo as SEB AB said capital rules may lead to slower lending
growth and limit the ability of  Norway ’s largest lender to
increase dividends.  DNB dropped as much as 3.4 percent to 96 kroner, the
largest intraday decline since June 24, and traded 1.7 percent
lower as of 10 a.m. in the Norwegian capital. That makes DNB the
second  biggest decliner on the Bloomberg  Europe  500 Banks and
Financial Services Index today.  Norway can set stricter requirements in “several areas”
in addition to cyclical and systemic buffers, Finansavisen
reported, citing Morten Baltzersen, head of the country’s
Financial Services Authority. It’s also important to keep the
Basel-I floor that gives a 40 percent real risk-weight for new
home loans, the newspaper said, citing Baltzersen.  “If the Basel I floor is kept in place for the Norwegian
banks, we argue that they will be at a competitive disadvantage
to their Swedish peers, which all also compete in the Norwegian
market,” SEB said in a note today. “DNB would need to reduce
lending growth and pay out a lower dividend than the market is
expecting,” the Swedish bank said.  Investors will probably see payouts of 2.35 kroner a share
in 2014, 2.7 kroner in 2015 and 3.1 kroner in 2016, according to
Bloomberg dividend forecasts.  While DNB’s dividend next year will depend on regulatory
changes, “we have no intention of lowering our payout ratio in
2014,” Chief Executive Rune Bjerke said in February.  Lagging Competitors  “Hopefully we can gradually increase the payout ratio”
within a three-year period, he said at the time.  The Norwegian lender, which is targeting annual growth in
net interest income of more than 6 percent, is cutting costs,
holding back dividends and increasing margins to boost reserves
in an effort to meet a tightening of  capital requirements  under
planned Basel III capital guidelines.  DNB, which has benefited from a strong position in a home
market that’s largely avoided the worst of the financial turmoil
in Europe, is lagging other banks in the Nordic region in terms
of cutting costs,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  said on July 3.  Shares in DNB have gained more than 37 percent during the
last 12 months, giving the lender a market value of 156.7
billion kroner ($26.5 billion.) That makes DNB the best-performing large cap Nordic bank stock, according to SEB. Given
that the stock is now within 10 percent of SEB’s 108 kroner
price target, “we have downgraded our recommendation from  buy
to hold ,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Treloar in Oslo  at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  