-- Dominion Resources to Form Master-Limited Partnership
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-09-12T16:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/dominion-resources-to-form-master-limited-partnership-1-.html
Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , the third-largest U.S. utility owner, will form a master-limited
partnership for natural gas assets next year that may generate
as much as $2 billion annually in earnings.  Initial holdings would include the Cove Point liquefied
natural gas terminal in  Maryland  and Dominion’s stake in Blue
Racer Midstream LLC, a joint venture in Ohio’s Utica Shale,
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Farrell said today at a New York
conference sponsored by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The partnership may
generate as much as $1 billion of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization annually, he said.  U.S. partnerships don’t pay corporate income tax and have
more cash available to pay holders of units, which are like
shares. Dominion’s pipelines may be added later to the
partnership, yielding another $1 billion in Ebitda, according to
a slide presentation.  “Investors tend to consider MLPs better vehicles for value
realization for gas infrastructure assets than publicly traded
utility holding companies” like Dominion, Kit Konolige, a New
York-based analyst for BGC Financial LP, wrote today in a note
to clients.  Dominion rose 3.3 percent to $60.54 at 11:32 a.m. in New
York. Earlier the shares touched $61.94, the highest intraday
price in at least 23 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  More MLPs  Today’s share move will pressure utilities including  PPL
Corp. (PPL) ,  American Electric Power (AEP)  Co. and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  to
consider forming master-limited partnerships or other publicly
traded securities that pay higher yields, Konolige wrote.  Dominion owns Virginia’s largest electric utility, which
accounted for 57 percent of its 2012 sales, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The company won approval yesterday from
the U.S. Energy Department to export liquefied natural gas from
Cove Point in Maryland to countries that don’t have free trade
agreements with the U.S.  The corporation is also forming a nonpublic subsidiary,
Dominion Gas Holdings LLC, that will issue pipeline debt, and is
in talks to sell gas-production leases on 100,000 acres of the
Marcellus Shale of West  Virginia , Farrell said.  Duke and Southern Co. are the largest U.S. utility owners
by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  