-- Don’t Bet Against Boring Canada, Caisse’s Lescure Says
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-12T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/don-t-bet-against-boring-canada-caisse-s-lescure-says.html
Investors betting against Canadian
assets are poised to lose out because the country’s growth
prospects mean the securities offer protection against potential
crises, Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec ’s chief
investment officer said today.  “In a way,  Canada  is a bit boring,” Roland Lescure said
at the Bloomberg Canadian fixed-income conference in  New York .  “Shorting something that’s boring -- good luck. It can
cost you a lot of money,” Lescure said, referring to the
practice by investors of selling assets in hopes of buying it at
a cheaper price in the future.  Canada’s dollar, stocks and bonds have lost some of their
luster over the past couple of years, in part due to investor
concern the nation’s  housing market  will correct and record
 household debt  would slow the  consumer spending  that had been
driving growth since the end of the recession.  Canada’s benchmark stock index is underperforming U.S.
equities for a third year on expectations for better U.S.
growth, while the Canadian dollar has fallen 5.5 percent over
the past 12 months. The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canada
Broad Market Index underperformed the U.S. in 2012 for the first
time in three years.  While Canadian bonds and stocks have fared better in recent
months, futures traders are still betting on a decline in the
Canadian dollar.  Dollar Shorts  Bets by  hedge funds  and other large speculators that the
Canadian dollar will decline against its U.S. peer reached the
most since June 14 last week, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers on a decline in the loonie compared with those
on a gain --  net shorts  -- was 34,639 on Sept. 3, compared with
net shorts of 24,959 a week earlier, data Sept 6 showed.  “When you want to short something, you want those things
to go up in flames,” Lescure said. “Canada is not going to
explode in the air. In the next five to 10 years, it’s probably
going to be growing steady as she goes.”  The Caisse oversees pensions for retirees in the French-speaking province of Quebec, with a dual mandate of maximizing
returns and fostering economic growth in the province. It had
net assets of C$185.9 billion ($180 billion) of assets as of
June 30, ranking it second among Canadian pension managers after
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.  Real Estate  Under Lescure and Chief Executive Officer  Michael Sabia ,
the Caisse is increasing investments in assets such as real
estate, infrastructure and private equity to reduce volatility
in returns. The Caisse plans to add C$10 billion to C$12 billion
in what it calls “less liquid” investments in the next two
years, Sabia said in January.  Publicly traded equities were the Caisse’s biggest asset
class as of the end of 2012, accounting for about 37 percent of
assets. Fixed income, with just under 37 percent, ranked second.
More than 57 percent of the Caisse’s total assets were held in
Canada, compared with 20 percent in the U.S.  “The U.S. is more volatile, with a lot of opportunities,”
Lescure said. “We like to invest in the U.S. and are doing it
more and more. But there’s more risk.”  Even as it invests more abroad, the Caisse will continue to
hold a significant portion of assets at home because its
liabilities are denominated in Canadian dollars, Lescure said.  The Canadian dollar’s recent decline against its U.S.
counterpart in the last year means that the currency is “now
better aligned with fundamentals,” he said.  Global Leaders  To make up for an expected drop in fixed-income returns,
Lescure said the Caisse has been buying shorter-duration bonds,
provincial debt and “some corporates, well chosen.” In
addition, he said, the  fund manager  has added “some equities
that look a bit like fixed income.”  In January, the Caisse began building a fund to buy stakes
in companies such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  and HJ Heinz Co. that it
considers global leaders. Lescure said the fund, which had
assets of about C$9.5 billion as of June 30, targets companies
that are “very visible, safe, with strong visibility of cash
flows.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , while a “great company,” is probably too
volatile for the Caisse, Lescure said.  “In a way, we are more Coke than Apple at the Caisse,”
Lescure said, referring to  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , which “sells about 25
billion bottles of Coke every year. In five years, they might be
selling 26 or 24. It’s not going to be a roller coaster.”  The Caisse would consider investing in  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB)  if
the smartphone maker were to go private, Lescure also said,
echoing comments made last month by Sabia.  “We are open to any opportunity for sure,” Lescure said
when asked about BlackBerry. “We are trying to avoid rumors,
but most importantly I think we are doing our homework. We are
doing research, we are trying to understand companies whether
it’s BlackBerry or another one, and then when we decide to act
you guys usually hear about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in New York at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  