-- Don’t Believe the Coal Industry’s Warnings
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-12T15:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/don-t-believe-the-coal-industry-s-warnings.html
The coal industry is  warning  that
proposed federal regulations on new coal-fired power plants will
effectively ban their construction. To which there are at least
three rational responses: First, what new plants? Second,
probably not forever. Third, that might not be a bad thing.  On Sept. 20, the Environmental Protection Agency is
scheduled to release a proposed rule that would cap the amount
of carbon dioxide new power plants can emit. To meet that limit
-- said to be lower than what existing generators emit -- new
coal plants would probably need to be outfitted with equipment
to capture and store a portion of the carbon they produce  Some coal and power companies claim such technology “is
not commercially available at this time,” as the Electric
Reliability Coordinating Council, an industry group, put it.
That may come as a surprise to the companies that are using it,
including  Southern Co. (SO) , whose new  coal plant  in  Mississippi  will
capture carbon. Engineers have been able to catch, transfer and
hold carbon for decades.  Industry claims about the state of technology seem to
translate to a more mundane complaint: It costs too much. That’s
somewhat beside the point, seeing as how coal is already about
twice as expensive as natural gas -- $100 per megawatt hour,
according to the  Clean Air  Task Force , compared with $56 for
gas. It’s market economics that make utilities unlikely to build
new coal plants in the near term, not the EPA.  The market will eventually change. So rather than criticize
the government for these new rules, the coal industry should
thank it. Natural gas won’t be this cheap forever; by setting
rules on carbon levels, the EPA is giving coal producers a
chance to compete over the long run, but in a way that reflects
our increasingly carbon-sensitive world.  The coal industry needs a strong incentive to start getting
ready for that future landscape now. These rules provide a level
of certainty they’ve been lacking, and that can help drive
investment in technology, bringing down the cost to the point
that new and cleaner plants eventually make economic sense.  That’s not as far-fetched as the industry suggests. Today’s
technology adds about 20 percent to the price of coal-fired
electricity, the American Coal Council estimates. The  task force 
puts the figure at as little as 13 percent. If improved
technology can reduce those costs further, the coal industry may
have a future in the U.S., which after all has vast reserves of
coal and a growing demand for power.  But won’t raising the cost of new coal plants in the near
term put a chill on the refinement of carbon-capture technology
for those plants? That’s unlikely. The EPA is set to announce
rules next year capping emissions on existing  power plants ,
which will push further advances. Natural-gas plants will
continue to get built, creating advances in carbon capture of
their own that are applicable to coal plants. And  China  and
other countries will continue their research. If American
companies can’t beat that research, they’ll have to copy it.  And what if, despite all that, the coal industry’s warnings
come true? There’s a small chance those predictions are
accurate, and that new caps on  carbon emissions  will indeed mean
an effective and indefinite ban on new American coal plants. To
which our answer is, ruining the atmosphere is too high a price
for protecting one type of power when others are available.  We can’t keep insisting that  climate change  is a concern
while taking no meaningful steps to stop it. For the American
coal industry, there are two choices: adapt, or die.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 