-- Ducati to Add Premium Bikes to Attract High-End Buyers
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-09-12T12:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ducati-to-add-premium-bikes-to-attract-high-end-buyers.html
     Sept. 12 (Bloomberg) --- Ducati Motor Holding SpA, the
motorbike maker owned by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will roll out four new
motorcycles next year to attract more high-end buyers.  The new bikes will be “premium products as we’re not
looking for low cost and low capacity motorcycles,” Chief
Executive Officer Claudio Domenicali said in an interview at the
company’s headquarters in Bologna, Italy. “We are targeting a
good but sustainable growth.”  The new offerings from Ducati, whose bikes are owned by
actors  Brad Pitt  and  Tom Cruise , will include the 899 Panigale,
which goes on sale in the U.S. in November with a starting price
of $14,995. The new 148-horsepower superbike was unveiled at the
International Motor Show in Frankfurt this week. Two additional
new models, which “will share the sport value of the brand,”
will be shown in Milan in November, the CEO said.  VW, Europe’s biggest automotive group, bought Ducati for
860 million euros ($1.14 billion) last year to enhance the
sporty appeal of the Audi brand. The Ingolstadt, Germany-based
division, which runs Ducati, has a target of taking the top spot
in luxury-auto sales from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  by the end
of the decade.  “We are changing the way we think as we are part of a
bigger group,” said Domenicali, 47, who has been working at
Ducati since 1991 and took over as CEO in April. “Our owner is
very passionate about products.”  VW Help  Ducati, the maker of the Monster and Diavel models, sees
2013 sales and profit in line with last year, with deliveries in
 China , Brazil and  Thailand  rising more than 50 percent, he said.
Ducati posted 2012 revenue of 606 million euros and deliveries
of 44,102 motorcycles.  Ducati plans further expansion with the help of VW. The
Italian company has started to sells bikes in  Argentina , plans
to further boost sales in China and will enter the Indian market
next year, Domenicali said.  VW’s other Italian assets include the Lamborghini sports-car brand and design and technology firm Italdesign, founded by
Giorgetto Giugiaro, who sketched the first Golf hatchback.  “Ducati now has the opportunity to leverage VW’s strength
to expand in fast growing countries, such as China and India,”
said Gian Primo Quagliano, head of automotive-research company
CSP in Bologna,  Italy . “Lamborghini’s success story can be seen
as a good example for Ducati of an Italian brand developed under
the VW group.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Rotondi in Rome at 
 rotondi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  