-- Fed’s Dudley Sees Risk Derivatives Regulators Fall Short
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-09-12T14:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/dudley-sees-risk-regulators-fall-short-on-otc-derivatives.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President William C. Dudley said the pace of improving oversight
of over-the-counter derivatives is too slow and regulators may
not “go far enough” in curbing risk in the financial system.  “There are significant risks that we will fall short in
this arena relative to what we are likely to achieve
elsewhere,” Dudley said today in remarks in Paris.  Several nations including the U.S. are trying to align and
strengthen rules for the $633 trillion market for swaps and
other over-the-counter derivatives. The financial instruments
became a target for tougher oversight after the 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps.  Plans for international cooperation include boosting the
use of clearinghouses, pushing activity onto regulated markets
and requiring banks to put up more collateral.  “What matters is not the standardization of OTC
derivatives, central clearing or the use of the trade
repositories per se, but instead the results that flow from
these efforts,” Dudley said. “These institutions are just
devices to achieve an end -- less risk, more robustness and
greater transparency.”  Dudley, who didn’t comment on the outlook for  monetary
policy  or the economy, said he’s concerned regulators aren’t
“yet close to a harmonized, robust OTCD system” as the pace of
additional oversight has been too slow.  ‘More Progess’  “It seems to me that we have made much more progress in
strengthening individual institutions through higher bank
capital and liquidity requirements than we have made in reducing
risk in the OTCD space,” Dudley said.  “Some of this is inevitable because OTCD reform is
harder” and “requires the creation of new institutions to
clear such trades or to house the trade information,” Dudley
said.  Increased regulation of OTC derivatives should reduce the
risk of funding runs and make the markets “more resilient” and
less prone to being “a source of contagion in stressed
environments,” he said.  The  New York  Fed chief said he’s concerned that trades
“may not be standardized to the fullest degree possible” and
that regulators should “be prepared to push harder for further
standardization.” Regulators must also “push against” the
“race to the bottom” of central counterparties seeking to
maximize profits at the expense of compliance with best
practices, he said.  Dudley called for global cooperation and “continued
efforts across all stakeholders” to achieve regulators’ goals.  “Authorities must continue to coordinate their oversight
of global infrastructures,” he said. One of the reasons
progress is difficult is because it “requires national
legislation to be flexible enough so that it can work coherently
on a global basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  