-- Dunkin’ Donuts to Enter U.K. With a Start in East London
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-09-12T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/dunkin-donuts-to-enter-u-k-with-a-start-in-east-london.html
Dunkin’ Brands (DNKN)  Group Inc., the
owner of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee and doughnut shops, plans to
expand the chain into the U.K. with as many as 150 stores in
five years.  The company, which already operates 100 Baskin Robbins ice
cream parlors in the U.K., signed franchise agreements with
Court Group and DDMG Ltd, and each plans to open 25 stores in
East London. Dunkin’ is in advanced discussions with other
investors for the balance of the U.K. stores, the company said
in a statement.  Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ has been focused on
expanding the chain outside the U.S. to keep pace with  Krispy
Kreme Doughnuts Inc. (KKD) , and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which has about 750
locations in the U.K. DDMG is led by existing franchisees from
Baltimore and Philadelphia.  “There is significant opportunity for  Dunkin’ Donuts  in
the U.K., and we have had a tremendous response from potential
franchisees interested in developing the brand across the
country,” Dunkin’ Brands International President Giorgio
Minardi said in the statement.  Dunkin’ is opening more locations in Europe as it sees the
region bouncing back from recession, Chief Executive Officer
Nigel Travis said in August. The chain intends to boost its
presence in Germany to 150 Dunkin’ Donut shops within five years
and is planning to introduce its colorful ice cream stores there
as well.  Dunkin’ said last year that it would add 80 Baskin-Robbins
ice cream parlors in the U.K. by 2015. It has more than 10,500
restaurants in 31 countries, including Bulgaria, Russia and
Spain.  Dunkin’ Brands rose 87 cents or 2 percent to $44.63 at the
close in  New York . The shares are 35 percent higher so far this
year, outpacing the  Nasdaq ’s 23 percent rise in the  same period .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  