-- ECB to Start Bank Oversight Powers in October 2014 After EU Vote
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-12T10:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ecb-to-start-bank-oversight-powers-in-october-2014-after-eu-vote.html
The  European Central Bank  is set to
take on oversight powers over all euro-area banks as early as
October 2014 after lawmakers backed the plan for a single
supervisor in a vote today in Strasbourg,  France .  The adoption of the proposals followed a deal between the
ECB and the parliament earlier this week in which the Frankfurt-based central bank pledged to disclose details from meetings of
its bank-oversight board. Legislators had refused to approve the
supervision powers until an agreement on democratic scrutiny was
reached.  “It provides for a high degree of accountability of the
ECB in the exercise of its tasks under the Single Supervisory
Mechanism vis-a-vis the European Parliament as well as adequate
safeguards for the protection of confidential information,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  and European Parliament President  Martin
Schulz  said in a joint statement today.  Euro-area leaders asked the ECB in June 2012 to take up
bank-supervisory duties in a bid to help quell the currency
bloc’s sovereign-debt crisis by separating the financial woes of
banks and nations. The oversight role is the first step of EU
leaders’ plan to create a banking union in the euro area, with
centralized supervision and crisis management of lenders.  Finance ministers are set to have a first discussion of
plans for centralized bank resolution in the euro area at a two-day meeting beginning today in Vilnius,  Lithuania .  ‘Meaningful Record’  Under the deal struck this week with lawmakers, the ECB
will disclose a “comprehensive and meaningful record of
proceedings” from meetings of its bank-supervision board,
according to a statement from the assembly’s Liberal group.  Separately to the discussions with lawmakers on bank
supervision, the ECB’s Draghi has said that the central bank is
weighing moves to increase the information it discloses from its
monthly meetings to set  interest rates , and will make a proposal
on minutes later this year.  “Publishing the minutes of Governing Council meetings
would be an important element of a richer communication
strategy,”  Joerg Asmussen , a member of the ECB’s Executive
Board, said in a  speech  in Brussels this week. “In my personal
view, the minutes, summarizing the main policy discussions,
should include who voted for what, and the reasoning behind that
vote,” he said.  According to the legislation voted on today, the ECB should
fully take on oversight powers no sooner than one year after the
final text of the law is published. Following today’s vote, the
only legal hurdle remaining is for the text to be formally
endorsed by national governments.  Once the law is published, the ECB can advance practical
preparations for its new tasks including hiring staff and
renting premises.  The ECB is also preparing a balance sheet assessment of the
banks that it will directly oversee, to be completed before it
takes on its supervisor role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  