-- Egypt Default Risk Falls to Lowest Since May as Gulf Aid Flows
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-09-12T14:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/egypt-default-risk-falls-to-lowest-since-may-as-gulf-aid-flows.html
Egypt ’s default risk dropped to the
lowest level in more than three months as the central bank
governor said the country would receive more aid. Local
borrowing costs fell to the lowest since 2011.  Five-year credit default swaps, contracts which insure the
nation’s debt against default, fell 63 basis points to 638, the
lowest level since May 31, at 4:07 p.m. in Cairo, according to
data provider CMA. The government sold one-year treasury bills
at an average yield of 11.54 percent, the lowest since the start
of the country’s January 2011 uprising on bets the central bank
will cut  interest rates  when it meets next week.  Egypt expects to receive $2 billion from Kuwait next week,
Governor Hisam Ramez told Arabiya TV yesterday, adding to $5
billion secured from  Saudi Arabia  and  United Arab Emirates  in
July. The funds have helped boost foreign reserves and bolster
the Egyptian pound after six months of declines. Egyptian
default swaps are down 263 basis points since the ouster of
President Mohamed Mursi on July 3, compared with a 51-basis
point drop for the average of 10 Arab countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  “The disbursement of Gulf aid and the promise of more to
come is central to the market gains,”  Simon Williams , Dubai-based senior economist at HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd., said by e-mail. “Market fears over the political outlook may have also
started to ease, but they have not gone away.”  More than two months after Mursi’s ouster, protests by his
supporters have failed to derail the military’s plan to hold
parliamentary elections by the first quarter of next year.
Interim President Adly Mansour yesterday appointed a commission
to supervise elections after a panel charged with amending the
constitution started work this week. Mursi’s backers are calling
for more protests tomorrow.  Scarce Trades  There were two trades covering $10 million of Egypt’s debt
in the week through Sept. 6, contrasting with 75 trades covering
about $103 million of Abu Dhabi debt in the same period,
according to Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  data .  The average yield on the nation’s  12-month t-bills  tumbled
89 basis points at today’s auction as bids reached 3.4 times the
amount offered, according to Finance Ministry data. The yield on
the six -month notes  dropped 90 basis points to 11.3 percent.
EFG-Hermes said in a report today it expects the central bank to
cut benchmark rates by 50 basis points to stimulate the economy,
after inflation eased in August. The regulator had reduced rates
last month for the first time since 2009.  The pound was little changed at 6.8942 a dollar after the
central bank sold $38.6 million at a currency auction. The
currency has strengthened 1.9 percent since Mursi’s ouster.  The yield on the $1 billion of the nation’s benchmark 5.75
percent Eurobonds due in April 2020 fell 14 basis points to 8.07
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That takes
their decline this month to 81 basis points, compared with an
increase of three basis points for the average of Middle East
sovereigns to 5.49 percent through yesterday, according to
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  