-- Televisa Acts to Keep Channels From Dish Before Rules Set
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-09-13T20:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/televisa-acts-to-keep-channels-from-dish-before-rules-set.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the largest
Spanish-language TV producer, is taking legal action to stop
 Dish Mexico (DISH*)  from distributing its over-the-air channels, saying
the satellite carrier isn’t following the rules.  Televisa filed a complaint with Mexico’s  Interior Ministry 
and sought an injunction from a superior court in Mexico City to
stop Dish’s action, according to a Televisa official. Televisa
will also ask Mexico’s newly formed telecommunications
regulator, known as Ifetel, to intervene, said the official, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Dish Mexico, the nation’s second-largest satellite-TV
company, started providing Televisa’s channels this week for no
extra charge. A telecommunications law passed earlier this year
created Ifetel and required broadcasters to offer their signals
to all pay-TV carriers. Dish should have waited until Ifetel set
specific rules to govern how satellite companies can use
broadcast signals, the Televisa official said.  Televisa gained 2.1 percent to 72.55 pesos at the close in
Mexico City. The  shares  have advanced 6.3 percent this year.  A Dish press official declined to comment on Mexico City-based Televisa’s legal actions. An Ifetel spokesman didn’t
return a phone message. Dan McCosh, a spokesman for broadcaster
 TV Azteca (AZTECACP)  SAB, didn’t immediately reply to questions about
whether the company is also opposing Dish’s distribution of its
channels.  Satellite Competition  Televisa and TV Azteca broadcast over the air for free to
viewers with antennas on their TVs. In the past, they have
charged cable and satellite providers to carry a package of
their over-the-air channels plus additional cable channels --
such as 24-hour sports and movie networks -- with no option to
select just the more popular broadcast stations.  Dish Mexico trails a Televisa unit, Sky, in Mexican
satellite customers. The smaller competitor has a marketing
partnership with  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , which battles other Televisa
divisions for phone and Internet users. Dish Mexico is co-owned
by Mexico City-based MVS Comunicaciones SA and Englewood,
Colorado-based  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)   Axtel SAB, Mexico’s second-largest phone company, also
began retransmitting over-the-air channels yesterday, adding
them to its pay-TV service, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  