-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Fed Bets as Gold Producers Tumble
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-09-12T21:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/emerging-stocks-rise-as-chinese-banks-gain-indian-shares-drop.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in seven days as investors weighed prospects for
Federal Reserve stimulus cuts and a drop in gold sank producers.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  snapped the longest advance since 2010.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.2 percent to 990.41,
after gaining 6.2 percent in the previous six days.  Mexico (MEXBOL) ’s IPC
Index slumped 2.1 percent for the biggest drop among major
equity benchmarks in the Americas.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  paced losses
in Mumbai, while  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  fell 4.5 percent in
Johannesburg as gold futures sank the most in nine weeks.
Russia’s Micex Index posted the first decline in nine days.  Investors weighed prospects for Fed’s stimulus before the
central bank meets next week. The benchmark measure for emerging
markets has lost 5.5 percent since May 22, when the Fed signaled
its asset-buying program could be trimmed if the economy showed
a sustained recovery. A Bloomberg survey on Sept. 6 showed the
Fed will cut bond purchases by $10 billion this month.  “There are a lot of things the market is chewing on. The
Fed is one of them,” Kevin Caron, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based market strategist at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees
about $150 billion, said by phone. “If the expectation is that
they’ll cut back more in terms of stimulus, it will tend to hurt
 emerging markets .”  Seven out of 10  groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated today, led by health-care and energy shares. The broad
measure tumbled 6.1 percent this year to trade at 10.5 times
projected earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That trails the 13.9  valuation  of the MSCI World Index, which
has rallied 15 percent in 2013.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the developing-nation ETF, fell 1.2 percent to $40.89. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, rose 0.4 percent to 25.16.  Mexico ’s IPC dropped for a second day, led by Industrias
Penoles SAB, the nation’s second-biggest mining company by
market value.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  declined 0.5 percent as Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, the state-run crude producer, sank. Clothing
seller Cia. Hering led consumer stocks higher after a report
showing retail sales in Brazil rose more than forecast.  The Micex dropped 0.3 percent in Moscow as OAO Russian
Grids and Federal Grid Co. retreated more than 3 percent. The
Economy Ministry, which is seeking ways to curb consumer-price
growth and spur expansion, has proposed freezing utilities’
prices next year. President Vladimir Putin supported the measure
at a budget meeting yesterday.  Turkey, Poland  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index rose 1.3 percent for
the biggest advance among major emerging-market indexes, led by
banks.  Poland ’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  gained for a fifth day in the
longest rally in a month, while Hungarian stocks retreated.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index added 0.8 percent as
 Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  rallied 2.6 percent. Gold Fields slumped for a
ninth day in the longest losing streak since May 2008, while
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. dropped to the lowest level in a month.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex slid after a five-day rally drove
valuations to a seven-week high. Tata Steel slumped 4.1 percent,
and aluminum maker  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL)  fell 2.8 percent.
The rupee snapped its longest rally in almost a year.  China ’s stocks rose to a three-month high, led by banks and
brokerages, after Premier Li Keqiang said he would accelerate
financial reform.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  Co. surged
8.7 percent, extending this month’s gain to 36 percent, after Li
pledged to push forward  yuan  convertibility.  South Korea’s won touched the strongest level in more than
six months as the central bank kept its policy rate at the
lowest since 2010. Thailand’s baht climbed to a three-week high
as overseas investors added to their holdings of the nation’s
assets on optimism China’s economy is gaining traction.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 341 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  