-- Henkel to Expand Beauty Care Business in Smaller Chinese Cities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T04:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/henkel-to-expand-beauty-care-business-in-smaller-chinese-cities.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
adhesives and Soft Scrub cleaners, plans to step up expansion in
 China  as the company pushes to sell hair and skin care products
in smaller cities outside Beijing and Shanghai.  The company will invest “heavily” to lift the proportion
of China sales at its consumer business to 30 percent from the
current 20 percent, Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said
in an interview today. Adhesives account for 80 percent of the
company’s China revenue, he said.  “Beauty care is where we are expanding,” Rorsted said at
the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China. Henkel will expand
its professional range of hair products, including colorants,
which it’s mainly selling in the bigger cities, he said.  The Dusseldorf-based maker of Loctite glue and Persil
detergent is diversifying operations as consumers in western
Europe hold back spending. Henkel’s plan for China would allow
the company to expand in a beauty and personal-care market that
may grow 8.8 percent to $34.8 billion this year, according to
estimates by London-based researcher Euromonitor.  “We are very convinced  emerging markets  will continue to
drive growth over the next many years to come,” Rorsted said.  Henkel has a target of increasing revenue to 20 billion
euros ($27 billion) in 2016 from 16.5 billion euros last year,
with half its  sales  coming from  markets  including Latin America
or the Asia-Pacific region.  Growth Market  Henkel has “double-digit growth rates” in China, which is
the company’s largest market behind the U.S. and  Germany  and
will become its “primary growth market,” Rosted said.  Henkel fell 0.3 percent to 73.50 euros in Frankfurt trading
yesterday. The shares have gained 18 percent this year.  The company, which sells Schwarzkopf shampoos and Fa soap
and deodorant in China, on Aug. 8 reported second-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates, helped by demand for its
laundry and home-care products in emerging markets. Earnings
before interest and taxes excluding one-time gains or costs rose
8.2 percent to 660 million euros.  About half of Henkel’s global sales come from its
adhesives. Laundry and household brands such as Purex and Dial
make up another 28 percent, with the remaining 22 percent coming
from cosmetics and toiletries.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  