-- Tepco Adviser Promoted Fukushima Water Dump to Ocean in Op-Ed
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-09-12T03:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/tepco-adviser-promoted-fukushima-water-dump-to-ocean-in-op-ed.html
Irradiated water at  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima plant will probably have to be dumped into
the ocean after contamination is brought to safe levels, an
adviser to the company’s water management task force said.  The ocean release will be necessary because water can’t be
stored in tanks indefinitely at the Dai-Ichi station after being
used to cool the plant’s overheating reactor fuel, Lake Barrett,
a former official with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
 wrote  in a Sept. 9 opinion piece posted on the website of the
Bulletin of Atomic Scientists.  The article by Barrett, who’ll be advising the utility
known as Tepco on water management at the site, could offer
clues to its strategy for handling the 338,000 metric tons of
contaminated water stored in more than 1,000 tanks at the plant.
That amount is increasing by about 400 tons a day.  “Spending billions and billions of yen on building tanks
to try to capture almost every drop of water on the site is
unsustainable, wasteful, and counterproductive,” Barrett wrote.
“I see no realistic alternative to a program that cleans up
water with improved processing systems so it meets very
protective Japanese release standards and then, after public
discussion, conducts an independently confirmed, controlled
release to the sea.”  Tank Leaks  Tepco set up the Contaminated Water and Tank
Countermeasures Headquarters last month after reporting a 300
ton leak at one of the tanks, which  Japan ’s Nuclear Regulation
Authority designated as the worst accident since the March 2011
earthquake and tsunami caused meltdowns at the site. The company
is also struggling to stem the leak of contaminated groundwater
into the Pacific Ocean, which the government has estimated at
about 300 tons per day.  Barrett, who directed cleanup operations at Three Mile
Island for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for four years
after the 1979 accident at the U.S. plant, is scheduled to meet
with task force staff tomorrow to offer advice on plant
decommissioning and water management, Tepco said in a Sept. 10
statement.  He didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail today asking
whether his position outlined in the opinion piece represented
the advice he would be giving to Tepco.  The possibility of an ocean dump of stored water after
treatment was also raised last week by Nuclear Regulation
Authority Chairman Shunichi Tanaka. JF Zengyoren, a union of
Japanese fisheries cooperatives, later said such a discharge
would be unacceptable, even if contamination levels were brought
below legal limits for ocean dumping.  Fishing Groups Object  Tepco is also seeking fishermen’s groups’ permission for a
pipeline that would channel groundwater around the Fukushima
plant’s reactors and into the ocean to cut the volume of
radioactive water it must manage.  The plan has been complicated by the detection of
irradiated groundwater in an area near storage tanks that had
been thought free of contaminants. Inspectors have been finding
higher amounts of the contaminant tritium in the area, despite a
decrease in levels of beta radiation, which includes
strontium-90.  Beta radiation levels at one well near the tank where last
month’s leak occurred fell from 3,200 bequerels per liter on
Sept. 8 to 2,000 bequerels on Sept. 10, while tritium levels
surged from 4,200 bequerels to 64,000 bequerels to exceed safety
guidelines, Mayumi Yoshida, a Tepco spokeswoman, said today by
phone.  Bypass Plan  Safety limits covering sea water near the plant require
levels of strontium-90 to remain below 30 bequerels, while
tritium must stay below 60,000 bequerels. The company was
investigating why levels of one were rising while others
declined. Strontium-90 has been linked to bone cancer  Tepco needs local fishermen to approve their plan to pump
groundwater flowing toward the plant directly into the ocean.
The objective is to cut the quantity of water flooding reactor
building basements. Since the groundwater would pass through the
plant’s tank areas before entering the bypass system’s intake
wells, the tainted water could pose a contamination risk, Tepco
has said.  Beta radiation levels of 9,500 bequerels per liter were
found at a monitoring well yesterday near the plant’s No. 1
turbine building in a separate area of the plant from the tanks,
Tepco said today in a statement.  The newly dug well was tested as part of Tepco’s efforts to
find the source of contamination in water flooding a sub-drain
system designed to keep some groundwater out of reactor
basements, Yoshida said. The company hopes by March 2015 to
restore the system, which was damaged in the 2011 disaster, she
said.  With the bypass pipe and sub-drain system in operation, the
utility would be able to reduce the amount of groundwater
entering the reactor basements from 400 tons per day to about 50
tons, Yoshida said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  