-- Erdogan Says Ready to Die for Democracy as Turkey Protests Flare
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-09-12T12:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/erdogan-says-ready-to-die-for-democracy-as-turkey-protests-flare.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said he was ready to die to defend democracy and
attacked the main opposition party for inciting protesters,
after demonstrations flared up again throughout the country.  Protesters have fought with police in several cities since
a demonstrator was killed at a rally in the southern city of
Antakya against plans to build a highway through forest land in
Ankara. The unrest echoed the nationwide protests against
Erdogan’s government in June that led to at least five deaths
and hundreds of arrests amid a police crackdown.  Erdogan defended police tactics, which have again involved
widespread use of tear gas and plastic bullets. He said the
 Republican People’s Party  and its lawmakers have been
“provoking” young protesters to stir up chaos, and rejected
allegations that he’s a dictator, pointing to three election
victories and a revived economy.  The prime minister said his government would announce new
reforms next week, including measures to meet demands from the
Alevi religious minority  Erdogan also raised doubts over a Russian plan for Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to surrender its chemical arms, an
initiative that has been accepted by the U.S., which has put
military action against  Syria  on hold.  Turkey  had supported
strikes against Assad’s government and pledged to join any
international coalition against him.  Assad “must pay” for the more than 100,000 deaths in
Syria’s 2 1/2-year civil war, Erdogan said. He reaffirmed
support for military action, and said Turkey is “doubtful about
promises on chemical weapons.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  