-- Ernst & Young Ignored China Papers Request, Court Told
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-09-12T10:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ernst-young-ignored-china-papers-request-court-told.html
Ernst & Young Hua Ming, the
Beijing-based affiliate of the accounting firm, ignored a
request from Chinese authorities to produce audit papers from a
withdrawn  Hong Kong  initial public offering application, a
lawyer for the city’s regulator said in a court hearing today.  The Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, at the
request of its Hong Kong counterpart, asked Hua Ming in 2010 to
hand over the documents, lawyer Jat Sew Tong said in a Hong Kong
court. Hua Ming declined, Jat, who represents the Securities &
Futures Commission, said.  Ernst & Young Hong Kong resigned in March 2010 as the
auditor for Standard Water Ltd., a Chinese water treatment
company planning to list in the city, citing the discovery of
inconsistencies in documents. It says it can’t provide the
working papers to Hong Kong’s regulator because of mainland
legal restrictions.  “Ernst & Young clearly has the requested information in
their possession,” Jat said in court. “There is no excuse for
their non-compliance.”  The SFC is making banks criminally liable for false
statements in IPO documents and strengthening regulation after a
series of accounting scandals involving Chinese companies. It
said auditors must be able to discuss their working papers as
part of Hong Kong’s regulatory framework, and that its lawsuit
against Ernst & Young followed consultation with Chinese
authorities.  Hard Drives  The Hong Kong office of the accounting firm would have to
sue its mainland counterpart to obtain the documents, its lawyer
Benjamin Yu said today in court. Ernst & Young Hong Kong has
some computer hard drives that may contain relevant documents,
he said.  The auditor has not given them to the Hong Kong regulator
as the documents should not have been brought to the city in the
first place.  The CSRC did not immediately return a request for comment.  The lawyers delivered their final arguments today to
Justice Peter Ng Ka-fai, who will deliberate before making a
ruling.  China ’s legal restrictions from sharing audit papers also
led to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission case against
affiliates of international accounting firms. China agreed in
May to give the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
access to some documents.  The SEC last year accused affiliates of the world’s top
four auditing firms of withholding documents from investigators
probing potential fraud by China-based companies. Auditors that
don’t comply with the demands face temporary or permanent
deregistration in the U.S., meaning they wouldn’t be able to
audit U.S.-listed companies.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Ernst &
Young, HCMP1818/2012 in the Hong Kong Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  