-- EU Lawyers Say Bank Shutdown Fund Plan Needs Budget Safeguards
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-12T10:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/eu-lawyers-say-bank-shutdown-fund-plan-needs-budget-safeguards.html
A European Union plans to create a
common fund that could be tapped to stabilize failing banks
doesn’t have sufficient safeguards to protect national budgets,
lawyers for the bloc’s 28 member states said.  The fund, proposed by the European Commission as part of a
Single Resolution Mechanism for banks, could be permissible if
it’s “deemed to be indispensable” and “an adequate mechanism
to safeguard the budgetary sovereignty of member states is
introduced,” according to the legal service of the Council of
the European Union, which represents the executives of EU
countries.  EU finance ministers will discuss the Single Resolution
Mechanism, the proposed second element of a European banking
union, when they gather for a two-day meeting that starts
tomorrow in Vilnius,  Lithuania .  The meeting comes just over a week before German voters
choose their next chancellor. The government of German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has pushed back against the plan
advanced by Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief,
for a Single Resolution Mechanism to complement common bank
oversight by the European Central Bank.  The legal service’s Sept. 11 opinion, obtained by Bloomberg
News, stopped short of calling for changes to the bloc’s
governing treaties to establish the joint fund, a step  Germany 
says would be necessary.  Current treaties also allow the EU to create a Single
Resolution Mechanism, according to the opinion. This includes
giving powers to close a bank to the European Commission and a
new resolution board, the document states.  National Budgets  Barnier’s plan includes a 55 billion-euro ($73 billion)
fund for the resolution authority to draw on, which would be
financed by industry contributions and financial market
borrowing. The lawyers said those methods of financing would be
permissible, at the same time as they raised concerns that
national budgets could be overly liable if the fund isn’t full.  “The proposal does not contain a robust system to
guarantee the budgetary sovereignty of member states, notably
throughout the transitional period during which the target
funding level has to be achieved,” the legal opinion said.  Who decides when to close a bank -- and how to divvy up
losses -- is a central element of the banking union project EU
leaders started in June 2012 as a way to halt the euro area’s
financial crisis. EU nations have tapped the European Central
Bank to supervise all banks in the 17-nation euro area, an
oversight regime that will start with a thorough assessment of
bank balance sheets.  Balance-Sheet Review  ECB officials have warned that the EU must have a plan to
cover any shortfalls that emerge during the balance-sheet
review.  “Backstops need to be in place before the assessment has
begun,” ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said on Aug. 29.
“Put simply, if there are no backstops, there will be no
assessment.”  The EU lawyers’ analysis of the Single Resolution Mechanism
only tackles whether current treaties allow the resolution
system to be established. It says lawyers are working on a
separate analysis of whether EU legal precedent will allow the
proposed resolution board to take up all of the duties that
Barnier’s plan envisions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Vilnius at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Christie in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  