-- Europe Stocks Drop From Five-Year High on Industrial Data
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-12T16:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/europe-stock-futures-rise-stoxx-600-may-extend-2008-high.html
European stocks  slipped from the
highest level in more than five years as the region’s industrial
output contracted more than forecast.  Sanofi fell 2.6 percent after withdrawing a U.S.
application for a diabetes drug. Cie. Financiere  Richemont (CFR)  SA
dropped 2.3 percent as revenue missed analysts’ estimates.
Vivendi SA advanced 2.7 percent after saying it will begin a
formal study to separate its French phone unit from its media
businesses.  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME)  surged 5.4 percent to a two-year high as sales exceeded projections.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
310.74 at the close of trading, as four stocks declined for
every three that gained. The gauge climbed to the highest level
since June 2008 yesterday as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
postponed a decision on military action against  Syria . The
measure has soared 11 percent in 2013 as central banks around
the world maintained their stimulus programs.  “We may have moved from the stabilization phase in Europe,
but there’s still a lot of work to do,” said Michael Morris,
head of equities at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management in  London .
“The improving economic situation is not across the board and
there’s still areas of great concern, like unemployment.”  Euro-area  industrial output  contracted more than economists
forecast in July as manufacturers struggled to shake off the
legacy of a record-long recession. Factory production in the
region fell 1.5 percent from June, when it gained 0.6 percent,
the European Union’s statistics office said today. That’s more
than the 0.3 percent contraction forecast by economists,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Awful’ Figures  “Some awful EU industrial-production figures have
seriously hampered the European market’s ability to head
higher,” Alastair McCaig, a market analyst at IG in London,
wrote in e-mailed comments.  Still, international investors are gaining confidence in
the European economy and many see the region among the best to
invest, according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Forty
percent of the responding investors, analysts and traders who
are Bloomberg subscribers said the euro-area economy is
improving, more than four times the number in May. The European
Union offers one of the best investment opportunities for 34
percent of those polled, up from 18 percent in May and the most
since that question was first asked in October 2009.  Equity Valuations  The Stoxx 600 is trading at 14.2 times  projected earnings ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the highest valuation
since December 2009 and 21 percent more than the five-year
average of 11.7 times profit.  National benchmark indexes declined in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today.  Germany ’s  DAX (DAX)  and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
were little changed, while  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.3 percent.  Sanofi slid 2.6 percent to 72.32 euros in Paris. The
company withdrew the application for U.S. approval of an
experimental drug called lixisenatide in a delay to the
company’s effort to bolster sales of diabetes medicines in the
world’s biggest pharmaceutical market.  Zealand Pharma A/S, the Danish company that licensed the
drug to Sanofi, plunged 15 percent to 66 kroner, the biggest
drop in seven months.  Richemont declined 2.3 percent to 91.30 Swiss francs. The
world’s largest jewelry maker said revenue in the Asia-Pacific
region, its biggest market, rose 4 percent at constant exchange
rates in the five months through August as lower sales in  China 
offset growth in Hong Kong and Macau. That compared with growth
of 12 percent for the same period last year.  Total revenue rose 9 percent excluding currency shifts,
missing the 10 percent median estimate of 21 analysts gathered
by Bloomberg News.  EDF Stake  EDF SA, Europe’s biggest power generator, slipped 2.6
percent to 21.65 euros. Norges Bank, the second-largest
shareholder, sold 13 million shares at 21.50 euros each,
according to three people familiar with the deal.  Vivendi (VIV)  rose 2.7 percent to 17.15 euros. Music, pay-TV,
European cinema and Internet in  Brazil  will make up a new media
group based in France after the split with phone unit SFR,
according to a statement yesterday.  Home Retail gained 5.4 percent to 172.7 pence, its highest
price since June 2011. Same-store sales at its Homebase home-improvement business jumped 11 percent in the 13 weeks ended
Aug. 31, more than the 3 percent median of analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at its Argos unit rose 2.7 percent,
also exceeding the median forecast.  Bouygues Downgrade  Bouygues SA (EN) , the French building, telecommunications and
television company, surged 7.2 percent to 26.96 euros, the
highest close since November 2011. Credit Suisse Group AG
upgraded the shares to neutral, similar to a hold
recommendation, from underperform.  Swiss Prime Site AG added 3 percent to 69.75 francs. The
Swiss real-estate company predicted full-year earnings and
profit will increase from 2012, after saying in its March  annual
report  that both figures would be little changed in 2013.  The number of shares trading hands today in Stoxx 600-listed companies was 6.4 percent greater than the average of the
past 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  