-- European Trading at Seven-Year Low as Hedge Demand Drops
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-09-12T13:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/european-trading-at-seven-year-low-as-hedge-demand-drops.html
Options (SX5E)  trading on European shares
is falling to a seven-year low as declines in equity volume
reduce the need for investors to hedge.  About 858,600 contracts on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index changed
hands each day on average this year, on track for the slowest
year since 2006, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Options
trading is down 22 percent from 2012 as the region’s shares
lagged behind equity-market gains in the U.S. and  Japan .  While  Europe  is emerging from the sovereign-debt crisis,
the longest-ever recession and rising joblessness in the region
has hurt  stock trading , with the gauge of the 50 biggest euro-area companies poised for its slowest year since 2005.
Regulatory changes have made options trading less appealing,
according to  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives research at New
York-based Tabb Group LLC.  “There hasn’t been a great conviction on a strong European
rally,” said Alvise Munari, Morgan Stanley’s global head of
equity derivatives distribution and financial engineering in
 London . “There would have to be a catalyst, either a correction
or a significant acceleration of the feeling that there is a
recovery under way for this to change.”  The  European Central Bank  forecasts a 0.4 percent
contraction in the economy this year before the region returns
to growth in 2014. The Euro Stoxx 50 is up 8.6 percent in 2013,
compared with an 18 percent surge in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 38 percent gain in the Topix.  Trading Volume  A daily average of  $15 billion  in shares have traded during
2012 and 2013 in  Germany , the U.K. and  France , Europe’s three
largest equity markets. That’s the lowest level ever, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2003. The number of
Euro Stoxx 50 shares changing hands has dropped 18 percent this
year to 715 million on average, according to the data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The strength of the  U.S. economy  and its liquid markets are
causing global investors to prefer trading  stock options  on
American companies over European ones, Tabb’s Nybo said. Trading
of S&P 500 contracts has  jumped  17 percent to about 823,000 this
year, the most ever, data on average daily volume compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The European economies are a little bit slower to emerge
from this recession,” Nybo said Sept. 9 by phone. “There’s a
lot of moving parts in Europe. There’s a lot of different
regulatory initiatives that impact how, why and where
derivatives are traded.”  Hedging Volatility  Mark Harris, who helps oversee $1.1 billion as a fund
manager at City Financial in London, said he’s using options to
protect against volatility and potential equity losses. He said
he’s looking for signs of strength in  China’s economy  and more
details on the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to reduce bond purchases
before becoming more confident.  “We haven’t seen a correction for a long time,” Harris
said on Sept. 9. “I’m trying to hedge some of that volatility.
I need more confidence on what policy will look like.”  Executing an options trade is more expensive in Europe
because there is no centralized clearinghouse for equity
derivatives. Deutsche Boerse AG’s Eurex and Liffe of NYSE
Euronext are the two biggest equity-derivatives exchanges in
Europe and both have their own separate clearinghouses. The
Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp. guarantees trades in U.S.
options and futures.  ‘More Competitive’  “We have the OCC and central clearing in the U.S., so the
fact that they are fungible also means the market is more
competitive,”  Eric Noll , who heads  Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc.’s
transaction services in the U.S., said in a phone interview.
“There is a concerted effort for the industry to educate the
public, so over time that’s had a substantial impact.”  A total of 11 European Union states have agreed to a
financial-transaction tax, known as the FTT. Stock and bond
trades would be taxed at a rate of 0.1 percent and derivatives
at 0.01 percent with some exemptions for primary-market sales
and trades with the ECB.  EU lawyers are clashing over whether the proposed tax is
legal under governing treaties. The final shape of the tax and
the way it will be imposed remain to be decided.  “Clearly, the FTT affected volumes,” Alan Grigoletto,
vice president of education for the Chicago-based Options
Industry Council, said in a phone interview. To have more
options trading in Europe, “you are going to have to see a
reduction in the punitive taxes that have been placed on the
financial community, and also education,” he said.  European Growth  Nasdaq is betting equity derivatives will drive profit in
Europe as greater transparency draws in more investors. The
exchange operator bought a 25 percent stake last year in cash
equity and equity derivatives trading venue The Order Machine,
or TOM. The Dutch company said on Aug. 15 that it processed its
10 millionth contract.  “There will be growth in Europe,” Ed Provost, the
president of Chicago-based CBOE Holdings Inc., said in a phone
interview. “It’s the second-most advanced area in terms of the
use of options. There is definitely demand.”  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of Euro Stoxx 50
derivatives, fell 4.6 percent to 18.43 yesterday, leaving it 5.5
percent below the average for the past year. The gauge has
 slumped 21 percent  since reaching a two-month high on Aug. 30.
It gained 0.1 percent to 18.45 at 3:53 p.m. in  Frankfurt  today.
In the U.S., the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index
of S&P 500 options prices climbed 1 percent to 13.96.  “Investors have gone out of equities and have not come
back yet,” Lex Van Dam, a  fund manager  who oversees $500
million at Hampstead Capital LLP in London, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Volatility keeps going down. It is
getting to buy territory, but we’re not buying.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in London at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  