-- Euro-Area Industrial Output Declines More Than Forecast
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-09-12T10:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/euro-area-industrial-output-drops-more-than-economists-forecast.html
Euro-area industrial output
contracted more than economists forecast in July as
manufacturers struggled to shake off the legacy of a  record-long
recession .  Factory production  in the 17-nation euro area fell 1.5
percent from June, when it gained 0.6 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. That’s more
than the 0.3 percent contraction forecast by economists,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg News
survey. (EUITEMUM)  In the year, output fell 2.1 percent.  The euro-area economy’s  return to growth  in the second
quarter from its longest-ever recession has been restrained by
 record unemployment  and  inflation  has remained below the
 European Central Bank ’s 2 percent ceiling for seven months. That
may help to explain why economists in a Bloomberg News survey
see growth slowing to 0.1 percent in the third quarter after a
0.3 percent expansion in the three months through June.  The industrial-output “data call into question the
region’s recovery,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at
 Markit Economics  in London. “There is clearly a risk that GDP
could contract again in the third quarter, as some of this
second-quarter growth proves to have been only temporary.”  Five-Year High  The euro declined against the  U.S. dollar  on the data and
traded at $1.3289 at 11:01 a.m. in London, down 0.2 percent on
the day. European stocks fell from a five-year high, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropping 0.4 percent to 309.69.  Production in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, declined
2.3 percent in July after a 2.2 percent gain in June, today’s
report showed. Output in  France  fell 0.6 percent, while Italian
industrial  production  unexpectedly declined 1.1 percent,
signaling that the euro area’s third-biggest economy may still
be stuck in its longest recession since World War II.  Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Co., the two largest U.S.
automakers, are working to end losses in  Europe  as the industry
weathers a six-year decline in the region’s auto market.
European car sales fell 6.7 percent in the first half to 6.44
million vehicles, according to the Brussels-based ACEA industry
group.  Ford expects its European unit to turn a full-year profit
in 2015, the automaker’s regional chief said this week, while GM
said it expects to break even there a year later.  International Investors  At the same time, international investors are expressing
renewed faith in the European economy, according to the latest
Bloomberg Global Poll. Forty percent of the responding
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers
said the euro-area economy is improving, more than four times
the number in May and a signal that the bloc’s debt crisis is
ending.  Still,  record unemployment  is proving resistant to the
improving outlook. The euro-area  jobless rate  remained at a
record 12.1 percent in July and analysts forecast that it won’t
drop below 12 percent through 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  