-- Exxon Says S. African Oil-Law Changes to Deter Investment
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-09-12T16:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/exxon-says-s-african-oil-law-changes-to-deter-investment.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuel from coal, urged South Africa to say what size stakes
it plans to take in new energy ventures under proposed changes
to the law as a way to reduce industry opposition.  Parliament’s mineral resources committee is holding public
hearings into amendments that would give the state a holding in
new  oil  and gas projects, a plan that has drawn opposition from
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   “We don’t know what the percentage is,” Johan Thyse,
Sasol’s head of public policy and regulatory affairs, told
lawmakers today in Cape Town. Concerns may be “easily
remedied” by spelling out the maximum stake, he said.  The country imports 70 percent of its oil needs, with the
rest produced by processing coal and gas. Shell will soon decide
on whether to invest 4 billion rand ($400 million) to 5 billion
rand in  South Africa  and is concerned about the proposed changes
to the regulatory regime, Jan Willem Eggink, general manager for
upstream operations in South Africa, told lawmakers.  Shell’s plans include drilling an offshore exploratory well
in the Orange Basin off the country’s west coast, and onshore
drilling for shale gas in the southern Karoo region.  “We need certainty today on what the rules of the game
are,” Eggink said. “We need a fair return on investment.”  The chance of commercial success for exploration projects
is about 10 percent to 30 percent and risks and rewards should
be shared among all participants, Thyse said. Companies spend
typically $10 million to $30 million on offshore seismic data
and $50 million to $100 million on exploration drilling, and
should be able to recoup some of that from the state, he said.  The government’s proposed amendments are to South Africa’s
2002 Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  