-- Fed Bank Presidents Urge SEC to Broaden Money-Fund Plan
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   J a m e s   T y s o n
-- 2013-09-12T21:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/fed-bank-presidents-urge-sec-to-broaden-money-fund-plan.html
The presidents of all 12 Federal
Reserve regional banks urged the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to extend its proposed rules for money-market mutual
funds to a bigger chunk of the industry’s $2.6 trillion in
assets.  All money funds that buy corporate debt, not just those
that cater to institutional investors, should abandon their
fixed $1 share price, the regional Fed presidents said today in
a joint  letter  to the SEC. The 12 objected to a second part of
the plan, also put forward by the commission on June 5, that
would allow funds to halt redemptions and impose withdrawal fees
during times of stress.  “We agree with the SEC’s position that a floating NAV
requirement, if properly implemented, could recalibrate
investors’ perceptions of the risks inherent in a fund by making
gains and losses a more regularly observable occurrence,” the
bank presidents said in the letter.  The SEC’s proposals are aimed at preventing a recurrence of
the run on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets
in September 2008. The panic was triggered by the closure of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, whose net asset value, or
NAV, dropped below $1 a share on losses from debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., becoming the second fund ever to
break the buck.  ‘Structural Incentive’  The SEC’s proposal for a floating share price would apply
to about $960 billion in institutional funds that buy corporate
debt, known as prime funds, and $79 billion in institutional
funds focused on municipal debt, as they are currently
categorized by the industry, according to data compiled by fund
research firm iMoneyNet in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Extending
the rule to prime retail funds would add about $517 billion.  The regional presidents said “a structural incentive”
remains for retail investors to flee money funds in times of
stress.  “While retail investors did not en masse act on this
incentive during the crisis, it seems imprudent to assume that
their behavior in the future will be the same as in the past,”
they said in the letter.  They said the commission’s plan to allow withdrawal
restrictions and fees may encourage investors to flee before a
fund breaches the trigger point for such restrictions.  ‘Meaningful Reform’  “The liquidity fees and temporary redemption gates
alternative does not constitute meaningful reform,” they wrote.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  urged the SEC in its own comment
letter both to enact a floating NAV for prime institutional
funds and allow funds to halt redemptions and impose withdrawal
fees during times of stress.  “Nothing short of eliminating the product will eliminate
the risk of runs,” Marie Chandoha, president of Schwab’s
investment management unit, said in a conference call with
reporters. “But we do think there are solutions that diminish
the possibility.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, also
filed a comment letter today arguing that a floating NAV
wouldn’t discourage investor runs. While the company stopped
short of calling on commissioners to drop the plan, it asked the
SEC to reconsider how it would apply the rule.  Withdrawal Limits  The SEC plan would define as institutional any fund that
allowed shareholders to withdraw more than $1 million a day.
Schwab called on the commission to raise that limit to $5
million. BlackRock said retail funds should be limited to
investors with a social security number, and those within
participant-directed  retirement plans .  New York-based BlackRock and San Francisco-based Schwab
agreed in urging the SEC to allow all municipal funds to retain
a constant share price. BlackRock backed the idea of withdrawal
gates and fees as long as they were not applied in conjunction
with a floating share price.  Pittsburgh-based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) , the third-biggest U.S. money fund manager, said it opposed the SEC’s
floating NAV proposal and supported the plan for redemption
restrictions and fees.  “Federated believes MMFs do not require dramatic
regulatory change that would restructure the product and
undermine its utility for investors,” John D. Hawke Jr., an
attorney at Arnold & Porter LLP in  Washington , wrote on behalf
of the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James L Tyson in Washington at 
 jtyson@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  