-- Fed to Blame for One-Way Global Rate Increases: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/fed-to-blame-for-one-way-global-rate-increases-cutting-research.html
The U.S.’s heft in the world
economy means its monetary policy can send shock waves abroad.  That’s the conclusion of a Sept. 5 analysis by economists
Nathan Sheets and Robert A. Sockin of Citigroup Inc., who seek
to explain why long-term bond yields have risen across countries
as the  Federal Reserve  signaled it may withdraw stimulus -- even
as counterparts elsewhere pledge to keep policy loose.  The increase is driven by the U.S.’s “special role” in
the world economy, meaning that the eventual tightening of Fed
monetary policy will have significant implications for global
growth, the authors said.  “The role of the United States may be diminished relative
to a decade or two ago, but it is clearly still significant,”
they wrote.  They found that the linkages only work one way: Events in
the U.S. tend to influence growth and inflation in the euro
area, the U.K. and key  emerging markets . Those central banks
then have to respond. The  U.S. economy , by contrast, is less
responsive to developments elsewhere.  A 100-basis-point tightening in U.S. policy translates over
two quarters into a rise of as much as 25 basis points in the
euro region and U.K., Sheets and Sockin estimated.  The lesson for the Fed’s counterparts is that once the U.S.
does pull back on monetary support, they may need to deploy
policies to shield themselves. One example is using so-called
forward guidance to signal benchmark rates will stay low.  The worry is, “these tools strike us as limited and
imperfect,” the Citigroup economists said.  * * *  The world economy is passing from an age of commodities to
an age of  consumer durables , according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  Looking across 44 nations over 40 years, Goldman Sachs
economists led by New York-based Dominic Wilson found the growth
rate of commodity spending has peaked and is likely to decline.  As economies such as  China  become richer, there will
instead be a jump in global demand for high-end durable goods,
they said. For the so-called BRIC economies of  Brazil ,  Russia ,
 India  and China, the peak in demand for such products will come
in the next decade, said Goldman Sachs.  The projections of the Sept. 9 report are for emerging-market purchases of durables and services to outstrip those of
developed countries by 2040. By then the service markets of
developing nations will be bigger than those of all developed
nations put together. Emerging-market demand for consumer
durables will reach a similar point by 2030.  * * *  The most transparent central banks as of 2010 were those of
 Sweden ,  New Zealand  and Hungary, according to a review of 120
monetary policy institutions.  In the study, published this month by South Korea’s central
bank, economists N. Nergiz Dincer of Turkey’s State Planning
Organization and  Barry Eichengreen  of the  University of
California , Berkeley, reported a “steady movement in the
direction of greater transparency and independence” since 1998.  They found pursuing both can help control inflation. The
Czech National Bank, the  Bank of England  and the  Bank of Israel 
also won high marks.  Sweden’s Riksbank scored 14.5 out of 15 on the grade for
transparency, ahead of the 11 given to the Federal Reserve.  The six least transparent central banks were those of
Angola,  Aruba ,  Bermuda , the Cayman Islands, Libya and Tonga.  In a separate report released yesterday, Barclays Plc
reported 83 percent of investors have a high level of
satisfaction with how the Fed communicated, although half said
the need for more unorthodox actions had affected its ability to
inform the financial markets.  * * *  Banks may be robbing other industries of skilled workers,
according to a study by the Dutch central bank.  Using a  sample  of 13 mostly European countries from 1980 to
2005, economist Christiane Kneer found the liberalization of
financial services resulted in an upgrading of talents in that
sector.  Her research suggested that the employment of skilled
individuals grew disproportionately slower in skill-intensive
industries than in other sectors after the financial reforms had
taken place.  Kneer also found loosening regulation on the finance
industry decreases  labor productivity  in industries relying on
skilled labor as their talented workers head into banking.  “This is consistent with the idea that financial
liberalization hurts non-financial sectors via a brain-drain
effect,” she said.  * * *  Chief executive officers manage differently if they are
running companies with family involvement.  Using a survey of 800 bosses in 22 emerging economies,
William Mullins and Antoinette Schoar of the  MIT Sloan School of
Management   found  those with greater family participation have
more hierarchical management. They tend to feel more accountable
to stakeholders, such as employees, than to shareholders.  They also aim to maintain the status quo rather than
deliver change, the economists said in a working paper published
this week by the  National Bureau for Economic Research .  In contrast, those CEOs whose firm is not based around a
family focus on maximizing  shareholder value , Mullins and Schoar
said.  * * *  Monkeys may show that stock traders have the right
instincts.  A study published this week found evidence of increased
risk-taking among  macaque monkeys  that is very similar to the
choices made by humans, providing insight into our evolutionary
behavior.  The  researchers  used water intake as a measure of monkey
wealth. The “richer” monkeys, the ones that got more water,
were the ones more willing to choose the riskier tasks to obtain
it, while the monkeys taking the safer options had to settle for
less water.  “Just like humans, monkeys are able to select objectively
better options from a menu of choices,” co-author Agnieszka
Tymula of the  University of Sydney  said in a statement
accompanying the report’s release. “If there is an alternative
that offers better outcomes in all circumstances, they will go
for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  