-- First Kashagan Crude Cargo to Load From Caspian
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-09-12T15:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/first-kashagan-crude-cargo-to-load-from-caspian.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  will load the
first cargo of Kashagan crude at the end of October from the CPC
Black Sea terminal, according to a loading program obtained by
Bloomberg and two traders with knowledge of the project.  The 93,500 metric ton shipment will be shared between Exxon
Mobil and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , according to the program. This
will be the first time that crude from the Kashagan oil field in
Kazakh waters is exported via the Caspian Pipeline Consortium
terminal, the traders said, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Kashagan, slated to produce as much as 370,000 barrels a
day during its first phase, has been pushed back several times
from its original 2005 start date. Costs of the project in
 Kazakhstan  reached $48 billion, more than double early
estimates. The addition of sweet, or low-sulfur, crude may bring
some relief to European refiners facing rising feedstock costs
amid halts of exports from Libya and North Sea field outages.  “CPC is decent quality light crude, better than Kirkuk and
similar to Libyan grades,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , global
commodities strategist at VTB Capital in  London . In the long run
it will certainly “add some competition in the Med basin,
however it will take years for maximum capacity, and the short
term market impact will be limited.”  Exxon Mobil didn’t immediately reply to a phone call and an
e-mail seeking comment. Hans Wenck, a spokesman for operator
North Caspian Operating Co. in Astana, Kazakhstan, said he
couldn’t confirm the Exxon allocation. The CPC pipeline is one
of two ways for Kashagan oil to be exported, the other being the
KazTransOil link which ends in Samara,  Russia , Wenck said.  First Oil  Kashagan produced first oil yesterday, eight years behind
schedule, NCOC said in an e-mailed statement. Exxon, Shell,
Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  each holds 16.81 percent in the project.
Japan’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  owns 7.56 percent. State-owned KazMunaiGaz
National Co. retains 16.88 percent.  CPC, operator of the only oil-export link in Russia that
has shared foreign ownership, will keep daily October crude
exports from the Black Sea next month at 659,197 barrels a day,
little changed from 664,724 barrels a day in September. Loadings
will be the lowest since March.  The preliminary October program comprises nine cargoes of
134,000 to 135,500 tons each and 17 consignments of 85,000 to
93,500 tons, according to the document.  The CPC pipeline, in which  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is the biggest
corporate shareholder with a 15 percent stake, carries crude
from Kazakhstan’s western fields to a terminal near Russia’s
Novorossiysk port on the  Black Sea . Russia owns 31 percent of
and Kazakhstan 21 percent. Exxon, OAO Lukoil and a joint venture
between OAO Rosneft and Shell are among the other shareholders.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  