-- Forint Extends Losses on Hungary Rate Cut Bets: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-09-12T14:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/forint-extends-losses-on-hungary-rate-cut-bets-budapest-mover.html
The forint fell for a second day
after  Hungary ’s central bank governor Gyorgy Matolcsy said low
inflation expanded scope for further  interest-rate  cuts.  The currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 300.63 per euro by
3:04 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest drop among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the South African rand and
the Mexican peso. Yields on Hungary’s five-year notes increased
for the first time in five days, rising five basis points to
5.72 percent.  Hungary’s “favorable” inflation environment is
“expanding, not narrowing” room to lower official borrowing
costs, Matolcsy told reporters yesterday. The forint has
weakened 2.1 percent this quarter as policy makers reduced rates
to a record-low 3.8 percent in August, when inflation declined
to a 39-year-low 1.3 percent last month.  “The forint’s outlook isn’t very rosy,” Karoly Bamli, a
currencies trader at Commerzbank AG in Budapest, said by e-mail
today. “We won’t see the forint firmly stronger than 300 per
euro in the near future.”  Forward-rate agreements for three-month interest in three
months declined eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
3.33 percent, extending a seven basis point drop yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts trade 42
basis points below the  Budapest interbank offered rate ,
signaling bets on this amount of cuts in the next three months.  Lower Rates  The central bank may lower rates by more than currently
estimated, or cut in larger steps, Commerzbank’s Bamli said.
Policy makers cut their benchmark by 0.2 percent last month,
while the median forecast from a Bloomberg survey of analysts
called for a 0.1 percent reduction.  The central bank has no target for the forint’s exchange
rate, nor for its main interest rate, Matolcsy said yesterday.
Hungary’s interest rates hinge on the inflation outlook and the
Monetary Council decides on further rate cuts if the 3 percent
inflation target looks attainable, central bank Director Marton Nagy said in an interview with M1 public television today.  Uncertainty over Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s plans to
phase-out foreign-currency mortgages and the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s pledge to stop bond purchases have also dented the
forint’s allure in past weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  