-- Former Hong Kong Anti-Graft Head Faulted for Liquor-Fueled Meals
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-09-12T09:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/former-hong-kong-anti-graft-head-faulted-for-liquor-fueled-meals.html
Hong Kong’s former anti-corruption
head Timothy Tong breached spending limits on entertainment by
hosting lavish meals and traveling without approval, a
government-appointed panel found.  Tong, who headed the Independent Commission Against
Corruption until June 2012, exceeded the budget for more than a
third of the 206 lunches and dinners he hosted,  the panel  said
in a report today. He also began serving the Chinese hard liquor
Maotai in functions during his five-year term, it said.  The report may further stoke public discontent with
government officials and politicians after former Chief
Executive Donald Tsang was criticized for taking trips on the
private jets of tycoon friends and some lawmakers accepted free
travel from Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  “The former commissioner should have ensured that
entertainments hosted by the ICAC adhered strictly to the
principle of frugality, instead of frequently exceeding the
ceilings himself,” the panel said. “Public officers should
always be prudent when using public funds.”  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying ordered the
review after audit documents showed records of Tong’s expenses,
including a HK$4,140 ($534) tiger-shape ornament. Part of the
report is censored as the anti-corruption commission pursues an
investigation against its former boss.  Expensive Meals  Some of the meals Tong approved were “very expensive,”
according to the report. By comparison, less than 2 percent of
the meals hosted by other officials at the anti-corruption
commission exceeded spending limits, the panel said.  On two trips to  China , Tong visited additional cities
without approval, according to the report. The practice of
serving hard liquor also led to public concern over whether
officials should discuss matters while under the influence of
alcohol, the panel said.  Last year, Tong was given Hong Kong’s Gold Bauhinia Star
award for 39 years of government service. Before taking over the
ICAC, he was commissioner of customs and excise and deputy
secretary of security.  Set up in 1974, the ICAC is credited with tackling
corruption that had been rampant in the former British colony.
To ensure its independence, the commissioner reports directly to
the city’s chief executive.  The anti-graft agency pursued a number of high-profile
cases under Tong, including the arrest of former Chief Secretary
Rafael Hui in March 2012. Hui and the co-chairmen of  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Thomas and Raymond Kwok, have pleaded not
guilty to corruption charges in that case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  