-- Fortress Said to Hire BofA's Mortgage Chief Nierenberg
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-09-12T17:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/fortress-said-to-hire-bofa-s-mortgage-chief-nierenberg.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  hired
Michael Nierenberg,  Bank of America Corp. ’s head of global
mortgages and securitized products, as a senior executive in its
private-equity business, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter.  Nierenberg is joining New York-based Fortress to focus on
residential mortgages, real estate investment trusts and
property-related holdings such as Springleaf Finance Corp. and
 Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the hire wasn’t publicly announced.
Nierenberg knows Fortress co-founder Wes Edens, who runs the
company’s private-equity unit, from when they worked at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., the person said.  Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman, declined to comment.
The Wall Street Journal reported Nierenberg’s move yesterday.  Fortress, the first publicly traded private-equity and
hedge-fund manager in the U.S., has expanded its investments in
financial services with mortgage servicers such as Springleaf
and Nationstar. Lewisville, Texas-based Nationstar increased its
servicing portfolio by 94 percent last year to $198 billion
through asset purchases, including from a unit of  Lehman
Brothers , and bought $215 billion of contracts from Bank of
America earlier this year.  Financial-services investments “were the stars,” Edens
said on a call last month discussing second-quarter earnings.
“All the U.S. companies -- so Springleaf, Nationstar, CW --
they all had a terrific year, and they have, we think, a lot of
room to continue to grow.” CW refers to CW Financial Services
LLC.  Bank of America named James DeMare as Nierenberg’s
replacement, reporting to David Sobotka, head of global fixed-income, currency and commodities trading, according to an
internal memo from the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank.
DeMare was head of mortgages and securitized products for the
Americas, according to the memo, a copy of which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  