-- Futura in Talks to Get Erection-Boosting Condom in China
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-09-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/futura-in-talks-to-get-erection-boosting-condom-in-china-brazil.html
Futura Medical Plc (FUM)  is in talks to
pair the U.K. company’s erection-boosting gel with condoms for
sale in markets including China and  Brazil .  Executives have met with counterparts at seven condom
brands in Asia and other  emerging markets  as part of a plan to
grab as much as a “mid-teens” percentage of the $4 billion
global condom market, Chief Executive Officer James Barder said
in an interview yesterday. The deals will probably be announced
in the next year.  The unprofitable Guildford, England-based company this year
teamed with  Church & Dwight Co. (CHD)  to sell condoms with Futura’s
Zanifil gel in  North America  and in some European countries. The
partners will be able to charge as much as double the price of
regular condoms when they arrive in those markets early next
year, Barder said.  The CSD500 condom contains Futura’s Zanifil gel and is
designed to produce firmer, larger and longer-lasting erections.
Dubbed “Viagra in a condom,” the product may have wider
implications for public health, especially in markets where
sexually transmitted infections are high, Barder said. Condom
use causes erection loss in about 30 percent of men, so the
product may win over those who would otherwise refuse to wear
them, he said.  “Maximum hardness is not just a sexual enhancement
issue,” Barder said. “The health-care aspect has been
overshadowed by the benefit of sexual enhancement.”  Middle East  Futura shares fell 7.5 percent to close at 74 pence
yesterday in London trading. The stock has gained 27 percent
this year.  Futura yesterday announced a partnership with an unnamed
firm to sell the condoms in  Middle East  and North African
countries and this week won backing to sell the product in most
countries in  Europe . Barder said the global condom market is
growing as much as 7 percent a year and Futura has “another
half of the world to go yet.”  While Futura has been approached by two or three potential
suitors, Barder said he wants to reach profitability before
considering a potential sale. He declined to name the suitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  