-- German Rents Fall in August Halting Rally
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-09-12T16:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/german-rents-fall-in-august-halting-rally.html
Advertised rents in three of
Germany’s five largest cities fell in August, indicating
extended rallies in the country’s urban areas may be stalling,
according to online broker  Immobilien Scout GmbH .  Offered rents in Hamburg dropped by 0.6 percent in August
from July, and in Cologne they fell by 0.4 percent, the second-consecutive drop for both cities. Munich fell 0.3 percent, its
third decline in a row, while rents in  Frankfurt  were unchanged.
Berlin was the only city among Germany’s five largest where
rents rose.  “Whether this trend turns into a lasting development
remains to be seen,” Michael Kiefer, Immobilien Scout’s head of
valuations, said in a  statement . “There seems to be a change of
direction in some of the big cities.”  Berlin’s offered rents rose 0.4 percent in August from
July, bucking the trend because rents there are still low
compared with other cities, Kiefer said.  Housing costs in  Germany ’s largest cities have jumped in
the past five years as young people move to areas where jobs are
easier to find and construction fails to keep up with demand.
Legislators are tightening rent regulations and politicians are
promising to introduce rules to keep rents and prices in check.  State governments in cities including Hamburg, Berlin and
Munich plan to prohibit increasing rents by more than 15 percent
in certain neighborhoods over a three-year period, officials
said in April. The initiative follows passage of a national law
in December that makes it easier for cities that face a housing
shortage to cap rents.  Advertised rents in Germany’s five largest cities have
gained about 12 percent in the past five years, according to
Immobilien Scout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  