-- GM’s Hershey-Rivaling Large SUVs Get Better Interiors
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-09-12T20:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/gm-says-critical-large-suvs-will-achieve-better-mileage.html
To understand why John Keefe of  Red
Bank , New Jersey, who owns a Chevrolet Tahoe sport-utility
vehicle, is so important to  General Motors Co. (GM) , consider this:  While the four large Chevrolet and GMC SUVs made up less
than 6.5 percent of GM’s U.S. vehicle deliveries last year,
their combined sales are the equivalent of a Fortune 400
company, with more revenue than  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,  Ralph Lauren
Corp. (RL) , Hershey Co. or  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)   The vehicles have average transaction prices greater than
the averages of BMW, Audi and Lexus. The average household
income of a Suburban buyer is $135,000 while it’s $182,000 for
the largest Yukon XL Denali, according to GM. So as it prepared
to redesign its large SUVs -- a segment that has lost much of
its luster over the past decade -- it had to make sure to keep
Keefe in mind as he considers whether to buy another Tahoe.  Keefe is holding off on buying a new one to see what’s
different, he said, noting that his only complaints about his
current SUV are the lack of a flat-folding third row and the
 fuel efficiency . “I see the Corvette’s getting 30-some miles-to-the gallon,” he said of the redesigned Chevy sports car now
getting 29 mpg in highway driving. “I think they’ve got to be
able to tweak this a little bit.”  The  automaker , based in  Detroit , today revealed the
redesigned 2015 versions of the Tahoe and Suburban during a
presentation in New York and a new GMC Yukon in  Los Angeles . The
SUVs, which are slated to arrive in U.S. showrooms during the
first quarter, have more leg room, fold-flat second- and third-row seats and greater luxuries.  GM rose less than 0.1 percent to $36.37 at the close in New
York. The shares have surged 26 percent this year, outpacing the
18 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Still Important  “They’re quite profitable,” Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann told reporters today in New York, referring to the big
SUVs. “What we’re obviously doing is meeting a customer demand.
This is a quarter-of-a-million unit market here in the U.S.,
this is what customers are looking for.”  While the large SUV’s heyday is over, it’s still an
important segment for Detroit automakers, especially GM. The big
SUV has become a niche vehicle for certain lifestyles, said
Jeremy Acevedo, an analyst with  Santa Monica , California-based
Edmunds.com.  “GM’s done a great job maintaining market share in the
segment; the problem is that it just seems like these days it’s
going to be a limited segment no matter what they do,” Acevedo
said. “What they can do is vie for even more market share
within the segment but I don’t know about it growing on its
own.”  ‘Absolutely Concerned’  GM has never had a stronger -- and more profitable --
lineup across the board than now, with solid offerings even
among small cars such as the Chevy Spark. Still, the large-SUV
segment is particularly profitable. The average transaction
price for Chevy and GMC large SUVs is $52,587, according to
Edmunds, which tracks vehicle sales.  “These customers are absolutely concerned about fuel
economy, the changing market, watching their income during the
recession,” Maria Rohrer, marketing director of Chevy’s large
SUVs, said in an interview. “But when it really comes down to
it, and they have the means for it, they have to have the space
and that outweighs a lot of things.”  The combined segment market share of Chevy and GMC large
SUVs in the U.S. rose to 61 percent this year through July
compared with 58 percent in 2004, according to Edmunds.  Ford
Motor Co. (F) ’s large SUV market share fell to 11 percent this year
compared with 18 percent during all of 2004.  ‘Fairly Significant’  GM’s large SUVs are built on the same underbody as the
Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups, benefiting from
advances made in those vehicles’ powertrains this year. Both
pickups were redesigned in 2013.  The new 2014 Silverado with a 5.3-liter V-8 engine and two-wheel drive gets  23 miles  (37 kilometers) per gallon in highway
driving, the automaker said earlier this year. That’s a 2-mile-per-gallon improvement compared with the  2013  V-8 5.3-liter
engine, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
 website .  With the SUVs, GM is looking for “a fairly significant
improvement,” Jeff Luke, executive chief engineer, told
reporters before the  New York  event. He declined to predict the
vehicles’ mileage ratings.  Loaded Up  The SUVs will be loaded up with a list of safety features
typically found in luxury cars, including forward collision
alert, lane departure warning, and front- and rear-collision
mitigation braking. Other improvements include 2 inches (5.1
centimeters) more leg room in the second row, a quieter
interior, an 8-inch color touchscreen, six power outlets and a
rear-seat entertainment system.  “It handles a very specific need,” Rohrer said.  Even with the updates, it’s unlikely that the large SUV
market will return to its glory days when gasoline was cheap.
U.S. sales of Chevy and GMC large SUVs peaked in 2001 with
505,155 deliveries, according to GM.  Large SUVs comprised 4.7 percent of the new vehicle sales
in 2001 in the U.S. at a time when the average gallon of regular
gasoline cost $1.38, Edmunds said.  Things have changed as fuel costs increased. Large SUVs
fell to 1.9 percent of the market last year, according to
Edmunds. GM’s sales slid to 168,265 last year, a far cry from a
decade earlier when Chevy and GMC sold about 67,000 large SUVs
in August alone.  Eager GM  While unit sales of the large SUVs have plunged, GM has
been able to charge more for them. The average transaction price
for Chevy and GMC large SUVs rose 37 percent from 2002 when the
average was $38,358, according to Edmunds. GM’s average
transaction price this year through August exceeds the average
for Audi, BMW and Lexus brands, Edmunds said. It’s $3,583 more
than the average transaction price for the industry’s large SUVs
and $21,264 more than the total industry.  That’s why GM is so eager to keep its big SUV business.
Even with a smaller market, GM remains confident customers still
need for space for several passengers, cargo and towing
capacity, said Tony DiSalle, head of GMC marketing.  “Those needs are there,” he said. “These are relatively
affluent people and their needs would indicate that something
like this would continue to be very appealing.”  The Tahoe’s high-ground clearance and space for his three
sons, who range in age from 7 to 14, plus all of their sports
gear has made it the go-to vehicle for his family, said Keefe,
47, the Tahoe owner in  New Jersey  who’s a lawyer.  “I’m a fan of it, more so than I thought when I first got
it,” Keefe said this week in a telephone interview. “We’ve
taken it everywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  