-- Gol Considers More Capacity Cuts in 2014 as Costs Rise
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-12T15:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/gol-considers-more-capacity-cuts-in-2014-as-costs-rise.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL3) 
may trim seating capacity further in 2014 to stem losses amid
rising costs for fuel and stagnant travel demand, the Brazilian
carrier’s chief executive officer said.  “There is the possibility that we will cut capacity,” CEO
Paulo Sergio Kakinoff said in an interview yesterday in Sao
Paulo. “But we see absolutely no reason and have no plan to cut
jobs in the short and mid-term.” Gol  reduced its workforce  by
13 percent in the first half from a year earlier.  A 2014 pullback would build on a plan to chop 9 percent of
available seats this year as Gol heads toward a third  annual
loss , pinched by the weakening of  Brazil ’s real against the
dollar, the basis for fuel pricing. Shrinking operations helped
Sao Paulo-based Gol boost a benchmark revenue gauge by the most
in two years in July.  Gol’s long-term, 146-jet purchase agreement with  Boeing Co. (BA) 
and relationship with lessors, to which it can return old
planes, gives it the flexibility to adjust capacity by as much
as 10 percent a year, Kakinoff said. The decision, made on a
monthly basis, must be taken 12 months in advance.  “The problem is that unfortunately, one year makes a huge
difference,” said Bianca Faiwichow, an analyst at GBM Brasil
Dtvm, who recommends buying Gol shares. “The dollar in January
is nowhere near where it is now.”  Currency Drag  The real slid 9.8 percent against the dollar this year
through yesterday, the fourth-worst performance among 16 major
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel accounted for 41 percent of Gol’s second-quarter
operating expenses, the most among 16 carriers in the Americas
with at least 100 planes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  As costs rise, Brazilian domestic demand for  air travel  is
leveling off. The number of domestic passengers, which almost
tripled from 2002 to 2012, is starting to stabilize at 100
million a year, according to the nation’s airline association.  Gol got 93 percent of its 2012 revenue from its home
market, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company
said on Aug. 19 that it had cut domestic capacity by 4.8 percent
in July from a year earlier.  Kakinoff, 39, who took over as CEO in July 2012, said his
turnaround plan is showing results even with the cost pressures
at an airline that has posted losses in eight of the past nine
quarters.  ‘Strategic Measures’  “Gol still has numerous strategic measures to be taken,
which we cannot presently reveal, that should help guiding the
company in the recuperation of margins that we’ve been seeing,”
he said.  The company said on Sept. 10 that it would implement a new
frequent-flier model for domestic flights, which would accrue
reward miles based on price rather than distance. Promotional
fares would no longer be eligible for miles, according to a
statement. The  Sao Paulo  state consumer protection agency
yesterday asked Gol for clarification about the program changes.  Gol forecasts a margin for earnings before interest and
taxes this year of 1 percent to 3 percent, which at the low end
would be an improvement of almost 14 percentage points from
2012, Kakinoff said. The weakening of the real is the reason the
company has not seen better results, the CEO said.  Gol  shares  gained 1.4 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, as the benchmark Ibovespa index fell 9.8 percent.  Brazil’s government is considering exempting  jet fuel  from
social welfare taxes to bring down costs, O Globo, a Rio de
Janeiro-based newspaper, reported yesterday, without saying how
it got the information.  “If the government doesn’t help with the price of fuel,
Gol will have to cut its capacity,” said Faiwichow, the GBM
Brasil analyst, who is projecting a drop in domestic  travel
demand  for 2014. “Any government measure can rebalance the
profitability of some routes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  