-- Goldman Sees CDS Mismatch as Fed Distorts Risk: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-09-12T07:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/goldman-sees-cds-mismatch-as-fed-distorts-risk-russia-credit.html
Russia ’s credit risk is lower than
markets are pricing in because the world’s biggest energy
exporter has strong earnings from oil sales and a low debt
burden in its favor, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The contracts, which insure against a default, are 25 basis
points more expensive than the average of 10 developing-nation
peers and should trade at least on par,  Clemens Grafe , an
economist at Goldman Sachs in Moscow, said yesterday. Russia’s
credit-default swaps climbed 44 basis points since May 22 to
180, compared with a 46-basis point increase to 176 for Brazil
and an advance of 51 to 218 for South Africa, all ranked BBB at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Investors probably haven’t taken into account Russia’s
current account surplus, driven by energy exports, while other
nations run deficits, Grafe said. Emerging-market credit default
swaps climbed, indicating rising investor perceptions of risk,
and bonds sold off after U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled in May that quantitative easing could be pared
amid signs of an improving U.S. economy.  “Russia is obviously the one that has the least problems
on the external front,” Grafe said by phone yesterday. “The
market has aligned Russia with the wrong part of the peer group.
Russia certainly should outperform its peers in this
environment.”  Oil Boost  Russia ran a  current account surplus  equivalent to 3
percent of gross domestic product at the end of the first
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Brazil had a 3 percent
 deficit  in the period, while South Africa ran a 5.8 percent
 shortfall . Russia has $510.8 billion of gold and foreign-currency reserves.  Crude jumped to $116.61 per barrel in  London  on Aug. 28,
the highest since 2008, on concern a U.S. strike on  Syria  would
lead to supply disruptions in the Middle East. The oil and
natural gas industries contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s
government revenue. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is due to
meet counterpart Sergei Lavrov in Geneva today to discuss a
Russian initiative to place Syria’s chemical weapons arsenal
under international control.  “Historically Russia’s credit risk traded in line with the
peer group average,” Grafe said. “It has the lowest external
financial requirements out of all  emerging markets  with the
exception probably of  China .”  Auction Sell-out  Russia is “robust and protected” given only 4 percent of
its foreign debt is due in the “short-term” and the total is
equivalent to 31 percent of GDP, Morgan Stanley analysts wrote
in a report dated June 13.  The Finance Ministry sold out two auctions of ruble bonds
yesterday as the possibility of U.S. military action subsided,
boosting investor appetite for riskier assets.  On Sept. 9, Russia sold the most foreign debt this year
among emerging-market nations with a $7 billion placement in
dollars and euros. Investor demand was more than double the
amount offered, Andrey Solovyev, the head of debt capital
markets at VTB Capital, which arranged the sale with five other
banks, said Sept. 10.  Russia’s CDS need to rise a further 15 basis points to be a
tempting investment because of the country’s exposure to oil-price movements, Konstantin Artemov, who manages $500 million of
fixed-income funds at Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow, said by
phone.  The yield on Russia’s 2042 dollar notes dropped 11 basis
points today to 5.737 percent by 11:37 a.m. in Moscow. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Russia’s dollar debt rather than
Treasuries fell one basis point to 237, compared with a gain of
one basis point to 237 for  Brazil , according to JPMorgan
indexes.  Key Categories  Goldman’s analysts compared Russia against countries rated
BBB on 11 macroeconomic, fiscal and structural criteria, which
Fitch uses in its sovereign credit rating model. Russia ranked
in the middle of the peer group based on all variables, and
above average for key categories the market is focusing on,
including external and fiscal balances, Grafe said.  “This mispricing will disappear in the next few months,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  