-- Goldman Sachs Says Shanghai Trade Zone to Boost Airlines Further
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-12T02:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/goldman-sachs-says-shanghai-trade-zone-to-boost-airlines-further.html
China’s biggest domestic carriers
are among stocks that will extend gains as  Shanghai  opens a
free-trade zone, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  China Southern Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines
Corp. have share “upside,” along with Lao Feng Xiang Co., a
Shanghai-based jewelry company, and Hong Kong-traded  Shanghai
Industrial Holdings Ltd. (363) , Goldman Sachs analysts led by Chenjie Liu wrote in a note dated today.  The Shanghai Composite Index has risen 15 percent since
reaching this year’s low on June 27. Banks, shippers and port
operators have paced the gains since Aug. 22, when the Ministry
of Commerce said the city’s free-trade zone proposal was
approved in July.  Shanghai International Port Group Co. (600018)  climbed
170 percent from Aug. 22 through yesterday, the most among the
995 companies on the Shanghai index.  China Eastern , which is
based in Shanghai, has climbed 35 percent.  “Be selective in choosing potential beneficiaries,” the
Goldman Sachs analysts wrote. “Given actual earnings boost may
show up only in the medium term, we prefer beneficiaries that
have upsides based on existing businesses, with the Shanghai
free trade zone potentially providing room for additional
upside.”  The free-trade zone is part of the central government’s
plan to develop the city into a global financial and shipping
center by 2020. A draft plan for the area seen last week by
Bloomberg News included expanded opportunities for foreign
companies in industries from banking to health insurance.
Details of the new zone’s policies and rules haven’t been
announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  