-- Google, Hallmark, Pendleton, WMS: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/google-hallmark-pendleton-wms-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , operator of the
world’s most-used search engine, is seeking a patent on a
technology that would add more dimensions to the reading of an
electronic book.  The application, 20130209981, covers what the  Mountain
View , California-based company calls “triggered sounds” in e-books.  Google said in the application that many people are
“transitioning from reading physical books to reading e-books,
which have many advantages over physical books, such as more
portability, the ability to access the e-book from multiple
electronic devices, and text search capability.”  Existing e-book readers don’t take “full advantage” of
their capabilities to immerse a reader, Google says.  The technology covered by the patent would allow certain
trigger points in the text to call forth prerecorded sounds
related to the contents of the book.  A single e-book may have multiple trigger points that could
match phrases in the text, such as “lightning struck,” or
“birds were singing,” according to the application. Users
could also set preferences for a type of sound -- such as jazz
music -- to be associated with a particular kind of trigger.  Google filed the application in February 2012, according to
the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hallmark Sued by Holiday Retailer Over ‘North Pole City’ Mark  Hallmark Cards Inc., the closely held greeting-card
company, was sued for trademark infringement by a retailer of
holiday-themed merchandise for using the phrase “North Pole
City.”  DKG Enterprises Inc., which does business as North Pole
City, sued Sept. 9 in federal court in  Oklahoma City . The
company, which operates the website www.northpolecity.com, has
been in business since the early 1990s and registered its name
with the Oklahoma Secretary of State in 1997, according to court
papers. Hallmark will begin to sell products and engage in
franchise development around a fictional “North Pole City,”
DKG said.  Hallmark filed 12 applications to register the term as a
trademark in June 2013, according to the database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office.  The  Kansas City , Missouri-based company said in its
applications that it wants to use the mark with a wide range of
products, including a book series, activity craft paint kits,
clothing, music boxes, motion pictures, Christmas tree
ornaments, plush toys, jewelry, table-top ornaments and candles.  DKG said the public is likely to confuse its products and
those sold by Hallmark under the “North Pole City” name. It
asked the court to order Hallmark to quit infringing the “North
Pole City” trademark, and requested money damages, profit
Hallmark derives from the alleged infringement, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  The company also asked the court to order the destruction
of all allegedly infringing products and promotional materials.  Hallmark didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is DKG Enterprises Inc. v. Hallmark Cards Inc.,
13-cv-00967, U.S. District Court, Western District of  Oklahoma 
(Oklahoma City).  Pendleton Woolen Mills, Round-Up Settle Trademark Dispute  One day before the Pendleton Round-Up opened this week, the
sponsors of the annual rodeo and the Pendleton Woolen Mills
settled their trademark dispute, according to a Sept. 10 court
filing.  Pendleton Woolen, the Oregon company that won fame as a
producer of  Indian trade blankets , sued the sponsor of the 103-year-old rodeo in May 2011 for trademark infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in  Portland , Oregon,
accused the Pendleton Round-Up Association of selling  bottled
fragrances  that infringed the mill’s marks. According to court
papers, the Round-Up Association has been a Pendleton licensee
since 1997, covering sales of  apparel .  Products made under that agreement are co-branded with the
mill’s and the association’s marks, according to the pleadings.  The fragrances didn’t fall under the agreement, and the use
of the mark on them was “likely to cause confusion, mistake and
deception as to the affiliation, connection or association” of
the Round-Up with the mill, according to the complaint.  According to the Let ’er Buck website, Let ’er Buck  was
introduced  as the official fragrance of the Round-Up in 2010.  Terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed. According to
court documents, the parties have until Oct. 17 to complete
their agreement. The mill had asked the court to bar the Round-Up Association from further unauthorized use of its mark, and
for an award of the profit the association derived from its
alleged infringement.  The Round-Up, held in northeastern  Oregon , attracts 50,000
attendees a year,  according to  the event website. It opened
yesterday and runs through Sept. 14.  The case is Pendleton Woolen Mills Inc., v. Round-Up
Association, 11-cv-00592, U.S. District Court, District of
Oregon (Portland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  WMS Gaming Awarded $3 Million in Slot-Machine Copyright Case  WMS Gaming Inc., a slot-machine maker, was awarded $3
million in copyright infringement suit.  According to a Sept. 9 court filing, the parties have
agreed that Slots Warehouse of Tempe,  Arizona , and two other
defendants pay the damages and that they will surrender and
forfeit any interest in the machines that contained the
allegedly infringing content.  WMS sued Slots Warehouse in federal court in Arizona in
November, 2012, claiming that 12 of its slot-machine games were
copied without permission and distributed on machines the
Arizona company sold.  In the Sept. 9 consent decree, U.S. District Judge Roslyn
O. Silver said the $3 million award is reasonable, saying the
maximum damages available to Waukegan, Illinois-based WMS for
copyright infringement and counterfeiting of its trademarks
could exceed $60 million.  The case is WMS Gaming Inc. v. Slots Warehouse LLC, 12-cv-02455, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Former Excel Transportation President Gets 63-Month Sentence  Michael Musacchio, the ex-president of Excel Transportation
Services Inc., was sentenced to five years and three months in
prison after being convicted of hacking into his former
employer’s computers, according to a Sept. 6 filing in federal
court in  Dallas .  Musacchio, 62, left Excel, a Memphis, Tennessee-based
intermodal transportation company, in 2004 to form a new
company, Total Transportation Services LLC, according to court
documents. He was accused of hacking into Excel’s computers to
obtain confidential information to benefit Total Transportation.  Musacchio, of Plano,  Texas , was convicted in March of one
count of conspiracy to gain unauthorized access to a protected
computer and two felony counts of computer hacking.  He was also a defendant in a civil trade secrets case Excel
brought in April 2006 against Total Transportation in the same
court. He was dismissed in May 2007 from that case, which Total
settled, according to court papers.  Two of Musacchio’s co-defendants in the criminal case
previously entered guilty pleas, according to a  statement  from
the U.S. Attorney’s Office.  Musacchio’s surrender date hasn’t been determined,
according to his case docket. Excel was acquired by  Hub Group
Inc. (HUBG)  in 2011.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Musacchio, 10-cr-00308, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The civil
case is Excel Transportation Services Inc. v. Total
Transportation Services LLC, 06-cv-00593, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  