-- Gulf Diesel Nears 2-Week High on Record Tanker Fixtures
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-09-12T17:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/gulf-diesel-nears-2-week-high-on-record-tanker-fixtures.html
U.S.  Gulf Coast  diesel strengthened
to a  two-week high  as tankers are being chartered from the
region at a record pace and the premium of Europe over the U.S.
widened, encouraging more shipments.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel  on the Gulf gained 0.25 cent
to a discount of 3.13 cents a gallon versus futures on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:10 p.m., the strongest level
since Aug. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A record 42 tankers were chartered to carry gasoline,
diesel and jet fuel from the U.S. Gulf Coast in the week ended
Sept. 6, according to shipbroker Charles R. Weber Co. in
Greenwich,  Connecticut . Fifteen of those ships were bound for
Europe, also a record, as refiners in the region operated at
reduced rates, according to a report released by the company
last week.  “The rate of fixtures is increasing significantly,” Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group Ltd., said by phone
from Jupiter,  Florida . “Exports will probably climb higher as
European turnaround activity accelerates.”  The profit to buy diesel in the U.S. Gulf and  ship  it to
Northwest  Europe  was $18.58 per metric ton (6.07 cents a gallon)
today, about 13 percent higher than a week earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread reached a seven-month
high of $22.87 yesterday.  The spread is the difference between  first-month swaps for 
diesel cargoes with 10 parts-per-million sulfur in Northwest
Europe and the sum of ultra-low-sulfur diesel spot prices on the
Gulf Coast, as compiled by Bloomberg, and first-month swaps for
TC14, the route between the Gulf and Europe, based on Baltic
Exchange data.  European Processing  The differential should stay wide as Europe is expected to
cut refinery processing by 1.3 million barrels a day in
September and 1.6 million barrels a day in October, according to
Amrita Sen, chief oil market analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd., a
London research firm.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  on the Gulf Coast, a rough measure
of refining margins for gasoline and diesel based on West Texas
Intermediate oil in Cushing,  Oklahoma , widened $1.57 to $8.49 a
barrel, a second consecutive advance. The  same spread , based
Light Louisiana Sweet oil, gained $1.57 to $6.84 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conventional, 85-octane gasoline for ethanol blending, or
CBOB, on the Gulf added 0.75 cent to a discount of 13.5 cents a
gallon versus Nymex futures. The conventional, 87-octane grade
also rose 0.75 cents to a discount of 9 cents a gallon, the
strongest level since Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  