-- Gunpowder Gives Way to Batteries as Naval Warfare Turns Electric
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-12T08:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/gunpowder-gives-way-to-batteries-as-naval-warfare-turns-electric.html
The era of gunpowder that dominated
warfare at sea for centuries may be drawing to an end.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  is experimenting with electrically
propelled long-range projectiles to hit targets ashore, after it
secured a contract with the U.S. Office of Naval Research for
development of an electro-magnetic railgun. The system has a
reach in excess of 100 kilometers (62 miles) and a speed greater
than seven times that of sound, said Steve Kelly, vice president
at BAE;s land & armaments unit.  A railgun uses electric energy to create a magnetic field
that launches the round, eliminating the need for explosives
that are hazardous to carry aboard a ship. While the concept,
which lets a vessel rapidly attack targets, has drawn interest
for years, developments have been stymied by technical
challenges including the need for high power.  “The developments we have done to date are showing what
can be done,” Kelly said at the DSEI defense and security
conference in  London  this week. “We are starting to see a way
we can get there.”  London-based BAE Systems demonstrated some of the
underlying technology to launch a round in a laboratory last
year. Kelly said an operational system is still years away, with
more work needed to perfect the launch mechanism and the round
itself.  New Technology  The Navy, which began railgun work under the Innovative
Naval Prototype initiative in 2005, called the technology a
“game changer” in a program description. Muzzle energy of 32
megajoule, equivalent to 8 kilograms (18 pounds) of TNT, have
already been demonstrated, it said.  “You can respond to calls for fire much more quickly,”
said Kelly.  Work on the current $34.5 million contract will see BAE
working on upgrading existing equipment to fire multiple shots
and other improvements.  The company is also working on other efforts to improve the
ability of navies to strike targets, and is developing the
multi-service long-range projectile, Kelly said. The munition,
which could strike targets at a distance of about 100
kilometers, could be fired from weapons such as BAE’s Mk 45 Mod.
4 naval gun.  The company demonstrated the accuracy of the round in a
recent test in which the projectile flew about 35 kilometers and
struck within 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) of its target, Kelly said.
The weapon could fill a U.S. Navy gap left after the
cancellation of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s Extended-Range Guided Munition,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  