-- IBM Insider Trading Suspect to Plead Guilty, Lawyer Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-12T21:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ibm-insider-trading-suspect-to-plead-guilty-lawyer-says.html
A former securities analyst
extradited to the U.S. from  Hong Kong  in March pleaded guilty to
his role in an insider trading scheme involving  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2 billion acquisition of SPSS Inc.  Trent Martin, 34, an Australian citizen, entered his plea
to a single count of conspiracy in a hearing today before U.S.
District Judge Andrew L. Carter Jr. in  Manhattan . Martin told
Carter that he made about $7,600 from trading on the tip, which
he received from an unidentified attorney working on the deal.  “I knew my actions were wrong and in violation of the law
and I apologize to the court for my conduct,” Martin said
today.  Martin, who faces as much as five years in prison when he’s
sentenced on March 14, is cooperating with the government in
hopes of leniency. Carter agreed to a request by lawyers for
both sides that he be allowed to return to Sydney until he’s
sentenced. Martin will probably face deportation to  Australia  as
a result of the guilty plea, Carter said.  Martin said he received the tip from the lawyer, a close
friend, in June 2009. He shared the information with his
Manhattan roommate, Thomas Conradt, who was a stockbroker.
Conradt passed the information to his co-worker and friend David
Weishaus, who in turn tipped two other brokers.  Securities Fraud  Conradt pleaded guilty in April to one count of conspiracy
and two counts of  securities fraud . Weishaus has pleaded not
guilty.  Martin worked at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in the
U.S. and an RBS joint venture in Australia before joining  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in September 2011, according to two people
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak about the matter.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority lists a Trent
Martin who left ABN Amro Bank NV in 2009 to work at the  Stamford 
office of RBS, which participated in ABN Amro’s takeover in
2007. Martin’s broker registration at RBS ended in November
2010, Finra documents show.  The case is U.S. v. Martin, 12-cr-00887, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  