-- Icahn Seen as Nothing Compared With Dell Turnaround
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-12T21:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/icahn-seen-as-nothing-compared-with-dell-turnaround.html
When  Michael Dell  took his company
public in 1988, the personal-computer maker’s biggest
competitors were International Business Machines Corp., Compaq
Computer Corp. and Gateway 2000. The headstrong founder was
later quoted joking that his daughter’s first words were to
“kill IBM” and his other rivals.  A quarter century later, as Dell takes his Round Rock,
Texas-based company private in a $24.9 billion transaction
following shareholder approval yesterday, the landscape has
shifted. The PC business is dwindling, leaving  Dell Inc. (DELL)  out of
step with a technology world moving to smartphones and tablets
dominated by companies including Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  This presents Michael Dell and his team a challenging
balancing act even outside the pressure of quarterly earnings
reports. As the company seeks to become less reliant on selling
PCs, transforming into a bigger provider of hardware, software
and services for corporations, it faces competitors including
Cisco Systems Inc., EMC Corp. and Oracle Corp. Results in the
quarters since the go-private deal was announced show that
Dell’s trials are poised to deepen.  “I have a lot of respect for Michael Dell but I don’t
think he has greater insights than anybody else with what to do
with Dell,” said Michael Cusumano, a professor at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management. “He’s
been scratching his head for 10 years.”  Hard Road  Once the go-private deal closes, the scratching ends and
the hard work begins. Dell plans to continue investing in PCs
and tablets, especially in emerging countries, and will price
products to gain market share at the sacrifice of profits. The
CEO will also focus on using Dell’s server business to sell
higher-margin products to corporate customers. At the same time,
Dell is looking to acquire companies in the $500 million to $1
billion range, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions are private.  The shareholder vote, announced at Dell headquarters, ended
seven months of jockeying between Michael Dell and financial
partner Silver Lake Management LLC and investors led by
billionaire  Carl Icahn . The takeover of the third-largest PC
maker is the biggest LBO since Blackstone Group LP took Hilton
Worldwide Inc. private in 2007.  Michael Dell based his pitch for going private on the idea
that he could boost spending on acquisitions, sales staff and
research and development, while expanding the company’s reach in
emerging countries, according to regulatory filings. Undertaking
those investments as a public entity would “weaken earnings and
cause greater volatility” in the  stock price , Dell told the
board.  ‘Our Roots’  “In taking Dell private we plan to go back to our roots,”
Michael Dell said on a conference call.  Once the world’s No. 1 PC maker, Dell has become a
patchwork of desktops and notebooks, less-than-popular tablets,
plus enterprise software and data-center gear. Sales this year
are expected to fall to about $57.2 billion, according to the
average  estimate  of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, from $62.1
billion two years ago.  Operating profit  may drop 20 percent to
$2.4 billion.  Leading the decline are PCs, which still account for two-thirds of Dell revenue when including related products like
monitors and printers.  Operating income  in that group dropped 71
percent in the fiscal second quarter that ended Aug. 2. From
April to June, global PC shipments decreased 10.9 percent to 76
million, according to market researcher Gartner Inc., the fifth
straight period of decline.  Post Buyout  Dell’s PC strategy post-buyout represents a bet it can
remain a force in that market even as sales dwindle. Its plans
include pushing PCs in  China  and other  emerging markets  and, to
pare costs and compete better with Apple, simplifying its
longstanding build-to-order model, offering customers fewer
choices. Only about 20 percent of Dell’s PC sales are to
consumers while business and government buy the rest, according
to  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco.  It also is emphasizing revenue and cash flow over profits,
the company has said in filings, an option easier to take as a
private company. Dell used to walk away from PC sales it didn’t
deem profitable enough, such as the craze for $300 mini-laptops
that seized the consumer market a few years ago, said Richard Shim, an analyst at NPD DisplaySearch. Now, Dell is more willing
to shave prices.  Margins First  “We’ve seen a strategic change at the company,” said
Chris Whitmore, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “In the past,
they were willing to cede share in PCs to preserve margins and
satisfy public markets by running it for profitability.”  For its corporate business, Dell is looking to exploit its
strong  market share  in server computers -- now a close second to
Hewlett-Packard Co. in unit shipments, according to Gartner --
as a means to selling more higher-margin software, storage and
networking gear.  In June, Marius Haas, president of Dell’s enterprise
solutions division, and his old boss at Hewlett-Packard, current
Oracle co-president Mark Hurd,  announced  a deal that lets Dell
customers buy servers  pre-configured  to run Oracle’s database
and other software more reliably.  “We’re not just throwing out empty calories to pick up
unit share,” Haas said recently.  Haas will be responsible for acquisitions of companies that
make storage and networking gear, which he would then package
for businesses with Dell servers.  Track Record  Dell’s track record on enterprise-related acquisitions
hasn’t been stellar. It has spent $13 billion since 2009 to  buy
more than 20 companies  including computer terminal maker Wyse
Technology Inc. and networking company Force10 Networks Inc.  Returns on those deals, meant to bolster sales of software,
storage and servers to corporations, haven’t hit the company’s
15 percent target, and many have required more investment to
grow, according to a July  presentation  by the special committee
of Dell’s board overseeing the buyout.  Sales generated from these companies also aren’t offsetting
the drop in PC shipments, said Noland. “Tech turnarounds are
tough,” he said. “The argument is they can transform more
quickly if they’re private. So far the pace at which they’ve
executed a turnaround has been slower than the rate of decline
in the PC market.”  ‘Broad Reset’  Dell is “digesting” acquisitions it’s made, said Dell
Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden yesterday. “We’ve done
obviously a pretty broad reset on the strategy over the last
five years.”  Turning private may complicate Dell’s acquisition plans as
it doesn’t have access to public equity capital markets. Its
debt will rise to less than $20 billion after the buyout from
around $7 billion, according to Gladden.  Dell will spend less than $1.2 billion a year to service
the debt from the buyout, he said, describing the added
borrowing as “incremental.”  Going private gives the company more leeway on spending and
acquisitions, he said. “We can be a bit more aggressive,” he
said. “You can’t just kind of go crazy and spend however you
want. You still have to be disciplined.”  Michael Dell, who built his company from a dorm-room PC
assembler, is also reckoning with a tough roster of competitors
ranging from Apple and Lenovo Group Ltd. in personal computing
to Cisco, IBM, Oracle, EMC and a healthier Hewlett-Packard in
enterprise. Most of them are buying to get bigger too.  “There are a lot of CEOs who have tried to take companies
private to get away from the market and rationalize the company
and figure out what to do next,” said MIT’s Cusumano. “It’s an
uphill battle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  