-- Middle East Oil Cargoes Seen at Record as Libyan Supply Plunges
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-09-12T13:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/middle-east-oil-cargoes-seen-at-record-as-libyan-supply-plunges.html
Oil companies booked the most
tankers to collect Persian Gulf crude since at least January
2007, amid plunging shipments from Libya, according to Marex
Spectron Group.  Charters of tankers loading 2 million barrel cargoes rose
to 143 so far this month, 15 percent more than the year-to-date
average, the London-based commodities and freight swaps broker
said in an e-mailed note today. Saudi Arabia, the largest
exporter, has boosted output to a near record, partly
compensating for lost Libyan oil, according to the International
Energy Agency, a Paris-based adviser to 28 nations.  The North African country’s production fell to a post-war
low of 150,000 barrels a day earlier this month as civil unrest
blocked ports and oil fields, the IEA said. While Persian Gulf
cargoes are rising, earnings for the tanker industry’s biggest
ships haven’t rallied because of a capacity glut. Daily rates
for very large crude carriers fell 74 percent to $5,002 a day
this year, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the largest shipbroker.  “Saudi Arabia and other countries that have spare capacity
are making up the shortfall after Libyan oil production
slumped,” Gareth Lewis-Davies, a London-based energy strategist
at BNP Paribas SA, said by phone. “Output from the Middle East
has also grown over time, and there is the expectation that the
Libyan shortfall might persist, and replacement barrels will be
sourced from countries in the Gulf.”  The Libyan ports of Es Sider, Ras Lanuf, Hariga, Zawiya and
Zueitina are closed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
yesterday. Italy is the largest buyer of the country’s oil,
according to the IEA.  Replacement Grades  The tanker market has about 75 too many VLCCs, equal to 13
percent of the fleet, Frontline Ltd., the world’s largest owner
of the ships until last year, said at the end of last month.
There are 24 percent more supertankers in the Persian Gulf for
charter over the next 30 days than cargoes, according to the
median estimate of six shipbrokers and owners in a Bloomberg  “Saudi Arabia is continuing to pump high levels in order
to keep the market well supplied at times of tension in Libya,”
Simon Newman, the London-based head of tanker research at ICAP
Shipping International Ltd., said by e-mail today. “While extra
volumes are welcome for shipowners, it further boosts shorter
Persian Gulf-East voyages at the expense of longer West African-East journeys, likely curbing earnings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  