-- Imax CEO Sees $1 Billion Box Office on China
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-12T21:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/imax-ceo-sees-1-billion-box-office-on-china.html
Imax Corp. (IMX)  Chief Executive Officer
Richard Gelfond forecasts annual box office receipts will almost
double to $1 billion in the next few years as the big-screen
cinema company expands in China,  Russia  and the  Middle East .  “We’ve identified 1,700 target markets to put Imax
theaters into in the world, and about 500 of them are in  North
America , so over time the vast majority of our revenues are
going to come internationally,” Gelfond, 58, said in an
interview at the Toronto International Film Festival, where the
company is presenting movies for the first time, including space
thriller “Gravity.”  “China, we used to say we could do 90 theaters, now we
have a backlog of close to 400,” Gelfond said on Sept. 9. “In
the next couple of years our box office will get to a billion
dollars.”  Imax, based in Mississauga, Ontario, has  climbed  34 percent
this year. It’s headed for a fourth year of gains in the past
five years, as its theater network grew 145 percent. The company
had 767 theaters in 54 countries as of June 30. Global box
office receipts were $620.6 million in 2012, compared with
$417.2 million in 2011, company documents show.  Imax theaters present films in both two-dimensional and
three-dimensional formats on large-format screens with
specialized sound systems. The 3D format uses dual projectors to
display two images on a silver-coated Imax screen, one for each
eye. Special glasses separate the images, which the brain then
blends together into a 3D image.  Growth Story  “Imax is a tremendous long-term growth story as they
expand their installed base, particularly their international
base,” Tony Genua, a  fund manager  with AGF Management Ltd. who
holds shares of Imax. He helps manage C$36.4 billion ($35.3
billion) at the firm. “China is first and foremost on their
radar as an opportunity and it’s an underpenetrated market when
it comes to cinemas and distribution.”  Imax  reported  $82.3 million in second-quarter  sales  on July
25, ahead of analysts’ average estimates of $77.2 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Adjusted earnings of 22 cents a
share fell short of estimates of 26 cents. The shares rose as
much as 1.5 percent to a two-year high and closed up 0.2 percent
to C$29.85 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.  Revenue Sharing  Genua purchased shares of Imax in February, and has added
to his position recently, he said. The company is increasingly
leaning toward revenue sharing agreements, paying for part of
the cost of building the cinema in return for part of the box
office, providing a source of recurring revenue, he said.  Imax said it inked a revenue-sharing agreement to add three
Imax theater systems in Dubai, Qatar and Bahrain on Sept. 4.  Gelfond forecast international ticket receipts will account
for 60 percent of the company’s total in the next few years, up
from about 56 percent.  “In  China , we first went in about 15 years ago, when we
weren’t as politically threatening as Hollywood,” said Greg Foster, CEO of Imax Entertainment, who attended a TIFF industry
panel with Gelfond on Sept. 9. “We got in on the ground floor.
China is its own market and if you treat it like Omaha you’re
going to be in trouble.”  An Imax ticket can cost four times as much as a regular
ticket in  India , and there is at least one theater in Russia
that charges $80 a ticket “that does very well,” Gelfond said.  “They want to be a brand on par with other premium
consumer brands” such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Lululemon
Athletica Inc. (LULU) , AGF’s Genua said from Toronto. “How does that
happen? You stand for a premium experience at premium prices.
Imax is able to do that.”  Laser Technology  Imax plans to introduce laser-based projection technology
that will allow for screens 100 feet wide and audiences of close
to 1,000 in the second half of 2014, Gelfond said. Current Imax
screens average 65 feet wide with 357 seats, according to the
company.  Imax stock faces risks including unpredictable box office
performance of movies, declining interest in 3D offerings in
North America as well as potential censorship of certain movies
by the Chinese government, Genua said.  “Any incrementally negative government stance in China
toward exhibition of Hollywood films” would be a risk, Townsend Buckles, media analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
Sept. 3 note to clients. He  rates  Imax an overweight, the
equivalent of buy.  Demand for 3D offerings at the cinema has “plateaued” in
North America, with the premium offering now accounting for
about 40 percent of an average movie’s box office receipts, said
 Paul Sweeney , director of North American research with Bloomberg
Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey .  3D Demand  Outside the U.S., 3D films account for about 60 percent of
ticket sales. Whether that percentage will decrease is unclear,
Sweeney said.  “We do 3D movies and 2D movies,” Gelfond said. “When a
lot of people position themselves as 3D companies, we went out
of our way not to position ourselves that way. We don’t care if
it’s 3D or 2D, we care if it’s in Imax. So it doesn’t really
matter. It is likely we’ll see reductions in those  developing
countries .”  Competitor  RealD Inc. (RLD) , which is much more tied to North
American box office fortunes, has slumped 33 percent this year.
The stock fell 3.9 percent yesterday to $7.56 in  New York , its
lowest price since it went public in 2010.  Rich Heineman, a spokesman with RealD in  Beverly Hills ,
 California , said industry participants at all levels need to
work together to ensure the continued health of 3D films.  Same Ecosystem  “This is an ecosystem and everybody needs to
collaborate,” Heineman said in a phone interview. “When we put
everything together we do believe 3D is a compelling
experience.”  Heineman declined to discuss the RealD’s share performance.  Presenting films at TIFF and the  Cannes Film Festival , as
well as theater installations planned for Empire Leicester
Square in  London  adds to the company’s standing, Gelfond said.  Along with “Gravity,” starring  Sandra Bullock  and  George Clooney , Imax is showing “Man of Tai Chi,” a martial-arts film
that marks the directorial debut of Canadian actor Keanu Reeves.  “In the entertainment industry Imax is well-known, but on
a broader consumer scale seeing Imax in iconic locations will
hopefully attract consumers,” Gelfond said. “It’s the first
time we’ve had a presence at this festival and it’s appropriate
for a Canadian-based company; we’ve finally arrived home
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  