-- Imperial College London Tops Cambridge, Oxford as Best for Jobs
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-09-12T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/imperial-college-london-tops-cambridge-oxford-as-best-for-jobs.html
Imperial College  London , which
focuses on science and medicine, is the U.K.’s best university
for job prospects, achieving positive outcomes for 89 percent of
its graduates, according to a study.  Imperial beat the University of Cambridge, where 85 percent
of undergraduates find jobs or graduate school opportunities
within six months of leaving school, according to a report
released today that was commissioned by the Times of London. The
universities of Bath, Buckingham and Durham round out the top
five, while the University of Oxford was 13th.  The U.K. government last year allowed universities to
almost triple the cost of undergraduate education and charge as
much as 9,000 pounds ($14,000) annually. The higher costs have
raised expectations of students and parents for job training
that aren’t being met by the schools, according to the study,
with 52 percent of surveyed employers saying few or no graduates
are ready for work. Employers also say the course of study is
more important than grades earned or the university attended.  “With the typical degree now costing 27,000 pounds in
tuition fees alone, students have a right to be better prepared
for the battleground that is the graduate jobs market,”
Alastair McCall, an editor of the newspaper’s Good University
Guide, said in the statement. The typical undergraduate program
in Britain lasts three years.  Imperial College, based in London’s South Kensington
neighborhood, was founded in 1907 and has about 14,000 students.
Graduates include Ian Read, the chairman and chief executive
officer of Pfizer Inc., and  Brian May , guitarist for rock band
Queen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  