-- India Factory Output Unexpectedly Grows as Rajan Fights Slowdown
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-09-12T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/india-factory-output-unexpectedly-grows-as-rajan-fights-slowdown.html
Indian industrial  production (INPIINDY) 
unexpectedly rose in July, bolstering new central bank Governor
Raghuram Rajan’s fight against a slumping rupee and slowing
economic growth.  Production at factories and utilities climbed 2.6 percent
from a year earlier after a revised 1.8 percent decline in June,
the  Central Statistical Office  said in  New Delhi  yesterday. The
median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.9
percent fall. Another report yesterday showed  consumer prices 
rose 9.52 percent in August from a year earlier.  The rupee has performed worse than most Asian currencies
this year as slowing growth and a record current-account deficit
hurt confidence in the region’s No. 3 economy. Rajan, who
reviews interest rates for the first time next week, is under
pressure to support the currency and avoid a surge in import
costs that would fuel price pressures.  “It’s a good number but nowhere does it indicate a strong
revival in the weak growth story,” said  Anubhuti Sahay , an
economist at  Standard Chartered  Plc in Mumbai. The central bank
will remain focused on containing the rupee volatility and hence
will keep rates on hold in the next policy meet, she said.  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 63.535 per dollar in
Mumbai yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex index of stocks fell 1.1
percent. The yield on the benchmark 7.16 percent government bond
due May 2023 jumped 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
8.50 percent.  Growth Forecast  Manufacturing grew 3 percent in July from a year earlier,
after a 1.7 percent decline in June, yesterday’s industrial
output data showed. Mining shrank 2.3 percent, while electricity
output gained 5.2 percent.  Concerns over inflation, the rupee’s fall and industrial
output that dipped in May and June prompted Standard Chartered
last month to cut  India ’s economic growth forecast to 4.7
percent from 5.5 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2014.
CLSA Asia Pacific Markets now expects a 4.2 percent expansion,
down from 5.2 percent, while DBS Bank sees 4.3 percent growth.  The central bank’s key goal is containing inflation
expectations, Rajan told reporters on Sept. 4 when he took over
as the  Reserve Bank  of India’s 23rd governor. India can fix its
growth slowdown and financial woes with “modest reforms” and
achieve economic growth of between 5 percent and 5.5 percent
this year, Rajan said in a  commentary  published on Sept. 11.  “This is not to say that ambitious reform is not good, or
is not warranted to sustain growth for the next decade,” Rajan
wrote in Project Syndicate. “But India does not need to become
a manufacturing giant overnight to fix its current problems.”  Record Low  India’s trade deficit narrowed in August as exports grew 13
percent in the month from a year ago, while imports fell 0.7
percent, the commerce ministry said Sept. 10.  The rupee sank to an all-time low 68.845 per dollar on Aug.
28, hurt by the possibility of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus
and a current-account deficit that reached a record during the
last fiscal year. It has pared some of those losses after Rajan
announced concessional swaps for banks’ foreign-currency
deposits, and U.S. jobs data prompted speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may be less aggressive in cutting stimulus.  Wholesale-price inflation probably  accelerated  5.70 percent
in August, compared with 5.79 percent in July, according to the
median estimate in another Bloomberg survey, before data due
Sept. 16.  Raising Costs  Indian companies have been buffeted by climbing costs and
faltering growth, forcing them to raise prices. JSW Steel Ltd.,
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. and others said they will increase
prices by as much as 7 percent this month as the rupee’s decline
inflates costs of raw materials purchased overseas.  Rajan will make his interest rate decision on Sept. 20, two
days after the U.S. Federal Reserve holds a meeting. He
inherited an economy that expanded 4.4 percent last quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest pace since 2009, as investment fell
and  consumer spending  in the nation of 1.2 billion people
moderated.  The central bank raised two  interest rates  in July to help
stem the rupee’s slide against the dollar. Nations from  Brazil 
to  Indonesia  have also boosted borrowing costs to aid
currencies, as the prospect of reduced Federal Reserve monetary
stimulus saps demand for assets in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  