-- India Rupee Snaps Five-Day Gain as Factory Output Seen Falling
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-09-12T11:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/india-rupee-snaps-five-day-gain-as-factory-output-seen-falling.html
India’s rupee snapped its longest
winning streak in almost a year before a report that economists
predict will show factory output contracted for a third month.
 Government bonds  declined.  Industrial production  fell 0.9 percent in July, according
to the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg survey before data
due at 5:30 p.m. in  New Delhi  today. The rupee surged 6.9
percent in the five days through yesterday as a U.S. jobs report
on Sept. 6 fell short of economists’ estimates, spurring
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will hold off from cutting
stimulus.  Raghuram Rajan , who took charge as  Reserve Bank  of
India governor on Sept. 4, announced steps that day to boost the
supply of dollars.  “There are expectations built in for Rajan to deliver, but
I am not buying the rupee versus the dollar as India’s problems
are much more than monetary,” said Sean Yokota, head of Asia
strategy at  Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA)  in Singapore.  “We
had some weak U.S. payrolls data last week and the rupee has
benefited from that. The reasons were not India-specific.”  The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 63.5350 per dollar in Mumbai,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The
five-day surge was the biggest rally since Bloomberg began
compiling data for the currency in 1973, and the longest winning
streak since October 2012.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 17.58 percent.  Rupee Reversal  “I am not fully comfortable with the rupee move, which has
been truly spectacular,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-mail
today, referring to the recent surge. “I am concerned that Mr.
Rajan’s honeymoon may be much shorter than anticipated in the
face of continuously poor macro data,” adding that the rupee
could drop to 68 per dollar.  India’s currency may weaken when the Fed meets Sept. 17-18,
said SEB’s Yokota. Policy makers will reduce Treasury purchases
to $35 billion from $45 billion a month, while maintaining
mortgage-debt buying at $40 billion, according to the median of
34 responses in a Bloomberg News survey of economists on Sept.
6.  The yield on India’s 7.16 percent bond due May 2023 rose
four basis points to 8.50 percent, snapping a two-day drop,
according to the central bank’s trading system. A weaker rupee
may stoke inflation as the nation imports about 80 percent of
its oil.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.7 percent to
65.41 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts fell 0.8 percent to 65.81. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  