-- Indonesia Raises Rate to Four-Year High as Rupiah Extends Slide
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-09-12T08:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/indonesia-raises-rate-to-four-year-high-as-rupiah-extends-slide.html
Bank Indonesia  raised its key
 interest rate  for the fourth time since early June to support a
weakening currency and cool inflation expectations.  Governor Agus Martowardojo and his board increased the
 reference rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.25
percent, the highest in more than four years. The outcome,
announced in Jakarta today, was predicted by four of 23
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News , with three estimating a
50 basis-point move and the rest expecting no change. The
central bank also raised the  deposit facility rate .  The most aggressive tightening since 2005 may damp domestic
consumption and hurt bank lending, adding to economic woes
including  Asia ’s worst-performing currency in 2013 and inflation
that’s quickened at the fastest pace in more than four years.
 Indonesia  has joined Brazil and  India  in taking steps to support
their currencies as the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary
stimulus prompts investors to sell emerging-market assets.  “Raising rates to support the currency has had little
effect,”  Fred Gibson , a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s
Analytics, said before the decision. Higher borrowing costs
“will only slow growth further, exacerbating investor
pessimism,” he said.  The rupiah fell 1.5 percent to 11,513 per dollar as of 3:02
p.m. in Jakarta, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local banks
show. It has plunged about 16 percent this year, the worst
performance among 11 major Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Most Aggressive  The deposit facility rate, also known as the Fasbi, was
raised to 5.5 percent from 5.25 percent. Seven of 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expected an increase, while the rest saw
no change.  The central bank’s increases in the benchmark in the past
three months were the most aggressive since the  reference rate 
was raised by 1.75 percentage points over two meetings in
November and December 2005. In 2008, the central bank raised the
key rate by 1.5 percentage points over six meetings.  Higher fuel and food costs led  consumer prices  to rise 8.79
percent in August from a year earlier, after an 8.6 percent gain
in July, the government said this month.  Inflation may reach 9.2 percent by the end of 2013, Finance
Minister Chatib Basri said Aug. 28. While inflation may continue
to accelerate from a year earlier, Bank Indonesia Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said last week it will return to its
normal month-on-month pattern in September.  New Equilibrium  The central bank has said it is allowing the rupiah to
reach a new equilibrium after intervention to stem the
currency’s decline reduced its foreign  reserves. (IDGFA)  Reserves last
month held near the lowest level since October 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia may sign accords this quarter that will allow it
access to more than $30 billion from new and existing swap lines,
Basri told reporters in Jakarta this week. Last month, it
extended a line with the  Bank of Japan  valued at $12 billion
that will allow the two to borrow from each other’s reserves.  Indonesia’s trade deficit widened to a record $2.3 billion
in July, weighing on the current-account shortfall, which
reached $9.8 billion in the second quarter, the largest in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1989. The government has
announced loosening restrictions on mineral ore imports this
year and higher taxes on luxury imported goods to address trade
imbalances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  