-- Linn Energy to Buy Permian Basin Assets for $525 Million
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-09-12T12:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/linn-energy-to-buy-permian-basin-assets-for-525-million-1-.html
Linn Energy LLC (LINE) , the oil and
natural gas partnership that agreed to buy  Berry Petroleum Co. (BRY) 
for $2.42 billion, will spend another $525 million on Permian
Basin assets to increase production.  The seller wasn’t identified in a statement today by the
Houston-based company. The purchase will add production
equivalent to 4,800 barrels of oil a day in the first year. Linn
will pay for the purchase with debt.  Linn jumped 13 percent yesterday, the most since December
2008, after providing an update on the Berry purchase that’s
being probed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The
units are still down 21 percent this year on concern the deal
won’t close as arranged. Linn agreed to buy Berry in February to
raise reserves and increase  cash flow  to pay unitholders.  “They can’t sit on their hands and wait for this Berry
deal to close,” John Ragozzino, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets LLC, said today in a phone interview from Austin,  Texas .
“They need to grow.”  Ragozzino rates the partnership the equivalent of a buy and
owns no units. The risk that the Berry deal may not close or
that Linn may have to pay more “remains material and should not
be forgotten,” he wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Linn has been criticized for its use of options to
guarantee a price for its gas output. Hedgeye Risk Management
LLC, an independent research company, said in a June 18
presentation that Linn isn’t accounting for the full cost of put
options and capital expenses such as drilling.  The Permian Basin stretches across western Texas and
southeastern  New Mexico . Linn operates in both states, according
to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  