-- Investor Poll Shows Carney Increasing Rates in 2015: U.K. Credit
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-09-13T12:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/investor-poll-shows-carney-increasing-rates-in-2015-u-k-credit.html
International investors added their
voice to those predicting the Bank of England will be forced to
increase  interest rates  earlier than Governor  Mark Carney  is
projecting, according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll.  Almost a third of the investors, analysts and traders
surveyed said the U.K. central bank will boost its  benchmark
rate  from 0.5 percent in the first half of 2015, and more than
two thirds predict an increase between now and the end of that
year. That conflicts with Carney’s message that officials can
wait until the end of 2016 as they pledge not to even consider
acting before unemployment falls to 7 percent.  Financial markets are focusing less on his words and more
on reports that show the economic recovery picking up steam.
Gilt yields and the pound have risen since Carney unveiled his
forward-guidance policy on Aug 7. Ten-year yields are at their
highest relative to two-year notes in more than two years as
investors demand more income to hold bonds for longer periods.  “Guidance has its limits,” said Marie Owens Thomsen, a
poll respondent and chief economist at Credit Agricole Private
Banking in Geneva. “Market participants think that growth in
the U.K. is having a bigger impact on the labor market and
expect the  unemployment rate  to drop faster than the bank.”  Carney argues forward guidance is helping to secure the
economic recovery by persuading consumers and companies that
they can spend without fear of borrowing costs rising in the
next three years.  Recovery Signs  Data this week showed a  house-price gauge  produced by the
 Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors rising to the highest
level in almost seven years in August;  unemployment  declining to
7.7 percent between May and July from 7.8 percent; and
construction orders surging almost 20 percent in the second
quarter, boosted by demand for new housing,  wind turbines  and
solar farms.  The implied yield on the short-sterling contract expiring
in December 2015 has risen 65 basis points since Aug. 1 to 1.72
percent as investors add to bets on higher rates. Ten-year gilts
yield  247 basis points  more than two-year notes, the widest
spread since July 2011, and 96 basis points more than equivalent
German bunds. The pound has gained 7.4 percent over the past six
months, the most among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Market Guidance  “The market is offering some forward guidance of their own
to the extent they’re saying we’re just not buying it,” said
Erik Britton, a former BOE economist and now a director of
Fathom Consulting in  London .  One percent of poll respondents said the Bank of England
will raise rates this year and 18 percent predicted action next
year. Fifty-one percent said the first increase would take place
in 2015. Only 15 percent said Carney will wait until 2016 or
later.  Carney told lawmakers yesterday that by providing an
insight into central-bank thinking, his strategy is supporting
the economic recovery. He argued investors are pushing up
borrowing costs because their analysis of U.K. unemployment and
productivity outlooks differs from that of the BOE.  “By making policy more effective, we make it more
stimulative and reinforce the recovery,” Carney told
Parliament’s cross-party  Treasury Committee  in London.  Carney has found some traction among the public at large.
The number of people expecting a rate increase in the coming
year fell to the lowest level since the aftermath of the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapse in 2008, the BOE said in its
quarterly Inflation Attitudes survey.  Carney’s Standing  Twenty-nine percent said they expect an increase, down from
34 percent in May. A Markit Economics Ltd. poll of 1,500 people
also found last month that only 40 percent of households expect
a rate increase in the next two years, down from 53 percent in
July.  While Carney’s flagship policy is being challenged, his
standing among investors is on the rise, according to the
Bloomberg poll. Fifty-nine percent said they had a favorable
view of him, up from 50 percent in May, when he was preparing to
take over the  Bank of England .  The poll of 900 Bloomberg subscribers was conducted on
Sept. 10 by Selzer & Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has
a margin of error of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  