-- Isakson Might Support Summers While Questioning His Independence
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-12T17:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/isakson-might-support-summers-while-questioning-his-independence.html
Republican Senator  Johnny Isakson 
of Georgia said he might support  Lawrence Summers  to head the
 Federal Reserve  even as he raised questions about the former
Obama administration official’s political independence.  “I do have some concerns with  Larry Summers ,” Isakson
said at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in Washington today.
“That doesn’t mean I might not in the end vote for him.”  Isakson said the new chairman should be transparent and a
“great communicator,” and Summers might have that skill. “He
may also demonstrate that he’s more political than maybe you
would want the Fed chairman to be,” he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s term expires at the end of
January, and his successor will require confirmation by the
Senate. The top contenders to replace him are Summers, 58,
Obama’s former National Economic Council director, and Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , 67. President  Barack Obama , who will
nominate the next chairman, has also mentioned former Fed Vice
Chairman  Donald Kohn , 70, as a candidate.  Isakson said he has never met Yellen. “The vice chairman,
what’s her name?” he said. “I have not met her yet, I haven’t
had a chance to engage with her, so I would postpone any
conclusion.”  The nomination must be approved by the Senate Banking
Committee before it goes to the full Senate. Isakson isn’t a
member of the committee.  About a third of the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus, in
a July letter, urged Obama to nominate Yellen. She also won the
endorsement of more than 300 economists who signed an open
letter to Obama.  Investor Survey  Forty percent of investors, analysts and traders who are
Bloomberg subscribers see Summers getting the job, compared with
33 percent for Yellen, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
conducted Sept. 10.  Bloomberg’s poll shows that Yellen is viewed more favorably
among investors. Sixty percent of respondents had a positive
view of Yellen, compared with 37 percent for Summers. Thirty-five percent had a negative view of Summers, compared with 15
percent for Yellen.  U.S. central bankers are debating how and when to pare
their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases as the  U.S. economy 
improves and unemployment declines. The Federal Open Market
Committee is scheduled to meet Sept. 17-18 to consider the
future for the third round of quantitative easing known as QE3.  Thirty-five percent of respondents say Summers might
provide less stimulus than Bernanke, compared with 13 percent
who see Summers with looser policy and 22 percent saying it
would be the same. Forty-seven percent see Yellen presiding over
the same policy, with 17 percent saying it would be looser and 8
percent saying tighter. The rest said they don’t know how it
would change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  