-- ISDA to Change Calculation for Swaps Rate Amid Regulatory Probe
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-09-12T20:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/isda-to-change-calculation-for-swaps-rate-amid-regulatory-probe.html
The International Swaps &
Derivatives Association plans to change how it calculates a
benchmark measure of  interest-rate swaps  that U.S. and U.K.
regulators are investigating for possible price manipulation.  The organization is working to base the rate, known as
ISDAfix, on actual trades from several trading systems rather
than just bank submissions, with a goal of finishing within six
months, said  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Ed Ocampo, chairman of ISDA’s
benchmark committee. The test phase of the project is based on
trades denominated in euros and will move to U.S. dollar rates
if successful, he said today at a conference in  New York .  “Very much at the top of the agenda is renovating
ISDAfix,” he said. The measure will be based on electronically
traded swaps where “there are firm, actionable prices,” he
said.  ICAP (IAP)  Plc controls the U.S. dollar swap submissions for
ISDAfix from its Jersey City,  New Jersey , office, and plays an
exclusive role in the lucrative trading that helps set the rate.
Broadening the calculation to other platforms threatens to
loosen ICAP’s grip on ISDAfix a decade after it acquired control
of the computer screen used by the industry to price swaps in
the $379 trillion market.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.K.
Financial Conduct Authority are investigating alleged
manipulation of ISDAfix, FCA Chief Executive Officer Martin Wheatley told lawmakers in  London  this week.  E-mails, Calls  The CFTC is going over 1 million e-mails as well as taped
phone calls as it examines whether ISDAfix, which helps
determine everything from interest on annuities to borrowing
costs on bonds linked to skyscrapers, was manipulated, a person
familiar with the situation said earlier this year.  “The world has moved on so we need to change it to meet
evolving standards,” Serge Gwynne, a partner at consultant
 Oliver Wyman  Group who is also on the benchmark committee, said
today. ISDA hired Oliver Wyman earlier this year to help it
assess changes to ISDAfix. The aim is to eventually discontinue
altogether the bank submission model, he said.  The FCA review comes after the CFTC issued subpoenas to
current and former brokers at ICAP, ISDA and 15 Wall Street
dealers as part of its probe,  Bloomberg News  reported on April
8. Two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News in
April that the FCA and CFTC were looking into whether ISDAfix
had been manipulated.  Banks Benefit  By rigging ISDAfix, the banks stood to profit on separate
derivatives trades they had with clients who were seeking to
hedge against moves in  interest rates . Banks sought to change
the value of the swaps because the ISDAfix rate sets prices for
the other derivatives, which are used by firms such as Pacific
Investment Management Co., said a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the details
aren’t public.  ISDAfix is currently determined daily by a panel of banks
based on their submissions of the midpoint of their rate swap
trades. Trading via ICAP brokers in  Jersey City  creates a
 reference rate  just before 11 a.m. New York time each day that
banks then accept or alter as their ISDAfix submission.  Brokers on ICAP’s rate swap desk in Jersey City -- who are
the focus of the investigation -- were paid as much as $7
million a year at the market’s peak, earning the group the
nickname “Treasure Island,” two people familiar with the
matter said in April.  Brokers’ Pay  The team of about 20 brokers made $100 million to $120
million annually for ICAP around 2008 and 2009, said the people,
who asked not to be named because the details are private. The
group benefits from a move more than a decade ago that put the
firm in control of the computer screen used by the industry to
price swaps in much of the $379 trillion market, one of the
people said.  ICAP collects the ISDAfix submissions from dealer banks for
the rate that’s denominated in U.S. dollars, while  Thomson
Reuters  Corp. calculates the figure, according to ISDA’s
 website . In all other ISDAfix currencies, Thomson Reuters
collects and calculates the rate, according to the site.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
ICAP in some businesses, including foreign-exchange and swaps
trading, and with Thomson Reuters in providing financial data.  The trading systems that will be used in the testing phase
by the ISDA benchmark committee are owned by ICAP, Cie.
Financiere Tradition SA and Tullett Prebon Plc, Gwynne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  