-- Israel Intelligence Minister Gives Guarded Welcome to Syria Plan
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-09-12T08:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/israel-intelligence-minister-gives-guarded-welcome-to-syria-plan.html
Israeli Minister of Intelligence
and Strategic Affairs Yuval Steinitz gave cautious support to
Russia’s proposal for eliminating Syria’s chemical weapons,
which has made the U.S. put any military action on hold.  “I cannot say we have complete faith, but if the Russian
proposal will really remove the chemical weapons from Syria and
then eliminate them, then this is a way to end this tragedy and
this threat,” Steinitz said today in remarks broadcast on  Army
Radio . He added that Russia must provide guarantees to ensure
all chemical weapons have been removed.  Steinitz joins other Israeli officials in a guarded
assessment of the Russian plan, which led U.S. President  Barack Obama  to postpone his decision on a military strike against
Syria for allegedly using chemical weapons in an Aug. 21 attack
outside Damascus.  Israel  sees itself as a possible target for retaliation if
the U.S. were to attack Syria.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday linked
the Syria situation to Iran, which is developing a nuclear
program that Israel perceives as a existential threat, in
defiance of U.S. and European sanctions.  “The message that Syria receives will be heard in Iran,”
Netanyahu said, emphasizing Israel’s right to act in its own
self-defense.  Netanyahu’s remarks “were a message to the U.S. of Israeli
concerns that if ultimately there is no action against Syrian
chemical weapons, Iran will draw the conclusion that it is
immune to American military action,” said  Gerald Steinberg ,
political scientist at  Bar-Ilan University  outside  Tel Aviv .  Israeli officials and analysts have expressed doubt whether
Syria can be trusted to decommission its chemical arsenal, and
whether dismantling is even feasible in the midst of a civil war
that according to United Nations estimates has claimed over
100,000 lives.  “Diplomacy is always preferable to war, but the main issue
at present is integrity, and in particular the integrity of the
Syrian regime,” Israeli President  Shimon Peres  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  