-- Mistry Sees Palm Weakening as Prices Set for Worst Run Since ’96
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-12T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/mistry-sees-palm-weakening-as-prices-set-for-worst-run-since-96.html
Palm oil may extend a decline as
supply of the most used cooking oil from Indonesia and Malaysia
climbs and biodiesel demand peaks, said  Dorab Mistry , director
at Godrej International Ltd., signaling a third year of losses.  A rally in futures since the end of July is over and prices
will drop from now, Mistry said in remarks prepared for a
conference in  Singapore  today, without giving a forecast. Prices
rebounded 9.5 percent from a three-year low of 2,137 ringgit
($656) a metric ton in July as the  spread  between palm and gas
oil created demand for biodiesel, he said. Mistry predicted in
May a drop to 2,000 ringgit from July, citing a buildup in
stockpiles during the peak-production cycle.  Futures have lost 4 percent this year, extending the
combined 36 percent slump in 2011 and 2012, and a third year of
losses would be the worst run since at least 1996, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Prices of the oil used in everything
from candy to detergents posted the biggest monthly gain since
December 2010 in August as crude oil rallied to a two-year high
and a weaker ringgit boosted exports.  “I believe the rally in CPO prices has just about run its
course and will face downward pressure from here,” said Mistry,
who has traded vegetable oils for more than three decades. “It
would not surprise me to see new lows in vegetable oil and
particularly in palm and lauric oil in early January.”  Palm for delivery in November ended the morning session at
2,340 ringgit on Bursa  Malaysia  Derivatives in Kuala Lumpur
today. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI gauge  of 24 commodities jumped
to a six-month high on Aug. 28, led by a rally in crude oil,
soybeans, cocoa and cotton.  Peaked Markets  “Markets look like they have peaked and that the path of
least resistance will be sideways to lower,” Mistry said.
“This applies to grains, oilseeds, meal as well as vegetable
oils. I am flagging some uncertainties with regard to demand for
edible vegetable oils in countries like  India  which have
suffered from currency degradation.”  The weakness in currencies of emerging-market economies
will act as an import tax and will be disruptive for commodities
demand, Mistry said. Barring any weather disruptions, palm oil
is set to trade lower on a bleaker economic outlook as the U.S.
Federal Reserve may taper stimulus, he said.  Global palm stockpiles will surge 21 percent to a record
9.7 million tons by the end of 2013-2014, while demand expands
4.6 percent, the least in 12 years, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture estimates.  Production in Indonesia and Malaysia is expanding as the
high output season begins and trees are in a more productive
biological cycle, Mistry said. The new cycle is just starting
and may last at least until April, he said.  Energy Correlation  The outlook for vegetable oil prices is linked to prospects
for the energy market as uncertainty in  Syria  may lead to a
spike in crude, Mistry said. Concerns over disruptions in Middle
East oil exports amid conflict in Syria has pushed Brent crude
oil to four weeks of gains. Use of palm oil for fuel is expected
to advance 11 percent to 6.34 million tons in 2013, according to
Hamburg-based research company Oil World.  “We must consider energy demand and how competitive palm
and other oils are likely to be,” Mistry said. “Palm will have
to expand its discount to soya oil in order to remain
competitive. Winter may cloud some of this competitiveness.”  The tropical oil clouds in cooler temperatures, which leads
to consumers looking for alternatives in the winter. Soybean
oil, a substitute in food and fuel uses, was at a  premium  of
about $233.68 a ton over palm oil today, compared with an
average of $301.33 in the past year.  “The only factor that can make me bullish will be adverse
weather,” said Mistry. “The odds are evenly poised for a
weather disturbance sometime in 2014. Without such a
development, I am afraid we are looking at lower prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  