-- MIT’s Williams Decodes Economics of Gene Sequencing
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/mit-s-williams-decodes-economics-of-gene-sequencing.html
Heidi Williams’s dad helped with
her high school science-fair projects by driving her two hours
from their  North Dakota  town to get books on World War II German
cryptography. After studying up, she would present new ways to
crack the cipher.  These days, Williams is trying to help scientists as they
unlock the secrets of a different code: the human genome. The
32-year-old  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  economist is
examining health-care innovation with a $430,000 National
Science Foundation CAREER grant, an  award  given to
“exceptionally promising” junior faculty who excel as
educators and researchers.  Williams’ 2010 Ph.D. dissertation was the first empirical
study to show that one company’s rights to gene data had
hindered scientific development, said Harvard University
economist Lawrence Katz. It was cited in multiple  briefs  during
a  Supreme Court  case that ended in June, when justices ruled to
restrict companies’ ability to patent human gene sequences.  “No one directly knew these things,” said Katz, who
advised Williams on the research while she was getting her
doctorate in economics at Harvard in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
“It is affecting how people think about intellectual property.
It fed into a rapidly changing area of policy.”  Advanced-Stage Cancers  Williams is driven by a desire to seek out and try to
discover solutions to barriers stalling health-care
breakthroughs, she said in an interview from  Stanford University 
in  California , where she is on academic leave for a year to
research and network with scholars. A working paper she and
colleagues  circulated  in August found that 20-year patent terms
encouraged companies to focus on advanced-stage cancers, because
clinical trials are shorter and drugs can be brought to market
more quickly. Preventative or early-stage treatments require
longer clinical trials, leaving less time for exclusive
production.  Now, her focus is on determining how patent rules alter
gene-related innovation.  “Ever since the sequencing of the human genome, there has
been a sense that the science hasn’t panned out quite as quickly
as people had hoped,” Williams said. How economics drives
innovation has long interested her, she said, and the lack of
empirical data on gene-related development made the topic a
natural fit.  “It could be that the economic incentives haven’t been
aligned appropriately, and that’s been holding back the
science,” she said.  Open-Access Genes  As of 2009, portions of the human genome sequenced by
closely held Celera Corp. had produced 20 percent to 30 percent
fewer research papers and medical discoveries than genes first
mapped by the Human Genome Project, Williams showed in her Ph.D.
project. Celera’s genes were covered by short-term intellectual-property protections lasting as long as two years, while the
project’s were open-access.  Groups, including  scholars  with the Information Society
Project at  Yale Law School , cited the study as the Supreme Court
heard arguments on whether human genes can be patented. The case
challenged seven patents owned by or licensed to  Salt Lake City ,
Utah-based biotechnology company  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  on genes
linked to breast and ovarian cancer. It ended in a ruling that
human genes can’t be patented, though synthetically produced
genetic material can have legal protections.  While Williams’s 2010 Harvard paper examined a type of
intellectual-property protection weaker than a patent, it is the
most definitive evidence showing that giving a company rights to
a gene may have long-lasting effects on innovation, Katz said.  Develop Database  The need for more evidence is fueling her current project,
Williams said. Funded by the grant, she and assistants are
tracking patents’ effects on developments in genomics and
building an open-source database to better enable others to
follow suit.  Williams, who was raised in Williston, North Dakota, by an
optometrist father and a social-worker mother, wasn’t always set
on economics. A numbers aficionado, she headed east in 1999 to
study math at  New Hampshire ’s  Dartmouth College  -- which she
said she favored because it’s “in the middle of nowhere” and
big-city life seemed overwhelming.  Dartmouth changed Williams’s direction. There, she first
encountered work by Harvard economist Michael Kremer, who has
 examined  how policy could spur drug studies on neglected
diseases.  “As soon as I found this kind of research, I thought, this
is exactly what I want to do,” she said. Though she had enjoyed
a National Security Agency internship that was math-focused,
economics had clearer impact, she said.  Rhodes Scholar  Williams knew she wanted to go to graduate school and
applied for many scholarships. One resulted in her being named
among Glamour Magazine’s 2002 ‘Top 10 College Women.’ Another
application landed her a spot as a Rhodes Scholar in 2003,
enabling her to study development economics at Oxford
University.  Before she left for the U.K. and after she returned, she
worked as Kremer’s research assistant. While at Oxford, she
contacted Amy Finkelstein, hoping to discuss a paper
Finkelstein, now an economist at MIT in Cambridge, had written.
The pair got together in Massachusetts during a school break.  “I remember going out to lunch with her that winter, some
cold gray day in Cambridge, and we met at a greasy Chinese
diner,” said Finkelstein. Despite the dreary setting, “she was
fantastic” and had read and connected with Finkelstein’s work.
Williams later became Finkelstein’s research assistant, and when
she attended Harvard, Finkelstein advised Williams on her Ph.D.
dissertation alongside Katz and Harvard economist David Cutler.  ‘Unique’ Ability  “She’s really unique in our profession in her ability to
master complex and overwhelming details,” said Finkelstein, who
won the 2012 John Bates Clark award for economists under 40.
Winners have often gone on to receive the  Nobel Prize  in
Economic Sciences. “She was the kind of student who made you
think you were doing something magical with advising.”  Willams’s academic career hasn’t been without challenges:
While getting her doctorate, she struggled to speak loudly
enough to present research and eventually teach, both she and
Katz said.  “She seems like someone from North Dakota, even to the
point of needing a little coaching in projecting her voice,”
Katz said, adding that she was articulate, just quiet.  She excelled in research, though, and Williams’s 2010
thesis was “a big-deal paper, especially for someone who was a
graduate student,” said Robert Cook-Deegan, a research
professor at the Institute for Genome Sciences and Policy at
 Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina , who met Williams
after admiring her Ph.D. research and contacting her.  Innovation Process  Going forward, Williams’ evolving body of work will
“contribute in a really important way to the way economists
think about the innovation process,” said James Poterba,
president of the National Bureau of  Economic Research , where
Williams has been a pre-doctoral, post-doctoral and faculty
research fellow. “That’s a very important set of issues, not
just for the U.S. but to the global economy.”  Poterba helped to recruit Williams to MIT, where she became
an assistant professor in 2011, and assisted in her application
for the CAREER grant, which he called “one of the most
important honors a researcher can receive. It’s an enormous vote
of confidence for someone starting out.”  For now, Williams is busy making good on that show of
faith, as she pursues her studies and constructs the database.
She also enjoys her time spent guiding younger economists, she
said.  ‘Really Impressive’  “She’s just a really impressive personal and professional
role model,” according to  Sally Hudson , a fourth-year Ph.D.
candidate whom she advises. Williams takes visible interest in
others’ academic work, does interesting research herself and is
always available to students, Hudson said.  Eventually, Williams said, she and husband Dan Fetter, an
economic historian and applied microeconomist at  Wellesley
College  in Massachusetts, would like to start a family. The
couple married in 2010 after meeting through mutual friends in
 Boston  when she was working as a research assistant and he was
studying at Harvard. Williams also may be interested in
influencing policy more directly, though she said she’s not sure
if this means moving to  Washington .  Such a role would be good news for academics and policy
makers alike, if you ask Cook-Deegan.  “We’re all hoping that a Heidi Williams will become the
next Paul Romer or the next  Kenneth Arrow ,” said Cook-Deegan,
who has advised the  Department of Health  and Human Services on
gene patenting and licensing. Romer, now a  New York  University
economist, won the 2002  H.C. Recktenwald Prize in Economics  for
his work on sustainable economic growth. Arrow, now at Stanford,
won a Nobel Prize in 1972.  “For those of us who do work that is intended to affect
public policy, which is almost all the stuff I do, economists
like Heidi are incredibly valuable,” Cook-Deegan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  