-- Italy Industrial Output Unexpectedly Falls as Slump Persists
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-12T08:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/italy-output-unexpectedly-falls-signaling-slump-may-not-be-over.html
Italian industrial  production 
unexpectedly fell in July, signaling that the euro region’s
third-biggest economy may still be stuck in its longest
recession since World War II.  Output fell 1.1 percent from June, when it rose a revised
0.2 percent, national statistics office  Istat  said in Rome
today. Economists had estimated a 0.3 percent increase,
according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. Output fell 4.3 percent from a year earlier when
adjusted for working days.  “We need to see a considerable upward correction in the
following months to see activity gaining momentum over the
quarter,” Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge Group in
 London , said in a note to investors. “So far, it looks like
activity will remain on a downward trend.”  While the euro-region economy returned to growth in the
second quarter,  Italy ’s shrank 0.3 percent as unemployment near
a record high restrained consumer demand. Today’s data contrasts
with signs of optimism in recent surveys.  The government forecasts that the economy will return to
growth next quarter and continue to expand in 2014, Finance
Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said Sept. 8.  Both consumer and business confidence rose last month amid
expectations that the country would soon return to growth.  Gross
domestic product  is estimated to be little changed in the three
months through September and rise by 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, employers lobby Confindustria said yesterday.  Rome-based Confindustria said it expects the economy to
shrink 1.6 percent this year and expand 0.7 percent in 2014. In
June, it estimated GDP would fall 1.9 percent in 2013 and rise
0.5 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  