-- Mitsubishi Motors Said to Consider $2 Billion Share Sale
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-09-12T09:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/mitsubishi-motors-said-to-be-considering-2-billion-share-sale.html
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  is nearing
a decision to raise as much as 200 billion yen ($2 billion) via
a public offering of new shares as it seeks to reduce preferred
stock  held  by other Mitsubishi companies, two people with direct
knowledge of the plan said. The shares fell.  The Japanese carmaker will probably announce the plan after
reporting half-year financial results at the end of October,
with the sale likely occurring between January and March of
2014, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Mitsubishi Motors has made no decision
regarding how to increase capital and deal with the preferred
shares, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement to the  Tokyo 
Stock Exchange today.  The public offering would be part of a reorganization
involving  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the people said. Those
companies, which bailed out their car affiliate in 2004 and
2005, have been stuck with billions of dollars of preferred
shares -- convertible into common stock -- that never generated
any dividends.  “This move is necessary before they can become a normal
company again or exit from emergency mode,” said Koichi Sugimoto, an auto analyst at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Tokyo. “But
they’re still in the very early stages of recovery.”  The  shares  fell 8.1 percent, the most since July 29, to
1,028 yen at the close in Tokyo trading. The stock declined  the
most  among the companies on the benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock
Average, which lost 0.3 percent. The Nikkei newspaper reported
on the planned sale earlier today.  Kinyokai Family  Though independent, the companies are among the hundreds of
 Mitsubishi-named businesses  that trace their roots to a shipping
firm founded by Yataro Iwasaki in 1870, making them the oldest
business collective in Japan. Of those, 28 members form an
informal group known as the Kinyokai.  The Mitsubishi companies that bailed out their car
affiliate have been seeking to convert their preferred stock
because the absence of dividend payments rendered them pointless
as preferred shares don’t carry voting rights.  Mitsubishi Motors has said it plans to eliminate all
outstanding preferred shares before the fiscal year ends in
March 2014, when it plans to resume  dividends  for the first time
since the carmaker discontinued such payments in 1998.  As a precursor to the resumption of the payments, the
company decreased its capital by 75 percent and  canceled  all of
its 433.2 billion yen in capital reserves in August to erase
more than 900 billion yen in accumulated losses. Japanese
companies in  Japan  can’t pay dividends if they have no retained
earnings on their balance sheet.  Defect Cover-Up  While the sale would undermine its share price, the
carmaker owes its existence to other Mitsubishi companies,
receiving cash, debt waivers and loans exceeding more than 1
trillion yen in the middle of last decade. The carmaker needed a
bailout after an admission that it covered up production defects
for more than two decades led to a sales slump from which the
carmaker hasn’t fully recovered.  Things have looked up more recently, as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s success in weakening the yen since late last year
helped lift the profitability of Japanese exporters. Mitsubishi
Motors is now forecasting net income will rise 32 percent to a
record 50 billion yen this fiscal year -- a target that analysts
expect the company to beat.  Last year, the carmaker began production at a third factory
in  Thailand  to meet higher demand in Southeast Asia. It’s aiming
to double sales in  China  this year and in Japan, the company has
teamed up with Nissan Motor Co. to develop vehicles with small
engines.  A 200 billion yen share sale would be the third-largest in
Japan this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  