-- J&J Sues Boehringer Unit Over Doxil Production Pact
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-09-12T22:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/j-j-sues-boehringer-unit-over-doxil-production-pact.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  sued a unit of
Boehringer Ingelheim Gmbh over whether a dispute about an
agreement to produce the cancer drug Doxil must be submitted to
arbitration.  Lawyers for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J, the
world’s biggest seller of health-care products, contend
executives of Boehringer’s U.S. unit violated a 2009 agreement
to make Doxil, used to treat ovarian cancer, and left J&J
scrambling to meet demand, according to court filings unsealed
in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  “BI’s breach of the agreement cannot be seriously
disputed,” J&J said in a redacted version of the complaint
filed today. The lawsuit was filed under seal this week.  Jennifer Forsyth , a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Boehringer,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call for comment on the
unsealed suit.  Closely held Boehringer, based in Ingelheim,  Germany , won
U.S. approval in July for a lung-cancer therapy designed to work
with a gene test that pinpoints which patients will best respond
to the medication.  Lung cancer  is the leading cause of U.S.
cancer deaths, according to the  American Cancer Society .  J&J’s Alza Corp. unit hired Boehringer as its “sole-source
manufacturer” of Doxil in 1995 because the drugmaker’s  Ben
Venue Laboratories  unit had special expertise in producing the
drug, according to the court filings.  Production Snags  Doxil production hit a snag in 2011 when a Boehringer
manufacturing plant in  Ohio  was forced to halt after regulators
questioned the quality of the products being made at the
facility. J&J said publicly at the time that it planned to hire
another company to make the medicine.  A 2011 FDA inspection of the Bedford, Ohio, plant found a
lack of routine maintenance and failure to find the source of
microbial contaminants, according to the  Cleveland Plain Dealer 
newspaper.  Because of Doxil shortages tied to Boehringer’s production
woes, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  gave approval to
 India ’s Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. to sell a generic
form of the drug starting in February, according to the unsealed
court filings.  Despite generic competition “there remains strong demand”
for brand-name Doxil, J&J said in the filings. “Although sales
of most brand drugs rapidly diminish when a generic version is
introduced, utilization of Doxil has remained high.”  J&J officials are asking Delaware Chancery Judge Leo Strine
to order Boehringer to honor its agreement to submit disputes
over Doxil production to an arbitrator.  “J&J’s right to arbitration is clear,” the drugmaker’s
attorneys said in the unsealed filings.  The Delaware case is Alza Corp. v. Boehringer Ingelheim USA
Corp., 8877, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  