-- Japan to Protest After French Paper Mocks Post-Disaster Olympics
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-09-12T09:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/japan-to-protest-after-french-paper-mocks-post-disaster-olympics.html
Japan  plans to complain to French
satirical paper  Le Canard Enchaine  after it published cartoons
poking fun at  Tokyo  hosting the 2020 Olympics in the aftermath
of the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  One cartoon published in the Sept. 11 edition of the paper
shows two emaciated sumo wrestlers with extra limbs battling it
out with nuclear reactors in the background. The caption reads:
“Thanks to Fukushima, sumo has become an Olympic sport.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe flew to  Buenos Aires  last weekend
to give a final presentation to the  International Olympic
Committee , where Tokyo won the right to host the Games for the
first time since 1964. The last few days of the campaign were
dogged by questions about radioactive water leaking into the sea
from the crippled Fukushima plant. Abe has vowed to resolve the
issue before the Games.  The cartoon was “extremely regrettable,” Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga said today.  “This kind of cartoon hurts the feelings of those who
suffered in the disaster and gives an incorrect impression of
the problem of contaminated water at the Fukushima Daiichi power
plant,” he told reporters in Tokyo.  Suga added that the government would complain to the
magazine via the Japanese embassy in Paris and would instruct
the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  to discourage inappropriate
media coverage of Japan in future.  Another cartoon in the paper showed what appeared to be a
tank of contaminated water at the ruined nuclear plant. “We
have already built our Olympic swimming pool at Fukushima,”
reads the caption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  