-- Japan Lawmakers to Debate Power Industry Reform, Nishimura Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-09-12T07:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/japan-lawmakers-to-debate-power-industry-reform-nishimura-says.html
Japanese lawmakers will debate
legislation this Fall that calls for the break-up of power
companies by separating their generation and transmission
assets, Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said.  A bill on electricity industry reform will be submitted to
the Diet in the autumn session, Nishimura said today at the
 World Economic Forum  in Dalian,  China . Nishimura also reiterated
the government’s pledge to produce a new energy strategy before
the year’s end, noting that the future of nuclear power in  Japan 
isn’t certain.  The Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011 has prompted a
government examination of Japan’s power system that allows all
aspects of electricity production, transport and distribution to
be dominated by the country’s 10 regional utilities. The
utilities have argued their control of both generation and
transmission makes for a more stable and secure electricity
supply, even as it deters competition.  A break-up of the industry would erode sales at the 10
power monopolies, which combined rang up 17.8 trillion yen ($179
billion) in the last fiscal year ended March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It may also portend more focus on
renewable energy, as companies including  Softbank Corp. (9984)  have
pledged to invest in solar and wind power in Japan on the basis
that industry reform should give them equal access to
transmission lines to gas and coal-fired stations.  Japan is looking at ways to lower electricity costs after
greater reliance on imported natural gas in the wake of the
Fukushima disaster pushed up power prices. The opening up of new
gas supplies from the U.S. starting 2017 will also help reduce
fossil fuel import costs that run into trillions of yen,
Nishimura said.  “We’ll start shale gas imports from the U.S. and that will
help” reduce energy costs, Nishimura said. “Until then we will
build smart cities to conserve energy.”  The role of nuclear energy remains “unclear” in Japan and
the government isn’t likely to resolve it before the end of this
year, Nishimura said. A plan detailing the “direction of  energy
policy ,” which will include a position on nuclear energy while
leaving out the size of its contribution to the energy mix,
should be ready before the end of the year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  