-- Jets’ Mark Sanchez May Have Season-Ending Surgery, ESPN Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-12T13:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/jets-sanchez-may-have-season-ending-shoulder-surgery-espn-says.html
New York  Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  will likely have season-ending surgery on his injured
right shoulder,  ESPN reported , citing people familiar with the
situation that it didn’t identify.  Sanchez, 26, will decide in the next two days whether to
have surgery immediately or go through rehabilitation with the
chance of playing later in the National Football League season,
ESPN said. If he decides to try rehab, he still faces surgery
after the season ends, the report said.  Sanchez, the Jets’ starter for the past four seasons after
being taken fifth overall in the 2009 draft, sought a second
opinion on the injury from surgeon James Andrews, who confirmed
yesterday that the quarterback has a partially torn labrum, ESPN
said.  Sanchez was injured late in the fourth quarter of an Aug.
24 preseason win against the Giants after replacing rookie Geno Smith, who was intercepted three times during the game.  Jets spokesman  Bruce Speight  declined to comment on the
report in an e-mail.  Sanchez, who is guaranteed $8.25 million this season, spent
the offseason competing with Smith for the starter’s job.
Sanchez was benched twice last season, when he committed an NFL-high 26 turnovers, including 18 interceptions. He has a league-high 52 turnovers the past two seasons after helping the Jets
reach the conference championship game his first two years.  Winning Drive  Smith drove the Jets 50 yards on five plays to set up a
game-winning 48-yard field goal with two seconds remaining in an
18-17 win over the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  in Week 1. Smith, a
second-round draft choice this year, completed 24 of 38 passes
for 256 yards, one touchdown and one interception in his Sept. 8
NFL debut.  Smith, who will start against the  New England Patriots  in
Foxboro,  Massachusetts , tonight, also added a team-high 47 yards
rushing against the Buccaneers to become the first player to
lead the Jets in both passing and rushing yards in the same game
since Ray Lucas on Dec. 5, 1999 against the Giants.  In three preseason games, Sanchez completed 28 of 42 passes
for 266 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions. He was
injured when coach  Rex Ryan  sent him on the field with 11
minutes left in the overtime win against the Giants. Five
minutes later Sanchez was hit in the shoulder by Marvin Austin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  