-- Jets to Play Without Kerley as Pats’ Amendola Is a Doubt
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-12T04:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/jets-to-play-without-kerley-as-pats-amendola-is-questionable.html
The  New York Jets  will be without
receiver Jeremy Kerley as they visit the  New England Patriots  in
a matchup of division rivals, leaving rookie quarterback Geno Smith with one fewer offensive weapon.  Kerley, who was second on the Jets with 45 yards receiving
in a Week 1 comeback win against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , was
diagnosed with a concussion the day after the game. Kerley, 24,
had a team-leading 56 catches for 827 yards last season.  New York quarterback  Mark Sanchez , who was officially
listed as out for the second straight week with a right shoulder
injury, will likely have season-ending surgery after physician
James Andrews confirmed yesterday he has a labral tear,  ESPN
reported  last night, citing team and league sources and a person
close to Sanchez that it didn’t identify.  “Any time you play New England, it’s special,” said Jets
coach  Rex Ryan , whose team has lost four straight games to the
Patriots over the past two seasons. “There’s no question
because that’s the one you’re gunning for. You’re not gunning
for second place. You’re gunning for first place and that team’s
won our division the four years I’ve been here.”  Sanchez’s absence leaves Matt Simms as the backup to Smith,
who helped lead the Jets to the winning field goal against the
Buccaneers. No rookie quarterback has beaten a Bill Belichick-
coached team at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Massachusetts.  The Patriots will be without running back Shane Vereen, who
rushed for a team-high 101 yards against the  Buffalo Bills 
during the opening week of the National Football League season,
when they also won on a field goal in the closing seconds.
Vereen will be out at least eight weeks after breaking a bone in
his wrist.  Gronkowski Questionable  New England listed wide receiver Danny Amendola and tight
end  Rob Gronkowski  as questionable for tonight’s game. Amendola,
who was  Tom Brady ’s top target last week with 10 receptions for
104 yards, saw limited practice time this week with a groin
injury. Gronkowski is still recovering from back and forearm
injuries that prevented him from playing last week.  The Patriots, who have won 11 straight games against
opponents from the American Football Conference East division,
are listed as 12-point favorites by oddsmakers. They’re the only
NFL team favored by more than 10 points during Week 2.  “When people are injured, that’s why you have a deep
roster,” Brady said. “Guys that you have confidence in, that
you’ve gained trust in, and I certainly have that at the skill
position. We have a lot of good running backs, we have a lot of
good receivers, we’re trying to do the best we can this week to
go out and win a very challenging game against a good team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  