-- Josef Ackermann’s ‘Late Remorse’ May Be Premature: Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-09-12T11:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/josef-ackermann-s-late-remorse-may-be-premature-review.html
Josef Ackermann , the former chief
executive of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , cannot be happy about the timing
of a new book by his ex-head of communications.  The title is unfortunate too. The invitations to the
presentation of “Spaete Reue” (Late Remorse) landed weeks
before the Aug. 26 death of Pierre Wauthier, the chief financial
officer of  Zurich Insurance Group AG. (ZURN)  Wauthier named Ackermann
in his suicide note.  Ackermann, 65, resigned as chairman of Zurich, though he
said at today’s book presentation in Berlin that Wauthier’s
dying words of blame were unfounded and their business dealings
were always “factual and marked by mutual respect.” He also
announced today that for unrelated reasons, he is stepping down
as deputy chairman of Siemens AG’s supervisory board.  The whole Zurich incident casts a shadow over an
illustrious career and a legacy the book was supposed to help
cement. It begs the question whether there will be a “Late
Remorse II.”  Stefan Baron was a close aide to Ackermann for the last
five years of his reign at Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s largest
bank, and still advises him. He wrote the book with his blessing
-- though Ackermann said he had no influence over the end result
and read it “in great suspense” in one night.  Banking Crisis  Though an admirer, Baron is journalist enough to omit none
of the rockier episodes of the last few years and to quote
Ackermann’s critics, mostly the media. A former editor-in-chief
of WirtschaftsWoche magazine, he chronicles the banking crisis
with pace and drama. Later chapters focusing on Ackermann’s
growing political role in the debt crisis and the endlessly
tedious debate over his succession are an anti-climax.  The remorse of the title refers to Ackermann’s
acknowledgement that the banking industry took a wrong turn. He
was, Baron writes, one of the first bankers “to practice self-criticism and push for comprehensive reforms.”  Borrowing the language of bankers, Baron says that
Ackermann’s “popularity curve had a great deal of upward
potential” when he started working with him in 2007. Long
before the bankruptcies and bailouts, Deutsche Bank was
Germany’s “most hated company” and Ackermann the “ugly face
of capitalism” in the German media, Baron writes.  Much of that dated back to 2004. Fighting a suit involving
millions in bonuses paid to executives of Mannesmann AG as a
reward for its takeover by Vodafone Group Plc., Ackermann was
photographed flashing a victory sign in court. A storm of
outrage followed.  Record Profits  Ackermann drove Deutsche Bank’s transformation from a
nationally focused institution to one of the world’s top
investment banks. He pushed the company to achieve record
profits, yet also to develop and sell some of the complex,
opaque financial products that precipitated the crisis.  As the banking crisis wore on and Deutsche Bank faced
mounting lawsuits, Ackermann grew pensive, Baron writes. A
defining moment came in  Seoul  at a G20 meeting, when he was
sitting next to South Korean President Lee Myung-Bak at dinner
as news came that the stock market plunged in the last minute of
trading because of a Deutsche Bank derivative transaction.  “Something broke inside him,” Baron writes. “He was
deeply disappointed and felt betrayed.”  Baron’s view is that Ackermann’s years in Germany uprooted
him from the values instilled by his hard-working Swiss family.
The crisis, as Baron describes it, was a jolt that reset his
moral compass.  Riskier Business  Ackermann responded fast, scaling back Deutsche Bank’s
riskier businesses and building its domestic banking, Baron
writes. Deutsche Bank escaped relatively unscathed and never
needed to borrow from the German government’s crisis fund.  Meanwhile, its chief executive grew in political stature.
The Swiss native at first had little understanding of the full
sweep of his role as Deutsche Bank CEO, traditionally a “kind
of shadow chancellor of the republic,” Baron writes. He became
a fixture on the euro debt-crisis scene, serving as a mediator
between government and business.  Baron describes a life lived in airplanes. Ackermann’s
Frankfurt desk was empty, his rented four-room apartment in the
city purely functional. He didn’t eat regularly and slept
little, switching time zones frequently.  Emergency Toblerone  His favorite hotel meal was curried sausage and fries with
a glass of red wine, and his secretaries kept a stash of
appropriately Swiss Toblerone in a drawer for emergency
snacking. Leisure was a “foreign word” to the banker, whose
working week was between 80 and 100 hours.  So he is hard on himself. What of speculation that he
applied too much pressure on Wauthier? Baron gives evidence
Ackermann can be tough on others too. Though he wants to hear
the worst and pledges not to shoot the messenger, he subjects
any bearer of bad news to a grilling, he says.  “Sometimes when he was particularly demanding I wondered
how many people in the bank would go out of their way to avoid
that stress,” Baron writes.  Calls from Ackermann could come at any time and nobody got
thanks for working through the night, he says. Given the
standards Ackermann sets for himself, none of this seems
surprising or extraordinary.  Demanding and difficult he must be. The question is whether
he pushed too hard. Ackermann is once again fighting for a
reputation he must have hoped was finally safe.  (“Spaete Reue” is published by Econ Verlag, price 24.99
euros in Germany. The English-language rights have not so far
been sold.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Frederik Balfour  on Hong Kong art,  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 