-- Kerry Arrives in Geneva to Test Russia on Syria Weapons
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-09-12T11:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/kerry-arrives-in-geneva-to-test-russia-on-syria-weapons.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
arrived in Geneva today for at least two days of talks with his
Russian counterpart on a proposal for  Syria  to surrender its
chemical weapons.  The meetings with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
are designed to test the credibility of Russia’s plan to avoid a
U.S. military strike on Syria by requiring the war-torn Arab
country to disclose all its chemical weapons and turn them over
to international control.  The U.S. wants to probe the feasibility of such a plan by
discussing details on how Syria’s 1,000 tons of chemical weapons
would be collected and destroyed and how the process would be
verified and enforced, according to a State Department official
who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity to discuss
sensitive negotiations.  The U.S. will need to see benchmarks for progress and
establish a timeline for action to assess the credibility of the
proposal, the official said. One benchmark would be how quickly
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad discloses his entire inventory
of chemical weapons, the official said.  One potential obstacle to an agreement is a condition set
by Russian President  Vladimir Putin  that the U.S. and other
nations must renounce the use of force against Assad’s regime if
negotiations are to go forward.  UN Resolution  Kerry won’t negotiate with Lavrov the framework for a
United Nations Security Council resolution that could establish
whether military force could be used to enforce any disarmament
plan, the official said, although issues of verification and
enforcement will be discussed.  Kerry will want to discuss details of chemical stockpiles,
production facilities, precursor chemicals and munitions used to
spread chemical weapons, the official said.  The official also acknowledged the difficulty of
establishing security for weapons inspectors in the middle of a
Syrian civil war that has killed more than 100,000 people. Kerry
has brought with him to Geneva a staff of technical experts to
discuss details of the Assad regime’s stockpile and better
assess the credibility of  Russia ’s plan, the official said.  Syrian opposition groups have expressed dismay at the
Russian proposal and its adoption by the U.S., saying they don’t
trust a chemical-weapons disarmament plan that may help prolong
Assad’s rule.  1,400 Deaths  The U.S. and allies blame the Assad regime for a chemical-weapons attack on Aug. 21 that the U.S. says killed more than
1,400 people near Damascus. Putin has said opposition groups
carried out the attack and insisted that any punitive strike
without UN approval would be illegal.  In a rare appeal to the American public, Putin called on
President  Barack Obama  to adopt the Russian-backed proposal as
an alternative to military strikes on Syria. Putin, in an
opinion article published last night by the  New York  Times, said
he was encouraged that Obama has asked Congress to delay voting
on a use-of-force measure while Russia’s offer is pursued.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  