-- KKR Joining $5 Billion Surge in Dividend Loans: Australia Credit
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-12T02:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/kkr-joining-5-billion-surge-in-dividend-loans-australia-credit.html
Private equity firms are joining a
global borrowing surge to draw dividends from their Australian
investments, prompting the nation’s banks to compete against
U.S. lenders for the business.  Pacific Equity Partners Pty is talking to financiers here
and in the U.S. as it seeks a fifth loan this year to refinance
and extract cash from the Sydney-based fund’s investments.  KKR &
Co. (KKR)  is tapping banks in  Australia  to borrow A$300 million
against its medical business Genesis Care Pty to help pay itself
a dividend. There have been about $5 billion of such loans in
the nation in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Private owners of Australian companies, from PEP to TPG
Capital, are capitalizing on favorable debt markets to return
cash to themselves, even as some consider stake sales that would
end their responsibility for those businesses. Local banks are
striving to maintain lending business in the face of competition
from the $2 trillion U.S. high-yield market, where so-called
covenant-lite debt is tied to a rate at least 200 basis points
lower than the South Pacific nation’s benchmark.  “What the banks seem to be doing is to compete more
aggressively for what they perceive as limited growth
opportunities,” said  Brian Johnson , a Sydney-based bank analyst
with CLSA Ltd. “I certainly see credit underwriting standards
at the moment being loosened. Quantitative easing has lowered
 interest rates  around the globe and that fuels all sorts of
excesses.”  Ten-Fold Rise  Loans that fund payouts are surging as firms borrow cheaply
against investments to pay themselves rather than sell assets at
a time when merger and acquisition activity is slowing. While
high-yield loans borrowed in the U.S. for buyouts have fallen by
more than two-thirds since 2008, dividend loans have risen
almost ten-fold, according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ
Leveraged Commentary & Data.  “In an environment of relatively lower deal volumes and a
greater supply of lenders putting money to work, that creates a
positive environment for issuers,” John Whelan,  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia ’s head of acquisition and leveraged finance,
said in an interview. “The improved terms and conditions are a
function of the levels of supply and demand.”  U.S. Competition  Australian banks are competing with the U.S. high-yield
Term Loan B market, which issues loans with fewer conditions and
financial checks. In the past year, local companies including
 Fortescue Metals Group (FMG)  and Hoyts Consolidated Pty have borrowed
in that market, whose lenders are often institutions. More than
$418 billion of leveraged loans have been raised in the U.S.
this year, a 69 percent increase on the same period in 2012,
according to a UBS AG report.  The rise in Australian dividend loans reflects
“competition in the global lending markets, coming principally
out of the U.S., and the progressive reduction of the  base rate 
in the local market,” said Tim Sims, a managing director and
co-founder of PEP, in an interview.  KKR is tapping lenders in Australia for a dividend
recapitalization on Sydney-based Genesis Care, after failing to
lure U.S. investors for a similar deal in June, said people
familiar with the matter on Aug. 30. New York-based KKR may also
borrow in the U.S. against Australian mining services company
Bis Industries Ltd., even as it considers ways to exit the 2006
purchase, two other people familiar with the situation said.  Highly Leveraged  PEP is borrowing $1.05 billion in the U.S. against Spotless
Group Ltd., the Melbourne-based facilities services company it
bought in August last year, said a person familiar with the
matter last month. The debt will replace A$686 million of loans
provided by Australian banks for the purchase. PEP is also
seeking a dividend recapitalization locally for  Peters Ice
Cream , the people familiar said, after acquiring the Australian
food company founded in 1907 last year.  Spotless’s debt is expected to rise to 7 times earnings
before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization
following PEP’s refinancing, S&P said Sept. 9. The company
assigned Spotless a B rating, citing its “highly leveraged”
risk profile as a constraint on the grade.  The rush by firms to borrow at record-low costs before an
easing of Federal Reserve stimulus measures comes as Australian
banks face slowing credit growth amid a waning mining boom. The
annual rate of private lending growth was 3.2 percent in July,
compared to 4.2 percent a year earlier, according to central
bank data.  Aussie Yields  Australian government 10-year yields climbed 27 basis
points this month to 4.17 percent yesterday, the highest closing
level since March 2012, as prospects the Fed will pare
quantitative easing drove a global slide in bonds. The premium
over similar-dated Treasuries widened 11 basis points since Aug.
30 to 122 basis points.  The Aussie dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 92.62 U.S. cents
as of 12:28 p.m. in Sydney, after government data today showed
payrolls unexpectedly fell last month and the jobless rate rose
to a four-year high.  The decrease in M&A volumes has coincided with more
lenders, including investment banks and institutions, chasing
new business, which is forcing local banks to be “more active
in pursuing the available transactions,” said CBA’s Whelan.  TPG Payout  Alinta Energy Holdings Pty, the Australian power company
controlled by London-based TPG Capital, in August raised $1.1
billion of loans in the U.S. that returned about $800 million to
its owners, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The debt repaid loans from banks including Australia and New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and Macquarie Group Ltd., while also
giving TPG flexibility to exit the investment by early 2015, the
people said.  “There’s no reason why you can’t recap and exit,” said
PEP’s Sims. “They’re not mutually exclusive alternatives. On
the contrary, it can be a very powerful way to prepare a
business for a sale -- not to avoid a sale.”  Link Group, a Sydney-based financial services provider
controlled by PEP, in June raised A$710 million to refinance
debt and extract a dividend, borrowing almost five times Ebitda
from local banks including  Westpac Banking Corp (WBC)  and CBA. Loans
obtained in the U.S. that helped pay dividends lifted their
borrowers’ debt to an average 4.5 times Ebitda in September,
according to S&P LCD.  “Before the global financial crisis, the market used to
think these things were ‘‘dividend distributions’’,” said
CLSA’s Johnson. “The reality is that they are distributions of
the unrealized increase in the enterprise value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  