-- Kone Falls as Nordea Says Share Jump Excessive: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-09-12T10:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/kone-falls-as-nordea-says-share-jump-excessive-helsinki-mover.html
Kone Oyj (KNEBV) , the Finnish elevator
supplier to  London ’s Shard, fell the most in five weeks in
Helsinki as Nordea Bank AB said clients should sell the shares
because yesterday’s jump made them overpriced.  Kone dropped as much as 2.8 percent, the most since Aug. 7.
The stock fell 2.3 percent to 66.85 euros at 1:24 p.m. local
time with trading volume at 58 percent of the three-month daily
average.  Kone jumped 4.6 percent yesterday after the Espoo-based
company raised its full-year forecast for earnings before
interest and taxes to as high as 955 million euros ($1.27
billion) from as high as 920 million euros before, citing strong
Chinese demand. Nordea today cut its recommendation on the stock
to sell from hold and said Kone’s new forecast should have been
reflected in market expectations.  Kone’s previous outlook was “too cautious,” Jan Kaijala,
an analyst at Nordea said in a note. “Kone raised its 2013
guidance closer to where the market expectations already were.”  All 14 Ebit estimates submitted by analysts before
yesterday’s outlook change were above the higher end of Kone’s
previous forecast, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Kone has benefited from infrastructure investments in Asia
as the continent develops its urban areas. Its revenue share
from the the Asia-Pacific region grew to 43 percent during the
second quarter, neck-and-neck with the region of Europe, Middle
East and  Africa . The company is bucking the declining trend for
European industrial companies, having raised its forecast twice
earlier this year.  This performance has led to “unsustainable” valuation
compared with peers, Kaijala said. The multiple of Kone’s
enterprise value to estimated Ebit for next year is 16.8,
compared with 12.5 for its Swiss competitor Schindler AG,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  