-- America Movil Sticks to $9.6 Billion KPN Offer Amid Talks
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-09-12T09:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/kpn-is-in-constructive-discussions-with-america-movil-over-bid.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the Mexican
carrier owned by  Carlos Slim , stuck to its 7.2 billion-euro
($9.6 billion) offer for  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  while the companies are in
talks.  America Movil  “continues to be committed” to its plans to
make a voluntary public offer in cash for KPN at 2.40 euros per
share, it said in a statement. The biggest Dutch phone company
said in a separate statement the carriers are in “continuous
constructive discussions” on matters including price.  America Movil’s bid ran into a snag after KPN’s foundation
used an option to buy shares to impede what it described as a
hostile takeover. The Mexico City-based company said it’s still
evaluating its options regarding the preference shares and that
it reserves the right to drop the planned offer.  “It is the first time that KPN states that they are in
talks with AMX on the intended offer, which is a step in the
right direction,” Emmanuel Carlier, a Brussels-based analyst at
ING Groep NV said in a note. “In contrast with the Foundation,
the KPN board is not only discussing terms and conditions but
also price. We believe the boards of KPN mainly want AMX to
raise its offer and to increase the acceptance level from more
than 50 percent to more than 75 percent.”  KPN shares  rose  as much as 2.6 percent after America
Movil’s statement and were up 1.1 percent to 2.26 euros as of
11:29 a.m. in Amsterdam. That’s the highest intraday level since
Aug. 29.  ‘Vital Role’  KPN is “carefully considering and weighing the interests
of our shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders
on financial and non-financial matters including safeguarding
the vital role of KPN in Dutch society,” Jos Streppel, chairman
of KPN’s supervisory board, said in today’s statement.  The foundation’s move came just after America Movil
appeared to be addressing the group’s concerns. Slim’s company
agreed last month to endorse the sale of KPN’s German unit to
the billionaire’s biggest rival in  Latin America  --  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  -- even convincing the Spanish company to sweeten its bid.
After negotiating with America Movil, Telefonica increased the
value of the bid for E-Plus to 8.55 billion euros from 8.1
billion euros.  America Movil won’t raise its offer “under any
circumstance,” and it won’t agree to any restrictions on its
ability to make management decisions if it controls KPN,  Arturo Elias , a vice president of the company’s Telmex unit and Slim’s
spokesman and son-in-law, said Aug. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  