-- N.Y. Wins in Challenge of Tobacco Deal, Schneiderman Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/n-y-wins-in-challenge-of-tobacco-deal-schneiderman-says.html
An arbitration panel found that New
York upheld obligations to tobacco firms under a landmark
settlement, rejecting part of a challenge by the companies in
which they sought to reduce their payments, the state attorney
general said.  The panel ruled that New York should receive $92 million in
disputed funds withheld by the  tobacco companies  over
allegations that the state wasn’t following the terms of the
deal in 2003, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman
said in a statement yesterday. The ruling wasn’t publicly
disclosed.  Cigarette manufacturers including Richmond, Virginia-based
 Philip Morris (PM)  USA Inc., which is part of the  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,
and Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Co. challenged payments under the 1998 settlement over
allegations that states weren’t enforcing certain statutes aimed
at protecting the companies from losses in market share to firms
that didn’t sign onto the deal.  The arbitration panel rejected the tobacco companies’
claims that New York was failing to uphold its end of the
bargain by not taxing cigarette sales on Indian reservations,
according to the attorney general’s office.  “This ruling is a huge victory for all New Yorkers, and I
applaud the panel for denying big tobacco’s efforts to avoid
responsibility for illnesses caused by cigarettes -- and paid
for by taxpayers,” Schneiderman said in a statement.  Uphold Obligations  The panel found that six of 15 states failed to uphold
obligations related to the protection of market share, including
 Indiana , Kentucky, Maryland,  Missouri , New Mexico and
Pennsylvania, according to a statement from  R.J. Reynolds . R.J.
Reynolds said it won $266 million in future payment reductions.
 Philip Morris  said it won a credit of about $145 million.  In 1998, cigarette makers reached a landmark settlement
with 50 U.S. states resolving health claims over tobacco
products. New York was owed about $800 million in payments under
the settlement in 2003, according to the attorney general’s
office.  “We are pleased that the arbitration panel found that six
jurisdictions failed to meet their diligent enforcement
obligations” under the agreement, Martin L. Holton III,
executive vice president and general counsel for R.J. Reynolds,
said in a statement yesterday.  Denise Keane, executive vice president and general counsel
of Altria Group, said that the decision “sends a strong message
about the importance of diligently enforcing the laws that apply
to non-participating manufacturers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in in federal court in Brooklyn,  New York , at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  