-- NAB Seeks Bigger Mortgage Share Amid Aggressive Competition
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-09-13T03:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/nab-seeks-more-mortgage-share-amid-aggressive-rate-competition.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , the
country’s fastest growing mortgage lender, is yet to reach its
market share goal as competition for home loans increases, the
head of its retail bank said.  NAB’s market share has risen by 2.5 percentage points to
more than 15 percent since August 2009, trailing  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia (CBA)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , data from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority show.  “Overall market share of 15.3 -- we’re not where we want
to be, we want to be somewhere north of that,” Gavin Slater,
who became the head of NAB’s retail bank in April said in an
interview yesterday. “We do have ambition to continue to grow
market share. We think this is a business that benefits from
scale.” He declined to give specific targets.  NAB Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne has offered the
lowest benchmark home loan rate among  Australia ’s four biggest
banks since June 2009 to boost mortgages, the country’s fastest
growing loan segment, as total loan demand expands at close to
the slowest pace on record. Mortgage lending has risen seven
straight months through July, the longest streak in four years,
according to the  Australian Bureau of Statistics .  Rival banks are now “aggressively competing” in home
loans given the profitability, Slater said. Since May CBA has
narrowed its interest-rate difference with NAB to 2 basis
points, while ANZ is matching NAB’s rate.  NAB shares fell 0.6 percent to A$33.65 as of 1:07 p.m. in
Sydney, paring this year’s gain to 35 percent. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index has risen 12 percent.  Rate Cuts  Australia’s  average standard variable home loan rate 
offered by banks was 5.95 percent in August from 6.85 percent a
year earlier, according to central bank data. NAB cut its rate
to 5.88 percent as of yesterday, its lowest level in four-and-a-half years, after the  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered the cash
rate by 25 basis points to a record 2.5 percent.  The competitive rate environment has helped boost housing
credit by 4.7 percent in the year to July, while personal
lending nudged up 0.5 percent and loans to business increased
1.3 percent,  Reserve Bank of Australia  data show. Home loans
 rose  to A$24.2 billion ($22.4 billion) in July, the most in six
years, according to the statistics bureau.  NAB’s retail banking unit, which offers mortgages, personal
loans and lends to small businesses, reported a 19.2 percent
rise in cash earnings to A$553 million in the six months to
March 31, filings show.  While  home prices  rose last quarter at the fastest pace in
more than three years, and June home sales were the highest
since 2011, Slater ruled out concerns of an Australian housing
bubble.  No Bubble  “I wouldn’t put housing in bubble territory,” he said.
“Growth rates of 4 percent to 4.5 percent in mortgages probably
doesn’t appear unreasonable. We have not relaxed our lending
standards at all.’  Australian houses are 7 percent overvalued based on long-term trends, Sydney-based AMP Capital Investors Ltd. said Aug.
15 in a note to investors. Local homes are the sixth most
overvalued globally and the house-price-to-income ratio was 21
percent above its long-term average, according to the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.  Before taking on his current role, Slater spent four years
leading the bank’s technology overhaul. He has been with NAB
since 1999 and has had roles at the lender’s Australian, New
Zealand and U.K units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  