-- Narula’s Metacapital Said to Win $130 Million in Fund
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-09-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/narula-s-metacapital-said-to-win-130-million-in-fund.html
Metacapital Management LP, the top-ranked hedge-fund manager in 2012 whose flagship vehicle this
year suffered its worst quarter ever, has attracted about $130
million for a fund designed to profit from rising interest
rates, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The Rising Rate Fund returned 2.7 percent in August,
bringing gains since it opened in May to 13.5 percent, according
to a notice this week to investors from Deepak Narula’s
Metacapital. That compares with a 2 percent gain last month for
the New York-based firm’s Mortgage Opportunities Fund, which has
about $1.3 billion of assets, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  The larger fund is down 4.9 percent this year after being
roiled by speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will begin
slowing its bond buying as soon as next week. The rising-rate
vehicle has advanced each month as the potential reduction of
the central bank’s stimulus sent yields on 10-year Treasuries as
high as 3.01 percent this month, from as low as 1.61 percent in
May.  “While we do not claim to be experts at timing interest
rate movements, we believe that there are several factors that
make entry into this trade attractive at present,” Narula wrote
in a July 25 letter to investors, in which he said the fund’s
assets totaled $31 million.  Narula declined to comment on the size and returns of the
rising rate fund.  Fund Returns  The Rising Rate fund’s portfolio is designed to offer
positive returns before any increase in rates, and then greater
gains if they occur, Narula wrote in the letter.  Metacapital’s flagship fund rose 38 percent last year
through October, putting it at the top of the Bloomberg Markets
list of the 100 best-performing  hedge funds  managing $1 billion
or more. The fund gained 41.3 percent in all of 2012. It lost 10
percent in this year’s second quarter, before rebounding this
quarter.  The firm’s Mortgage Value Fund, with about $120 million of
assets, gained 0.4 percent in August to bring 2013 returns to
5.2 percent, according to the investor notice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ; or
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ; or
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  