-- Nestle Says Chinese Consumption May Show 2H Recovery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/nestle-says-chinese-consumption-may-show-second-half-recovery.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
maker, said it expects Chinese consumption to recover in the
second half as the government encourages domestic spending and
urbanization fuels growth.  “They are not growing as fast as they used to be,” Roland Decorvet, the company’s Greater China chairman and chief
executive officer, said yesterday on the sidelines of the  World
Economic Forum  in Dalian, China. “If you combine wage increases
and urbanization, for food manufacturing companies it’s still an
amazing opportunity.”  The Vevey, Switzerland-based maker of Nescafe coffee and
Maggi food seasonings is relying on the world’s second-largest
economy to boost sales as demand in other  emerging markets 
slows. Nestle has said it expects organic sales growth of about
5 percent this year, the low end of its long-term target, amid
price cuts and weaker demand for frozen food and bottled water.  Nestle’s sales in  China  have also slowed amid rising raw-milk and wage costs and a weaker local economy. The pace of
growth in the nation slowed in the last two quarters ended June.  “We do see a slight slowdown, we can’t deny that,”
Decorvet said in an interview. “China is not completely
insensitive to what’s happening in other parts of the world.”  The company’s China business grew at least 10 percent in
the first half, Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello said
in a conference call Aug. 8. Sales in Greater China more than
doubled last year to 5.16 billion Swiss francs ($5.5 billion).  “You have 350 million people who will not grow their own
food and who will come into the city,” Decorvet said. “They
have to buy food.”  It’s too early to tell if Nestle’s China sales growth
recovered in the second half, Decorvet said, adding he would
have a clearer idea next month.  China Factories  The Swiss foodmaker spent almost 3 billion  yuan  ($490
million) to open two factories in mainland China this year.
Nestle opened its second coffee extraction plant and another
food factory in the world’s most populous nation this July.  Nestle has also faced challenges in China this year as its
Wyeth infant nutrition unit cut product prices following a anti-monopoly probe by the Chinese government on infant formula
companies including Danone and  Mead Johnson nutrition Co.   Wyeth was eventually exempt from punishment as the company
had cooperated with investigators.  Nestle will try to keep price increases to a minimum in
China, Decorvet said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  