-- New York Tobacco Debt Gets Boost From Arbitrator Ruling
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-09-12T20:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/new-york-tobacco-debt-boosted-by-arbitrator-ruling-larkin-says.html
Bonds issued by  New York  local
governments and payable by revenue from a national settlement
with major  tobacco companies  will get a boost from an
arbitration panel’s decision to order the companies to pay the
state more than $92 million, said Richard Larkin, director of
credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman  said  yesterday
that arbitrators threw out an $800 million claim against the
state by  Philip Morris USA (MO) ,  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  and  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI)  Instead, the panel ordered them to pay $92 million they
withheld from the state from their 2003 annual payment.  “For issuers like Nassau County, this decision will
definitely push back the date of a possible default for a good
number of years, and may actually allow local issuers to pay
100% of their securitized tobacco debt in full and on time,”
Larkin said in an e-mail. Herbert J. Sims is based in Iselin,
 New Jersey .  Eight other states won decisions yesterday over the
disputed payments, while six lost, Larkin said. Besides New
York, three of the winning states --  Ohio ,  Illinois , and  Iowa  --
have issued tobacco bonds, he said. None of the states that lost
issued them, he said.  Prices on Ohio tobacco bonds maturing in 2034 rose in
trading today to about 73 cents on the dollar from 71.5 cents
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The prices
are based on trades ranging from $2.4 million to $5 million.  Health Costs  The 46-state tobacco settlement in 1998 required the
companies to make annual payments to resolve their liability in
health-care cost litigation. Some states and municipalities
borrowed against the payments, which are based on cigarette
shipments. Most of the tobacco bonds graded by rating companies
are ranked below investment grade.  A dispute between the tobacco makers and states later arose
over more than $7 billion due under the deal for the years 2003
to 2012, stemming from claims that market-share erosion reduced
the companies’ obligations.  High-yield tobacco bonds have lost 15.4 percent this year,
compared with a 5 percent drop for the broader municipal-bond
market, according to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  data.  Indian Sales  In New York, the disagreement centered on the state’s
policy of not taxing cigarette sales on Indian reservations. The
state didn’t collect payments from companies that didn’t join
the national settlement on reservation sales.  “This precedent-setting decision is expected to protect
the state from many billions of dollars in future claims,”
Schneiderman said in a release. “In rejecting the tobacco
companies’ claims, the panel fully recognized New York’s long-standing policy.”  While the arbitrators ruled in favor of Ohio, they said
that its efforts to enforce the settlement “had mixed
results,” according to the arbitration panel’s finding.  One of the state’s weakest areas was gathering reliable
data on cigarette sales by companies that didn’t participate in
the 1998 settlement.  The six states that lost their arbitration cases will
refund money to  Philip Morris , Lorillard and Reynolds American,
according to news releases from the companies. Reynolds said it
was entitled to $266 million, and Philip Morris said it would
get $145 million. The money will be deducted from the annual
payments the companies make to states in April.  Investors who own tobacco bonds are still at risk of not
being repaid if anti-smoking laws and cigarette tax increases
cause sales to drop more than 5 percent annually, Larkin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  