-- New York Regulator Faults New Insurance Rules on Reserve Levels
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-12T13:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/new-york-regulator-faults-new-insurance-rules-on-reserve-levels.html
New York State’s financial-services
regulator said rules adopted by state watchdogs for some life
insurance contracts failed to boost reserves to adequate levels
in the industry.  Of sixteen companies that are major sellers of universal
life policies with secondary guarantees, five increased reserves
under the new standards, according to a  letter  sent by Department
of Financial Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  to other
state regulators. The agreement that established the rules
prevented the companies from lowering reserves.  Lawsky said in the letter dated yesterday that the lack
reserve boosting under the new rules calls into question a
broader proposal to implement principles-based reserving for life
insurers, which depart from formulas governing how much money
must be set aside to back future payouts. He said New York will
withdraw from the new rules for universal life policies tomorrow.  The results show the proposed regulations “will hardly
quell the gamesmanship and abuses associated with the setting of
reserves,” Lawsky said. The standards are “an unwise move away
from reserve requirements that are established by formulas and
diligently policed by insurance regulators.”  Lawsky said the rules would also fail to satisfy his
concerns about reinsurance transactions that some life companies
conduct with affiliates. He’s called the risk transfers “shadow
insurance,” and said some companies are using them to make their
reserves appear larger than they are.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, said in May
that it had stopped selling universal life insurance with
lifetime secondary guarantees. The  New York  Times reported on
Lawsky’s letter yesterday.  Universal life sales at  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  surged to
$281 million in the six months ended June 30 from $76 million a
year earlier. Prudential, the second-largest U.S. life insurer,
said in August that competitors exiting the business contributed
to the jump, and that the company raised prices to limit sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  