-- Newsweek’s New Owners Name Reuters’s Impoco as Editor-in-Chief
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2013-09-12T11:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/newsweek-s-new-owners-name-reuters-s-impoco-as-editor-in-chief.html
IBT Media, the online-news company
that acquired  Newsweek  from  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI)  last month,
named former Thomson Reuters Corp. editor Jim Impoco as the 
magazine’s new chief.  Impoco will become Newsweek editor-in-chief after spending 
four years as an enterprise editor and executive editor at 
Thomson Reuters Digital, according to a statement today. He 
previously worked at Conde Nast Portfolio, the New York Times 
and Fortune magazine.  IAC sold Newsweek in August for an undisclosed sum after
struggling to integrate the 80-year-old publication with its
Daily Beast website. In a bid to pare losses, Newsweek became an
online-only magazine at the beginning of 2013. IBT, owner of the
International Business Times, said last month it plans to make
the publication profitable again as a digital brand.  “Jim has a remarkable track record of leadership in
journalism and a deep understanding of the digital industry,
which is the exactly what will take Newsweek to the next
level,” Etienne Uzac, co-founder and chief executive officer of
IBT Media, said in today’s statement. “We look forward to his
many contributions as editor-in-chief.”  IAC, controlled by Barry Diller, purchased Newsweek as part
of an agreement with the late Sidney Harman in November 2010.
The billionaire said earlier this year that he regretted the
move and started looking for buyers. Under its agreement with
IBT, it will continue operating Newsweek until Oct. 1.  “I wish I hadn’t bought Newsweek,” Diller told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in April. Publishing a weekly
magazine at a time when news has become instantaneous is a
“fool’s errand,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  