-- Nintendo Wins Patent Case Seeking to Block Wii Imports
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-12T21:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/nintendo-wins-patent-case-seeking-to-block-wii-imports.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
video-game device maker, can keep selling its Wii gaming system
in the U.S. after winning a trade dispute over a theme-park
operator’s patents for magic wands.  Nintendo didn’t violate the  patent rights  owned by Apollo
Global Management’s Creative Kingdoms, the U.S. International
Trade Commission in  Washington  said in a  notice  posted on its
website today. The agency rejected a request to block imports of
Nintendo’s Wii gaming consoles and remote controls.  Creative Kingdoms  developed magic wands for children to use
to cast spells and complete tasks at its themed adventure parks.
The wands’ motion sensors respond to player movements and store
information to modify the game. Creative Kingdoms claimed that
same technology was incorporated into Kyoto-based Nintendo’s Wii
controllers.  The complaint was filed in March 2011, making it one of the
oldest cases pending at the ITC. Trade Judge Charles Bullock had
cleared Nintendo, and was told to reconsider his findings. He
again sided with Nintendo, saying the Wii remote is not a “toy
wand” with a hollow center and the two patents were invalid.  In seeking the import ban, Creative Kingdoms said customers
could turn to Sony Corp.’s PlayStation or Microsoft Corp.’s
Kinect as replacements for the Wii, saying children using Kinect
burn more calories than those using the Wii.  Sports Game  Nintendo countered that any ban on imports should be
limited to the only game presented during the case, the Airplane
game within the Wii Sports Resort game. It also said the Wii U
shouldn’t be included because it wasn’t sold until after the
trial so wasn’t analyzed by the judge.  Sony and Microsoft are introducing new consoles in November
before the holiday season, with Sony planning to sell the
PlayStation 4 and Microsoft unveiling its Xbox One.  Nintendo Co. has sold 3.6 million of its most recent
console, the $300-$350 Wii U, since its debut in November. In
April, the company forecast sales of 9 million consoles in the
year ending next March.  Creative Kingdoms is part of Great Wolf Resorts, which was
bought by New York-based Apollo in May 2012.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Video Game Systems and
Wireless Controllers, 337-770, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 