-- North Korea May Have Restarted Nuclear Reactor at Yongbyon
-- B y   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-12T10:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/north-korea-may-have-restarted-nuclear-reactor-at-yongbyon-site.html
North Korea  may have restarted a
nuclear reactor capable of producing enough plutonium to make
one atomic bomb every year, a U.S. research institute said.  Satellite imagery taken Aug. 31 shows steam rising from a
building containing turbines and generators powered by the 5-megawatt reactor at Yongbyon, North Korea’s main nuclear
complex, the  U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University’s
School of Advanced International Studies  said today in an e-mail.  North Korea said on April 2 it would restart all facilities
at Yongbyon, including the reactor mothballed under a six-nation
disarmament deal in 2007, for producing energy and “bolstering
up the nuclear armed force both in quality and quantity.”  South
Korea ’s  National Intelligence Service  declined to confirm the
institute’s findings today.  “North Korea now appears to have put the reactor into
operation,” the institute said in the e-mailed analysis. The
reactor “is capable of producing six kilograms (13.2 pounds) of
plutonium a year that can be used by Pyongyang to slowly
increase the size of its nuclear weapons stockpile.”  Signs of activity at the Yongbyon site, north of the
capital Pyongyang, add urgency to efforts to stop the North from
advancing its nuclear weapons programs. In February, North Korea
conducted its third nuclear test, prompting the  United Nations 
to tighten sanctions against the country.  “Would there be smoke without fire?” South Korean Defense
Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said at a briefing today in
Seoul, when asked about the satellite imagery.“Let’s leave it
at that.”  Testing Reactor  The steam spotted at the Yongbyon site indicates the
“North Koreans are testing the reactor before operations can go
into full swing,” No Hui Cheon, a professor of nuclear science
at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology in
Daejeon, south of Seoul, said by phone today. “If steam comes
out steadily, that’s a sign of full operation.”  International talks aimed at dismantling the North’s
nuclear arms programs through aid haven’t been held since late
2008.  Glyn Davies , the U.S. special representative for North
Korea, on Sept. 10 ruled out a quick resumption of the six-party
talks unless the North showed signs of reversing its nuclear
programs. The talks also involve South Korea,  China ,  Russia  and
 Japan .  Restarting Yongbyon would be “serious” and a “misstep,”
Davies told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  ‘Serious Concern’  In December last year, the North launched a long-range
rocket that the U.S. and South Korea called a ballistic missile.
Earlier this year, North Korea threatened nuclear strikes
against the U.S. and South Korea in retaliation for the allies’
annual joint military drills.  “Although the latest news is a worrying development, it
remains unclear whether the country can deliver its nuclear
weapons via missiles,” Rebecca Jackson-Young, North Korea
analyst at The Economist Intelligence Unit, said in an e-mail.  Kim Jong Un’s regime vowed earlier this year to pursue the
twin goals of economic and nuclear development. South Korean
President Park Geun Hye dismissed the policy as unrealistic in a
speech to the  U.S. Congress  in May.  The Washington-based Institute for Science and
International Security said in early August that North Korea may
have doubled the size of its  uranium-enrichment  facility at
Yongbyon, deepening international concern about a second source
of fuel besides plutonium to build weapons. North Korea said its
uranium enrichment was for producing energy.  The developments at Yongbyon coincide with recent signs of
improving relations between the two Koreas. North Korea last
month agreed to restart its industrial complex jointly run with
South Korea and to resume reunions of families separated by the
1950-53  Korean War .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  