-- O’Neill Is Targeted to Coach Ireland, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-12T07:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/o-neill-is-targeted-to-coach-ireland-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  O’Neill Offer  The Football Association of Ireland will approach  Martin O’Neill  in the next 48 hours to become manager of the Republic
of Ireland, the  Daily Mail reported .  O’Neill, 61, is the FAI’s choice to replace Giovanni Trapattoni, whose five-year tenure as national team coach was
ended by “mutual consent” yesterday, the Telegraph added.  Former Ireland coach  Mick McCarthy , Roy Keane, Brian
McDermott and Chris Hughton were also identified as potential
candidates for the job by FAI Chief Executive Officer John Delaney, the  Independent reported .  Barcelona Targets Mata  Barcelona will try to bring midfielder  Juan Mata  back to
Spain if his role at Chelsea does not change between now and
January, the  Daily Express reported .  Barca identified Mata as a potential long-term replacement
forAlexis Sanchez or Cesc Fabregas, the newspaper said. Barca
would face opposition from Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho , who
holds a grudge against the club and would go out of his way to
prevent any move, the Express added.  Rooney’s Return  Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney is yet to resume
full training as he bids to return from a head injury before the
Sept. 22 game against Manchester City, the  Daily Mail reported .  Rooney is a 50-50 chance of playing in the derby as he
recovers from a cut to his head sustained during an accidental
training clash with teammate  Phil Jones , the Mail added.  Jones Wants Apology  Jones demanded a written apology from Stuart Pearce after
the former England Under-21 team manager said the defender
wasn’t committed to playing in this year’s European Under-21
Championship, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Pearce, who was fired by the Football Association in June
after England lost all three matches at the tournament, said
Jones, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain,  Danny Welbeck  and  Jack Wilshere 
had no desire to return to the team after they went “through
the golden ivory towers of the seniors,” the Telegraph added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  