-- Obama Says Syria Focus Can’t Detract From Domestic Priorities
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-09-12T15:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/obama-says-syria-focus-can-t-detract-from-domestic-priorities.html
President  Barack Obama  said that
while talks about the path ahead in  Syria  between the U.S. and
 Russia  are at key juncture, U.S. policymakers also must focus on
issues such as the budget, health care and immigration.  “Even as we have been spending a lot of time on the Syria
issue and making sure that international attention is focused on
the horrible tragedy that occurred there, it is still important
to recognize that we got a lot more stuff to do in this
government,” Obama said at the start of a Cabinet meeting at
the White House, as Secretary of State John Kerry was in Geneva
for talks with his Russian counterpart.  Obama cited the agenda still ahead of Congress in dealing
with the budget for the next fiscal year and unfinished business 
on immigration and retooling government operations.  The next steps in dealing with the 2 1/2-year civil war in
Syria hinge on the discussions between the U.S. and Russia, the
most powerful ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  In a rare direct appeal to the American public, Russian
President Vladimir Putin used a  New York  Times opinion column to
urge the Obama administration to keep pursuing a diplomatic
route rather than taking military action.  Obama declined to comment on Putin’s article.  The talks between Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov are focused on the practicalities of securing,
transporting, destroying and monitoring Syria’s chemicals
arsenal, a U.S. official told reporters on condition of
anonymity.  “I am hopeful that the discussions with Secretary Kerry
with Foreign Minister Lavrov as well as some of the other
players in this can yield a concrete result,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  