-- Obama Syria Reversal Sets Stage for Fights With Congress
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-09-12T13:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/obama-syria-reversal-sets-stage-for-fights-with-congress.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
relationship with Congress over  Syria  marked a notable departure
-- consultation instead of confrontation.  It didn’t last long.  When Obama announced in a Sept. 10 nationally televised
speech that he was asking Congress to postpone the vote to
authorize military action against Syria, it was the first time
the two top House Republican leaders had been told of the
president’s shift, a Republican congressional aide said -- even
though they’d backed his unpopular proposal. The aide, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly, asked for anonymity.  The lack of official notice to House Speaker John Boehner
of  Ohio  and Majority Leader Eric Cantor of  Virginia  ahead of the
speech was a sign that after the brief moment of unity, acrimony
among the two sides was back in session.  And it comes at a perilous time, as Obama and congressional
Republicans need to come to an agreement to avoid a government
shutdown after the 2013 budget year ends on Sept. 30. The House
plans to be in session only six working days before the
deadline, and already Boehner and Cantor have delayed a vote on
a spending proposal amid opposition by fellow Republicans who
want the party to take a tougher stand against funding Obama’s
health-care law.  “He just cannot follow through,” Republican Senator Bob Corker, who is part of a group working with the administration
on fiscal issues, said of Obama in an interview with  CNN . “He’s
a diminished figure here on Capitol Hill.”  Debt Limit  Along with grappling with the 2014 budget, within weeks
both sides also will need to find a way to stave off a possible
government default as the nation reaches its  borrowing limit .
Obama also needs to woo Republican support for Senate
confirmation of his eventual pick to lead the Federal Reserve, a
process that could begin as early as this month.  Republicans yesterday seized on Obama’s reversal on Syria
as a sign that he is coming into the fall negotiations with a
weakened hand politically, as the president decided to delay a
strike against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime to
explore a possible diplomatic solution proposed by Russian
President Vladimir Putin.  “If this were a tennis match, it would be the umpire
shouting, ‘Advantage Putin!’ He seems to be running circles
around this administration,” Senator  Rand Paul , a Republican
from  Kentucky  who is opposed to military action in Syria, said
on Glenn Beck’s radio show on TheBlaze.  No Effect  The White House and its allies argue that the debate over
Syria won’t hurt Obama on other issues, simply because the fight
didn’t break along traditional party lines and is unlikely to
resonate in the 2014 congressional elections. A coalition of
small-government Republicans wary of U.S. involvement overseas
and Democrats who warned of the risk of entering another Middle
Eastern war lined up against Obama’s Syria plan, likely killing
its chances of passage if there had been a vote in the House.  Those Democrats, Obama supporters say, will stick with the
president on economic issues, while many of those Republicans
will always be lined up against him.  Representative Steve Israel of New York, head of Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee, said the ability of the
party’s candidates to sell the benefits of the health-care law
and outline their economic proposals will be far more important
in their races than talking about Syria.  “2014 is not going to be a referendum on Syria,” Israel
told reporters on Sept. 10 at a Christian Science Monitor
breakfast. “I cannot imagine voters waking up in one year and
two months saying they are going to cast their vote on Syria.”  The White House declined to comment on notifying Boehner
and Cantor about Obama’s decision to hold off on congressional
votes on Syria.  Job Disapproval  Obama is entering his face-offs with Republicans with some
of his lowest poll ratings -- 49 percent of Americans said they
disapprove of the way he’s handling his job, compared with 44
approving, according to a  survey  conducted by the Pew Research
Center and USA Today on Sept. 4-8. On foreign policy, just one-third of voters approve of how the president is handling the
issue -- the lowest rating since he entered office.  “His approval ratings are going down, so he doesn’t have
the ability to dictate from the bully pulpit,” said John Feehery, a Republican strategist and former aide to House
Republican leaders. “It gives Republicans an opening.”  Lingering Issue  From a practical standpoint, the Syria issue could linger
for weeks, or even months, if international talks fail to
produce any real result, consuming valuable legislative time and
forcing the White House to continue to grapple with an unpopular
issue. Scheduling issues alone could complicate efforts to cut a
deal to avoid a government shutdown or U.S. default.  “Syria still has potential of dominating a significant
part of the legislative agenda from here on out,” said
Democratic strategist Jim Manley, a former aide to Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid. “To a significant degree, it’s a
timing issue.”  So far, the White House’s effort in Syria hasn’t done much
to persuade Republicans that siding with the president is a
politically wise choice. Even some of the Republicans who have
worked with Obama in the past and backed his pitch for military
strikes said they felt burned yesterday after his policy change.  Corker, of  Tennessee , said he sent a note to Obama’s chief
of staff  Denis McDonough  saying he “could not be more
disappointed” in Obama’s handling of Syria. McDonough had spent
much of the summer meeting with Republican senators in an effort
to try to improve the White House’s relations with Congress.  Business Lobbying  On fiscal issues, Democrats are counting on pressure from
traditional Republican allies, such as the business sector, to
persuade lawmakers to cut deals.  “It is insane not to raise the debt ceiling,” U.S.
Chamber President Tom Donohue said in an Aug. 30 interview with
C-SPAN.  Though Republican leaders fear being blamed for a
government shutdown, they’re under pressure from anti-tax Tea
Party lawmakers who want to use the needed votes on the budget
and debt limit as leverage to delay implementation of Obama’s
health-care law.  “Boehner and Cantor’s support of Obama on Syria makes it
hard on them within their own caucus,” said Republican
strategist Stuart Roy. “People may view an opening because of
that.”  Some Democrats say the White House was unlikely to win over
Republicans regardless of what approach Obama took on Syria.  “The Republicans, just, whatever he says he wants, they’re
against,” said Democratic Representative Henry Waxman of
 California . “There’s no end to what the Republicans want to do
just to hurt him and try to stop things from going forward,
which could result in real harms to Americans, our economy and
our standing around the world. But I don’t want to sound
harsh.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  