-- Ogletree, Weil, Goodwin Procter, Hogan: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ogletree-weil-goodwin-procter-hogan-business-of-law.html
Labor and employment  law firm 
Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC is starting an
outpost in London, the firm’s second European office after its
Berlin office opened in December.  Richard Linskell, who was a partner at Speechly Bircham
LLP, joins Ogletree and will open the London office along with
two associates.  Linskell advises employers on issues ranging from
recruitment to termination and post-termination issues, as well
as in relation to the law of limited liability partnerships and
partnerships.  “Our expansion into London is our next phase of offering
clients increased global reach, excellent value, and superior
client service,” Ogletree Deakins managing shareholder Kim
Ebert said in a statement.  Ogletree Deakins has more than 650 lawyers at 45 offices in
the U.S. and  Europe .  Edwards Wildman Opens in Istanbul With  Private Equity , M&A Focus  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP opened a new office in Istanbul
under the name, Edwards Wildman Danismanlik Hizmetleri Avukatlik
Ortakligi. The new office will allow the firm to advise clients
on cross-border private equity and corporate-backed M&A
transactions throughout the Central and Eastern Europe,  Middle
East  and Northern Africa region.  “Istanbul has become a hub for sophisticated M&A and
private equity activity in the region as multinational companies
and private equity firms are attracted to the increasingly
active leadership role that Turkey plays economically in the
region,” Ted Cominos, a partner and chairman of Edwards
Wildman’s international private equity practice group said in a
statement.  Edwards Wildman will work in collaboration with Ismen
Gunalcin, formerly known as the Ismen law firm. Ismen Gunalcin
is a boutique M&A and private equity law firm based in Istanbul.
The firm is led by partners Tolga Ismen and Arzum Gunalcin.  “Our new collaboration with Edwards Wildman presents an
opportunity for our lawyers to access into a larger network of
sophisticated clients interested in Turkey while offering access
to a broad array of international legal services to our existing
clients,” Ismen said in a statement. “Our experience in M&A,
private equity transactions and privatizations in Turkey
complements Edwards Wildman’s strong private equity and cross-border practice groups in Turkey and the region. We are excited
to join forces with our new colleagues.”  Edwards Wildman has more than 600 lawyers at 16 offices in
the U.S.,  Asia  and Europe.  Legal Fees  Lehman Recovery Seen as Justifying $2 Billion Bankruptcy Bill  Harvey Miller , the lawyer guiding Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. through the biggest-ever U.S. bankruptcy, reflected on how
his client’s collapse five years ago went from unthinkable to
inevitable in an interview near the offices of his law firm, New
York-based Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP.  Lehman’s demise “ignited a worldwide conflagration that
almost brought down the global financial system,” said Miller,
who filed the Chapter 11 petition at 2 a.m. on Sept. 15, 2008,
in  New York  after the bank failed to win U.S. government aid or
attract a buyer. “The consequences were unknown,”  Bloomberg
News ’ Erik Larson reports.  Five years later, Miller takes credit for helping fend off
some creditors’ liquidation demands and instead turning the
remains of one of the biggest failures of the financial crisis
into a going concern. In the process, the Lehman estate has paid
more than $2 billion in fees and expenses to professionals like
him for that work, dwarfing the previous record of $757 million
in Enron Corp.’s bankruptcy.  In exchange for that eye-popping payday, approved by the
judge in charge of the case, Lehman creditors are poised to get
18 cents on the dollar by 2016, from an estate valued at $65
billion, according to a liquidation plan approved in December
2011. Miller, 80, estimated that recovery may rise to as much as
22 cents as the value of Lehman’s assets increases over the next
three years to about $80 billion.  His estimate is a “somewhat educated guess,” Miller said.
“I am sure debt traders have their own projected recovery
valuations.”  Lehman, which listed $613 billion in debt when it filed, is
scheduled to pay out $14 billion to creditors on Oct. 3,
bringing total distributions to $43 billion since the Chapter 11
plan was approved, according to court records and Miller.  Miller’s firm, which also worked on the Enron case, has
made almost $500 million since the Lehman bankruptcy started,
and more than $600 million has gone to the restructuring company
Alvarez & Marsal Inc., whose employees ran Lehman after the
collapse and are still unwinding complex derivatives contracts
to generate cash for creditors.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-bk-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  Law Firm Management  Managing Partners Pessimistic About Profit, Not Hiring  Law firm managing partner confidence levels dipped in the
third quarter of 2013, according to a survey by the Citi Private
Bank, which cast the firm leaders as forecasting flat profit
growth.  The survey of firm leaders, which included responses from
48 of the wealthiest 200 American law firms, indicated that the
firm leaders had diminished expectations for the legal industry
and the wider economy.  “It validated the revised forecast we made after we
reviewed the first half-year numbers,” Dan DiPietro, chairman
of Citi Private Bank’s Law Firm Group, said in a telephone
interview, “from low single-digit profits to flat.”  Demand expectations for legal work also declined, though
the managing partners reported an increase in outlook for equity
partner and associate hiring, according to the survey.  DiPietro said the apparent contradiction could be explained
by managers looking to hire qualified mid-level associates and
equity partners who would bring a book of business with them.  The survey also showed managing partners as confident about
managing expenses but concerned about discounted fee requests
from clients.  Moves  Government Lawyer Joins Goodwin’s Securities Litigation  Goodwin Procter LLP announced that Derek A. Cohen has
joined the firm’s New York office as a partner in the securities
litigation and white-collar defense group. Cohen was most
recently a deputy chief of the fraud section for the  Justice
Department ’s criminal division and deputy director of the
Deepwater Horizon Task Force.  At Goodwin, Cohen will focus on white-collar criminal
investigations and prosecutions, regulatory inquiries and
lawsuits, internal corporate investigations and complex
commercial litigation, the firm said.  “Derek’s extensive experience and accomplishments are a
welcome addition to our already deep talent pool of white collar
attorneys,” Richard M. Strassberg, chairman of Goodwin’s white-collar crime and government investigations group, said in a
statement.  In his role on the Deepwater Horizon Task Force, Cohen
supervised the criminal investigation and prosecutions in
connection with the April 2010 Gulf Coast oil spill disaster.  Prior to his work at the Justice Department, Cohen was an
assistant U.S. attorney in Philadelphia.  Goodwin Procter has 860 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S., Hong Kong and London.  Former Federal Prosecutor Hamilton Joins Ulmer & Berne  Ulmer & Berne LLP has added former federal prosecutor
Richard T. Hamilton Jr. to the litigation practice in Cleveland,
where he will head the firm’s white-collar practice group.
Hamilton spent most of his 20-plus-year legal career as a trial
attorney with the Justice Department’s antitrust division and,
most recently, with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern
District of Ohio.  In his former role, Hamilton led international, national
and local white-collar criminal investigations and prosecutions
against individuals and corporations for violations of the
Sherman Antitrust Act and related federal crimes, including the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,  money laundering  and
multidefendant conspiracy cases, the firm said in a statement.
Among his notable cases, he led the Ohio and Florida-based cases
of 16 corporate and individual participants in the scrap metal
industry on criminal price-fixing, bid rigging and other
charges, the firm said.  Ulmer & Berne is a full-service law firm with more than 185
attorneys at offices in Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland and
Columbus.  Jones Walker Adds Partner in Commercial Litigation Group  Intellectual property litigator and former Exxon Mobil
Corp. technology manager Jeffrey J. Phillips has joined the
Houston office of Jones Walker LLP as a partner in the business
and commercial litigation practice group. He was most recently
at Winston & Strawn LLP.  Phillips’ practice focuses on intellectual property matters
in the oil and gas, chemical processes and catalysts, foods and
beverages, advanced biofuels, internal combustion engines,
complex mechanical systems, and computer and software related
technologies industries, the firm said.  His litigation experience includes both patent enforcement
and patent defense. Phillips counsels clients on intellectual
property issues, such patent portfolio management, preparing
opinions relating to a company’s ability to sell its products
and/or practice its valuable technology, among others.  Jones Walker has more than 375 attorneys at its U.S.
offices.  Bankruptcy Lawyer Penelope Parmes Joins Troutman Sanders  Troutman Sanders LLP added Penelope Parmes as a partner in
the Orange County, California, office as a partner in the
bankruptcy practice. Parmes was previously a partner at Rutan &
Tucker LLP.  Parmes practices business insolvency law, with a particular
focus on representing non-debtors in workouts and bankruptcy
matters. Her clients include secured creditors, landlords,
buyers and sellers, trade creditors, and other parties affected
by financial insolvency, the firm said.  A substantial amount of Parmes’s practice includes the
representation of lenders regarding adequate protection and cash
collateral litigation, valuation issues, avoiding actions and
plan confirmation litigation.  Troutman Sanders has more than 600 lawyers at offices in
the U.S. and China.  K&L Gates Hires Health-Care Partner in Seattle Office  The Seattle office of K&L Gates LLP added Carla M. DewBerry
as a partner in the health-care practice. DewBerry joins the
firm from Garvey Schubert Barer.  DewBerry represents clients on Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, as well as on related audits and litigation. She
also counsels on general corporate and transactional matters
such as mergers and acquisitions, corporate restructurings,
joint venture operations, licensings, and federal, state and
local taxation, the firm said.  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and  South America .  Financial Institutions and Regulatory Partner Joins Covington  Covington & Burling LLP announced that  Charlotte  Hill has
joined the London office as a financial institutions and
regulatory partner. She was previously at Stephenson Harwood
LLP.  Hill advises financial institutions on regulatory and
commercial matters and has experience assisting fund management
companies, banks, corporate finance houses, brokers and other
financial institutions on regulatory, compliance and commercial
matters.  “The response to the financial crisis in Europe -- both at
the EU level and at the member state level -- has been equally
as momentous as the passage and implementation of Dodd-Frank in
the U.S.,”  Bruce Bennett , co-head of Covington’s securities and
capital markets practice said in a statement. “Our clients have
an increased need for advice on the interplay of new regulations
being adopted in the EU with corresponding regulations in the
U.S., as well EU and U.K. matters on a stand-alone basis.”  Covington & Burling has lawyers at 10 offices in the U.S.,
Europe and Asia.  Hogan Lovells  Expands Tax Practice With Partner Cameron Cosby  Hogan Lovells LLP announced that Cameron Cosby has joined
the firm as a partner in its tax practice in the Washington
office. He was previously at Hunton & Williams LLP, where he was
a partner in the tax and real estate capital markets practices.  Cosby’s practice focuses on federal income tax and real
estate capital markets matters for real estate investment
trusts, partnerships and joint ventures, and private equity and
other private investment funds. He also assists clients on real
estate-related tax credits, energy projects and related tax
credits,  venture capital , and mergers and acquisitions, the firm
said.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers worldwide.  News  Stringer Repels Spitzer’s Comeback in NYC Comptroller Race  Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer fought off  Eliot Spitzer  in the Democratic primary for New York City comptroller,
halting the former governor’s attempted comeback from a
prostitution scandal.  Stringer, who had the support of the party establishment
and the city’s three major newspapers, captured 52 percent of
yesterday’s vote with 97 percent of precincts reporting,
compared with 48 percent for Spitzer, according to the
 Associated Press . With Democrats outnumbering Republicans by
more than 6 to 1, the victory virtually ensures Stringer, 53,
will become comptroller after the general election in November.  The comptroller is the city’s chief financial officer,
auditing agencies and overseeing $140 billion in pension assets.
Stringer’s temperate public statements before his opponent
entered the race contrasted with the media-driven drama of the
fiery Spitzer’s return.  Spitzer, 54, resigned as governor in 2008 after his trysts
were disclosed. He entered the race in July, upending a contest
in which Stringer, a career politician, was expected to coast to
victory. The former “Sheriff of  Wall Street ” vowed to use the
power of the pension funds to keep corporations well managed and
socially responsible.  He portrayed himself as a ready to do battle with Wall
Street again, just as he had done as state attorney general. In
that post, he rose to prominence by exposing conflicts of
interest between Wall Street firms’ analysts and investment
bankers. Stringer, he said, accomplished little in a 20-year
career in politics, including 12 in the state Assembly.  As attorney general from 1999 through 2006, Spitzer
disclosed subpoenaed e-mails and other evidence to persuade
Merrill Lynch & Co., Citigroup Inc. and other securities firms
to pay $1.4 billion in pretrial settlements, rather than go to
court on charges they misled consumers with biased research.  He was then elected governor, with 69 percent of the vote
in 2006, serving for less than 15 months before getting caught
patronizing high-priced prostitutes.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  