-- OGX May Tap Creditors for More Cash to Avert Bankruptcy
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-09-13T17:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ogx-may-tap-creditors-for-more-cash-to-avert-bankruptcy.html
Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA said it probably will ask bondholders for more
cash in a bid to avoid having to file for  bankruptcy protection .  Negotiations this week with holders of $3.6 billion of
dollar bonds are going “very well,” Chief Executive Officer
Luiz Carneiro told reporters in Rio de Janeiro late yesterday,
predicting OGX will emerge healthy and capitalized.  While filing for bankruptcy protection is a possibility,
OGX hopes to avoid the proceedings in a restructuring that may
see Batista cede control of his flagship company, Carneiro said.
Bondholders last month hired Rothschild to advise on
restructuring while OGX is working with Blackstone Group LP.  “A financial restructuring, that’s the path,” Carneiro
said after a shareholders meeting at the company’s headquarters
in Rio. “In the end, we will have a healthy company, with no
debt, capitalized, with enormous potential.”  Batista, 56, is selling pieces of his commodities and
logistics empire as the companies run out of cash and debt
swells amid an investor confidence crisis triggered after output
at OGX’s first project collapsed. OGX is asking a group of
investors for at least $250 million in fresh capital as part of
a restructuring of its bonds, two people with direct knowledge
of the matter told  Bloomberg News  this month.  ‘Stay Away’  OGX fell 2.6 percent to 38 centavos at 2:52 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo . The shares have declined 91 percent this year. Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa stock index was up 0.4 percent.  “The best possible advice we can give to investors is to
stay away from OGX,” Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes, analysts
for Banco Itau BBA SA, wrote in a research report dated
yesterday. “Even assuming a successful corporate restructuring,
we see downside for equity holders.”  This week’s negotiations with bondholders are “just a
stage” and the restructuring talks will continue, Carneiro said
yesterday, declining to say when an agreement may be reached.  OGX has 30 oil and gas concessions in  Brazil  that may be
revoked if it files for the country’s equivalent of Chapter 11,
according to contracts it signed with oil regulator ANP. The
agency said it will adhere to the concession contract in a Sept.
10 e-mailed response to questions, without elaborating.  The company has abandoned areas off Rio’s coast that it
previously declared commercial because the geology is more
compartmentalized and has less pressure than the company
anticipated, hindering the flow of oil. OGX may halt its first
offshore project, Tubarao Azul, next year because of bad
economics.  Petronas Deal  Carneiro said OGX is trying to convince Petroliam Nasional
Bhd., the Malaysian company that agreed to buy a 40 percent
stake in its Tubarao Martelo field in May, to begin payments on
the deal worth $850 million before restructuring is completed.
OGX’s concessions are worth $1.9 billion, of which Martelo is
worth $1.1 billion, Credit Suisse Group AG said in a Sept. 6
note to clients.  “Petronas is waiting to see the restructuring’s result,”
Carneiro said. “We are trying to convince them to put it
earlier.”  The company’s dollar-denominated bonds due 2018 slumped to
19 cents on the dollar from 90 cents at the end of last year.  OGX exercised a so-called  put option  against Batista for $1
billion on Sept. 6. Batista is disputing the terms of the option
and plans to take the matter to an arbitration court if an
agreement isn’t reached within 60 days, according to a letter
from the entrepreneur to OGX that the company disclosed Sept. 9.  Several ‘Fronts’  Carneiro said the Batista put was one of several “fronts
to be able to get funds,” which also include the Petronas
funding, restructuring or bankruptcy protection.  “I’m seeing a more bilateral basis, rather than through a
 bankruptcy court  in Brazil,” Daniel Kastholm, head of Latin
American corporate credit at Fitch Ratings Ltd. in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “The question mark is how much money
you would need and when Martelo will start producing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  