-- Hollande Revives French State Industrial Planning to Boost Jobs
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-09-12T12:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/hollande-revives-french-state-industrial-planning-to-boost-jobs.html
France  is reviving a more than
half-a-century-old tradition of state-lead industrial plans and
calling on company executives to help implement them in a bid to
rekindle the economy and create jobs.  President Francois Hollande today called on executives from
carmakers to software developers and textile manufacturers to
help France make 34 new high-tech products, including an
electric plane, an ultra-low-energy-consumption car and a faster
high-speed train, within a decade. The goal is to recreate the
750,000 jobs destroyed in the last 10 years, Hollande said.  “We can all think of examples from the past, of great
industrial plans that came from the top,” Hollande said in a
conference at the Elysee Palace in Paris. “It’s not about
nostalgia or going back to the 60s... It’s about a state that
can accompany and stimulate” business.  Starting in 1946, French governments presented a series of
five-year plans to guide the modernization of the country’s
postwar economy. While such planning was abandoned in 1993,
France’s network of high-speed trains, its extensive use of
nuclear power, and Internet-precursor Minitel all resulted from
projects funded and directed by successive governments.  The government is earmarking 3.7 billion euros ($4.9
billion) for the latest plan, Le Monde reported. The number
wasn’t immediately confirmed by Hollande’s office.  Industrial planning is Hollande’s latest move to battle
unemployment, which is at a 14-year high. Since coming to power
in May 2012, Hollande has changed labor laws to make it easier
for companies to trim staff and cut payroll taxes. He has
announced changes to the pension system that will lift the
effective retirement age to about 65.  Robots, Hacking  The Socialist president has also pledged to cut public
spending over the course of his mandate and promised no new
taxes on business in the 2014 budget, to be unveiled Sept. 25.  With Industry Minister Arnaud Montebourg at his side,
Hollande today shook hands with entrepreneurs and watched as
they demonstrated robots, anti-hacking techniques and 3-D
software.  Hollande said in his speech that the European Union and its
regulators should help carry his industrial strategy. He called
for a competitive policy that makes mergers easier to implement
to allow the emergence of “European champions”.  Industry Minister Montebourg has been at the forefront of
discussions about re-industrializing France and boosting
production. Montebourg last year went on a “Made in France”
campaign, posing before the French flag to promote local
products. He also made headlines by blocking the sale of
Internet-video service Dailymotion SA to Yahoo! Inc. to keep the
asset in French hands.  ‘Following Tradition’  “Following in the tradition of de Gaulle, Pompidou and
Mitterrand, we have made a choice to engage in an industrial
policy,” Montebourg said in a speech today, citing former
French presidents Charles de Gaulle, Georges Pompidou and
Francois Mitterrand. “We will trust company executives to
implement these plans, so they become more than just words.”  The executives in charge of implementing the state’s plans
will work on coordinating innovation, development and production
involving companies, startups, research labs and public and
private financiers.  France’s plans, with consultant McKinsey’s advice, also
include renewable energy, recyclable fabric with new properties
and ultra-powerful computing abilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  