-- Top 50 Emitters Threaten Global Climate Effort, CDP Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-17T14:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/top-50-emitters-threaten-global-climate-effort-cdp-says.html
(Corrects period for increase in second paragraph of story
originally published Sept. 12.)  Growing pollution at 50 of the
world’s biggest-emitting companies threatens to undermine global
efforts to contain rising temperatures, according to a report by
 CDP , formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project.  Carbon emissions  from the 50 top emitters in the FT Global
500, including  ArcelorMittal (MT) , RWE AG,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
Exxon Mobil Corp., rose 1.7 percent in the four reporting years
from 2009 to 2.54 billion metric tons in 2013, the report shows.
Those 50 pump out 75 percent of all emissions reported by the
Global 500.  The report was compiled at the request of more than 700
investors representing $87 trillion in investments. The annual
review is aimed at spurring companies to manage their emissions
and protect themselves from the effects of climate change.  “Clear scientific evidence and increasingly severe weather
events are sending strong signals that we must pursue routes to
economic prosperity whilst reducing emissions,” Paul Simpson,
chief executive officer of CDP, said in a statement. “It is
imperative that big emitters improve their performance in this
regard and governments provide more incentives.”  A United Nations adviser to governments on  climate change 
is due to publish the first part of its fifth report on the
impacts of global warming this month. The study will show it’s
“extremely likely” humans are to blame for more than half the
observed temperature gains since the 1950s and it’s “virtually
certain” sea-level increases have accelerated in the past two
centuries, a leaked copy of the summary seen by Bloomberg shows.  CDP’s study found that most companies are yet to report
emissions generated by indirect operations such as purchased
electricity, goods and services, use of products bought by
clients and customers, transportation and waste disposal.
Pollution from these sources can represent as much as 47 percent
of total emissions, according to CDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 Avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  