-- Most States’ School Funding Tumbles Since Recession, Study Finds
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-09-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/most-states-school-funding-tumbles-since-recession-study-finds.html
More than two-thirds of U.S. states
are spending less per child on schools than they were five years
ago, a study found, showing how slowly governments are replacing
funding that was cut because of the recession.  At least 34 states will devote less on kindergarten through
12th grade on a per-pupil basis during the current school year
than in 2008, once inflation is taken into account, according to
a report released today by the Washington-based Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities, which tracks the impact of government
decisions on those with low incomes.  The figures show how public schools haven’t recovered from
the 18-month recession that ended in 2009, which led governments
to reduce spending when  tax revenue  dropped. Since 2008,
 Oklahoma  has cut funding the most, by 23 percent, followed by
Alabama and Arizona, where per-pupil spending fell 20 percent
and 17 percent, respectively.  “The cuts that states made are very, very deep and
revenues are coming back slowly -- and there are some states
that have made their problems worse by cutting taxes,” said
Michael Leachman, an analyst for the center who analyzed the
state data. “About a third are still digging deeper, and many
of the rest of the states still haven’t dug themselves out.”  School spending this year in 15 states, including  Kansas ,
Georgia and Michigan, won’t keep up with inflation, according to
the report.  In dollar terms,  Alabama  led the decline. Funding there
shrank by $1,242 per student since 2008, adjusted for inflation.
It was followed by  Wisconsin , where the figure slid $1,038, and
Kansas, with a $950 cut.  Deficit Pressure  State reductions have been compounded by fiscal stress on
the federal and local governments, according to the report.
Under pressure to curb the deficit, the federal government
reduced a grant program for low-income school districts by 12
percent from 2010 to 2013, once inflation is factored in.  Property taxes, a major revenue source for municipalities,
in the first three months of the year were less than in 2009,
according to the Census Bureau.  State tax revenue has been on the mend, spurred by the
growing economy. State collections rose 8.6 percent during the
first three months of the year and have been climbing since
2012, according to the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of
Government in  Albany ,  New York .  Arturo Perez, a budget analyst for the  National Conference
of State Legislatures  in Denver, said states are putting more
money into education, a fact that’s obscured by adjusting for
inflation. States are increasing spending this year on public
schools by 2.4 percent.  “The Great Recession had a significant impact on programs
across the board,” Perez said. “It’s been a long, slow climb
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  