-- German Stocks Are Little Changed as Evotec Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-12T13:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/most-german-stocks-advance-before-data-as-rwe-drops.html
German stocks  were little changed
after a six-day rally as euro-area industrial production dropped
more than forecast in July.  Evotec AG (EVT)  gained 5.2 percent as it entered a partnership
with Harvard Stem Cell Institute in research to find potential
treatments for motor neuron diseases.  Siemens AG (SIE)  dropped after
 Josef Ackermann  resigned from its supervisory board.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.1 percent to 8,503.4 at 3 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . The gauge climbed 2.1 percent last week as
manufacturing growth in the U.S. and  China  beat projections. The
broader HDAX Index added less than 0.1 percent today.  “The market seems to be looking to the near future, like
the Fed meeting, and shrugs off the euro-area industrial
production numbers,” said Christian Zogg, who manages about
$540 million as head of equity and fixed income at LLB Asset
Management AG in Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “We had some positive
economic reports out of China and  Europe  recently, to which the
markets have responded very positively. I assume markets need
some time to take a breather.”  Euro-area’s  industrial production  fell 1.5 percent in July
from the previous month, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg said today. That’s more than the 0.3 percent
contraction forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., a report showed that jobless claims in the
declined last week to the lowest level since April 2006 as
upgrades to computer systems in two states caused those
employment agencies to report fewer applications.  Fed Policy  U.S. central bankers are debating how and when to pare
their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases as the  U.S. economy 
improves and unemployment declines. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  will meet Sept. 17-18 to consider the future for the
third round of quantitative easing known as QE3.  Evotec advanced 5.2 percent to 3.26 euros, its highest
price since February 2011. The drug-research company said it has
formed an alliance with Harvard Stem Cell Institute to identify
compounds that prevent or slow down the loss of motor neurons.  Siemens lost 1.1 percent to 87.07 euros. Ackermann, who
stepped down as chairman of Zurich Insurance Group AG after the
suicide of its chief financial officer last month, said he will
resign as deputy chairman of the supervisory board of Siemens.  Steelmakers fell after Nomura Holdings Inc. cut its outlook
for the European market for the alloy to bearish from neutral,
saying a recovery in demand similar to that in 2010 is unlikely.
ThyssenKrupp AG dropped 0.5 percent to 16.31 euros and
Salzgitter AG retreated 2.1 percent to 31.93 euros.  Kloeckner & Co. slid 2.8 percent to 10.60 euros. Baader
Bank AG cut the steel trader part-owned by the Knauf family to
hold from buy, saying the stock price has risen so much that
analysts’ 2014 earnings estimates would have to more than double
to justify the valuations. Baader Bank also said the company has
given a cautious guidance. Kloeckner has rallied 30 percent so
far this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  