-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Rise as Materials Companies Advance
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-12T01:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/most-hong-kong-stocks-rise-as-materials-companies-advance.html
Most Hong Kong  stocks  rose, led by
materials companies, as investors await the outcome of the
Federal Reserve’s meeting next week, and as banks raised
projections for China’s growth.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.3 percent to 23,012.39 as of
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong, with almost three stocks rising for each
that fell. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
shares traded in the city advanced 0.6 percent to 10,702.37.  Through yesterday, the Hang Seng Index gained 1.2 percent
this year and traded at 11 times estimated earnings, compared
with a multiple of 15.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of so-called H-shares this
week entered a bull market after rebounding more than 20 percent
from its low this year in June, boosted by better-than-expected
economic reports from China.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch raised its growth forecast
for  China  this year to 7.7 percent from 7.6 percent on higher-than-expected economic data, becoming one of the latest banks to
boost its estimate. Nomura Holdings Inc., UBS AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG earlier
raised growth projections for China.  Data this week showed China’s inflation remained subdued in
August, while export growth, factory output and retail sales all
beat estimates.  Li said the foundation for a growth rebound isn’t solid,
while cautioning that stimulus won’t help resolve deep-rooted
issues in the world’s second-largest economy.  “The foundation of an economic recovery is not solid yet
with many uncertain factors,” Li said in a speech yesterday at
the  World Economic Forum  in Dalian, China. The nation is taking
steps to stabilize growth and can achieve its main economic
targets this year, he said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are little
changed today. The gauge climbed 0.3 percent yesterday as
diminishing concern over a military strike against  Syria  offset
Apple Inc.’s biggest decline since April.  The Federal Reserve has said any reduction in stimulus will
be tied to a sustained recovery in U.S. employment. The central
bank will decide to cut its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases this month, according to 65 percent of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The Federal Open Market
Committee holds a two-day meeting on Sept. 17-18.  Futures on the Hong Kong gauge rose 0.2 percent to 23,022.
The HSI Volatility Index dropped 2.3 percent to 16.60,
indicating traders expect the benchmark equity index to swing
4.8 percent in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  