-- Charities Decry Food Aid Cuts Pushed by House Republicans
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/house-republicans-seek-40-billion-in-cuts-to-food-aid-programs.html
House Republicans  plan to vote on a
bill next week that could push millions of people off U.S. food
aid programs that have expanded since the economic downturn,
potentially burdening charities that help feed the hungry.  The $40 billion in cuts to nutrition programs over 10 years
included in the bill would be a 5.2 percent reduction from what
the Congressional Budget Office estimates would be spent under
current policy. Private organizations that provide free meals
say it would send many more hungry people to their doors.  “We have no ability to make up for these cuts,” said
Margarette Purvis, president and chief executive officer of the
Food Bank of New York City.  No “magic charity” is sitting on
the sidelines waiting to make up the difference, she said.
Purvis said her food bank is the largest in the nation,
providing as many as 62 million meals a year.  Almost 48 million people in 23 million U.S. households
relied on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the
official name for food stamps, the largest of the nutrition
programs. The figures are for June, the last month for which
preliminary data were available, according to the USDA. Monthly
food stamp usage has risen more than  18 percent  over the past
four fiscal years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The proposed reduction would remove 76 million meals a year
from  New York City  alone.  “Where would we get that?,” Purvis said in a telephone
interview from a soup kitchen in Harlem. “That’s more meals
than we provide in a year.”  Able-bodied Adults  Republicans have said their measure would cut spending by
tightening eligibility requirements including on able-bodied
adults younger than 55 who don’t have dependents.  Backers of the bill say they want to curb waste and abuse.  “I think a lot of our members want to finally make real
reforms to the food-stamp program,” said Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican and senior member of the House
Agriculture Committee, which has jurisdiction over the programs.
The goal is to “ensure that while you have a safety net you
shouldn’t be giving welfare benefits to people who are able-bodied and capable of getting a job who just choose to continue
to get  food stamps  when they can actually go and work.”  Spending on domestic nutrition assistance programs would
reach $764 billion over 10 years if current policies continue,
according to a  June report  on farm bill spending from the
 Congressional Research Service . The report cites the non-partisan CBO, which gauges the cost of legislation for U.S.
lawmakers. The CBO hasn’t publicly released an estimate for the
food-aid bill.  End Benefits  The food-assistance bill would end benefits to as many as 6
million low-income people, according to an  August report  from
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , a Washington-based
group that studies the government’s impact on low- and moderate-income families. The group wrote that it relied on reports and
public comments from Republicans describing the measure. The
bill’s text hasn’t been released.  “The increased demand on already-strained local services
and charities would be substantial —- either displacing support
for other needy residents, such as seniors and low-income
working families, or leaving those cut off without sufficient
food,” the group wrote in its report.  The cuts in the food stamp bill are expected to be roughly
double what House lawmakers considered earlier this year. House
Republicans sought to cut $20.5 billion over 10 years from
nutrition programs including food stamps in H.R. 1947. That bill
was defeated in part because Democrats balked at food-stamp work
requirements and in part because some Republicans said the food-cuts were too small.  Bigger Cuts  Under a deal reached among Republicans last month, the new
legislation is being written with $40 billion in cuts, according
to Agriculture Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma
Republican.  Those proposed cuts are about 10 times greater than the $4
billion in reductions in a Senate-passed bill, S. 954.  House Republican leaders will have to depend on their own
party members to pass the bill as Democratic leaders say their
rank-and-file will oppose it.  “There are too many that through no fault of their own
depend on these programs to feed their families,” West Virginia
Democratic Representative Nick Rahall said in an interview.
“It’s numbness, without any feeling of pain. They go and chop
out these programs for people who are feeling a great deal of
pain.”  As part of a national lobbying campaign, advocates from  New
York  City boarded buses yesterday to travel to  Washington  to
talk to lawmakers ahead of the vote.  “This is going to be a fight that we’re not going to
stop,” Purvis said. “You can’t do one thing and walk away.
It’s that serious.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  