-- Housing-Finance Plan Pushed for U.S. Senate Panel Vote This Year
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-12T15:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/housing-finance-plan-pushed-for-u-s-senate-panel-vote-this-year.html
The U.S. Senate Banking Committee’s
Democratic chairman and its top Republican said the panel will
advance housing-finance legislation by the end of the year.  “There seems to be more traction toward moving forward
with housing finance reform than there has been at any point
during the five-year conservatorships of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC) ,” the Republican,  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, said at a Senate
Banking Committee hearing today.  Crapo said the panel’s goal is to approve a housing-finance
bill and send it to the full Senate by the end of the year.
Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, said
the panel is “undertaking this in-depth process with the goal
of reaching agreement by the end of the year.”  Today’s hearing begins the Senate panel’s work to write
housing finance legislation incorporating ideas from a bill by
Senators  Bob Corker , a Republican from Tennessee, and  Mark Warner , a Democrat from Virginia. At the same time, House
Republicans are struggling to find broad support for their plan
to set up a floor vote.  “I would like to thank Senators Corker and Warner and the
cosponsors of their bill for showing that there is bipartisan
support for a government guarantee in a new housing system and
willingness to move legislation forward,” Johnson said.  Government Backstop  Johnson and Crapo are working on their own bill to replace
government-backed  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  by borrowing ideas
from the Corker-Warner bill. The Corker-Warner housing bill
includes a government backstop in times of crisis while House
Republicans are pushing for limiting that support to the Federal 
Housing Administration.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by regulators in
2008 as defaults on risky loans drove them toward insolvency.
Taxpayers have spent $187.5 billion to keep them afloat.
Republicans and Democrats alike are calling for the companies to
be liquidated and replaced with a system based more on private
capital.  As the housing market turned around, the companies become
profitable and have sent $146 billion back to Treasury. Those
payments count as a return on the  government investment  and not
as a repayment of the debt.  Member Support  Corker and Warner’s bill has support from 10 senators on
the 22-member Senate Banking Committee. Their measure would
replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with a federal reinsurer that
would step in only after private capital had taken least 10
percent of the first losses on mortgage securities. The
government would step in with more aid during a financial
catastrophe. The measure was written with technical input from
the administration of President Barack Obama, who has endorsed
the bill.  The House measure is unlikely to become law because it
doesn’t have any Democratic support, isn’t backed by some
Republicans, and housing industry representatives are lobbying
heavily against it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  