-- Hoyer Says Obama Can Strike Syria Without Congress (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-09-12T22:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/hoyer-says-obama-can-strike-syria-without-congress-transcript-.html
Representative  Steny Hoyer , the
second-ranking House Democrat, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that President  Barack Obama  has the authority for a
military strike against Syria without returning to the  U.S.
Congress  for approval should diplomacy fail to compel Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime to surrender its chemical-weapons arsenal.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with the House Minority Whip,
Congressman Steny Hoyer of  Maryland . Thank you for joining us.  STENY HOYER: Al, it’s always good to be with you. Thank
you.  HUNT: Listen, everybody hopes that this - this Russian-led
Syrian resolution in the UN works. There’s a lot of skepticism
though. How long should the US give this before we decide it’s
just a delay tactic and we have to go back to Plan A?  HOYER: I think the answer to that is not long. And I think
you -  HUNT: Are you talking days or weeks?  HOYER: I think you’re talking - well, I don’t think you can
tell that until the talks proceed a little further. They just
started. Lavrov and Kerry just started to sit down and talk.
There’s a lot of experts there, so there’s going to be a lot of
discussion about technical issues. But clearly I don’t think we
can allow this to be used as a delaying tactic. This has to be
either real, as Secretary Kerry points out, specific and
immediate. But whether it’s days or weeks, but certainly not
longer than weeks, where we get to a place where we think this
is real.  HUNT: If we conclude that it is not real, which is a
distinct possibility -  HOYER: It is.  HUNT: - should - should Obama, having once asked Congress
to authorize a strike, come back to Congress again?  HOYER: I think the military option needs to be on the
table. The only reason the Russians made this offer, the only
reason Assad has indicated he’s now going to sign the chemical
convention is because of the threat of use of military force.  HUNT: And having done it once, is it essential now to come
back to Congress to get that authorization?  HOYER: I don’t think - both the Leader Pelosi and I, and
we’ve talked about this, neither one of us believe that the
president is required to come to Congress in this instance and
could act on his own. So the Russians and the Syrians ought not
to take comfort in this sort of political reporting about votes.
The president has made it very clear that he is going to take
action if this is not resolved.  HUNT: Let me just make sure that we’re right on this. So if
diplomacy should fail, again we all hope it does not, you think
the president can unilaterally take action without coming to
Congress?  HOYER: I do.  HUNT: You do.  HOYER: I do.  HUNT: Do you think he will?  HOYER: I don’t know that he will. As he said in his speech
Tuesday night, which I thought was as very effective speech, he
said although I have the authority to do so, I also - as the
commander-in-chief, I am also the head of the oldest democracy
in the world, and I think it’s better - and I agree with him -
better if we have agreement of both branches of government that
this is the action to take. And I would hope that we could pass
such a resolution.  HUNT: You mentioned earlier - pass such a resolution, even
- even before any action is taken, that just says hey, we’re
with the president.  HOYER: I would support a resolution before, but the
president of course has said, and therefore that’s the course
we’re going to pursue, to hold off. The president’s speech said,
look, I’ve asked the Congress to delay. He doesn’t want action
to -  HOYER: - think if we passed a resolution he’d have a
stronger hand. But having said that --  HUNT: But that’s not essential.  HOYER: But neither the Russians nor the Syrians ought to
conclude that the president is without authority to act.  HUNT: Let me look back just for a second because you
mentioned a moment ago the Syrians should not take any kind of
comfort from what I guess was the conventional wisdom that even
if this passed the Senate it was dead in the House, that you and
speaker - you and Leader Pelosi could not get the 150 Democrats
you probably needed. Was that a correct assessment?  HOYER: I think frankly we never got to that assessment.
This is - it’s not - it’s not a whip issue in the sense that
you’re saying, you’ve got to vote for this. This is a party
issue. We need you on board. This was a conscience issue. And
every member that I’ve talked to - and I’ve probably talked to
80 or 90 members. We didn’t have a full whip operation, but I
wanted to take people’s temperature and find out what they
thought. And that’s all I did, and I made it very clear to them,
I’m not asking whether you’re voting no or yes. I would ask you
- and this was of course the week before we came back - to keep
your powder dry. Don’t make a decision. Come back and get all
the facts before you make a determination. They - most of them
did that, as you well know.  HUNT: Yeah, and a lot held off. Would it be your political
stance if the - if this - this falters, if this - this  Syria 
turning over the chemical weapons is a fraud, it doesn’t work,
and the president did decide to come back that his hand would be
stronger than it was a week ago?  HOYER: My view is it would be, yes. I think people would
say, well, he went the extra mile. He reached out. He took the
diplomatic course that people had been urging him to take and it
didn’t work. And therefore under those circumstances, the only
option available to us to preclude the further use of chemical
weapons and to try to deter and degrade Syria’s ability to use
them is to act. So I think it would be strengthened.  HUNT: Let me turn to the budget controversy now. House
Democrats have introduced an alternative, which Republicans have
rejected. You’ve rejected the Republican proposal that’s out
there. Tell me what you think might get through the House by
Sept. 30 to head off a government shutdown. Or do you think it
is even likely there might be a government shutdown?  HOYER: Well, it’s difficult for me to predict that because
apparently the Republicans can’t figure out what they want to
do. They can’t get agreement internally. It may well be tough to
get an agreement between Republicans and Democrats, but the
Republicans can’t agree with themselves.  HUNT: Do you think that makes a shutdown more likely?  HOYER: I think it does. I think it does because I think you
have an awful lot of Republicans who believe shutdown is an
alternative that would not --  HUNT: So they may go that route first in order to --  HOYER: They may. It makes no sense to shut down government.
That’s our responsibility. You can argue about what level you
want to spend at, what activities you want to do, but no
American believes that we want to shut down the government. And
certainly I don’t want to shut down the government. Democrats
don’t want to shut down the government. Nor does the president.  On the other hand, we’re not going to be bludgeoned and
blackmailed into adopting something with respect to the health-care bill that the voters rejected. The whole campaign almost
was about two issues for President Obama, the health-care bill
and taxes. And Obama won. And now they’re so fixated on
repealing - for now the 41st time we voted on repealing the
health-care bill today - they’re so fixated on that that they
seem if they can’t win their point ready to shut down the
government.  HUNT: Let me focus on that for a second because they used
to say it had to defund Obamacare. Most of them have now backed
off that. What they’re saying now is it has to delay the
affordable health-care act for a year because the president
after all, they say, has done that for part of it. So let’s
delay it for a year. Is that negotiable?  HOYER: No. Let me tell you, Al, delay - delay is somewhat
deceitful in this sense. They want to defund, eliminate, repeal.
For two-and-a-half years, 41 votes, we’ve been trying to repeal
the health-care bill. This is a gambit.  HUNT: So that’s off the table.  HOYER: Well let me - let me tell you. We’ll delay it for
one year and we’ll keep government going. What do you think
happens next year? We delay it for another year or we’re going
to shut down government. What do you think happens next year?
Well we’ll delay it another year or we’ll shut down government.
As long as shut down the government is their bludgeon, is their
threat, is their hostage, that’s not a negotiable issue. And
we’re not for a delay. The people of America went to the polls
and voted for President Obama and they knew that he was not
going to be for that.  HUNT: You hate the sequester. You’ve spoken forcefully
against it. Let me ask you this. Is it your position, the
Democratic caucus’s position, that any change in the sequester,
any replacement, has to involve discretionary domestic as well
as military programs equally? And does it also have to include
added revenue?  HOYER: Al, first of all I believe the sequester is an
irrational, common-sense-defying fiscal policy. And very
frankly,  Eric Cantor  said the same thing today on the floor of
the  House of Representatives  when we did our colloquy. I think
neither defense nor domestic spending ought to be affected by
the sequester. We ought to make rational decisions based upon
programmatic justification on the defense side and on the
domestic side. Now I believe that a big deal is the alternative
to sequester.  HUNT: But you don’t think that’s going to happen, do you?  HOYER: I don’t think it’s going to happen. I do - you asked
me do I think revenues are necessary. The answer to that is yes,
like every bipartisan commission that has considered this,
whether it was the Bowles-Simpson, Domenici-Rivlin, Gang of Six,
any -  HUNT: As bad as it is, America’s likely to be stuck with it
for the foreseeable future.  HOYER: The sequester? I hope not. I hope that --  HUNT: I know you hope not.  HOYER: I intend to oppose efforts that are being made that
do not involve the changing of the sequester. And when you have
Hal Rogers, the chairman - the Republican chairman, conservative
Republican from  Kentucky , chairman of the Appropriations
Committee for the Republican side - saying sequester hasn’t
worked and needs to be repealed. That’s, that’s not, that’s not
Steny Hoyer who you say hates sequester. It’s the chairman of
the Appropriations Committee who says it does not and cannot
work and we need to repeal it.  HUNT: I would point out that Steny Hoyer proudly hates
sequester. Steny Hoyer, thank you so much for being with us
today.  HOYER: Al, thank you very much. Always good to be with you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 