-- Hoyer Says Obama Could Strike Syria Without Congress Vote
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/hoyer-says-obama-could-strike-syria-without-congress-vote.html
The second-ranking House Democrat
said President  Barack Obama  has the authority to use military
force against Syria without returning to the  U.S. Congress  for
approval should diplomacy fail to compel the Syrian government
to surrender its chemical weapons arsenal.  Democratic Whip  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland  said neither he nor
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
“believe the president is required to come to Congress in this
instance, and could act on his own.”  Hoyer, in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” that airs this weekend, also
said House Republican disarray on strategy in battling Obama
over the  federal budget  and raising the nation’s  borrowing limit 
makes a government shutdown at month’s end more likely.  On Syria, Hoyer said only a brief window exists for  Russia 
to prove that its bid to require Syria to give up its chemical
arms stockpile to avert a U.S. military strike is “real” --
“certainly not longer than weeks.”  If the effort fails, Hoyer added, Obama’s hand would be
strengthened in taking military action if Congress explicitly
empowered him to do so.  “If we passed a resolution, he’d have a stronger hand,”
Hoyer said. “But having said that, neither the Russians nor the
Syrians ought to conclude that the president is without
authority to act.”  ‘Extra Mile’  The attempt at a diplomatic solution may also help Obama
influence lawmakers to support a military strike, Hoyer said.  “People would say, ‘Well, he went the extra mile, he
reached out, he took the diplomatic course that people had been
urging him to take -- and it didn’t work,’” Hoyer said. “And
therefore under those circumstances, the only option available
to us to preclude the further use of chemical weapons and to try
to deter and degrade  Syria ’s ability to use them is to act.’”  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved a
resolution authorizing military force against Syria, and the
Senate was prepared to vote on the measurer this week. The
resolution appeared to face growing House opposition. Then, when
the prospect of a negotiated settlement arose, Obama said in a
national televised address on Sept. 10 that he was asking
Congress to delay voting.  Health-Care ‘Gambit’  On fiscal issues, Hoyer said Democrats will never agree to
the Republican bid to delay funding for the 2010  health-care law 
in exchange for funding the government, calling it a “gambit”
the opposing party could use to continuously keep the measure
from being carried out.  “We’re not going to be bludgeoned and blackmailed into
adopting something with respect to the health-care bill that the
voters rejected” in giving Obama a second term last November,
he said.  Calling the Republicans “fixated” on repealing the law,
Hoyer said, “As long as ‘shut down the government’ is their
bludgeon, is their threat, is their hostage, that’s not a
negotiable issue.”  While he and some influential Republicans oppose the
automatic across-the-board spending cuts imposed earlier this
year, Hoyer conceded they are likely to remain in effect for the
foreseeable future.  “The sequester is an irrational, common-sense-defying
fiscal policy” that should be replaced with a “big deal” that
both cuts federal spending and while also raising  revenues ,
Hoyer said.  “I don’t think it’s going to happen,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  