-- Pakistan to Free Taliban’s Top Commander for Afghan Peace Talks
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-09-12T10:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/pakistan-to-free-taliban-s-top-commander-for-afghan-peace-talks.html
Pakistan  said today it would
release the Afghan Taliban’s top military commander in a move
that Afghanistan has said would encourage insurgents to join
peace talks before the U.S. reduces troops next year.  Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who directed daily operations
as deputy to Taliban supreme leader Mullah Mohammad Omar before
he was captured in Pakistan’s biggest city of Karachi in 2010,
will be released at an “appropriate time,” Foreign Office
spokesman Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry told reporters in Islamabad.  Baradar will be the most senior Taliban leader to be
released by Pakistan, which is separately seeking talks with the
Pakistani Taliban to end an insurgency in its northwest border
areas. Afghan President Hamid Karzai has pushed neighboring
Pakistan to assist in getting the Afghan Taliban to join peace
talks in Kabul.  “ Afghanistan  has long requested the release of Mullah
Baradar, which can help end the 12-year war with the Taliban,”
Mohammad Ismail Qasimyar, a senior official with the Afghan High
Peace Council formed by Karzai to hold talks with the Taliban,
said by phone from Kabul. “Baradar can efficiently help in
holding peace talks with Taliban.”  Pakistan last week said it was releasing senior Taliban
leader Mansoor Dadullah and six other detainees to help
facilitate the Afghan reconciliation process. The move came
almost two weeks after Karzai visited Pakistan to seek help from
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s three-month-old government.  At the time of his arrest, Baradar was deputy leader of the
“Quetta Shura,” the top council of Taliban leaders, which
analysts and U.S. officials say fled into hiding near the
Pakistani border city of Quetta after being  driven from
Afghanistan  in 2002. Pakistan denies that the Taliban leadership
operates on its territory.  Pakistan released 26 members of the Afghan Taliban in
November and January, including former regional governors and
ministers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  