-- Palestinian Economic Growth to Slow to 4.5% in 2013, IMF Says
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2013-09-12T08:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/palestinian-economic-growth-to-slow-to-4-5-in-2013-imf-says.html
Palestinian economic growth is
projected to slow to 4.5 percent this year and to 3 percent by
2016, owing to a falloff in aid and persistent political
uncertainty, the  International Monetary Fund  said today.  The slowdown also reflects weak private and external
demand, the Washington D.C.-based organization said in a report
prepared ahead of a meeting of donor countries later this month.
The outlook would improve if peace talks with  Israel  are
successful, it said. Growth last year was 5.9 percent.  “Medium-term economic prospects are dim and there are
downside risks,” the report said. “If there is a breakthrough
in the peace negotiations and the supporting economic package is
implemented, the economic outlook would improve.”  The IMF recommended making government spending more growth-friendly by cutting the public sector and increasing capital
spending. The government should also strengthen revenue
collection by broadening the tax base, improving compliance and
reviewing exemptions.  Since its establishment in 1994, the  Palestinian Authority 
has received more than $15 billion in aid, with annual per
capita aid averaging $340. Since 2008, the aid has been used
mainly to finance recurrent spending rather than development.  The IMF warned that over the past two years, the
Palestinian Authority has maintained large deficits even as
donor financing has declined. To fill the gap, it has resorted
to running up arrears and bank loans, with day-to-day cash
management overtaking longer-term policy making and planning,
the report said.  “This situation is not sustainable” and “implies risks
to both macroeconomic and social stability,” the IMF cautioned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Fadwa Hodali in Jerusalem at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  