-- Palm Oil Climbs on Speculation U.S. Soybean Crop May Be Reduced
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-09-12T10:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/palm-oil-climbs-on-speculation-u-s-soybean-crop-may-be-reduced.html
Palm oil  gained for the first time
in four days before a government report that may show the U.S.
soybean crop will be smaller than forecast after dry weather
hurt yields, reducing global oilseed supplies.  Palm for November delivery advanced 0.5 percent to close at
2,344 ringgit ($716) a metric ton on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives. Palm oil for physical delivery in September was at
2,375 ringgit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Farmers may harvest 3.13 billion bushels of soybeans, 3.7
percent less than estimated a month earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Conditions in August signal a
large cut to expected production, curbing the decline in prices
in coming months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday. The
U.S. Department of Agriculture releases forecasts based on
farmer and field surveys in  Washington  today.  “In recent weeks, the climate has not been very supportive
for the growth of the soybean crop, so you may expect the report
to show a decline in yields,” Prathamesh Mallya, an analyst at
AnandRathi Commodities Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai. A
smaller crop will lead to less  soybean oil  production which will
increase consumption of palm, he said.  Palm oil may extend a decline as supply of the most used
cooking oil from Indonesia and Malaysia climbs and biodiesel
demand peaks, said  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej
International Ltd. A rally in futures since the end of July is
over and prices will drop from now, Mistry said in remarks
prepared for a conference in Singapore today.  Soybeans for November gained 0.3 percent to $13.625 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade as soybean oil for delivery
in December rose 0.3 percent to 43.07 cents a pound. Palm and
soybean oil are substitutes in food and fuel uses.  Refined palm oil for January delivery declined 0.5 percent
to close at 5,498  yuan  ($899) a ton on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange . Soybean oil fell 0.5 percent to end at 7,200 yuan a
ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  