-- Paranoid Pynchon Channels Snowden in Security Nightmare
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/paranoid-pynchon-channels-snowden-in-security-nightmare.html
Thomas Pynchon opens his Manhattan-set novel “ Bleeding Edge ” on the first day of spring, 2001. So
you know what’s coming.  For more than 300 curiously low-key pages, he hints and
foreshadows. A character who “can foresmell things that’re going
to happen,” for example, senses a “bitter,” “caustic,” never-before-smelled event whose approach feels “like breathing in
needles.”  This is the  Pynchon  we know well, the doom-tickled
fashioner of paranoid scenarios that take shape at the
intersection of history, science fiction and black magic.  Then Sept. 11 arrives and -- meh. The novel goes bantering
on, the catastrophe acknowledged but hardly more, the characters
surprisingly unperturbed. Which is all wrong: However Sept. 11
affected  New Yorkers , it wasn’t an anticlimax.  The book’s central character, Maxine Tarnow, is a fraud
investigator working on a case that she describes to her husband
in Pynchonese, thus:  “This documentary guy Reg Despard -- his twice-as-paranoid
IT genius, Eric -- they spot something cute in the bookkeeping
at hashslingrz.com. OK, Reg comes to me with it, thinks it’s
sinister, global in scope, maybe to do with the Mideast, but it
could be too much ‘X-Files’ or whatever.”  Sinister CEO  The sinister chief executive of hashslingrz.com, Gabriel
Ice, turns out to be “practically synonymous with U.S. security
arrangements” -- which makes “Bleeding Edge” largely about the
very now subject (how did Pynchon anticipate Edward Snowden?) of
government surveillance and the new technology.  Maxine’s father, an old-school lefty with a paranoid
streak, elaborates. The Web, he explains, is the brainchild of
Cold War militarism:  “Your Internet was their invention, this magical
convenience that creeps now like a smell through the smallest
details of our lives ... It was conceived in sin, the worst
possible. As it kept growing, it never stopped carrying in its
heart a bitter-cold death wish for the planet ...  “Take the next step, connect it to cell phones, you’ve got
a total Web of surveillance, inescapable ... handcuffs of the
future. Terrific. What they dream about at the Pentagon,
worldwide martial law.”  There it is -- history, politics, technology, paranoia:
Pynchon’s stomping ground. When it fully engages him, the book
yields up elements of near greatness, such as Maxine’s dreamlike
voyages into the virtual reality of the Deep Web. (Pynchon has
always been good at dreams.)  Bad Jokes  There is, as well, the off-kilter, wisecracking
gorgeousness of Pynchon’s prose. But the dumb jokiness that once
functioned as a complex postmodern self-canceling device -- the
fulfillment of a strange, neurotic need to spray-paint over his
most gravely beautiful passages -- now just seems old-codgerish.
(He’s 76.) And the jokes aren’t funny.  Structure has never been Pynchon’s strong point. The all-over-the-place-ness didn’t matter so much in the gargantuan
“ Gravity’s Rainbow ” (1973) -- at least, not until the last
quarter -- because the sentences were so intense, sensually and
emotionally, that the acid trip they constituted flattened every
other concern.  “Bleeding Edge” is more like the kind of trip in which you
keep asking from the back seat, “When are we going to get
there?”  Female Hero  Editing would have helped. The novel’s most obvious
precedent is Pynchon’s cosmic mystery of 1966, “ The Crying of
Lot 49 ,” which also had a female hero. It’s his only short book,
and the brevity is part of its deadly power.  If the bland, watery medium the good stuff here is floating
around in had been drained, maybe “Bleeding Edge” could have
gained some of that power. (The title certainly has it.) But its
emotional temperature is so tepid that it’s hard to feel the
book matters much -- even to the author.  This once deeply troubled writer seems to have found a way
to live at peace with himself in a world that -- he still
forcefully argues -- is monstrously, enragingly unjust. Good for
him. Bad for us.  “Bleeding Edge” is published by Penguin Press (477 pages,
$28.95). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on gadgets.  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 