-- Paulson Says QE Exit Causes Volatility With Bernanke Hero
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-09-12T21:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/paulson-says-qe-exit-causes-volatility-with-bernanke-hero.html
The Federal Reserve’s exit from
quantitative easing will increase market volatility, said former
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , who also praised Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  for navigating the economic recovery
from the 2008 financial crisis.  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet
Sept. 17-18 to consider the future of the third round of
quantitative easing known as QE3. Economists expect the Fed to
reduce monthly asset purchases to $75 billion from $85 billion,
according to a Sept. 6 Bloomberg News survey.  “There is bound to be volatility,” Paulson said in an
interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television today. “When
you have a big, ugly, messy problem, there is never going to be
a perfect, elegant solution.”  The Fed has pledged for more than a year to press on with
asset purchases until achieving sustainable gains in the  labor
market . The central bank announced a third round of quantitative
easing in September 2012 to reduce longer-term  interest rates ,
stoke economic growth and combat unemployment.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has
climbed almost one percentage point since Bernanke said May 22
that the central bank could “take a step down in our pace of
purchases” in the “next few meetings.” The yield closed at
1.93 percent on May 21, the day before Bernanke spoke. It closed
at 2.91 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New York today, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Bernanke said June 19 policy makers may reduce the pace of
purchases this year and halt them by mid-2014.  ‘Hero’ Bernanke  Paulson praised Bernanke for bringing the  U.S. economy  back
to growth while reducing the level of  household debt  and
stabilizing the financial system.  “I believe that  Ben Bernanke  has been a hero,” Paulson
said. “To be where we are today, where you’ve had growth of,
you know, 2 percent since late 2009 while we’ve been undergoing
this necessary and massive deleveraging of consumers -- that’s
important.”  Paulson, President  George W. Bush ’s Treasury secretary and
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief executive officer, is now
chairman of the Paulson Institute, a Chicago-based non-partisan
center he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable growth and a
cleaner environment, focused on the U.S. and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  