-- Percy Taking Helm of Artemis After America’s Cup Elimination
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-12T17:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/percy-taking-helm-of-artemis-after-america-s-cup-elimination.html
Two-time Olympic gold medalist Iain
Percy will take over the lead of the Artemis Racing America’s
Cup team as it plans for the next edition of the 162-year-old
regatta, team owner Torbjorn Tornqvist said.  Percy, who led the on-water crew as skipper during this
year’s Cup campaign, will take the title of team manager and
succeed Paul Cayard, the team’s chief executive officer, after
the current Cup ends, Tornqvist said today in a telephone
interview from Geneva.  Emirates Team New Zealand is leading  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle
Team USA 4-0 in the regatta’s final series with two races
scheduled for today in San Francisco.  “Iain is one of those people who never seeks leadership,
but people ask him for it and that’s very unique,” Tornqvist
said. “Iain has that charisma and that personality -- he earns
it somehow.”  Artemis was eliminated from the Louis Vuitton Challenger
series last month by the Italian Luna Rossa team backed by  Prada
SpA (1913)  Chief Executive Officer Patrizio Bertelli. Tornqvist’s team
competed after a May training accident that killed Andrew
Simpson, Percy’s Olympic partner and longtime friend who won
gold and silver medals with him at the 2008 and 2012 Games.  Bigger Role  Tornqvist, whose 44 percent stake in the commodities trader
Gunvor Group Ltd gives him a net worth of $3.1 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, said the racing
campaign convinced him to take on a greater role in team
operations. The 59-year-old said he also felt it was important
to keep a core group of sailors to build around, particularly
Percy, 37, and helmsman Nathan Outteridge, the 27-year-old
Australian who won the gold medal sailing 49er class skiffs at
2012 Olympics.  “He can drive anything,” Tornqvist said of Outteridge.
“We’re going to have a core of people from the existing team
and see what happens with the next Cup before we go on.”  New Zealand can take the Cup with nine victories; Oracle
needs 11 because of a penalty related to rules violations in
preliminary competition.  Tornqvist said reaching the starting line became his team’s
primary goal after the wreck that killed Simpson and destroyed
their 72-foot catamaran. After the Italians won the fourth and
decisive race in August, he climbed onto the boat and embraced
an emotional Percy.  “I think we all felt pride in what we achieved in our own
way,” Tornqvist said. “It was an emotional moment for Iain and
myself. We had lost. We were out. But we had done what was
possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 