-- Philippine Water Regulator Orders Companies to Cut Tariffs
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-09-12T08:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/philippine-water-regulator-orders-companies-to-cut-tariffs-1-.html
The Philippine water regulator
ordered  Manila Water Co. (MWC)  and Maynilad Water Services Inc. to
reduce their rates, denying the utilities’ separate petitions to
increase tariffs.  The Metropolitan Waterworks & Sewerage System rejected the
plea of Manila Water, a unit of  Ayala Corp. (AC) , to raise tariffs by
5.83 pesos a cubic meter, according to a copy of the order
provided by Manila Water, which supplies half of the capital’s
requirements. Maynilad’s petition to lift its rate by 8.58 pesos
a cubic meter was also denied, its parent  Metro Pacific
Investments Corp. (MPI)  said in a stock exchange filing.  The two companies, which won their concessions in 1997,
said they would dispute the ruling at an arbitration panel.  The decision comes after some lawmakers pledged to
investigate about 15 billion pesos ($342 million) in income
taxes and other expenses that the water utilities passed on to
consumers. The water companies said raising tariffs will help
fund as much as 1.1 trillion pesos in investments until 2037.  Manila  Water shares fell 3.6 percent to 31 pesos at the
close of trading, the most since Aug. 6. Parent Ayala declined
1.9 percent, while Metro Pacific sank 7.8 percent, the lowest
close since Jan. 2. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index dropped
0.3 percent.  Rate Cut  The regulator directed Manila Water to cut its basic water
charge by 29 percent, to be implemented in equal tranches in the
next five years, according to the order. Maynilad must implement
a 4.8 percent reduction within the same period, according to its
statement.  Manila Water’s ability to serve its customers will be
“severely compromised and impaired,” it said in a statement.
“The MWSS rate determination undermines the concession
agreement and puts at risk the government’s efforts to promote
public-private partnerships.”  Maynilad will review future infrastructure investments to
determine how it can continue to provide services to the west
zone of Manila “without compromising the long-term financial
stability of the company,” according to its statement.  The  Philippines  attracts the least foreign direct
investment in Southeast Asia, according to the World Bank. The
nation received $1.87 billion of FDI in 2011, compared with
$7.43 billion to the smaller economy of  Vietnam , according to
the bank. The Philippine economy expanded more than 7 percent
for a fourth straight quarter in the three months through June,
defying a regional slowdown to remain one of Asia’s best
performers.  Manila Water’s profit rose 11 percent to 2.91 billion pesos
in the first half as sales increased 6 percent, it said on Aug.
8. Maynilad’s net income declined 1 percent to 3.3 billion pesos
due to refinancing charges, Metro Pacific said on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  