-- Philippines Holds Rates at Record Low to Support GDP Growth
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2013-09-12T09:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/philippines-holds-key-rate-at-record-low-to-support-gdp-growth.html
The  Philippines  held its benchmark
rate at a record low as easing inflation gave policy makers room
to support Southeast Asia’s fastest-growing major economy.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the interest rate it pays
lenders for  overnight deposits  at 3.5 percent for a seventh
meeting, according to a statement in Manila today, as forecast
by all 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. It also held
the rate on special deposit accounts at 2 percent.  Philippine expansion has exceeded 7 percent for four
straight quarters as government spending rose, underscoring the
nation’s resilience as policy makers in  Thailand ,  Malaysia  and
Indonesia have cut their growth estimates. Inflation eased to a
four-year low in August and the central bank targets consumer-price gains to average 3 percent to 5 percent this year and next.  “Monetary authorities were justified to keep rates steady
and ensure that second-half growth numbers won’t slow
significantly,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at Bank of the
Philippine Islands in  Manila . “They have adequate space to keep
the policy stance through a good part of 2014 with inflation
forecasts on the dot.”  The benchmark stock index slipped 0.3 percent at the close
before the decision today, and the peso dropped 0.2 percent to
43.895 per dollar. The currency has fallen the least in
Southeast Asia this quarter after the Singapore dollar.  Philippine  gross domestic product  rose 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, matching  China ’s pace. The
nation is poised to be among the world’s five fastest-growing
economies in 2013 and 2014, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Inflation Outlook  The central bank today lowered its inflation forecast for
2013 to 3 percent from 3.3 percent and its 2014 estimate to 3.9
percent from 4 percent. It kept the 2015 estimate at 3.5 percent.  The decision to hold borrowing costs is based on its
assessment of a “benign  inflation (PHC2II)  environment,” the monetary
authority said in the statement, adding that the balance of
risks to its price-gains outlook has “shifted slightly toward
the upside” on volatile oil prices.  The economy can sustain expansion at above 6 percent until
2015 without generating inflation pressures as the government
boosts infrastructure spending and domestic investment picks up,
Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told reporters. The build-up of
asset bubbles is not a concern at this point, he said, and
reiterated that a surge in July’s  money-supply  growth to the
fastest pace since at least 2004 is temporary, not inflationary.  “Domestic economic activity has been growing at a solid
pace, supported by firm demand and buoyant business sentiment,”
the central bank said in the statement. “Steady policy settings
will also allow policy makers to better assess evolving economic
risks, given current volatilities in global financial markets.”  Investment Grade  Philippine President Benigno Aquino is increasing spending
to a record this year while seeking more than $17 billion of
investments in highways and airports to improve infrastructure.
Fujifilm Corp. and Sonion A/S are among companies that began
production at new factories in the nation this year.  Fitch Ratings and Standard and Poor’s this year awarded the
Philippines its first investment-grade scores, while Moody’s
Investors Service, which ranks the nation a step below, has said
it is reviewing its rating for an upgrade.  Indonesia  unexpectedly raised borrowing costs today for the
fourth time since early June to support a weakening currency and
cool inflation expectations. Earlier, New Zealand’s central bank
signaled it may need to raise rates next year after keeping them
unchanged today, and Bank of  Korea  also held its benchmark rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  