-- Phone Roaming Premiums in EU Would End Under Kroes Plan
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2013-09-12T12:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/phone-roaming-premiums-in-eu-would-end-under-kroes-plan-1-.html
Telecommunications companies in the
European Union would be banned from charging premiums for
roaming services under a proposal adopted by the European
Commission that also seeks to ensure “net neutrality” for
Internet users.  Under the plan, consumers in the EU would no longer have to
pay to receive calls while traveling in the 28-nation bloc as of
mid-2014, the commission, the EU executive, said yesterday in
Brussels. Telecom providers could choose to offer phone plans
that apply everywhere in the region or let customers opt for a
separate roaming provider without having to buy a new SIM card.  EU Digital Agenda Commissioner Neelie Kroes has championed
lowering roaming charges and unified rules for telecom networks
to spur investment in Europe, which is behind the U.S. and Asia
in rolling out fourth-generation wireless systems and is
struggling to provide high-speed Internet. The EU accounts for 6
percent of the world’s 4G subscriptions, while the U.S.,  Japan 
and South Korea have 88 percent, according to Kroes.  “Every day the gap is growing,” Kroes said at a briefing
today in Brussels. “We badly need high-quality networks,” she
said, adding that the proposals would help boost the entire
economy as it recovers from six quarters of contraction, its
longest recession on record.  All Sectors  “It’s about how digital technology can boost all economic
sectors,” Kroes said. “Fixing the telecoms sector is no longer
about this one sector but about supporting the sustainable
development of all sectors.”  The proposal would ban the blocking and slowing of Internet
content, though carriers will be allowed to charge more for
high-end services such as video-on-demand and other data-intensive features as long as other customers aren’t affected.
Consumers would have the right to check whether they are
receiving the Internet speeds they pay for and to end contracts
if commitments aren’t met, the commission said.  Consumers across the EU also would have the same rights to
shorter minimum contracts. Companies would benefit from a single
authorization for them to operate in all EU countries, and
easier and greater access to spectrum that is key to 4G mobile
services, Wi-Fi and other services, according to the EU.  The proposal must be approved by the European Parliament
and EU governments before it becomes law.  Lower Prices  “Our proposal will strengthen guarantees and lower prices
for consumers, and present new opportunities for companies,”
Jose Barroso, president of the Brussels-based commission, said
yesterday in a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg,
 France . “Isn’t it a paradox that we have an internal market for
goods, but when it comes to the digital market we have 28
national markets?”  The commission has said it wants to give all Europeans
access to Internet speeds of more than 30 megabits per second
and that half the EU should have connections faster than 100
Mbps by 2020. The average  downloading speed  currently is about
20 Mbps, according to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  