-- Here’s How Batista’s OGX Nightmare Gets Worse for Pimco
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-12T21:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/pimco-s-19-cent-ogx-bonds-haunted-by-atp-specter-brazil-credit.html
As creditors led by Pacific
Investment Management Co. try to salvage what is left of their
stake in  Eike Batista ’s oil ambitions, the specter of ATP Oil &
Gas Corp.’s demise underscores how much more they stand to lose.  With $3.6 billion of  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ’s
bonds trading at 18.75 cents on the dollar on speculation the
six-year-old company will run out of cash after failing to
deliver the oil output that Batista promised, the ex-billionaire
is now asking investors for at least $250 million in capital and
will propose bondholders convert debt into stock to avert
bankruptcy, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  OGX bondholders, which include Pimco and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
may be better off providing debt relief to Batista while the
company’s assets support the notes rather than seeking repayment
in  bankruptcy court , according to Jason Brady, who helps oversee
$89 billion at Thornburg Investment Management Inc. Seaport
Group LLC says OGX’s collapse is akin to ATP, the Houston-based
oil explorer that sold assets under bankruptcy protection to pay
lenders, leaving it with no money to pay $1.5 billion of notes
in default since November. The bonds sell for less than a penny.  When OGX began chopping output targets at its Tubarao Azul
field, “some people began to talk about similarities with ATP,
and it’s proved to be in hindsight a good guide,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at New York-based broker-dealer Seaport Group, said in a telephone interview. Oil “is a
merciless high-risk business. It’s the wrong business to over-promise and under-deliver in.”  Pimco Holdings  A bondholder group led by Pimco and BlackRock hired
Rothschild to advise on an OGX restructuring, a person with
direct knowledge of the agreement said last month, asking not to
be identified because the selection process is private.  The $27.2 billion  Pimco Income Fund (PIMIX) , one of at least 25
Pimco funds that own  OGX debt , boosted its holdings of OGX’s
dollar-denominated bonds to $177 million in face value at the
end of June, from $124 million at the end of 2012, according to
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of 2018 bonds and $1.06 billion of 2022
notes, which have lost investors more than 70 percent this year,
were the worst-performing securities held by the fund, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2018 bonds were the biggest
contributor to losses within the fund this year among more than
3,800 debt securities held as of June 30, while the 2022 notes
were the third-biggest, the data show.  ‘Ongoing Evaluation’  Pimco spokesman Mike Reid and BlackRock spokeswoman Melissa
Garville declined to comment on the funds’ OGX holdings or
restructuring talks.  Investors including  Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co.
sovereign-wealth fund and buyout firms are being asked to
participate in the OGX capital increase, which could reach $500
million, and an OGX presentation to creditors was slated for
this week, said the people with knowledge of the talks, asking
not to be identified because the discussions are private.  OGX, based in Rio de Janeiro, declined to comment on
questions about a possible debt restructuring, bankruptcy or the
value of its bonds and assets.  The oil producer hired Blackstone Group LP “for the
ongoing evaluation of its  capital structure ,” according to an
Aug. 14 statement. Batista also hired Angra Partners to oversee
a reorganization of his EBX Group Co. holding company, a person
with knowledge of the contract said Aug. 30.  ‘Zero’ Value  In Batista’s latest asset sale, Mubadala and Amsterdam-based commodities trader Trafigura Beheer BV agreed to buy a
controlling stake in the former billionaire’s iron-ore port, his
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA mining company said this week.  ATP, whose erroneous bets on offshore geology led it to
miss output targets and run out of cash like OGX, obtained
debtor-in-possession financing of $654.4 million when it sought
Chapter 11  bankruptcy protection  a year ago, Bloomberg data
show. The company failed to become  profitable  and agreed May 7
to sell its assets to lenders led by Credit Suisse Group AG,
which had precedence over bondholders, for $691 million.  For OGX, a bankruptcy could also push the value of the
bonds close to zero because the country’s petroleum regulator,
known as ANP, may take over the concessions that currently
support the value of the bonds, according to Omar Zeolla, a
corporate credit analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York .  “There is a scenario with OGX where it goes to zero,”
Zeolla said in a telephone interview. “In the case of default,
the regulator could take those concessions away.”  Increasing Concern  OGX has 30 oil and natural gas concessions in  Brazil  that
may be revoked if it files for bankruptcy protection, according
to contracts it signed with the oil regulator. ANP said it will
adhere to the concession contract in an e-mailed response to
questions, without elaborating.  Bond investors are becoming increasingly concerned OGX will
sell assets before going into bankruptcy protection to pay other
creditors of Batista’s EBX, leaving them with less value to
recover, Seaport’s Roche said.  “It’s a bit nerve-racking for some of our clients,” Roche
said. “It’s the fear of negative conveyance, using assets to
take care of particular creditors.”  EBX owed about $1.5 billion to Mubadala, three people with
knowledge of the matter said in July. Itau Unibanco Holding SA,
Brazil’s largest lender by market value, had about 5.5 billion
reais ($2.4 billion) in outstanding loans to EBX, two people
with direct knowledge of the matter said in March. Batista
borrowed about 4.8 billion reais from Banco Bradesco SA, the
people said. BTG Pactual’s outstanding loans to companies linked
to Batista total about 650 million reais, a person with
knowledge of the financing said in July.  Brazilian Courts  While bankruptcy laws in Brazil are similar to those in the
U.S., the South American nation’s courts would probably make OGX
creditors’ plight even worse than for those of ATP because the
system is slower and has been less inclined to side with
creditors, Thornburg’s Brady said.  “The OGX story is much more complicated from an ownership
structure and from a Brazil standpoint,” said Brady. “Not only
is it in Brazil, it’s in Brazil with a guy that has some
resources, and he’s going in a whole lot of different
directions, versus a U.S. case where it’s cleaner.”  ATP and OGX both bought offshore leases by themselves in
regions dominated by major  oil companies  that have the financial
resources to survive exploration setbacks. Usually, an oil
startup takes a minority stake offshore with a more experienced,
larger partner to ease the risks of dry holes and cost overruns,
according to Christine Besset, a credit analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s .  ‘Catastrophic Effect’  “When you see small companies, they usually have maybe a
20 percent, 25 percent interest in a well, a working interest
with a major,” Besset, who covered ATP until it went into
bankruptcy, said by telephone from Houston. “Being very small
and having very risky assets, it puts you in a position where
anything that goes wrong can have a catastrophic effect.”  ATP failed to meet  production  targets at offshore fields in
the  Gulf of Mexico  and was also hit with permitting delays after
BP Plc’s 2010 spill at the Macondo well in deep waters.  OGX has abandoned areas off Rio’s coast that it previously
declared commercial because the geology is more
compartmentalized and has less pressure than the company
anticipated, hindering the flow of oil. OGX bought seven
offshore licenses in the southern end of the Campos Basin off
Rio’s coast in 2007, and was the sole investor in five of them.  No Guarantee  Its one partner,  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , which has been
producing in the  North Sea  since 1972, reduced its stake in two
licenses in 2012 and handed operatorship to OGX. ATP had an
average working interest of 81 percent at its licenses before
going into bankruptcy a year ago.  Even if creditors reach a restructuring deal with Batista
and agree to take equity as payment, there’s no guarantee they
will end up with more than ATP’s bondholders, Zeolla said.  OGX’s Tubarao Martelo field, in which  Malaysia ’s state-run
crude producer Petroliam Nasional Bhd. agreed to buy a 40
percent stake in May, is OGX’s most promising asset, valued at
$1.1 billion, according to a Credit Suisse report to clients
dated Sept. 6.  “The creditors are probably already ready to take the
equity,” Zeolla said. “They would get something though you
still don’t know if there’s any value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  