-- Poland’s Ruling Party Loses Another Lawmaker as Protests Swell
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-09-12T11:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/poland-s-ruling-party-loses-another-lawmaker-as-protests-swell.html
Poland’s ruling  Civic Platform  lost
its third parliamentarian in less than three weeks as the
government faces labor union demonstrations and ebbing support.  Jacek Zalek today joined Jaroslaw Gowin, who left the party
this week in protest at a planned pension revamp, and John
Godson, who quit on Aug. 27. That leaves the ruling coalition,
which includes the Polish Peasants’ Party, with 232 votes in the
460-seat lower house, according to parliament’s  website .  The government is battling growing discontent as the
European Union’s largest eastern economy is forecast to grow
this year at the weakest pace since at least 1997. Labor unions
began four-day protests in Warsaw yesterday and opinion polls
released today showed Civic Platform falling further behind the
opposition  Law and Justice .  “Those protests are a sign that we were unable to rise to
the challenges that were put before us by Poles,” Zalek, who
was suspended as party member for breaking voting discipline
last month, told a news conference in Warsaw. “I don’t want to
be in a situation where I have to fight with my party and not
for the promises I made to voters.”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk said last week that the state
will take over more than half of the assets of privately managed
pension funds as the government seeks more leeway to boost
public spending. Tusk, who became the first Polish premier to
win re-election after the fall of communism, may shuffle his
cabinet in November, Pawel Gras, the government spokesman, said
today on the TVN 24 news channel.  Support for Civic Platform dropped to 20 percent in a Sept.
10 poll by Homo Homini from 24 percent in a Sept. 6-7 survey,
the Rzeczpospolita newspaper reported today. Backing for Law and
Justice was 31 percent in the latest poll of 1,100 people, which
didn’t give a margin of error, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  