-- Police Must Pay for Sony Warehouse Damaged in Riots, Judge Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-12T10:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/police-must-pay-for-sony-warehouse-damaged-in-riots-judge-says.html
London  police must repay the
insurers of a warehouse that held  Sony Corp. (6758)  goods, damaged in
riots that spread through the city in the summer of 2011, a
judge ruled.  Judge Julian Flaux said the attack on a building in north
London constituted a riot, meaning the Mayor’s Office for
Policing and Crime was responsible for losses because of a
century-old law that holds police responsible for public
disorder. It was “the behavior of an agitated, volatile group,
not the behavior of professional thieves,” the judge ruled
today.  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, a unit of  RSA Insurance
Group Plc (RSA) , and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co. ( Europe ) Ltd. sued
the police, seeking about 60 million pounds ($95 million). The
judge said they were only liable for physical damage, not lost
rent or profits, meaning insurers won’t get all the damages they
sought.  The worst public violence in Britain since the 1980s flared
in August 2011 after a London man was shot by police. A three-minute long attack on the Sony warehouse by a group of youths in
masks and hooded tops caused a fire that burned for 10 days.  Lawyers for the police had argued the incident was an
organized raid and not a public disorder. The office of London
Mayor  Boris Johnson , which oversees the police, said last year
it had received claims totaling about 106 million pounds arising
from the August 2011 riots.  Price Impact  The decision not to award lost profits or rent is
“disappointing for the  insurance industry  as a whole” and will
have a “significant impact on the way in which riot insurance
priced,” Kennedys Law LLP, the lawyers for Royal & Sun
Alliance, said in a statement.  Chris Wilkes, a lawyer for Mitsui, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Jennifer Sheldon, a spokeswoman for the Greater London
Authority dealing with crime and policing, also declined to
immediately comment when reached by phone.  The cases are: Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc v. The
Mayor’s Office for Policing And Crime,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s  Bench Division , 12-1025; and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance
Co (Europe) Ltd & Anr v. Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime,
High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court,
12-975.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  