-- Political Sins, More Than Guns, Drove Colorado Recall
-- B y   D a v i d   K o p e l
-- 2013-09-12T18:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/political-sins-more-than-guns-drove-colorado-recall.html
The  Colorado  vote to  recall  two
Democratic state senators is a major win for the Second
Amendment and for responsible law-making. Although guns were the
reason for the recall campaign, Senate President John Morse of
 Colorado Springs  and Senator Angela Giron of Pueblo lost
primarily because they misused their powers, not for any stand
on principle. Their misjudgments may mean the end of the state’s
new gun control laws.  As of today, those laws are still on the books. The Senate
used to be split 20-15 with a Democratic majority. The majority
is now reduced to 18-17. More important, because the Senate’s
two pro-Second Amendment Democrats voted against it, the
 magazine ban  passed by only a single vote. After the recall, the
Colorado Senate has a pro-Second Amendment majority -- enough to
repeal the ban on magazines holding more than 15 rounds.  In the state’s House of Representatives, there may already
be a majority for repeal. The magazine ban passed the House in
February by only three votes, and by March widespread buyer’s
remorse had spread among Democrats who voted in favor of the
ban. That’s a reason the bill’s managers couldn’t let the bill
go back to the House for amendments, even after it became clear
that the bill had major drafting defects.  The bill only passed the House in the first place because
Vice President  Joe Biden  called undecided state Democratic
representatives and essentially ordered them to vote for it.
After this week’s recall, White House promises of electoral
protection for legislators who vote against guns no longer have
credibility.  Governor Weakened  There’s no expectation that Governor John Hickenlooper
would sign a bill repealing the law. But he might not be
governor for a lot longer. His  approval ratings  are underwater
with 48 percent of voters saying he shouldn’t be re-elected in
2014. One big reason for Hickenlooper’s lackluster polling
numbers is his stance on guns; Coloradoans disapprove of his
handling of the issue by 17 points.  Hickenlooper made the situation worse in August by  blocking 
the execution of Nathan Dunlap, who killed four people during a
1993 robbery of a Chuck E. Cheese restaurant.  For some Coloradoans, it was galling to see Hickenlooper
thwart justice for a heinous gun criminal while cracking down on
law-abiding gun owners. The governor retains strong support
among Democrats, but his approval rating has plunged among a
plurality of Republicans. Hickenlooper is also underwater with
independents.  After the vote this week, Hickenlooper said, “Obviously
I’ll have to do a better job of getting the facts out there”
about the gun control bills. The voters’ message, however,
wasn’t that gun control advocates don’t talk enough. The problem
was how little they listened during the legislative process.  In the last half-century, the Colorado legislative leader
who had been the most notorious for abusing the rights of the
minority party, and for bullying dissidents in his own party,
was Republican  Carl Beverly Bledsoe , who was speaker of the
House from 1981 to 1991. Things became so bad that Colorado
voters in 1988 took the extraordinary step of adopting a
constitutional amendment to reform the legislative system,
curbing Bledsoe’s power.  The only legislative leader in the last half-century who
may have exceeded Bledsoe’s abuses of power was Senate President
Morse in 2013. As with Bledsoe, Colorado voters ultimately
decided they needed to take special action.  Flawed Legislation  Morse, who was elected Senate president by his party’s left
wing, treated moderate Democrats almost as badly as he treated
Republicans. As with the gun legislation, he rammed complex
bills on education finance, wind-power mandates and election law
revisions through the Senate so quickly that errors were often
overlooked. Later, when the mistakes became obvious, corrections
weren’t allowed. Senator Giron was a reliable supporter of
Morse, and he appointed her to be chairman the State Affairs
Committee.  The Colorado Legislature has a long-standing tradition of
allowing every citizen who wishes to testify the  opportunity to
be heard , at least briefly. Legislators have endured many long
committee hearings listening to citizens argue for and against
gay rights, motorcycle-helmet mandates, immigration and other
hot topics.  During the gun bill hearings this year, Giron followed
Morse’s orders to limit testimony to 90 minutes per side.
Hundreds of Colorado residents, some of whom had driven hours to
get to Denver, were turned away.  Back home in Pueblo (where the Democratic sheriff was among
the opponents of the gun bills), Giron compounded the problem --
declaring that because she had taken questions about guns at one
town-hall meeting, she didn’t want to talk about the subject at
any other town halls. Giron’s district has a 24-point Democratic
advantage among registered voters and voted for President  Barack
Obama  by a 19-point margin in 2012. She was ousted this week by
12 points.  The recall of Giron and Morse was partly a repudiation of
substance of the gun laws, but more so, it was a rejection of
their political high-handedness. In Colorado, and elsewhere in
the U.S., the process matters -- even, or especially, if you
disagree on principles.  ( David Kopel  is research director of the Independence
Institute in Denver and an adjunct professor of advanced
constitutional law at the University of Denver’s Sturm College
of Law.)  To contact the writer of this article:
David Kopel at  david@i2i.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Alex Bruns at  abruns@bloomberg.net . 