-- Porsche Says China Growth to Quicken Next Year After Macan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-13T03:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/porsche-says-china-growth-to-quicken-next-year-after-macan-debut.html
Porsche AG’s  China  chief executive
forecast sales growth in the country will accelerate next year,
fueled by the introduction of the Macan compact SUV and a push
to expand into the inner regions of the country.  “The epicenter of the world has for many reasons moved
from the U.S., across Europe and now is sitting in  Asia , and
China is obviously the powerhouse of Asia,” Deesch Papke said
during an interview yesterday in the southern city of Foshan,
where Porsche is introducing its newest Panamera cars. “We’re
extremely optimistic about the success of Macan.”  The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit has benefited from China’s love for
 sport utility vehicles  -- more Cayennes are sold there than in
any other country -- even though Porsche SUVs sell for triple
what they cost in the U.S., with the cheapest model starting at
922,000  yuan  ($150,000). The company, which expects global
deliveries to reach 200,000 by as early as 2015, is counting on
China demand to sustain growth and to surpass the U.S. as its
biggest market by next year.  Papke, 51, said sales are on pace to increase about 20
percent this year. Growth will accelerate next year as the Macan
goes on sale from the second half of 2014, he said, without
specifying figures. The company plans to almost double its
number of dealerships to 100 within a year or two, from 56 now,
he said.  Last year, Porsche delivered 31,205 vehicles in China, up
28 percent. In the first eight months of this year, sales growth
slowed to 17 percent to 21,092 cars.  Consumer Perception  “Porsche occupies a unique position in China, with
consumers regarding it as higher end than BMW, Audi or Mercedes-Benz,” said Zhu Bin, a Shanghai-based senior analyst at
researcher LMC Automotive. “That will keep it selling well in
the next two or three years, and with the Macan, those looking
to upgrade from BMWs or Mercedes will choose it.”  Longer term, Papke said Porsche is planning expansion
westward into China after getting the eastern seaboard “pretty
much covered.” The company is also targeting the young, even
kids.  “We need to start finding access to the younger population
and China is no different,” he said. “The car is no longer the
thing that students dream of. They talk about smartphones, they
talk about  Internet access . We need to bring the Porsche part of
that dream more relevantly in.”  Spyder Hybrid  One of those dreams is the 13.4 million yuan 918 Spyder
hybrid supercar, whose deliveries will begin next year. The
automaker has “comfortably achieved” its target number of
orders for the car, Papke said, without specifying a number.  Papke, who’s from  South Africa , joined the company in 2005
after working for Volvo,  Land Rover  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz. Before taking over China operations from Helmut Broeker in
July, Papke was a director overseeing the  Middle East ,  Africa ,
India, Southeast Asia, Australia,  New Zealand , Japan and Latin
America. Although he grew up adoring the Porsche 930, he never
got to drive it and only got to sit in one in a museum, he said.  On more recent events, Papke said he doesn’t see sales
affected by the Chinese government’s austerity drive since
President Xi Jinping’s new administration came into power
earlier this year.  “Ten million people a year are going to the middle class -
- that’s the population of Sweden -- so it is such a powerful
driving force for us,” Papke said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  