-- Pot Tax Pairing Brings Norquist in Line With Democrat
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-12T16:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/pot-tax-pairing-brings-norquist-in-line-with-democrat.html
Anti-tax advocate  Grover Norquist 
has found a sliver of common ground with one of the Democrats he
routinely denounces: marijuana taxation.  Norquist, the president of Americans for  Tax Reform , held
a news conference today with Representative  Earl Blumenauer  of Oregon, who has introduced bills this year such as
the End Big Oil Tax Subsidies Act of 2013.  Norquist and Blumenauer -- who appeared at a 2011 comedy
contest -- want to change a 1982 federal law that prohibits
marijuana businesses from deducting ordinary expenses such as
wages and health-care premiums. That rule effectively imposes
the corporate income tax on more than their profits.  “It is just lunacy in terms of what you force businesses
to do,” said Blumenauer, who said he supports treating
marijuana like alcohol, which is legal, subject to federal
excise taxes and various state rules.  The tax law was written before medical marijuana
dispensaries started opening across the country and before
Colorado and Washington approved adult use of the drug.  Norquist said the  tax code  penalizes legal businesses, and
that the “giggle factor” of talking about marijuana obscures a
serious flaw in the law.  “The government ought not to be in the business of picking
winners and losers in the tax code,” he said.  Asked for his thoughts on supporting this  tax cut ,
Blumenauer said it “feels good.”  Norquist’s response: It’s “habit-forming.”  The bipartisan comity lasted only so long -- until Norquist
made an offhand reference to “those guys who build those nasty
windmills” that kill birds.  Blumenauer, an alternative-energy advocate standing behind
his unlikely ally, rolled his eyes.  The bill is H.R. 2240.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  