-- Pound Proves Economists Wrong in World-Beating Rally: Currencies
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-12T08:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/pound-proves-economists-wrong-in-world-beating-rally-currencies.html
The rally that made the pound the
best-performing major currency the past six months is gathering
momentum as the U.K. economy defies the skeptics.  Options traders are the most bullish on the pound versus
the euro since November and have cut bets Britain’s currency
will weaken against the dollar to the least since May. While
economists and strategists have raised their forecasts for the
pound against the greenback to the highest since April, the
median estimate still calls for a 4.4 percent decline by year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sterling surged to a seven-month high after a report
yesterday showed U.K. unemployment fell, adding to signs growth
is gathering pace. After policy makers led by Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  tied future interest rates to unemployment
and inflation, investors are bringing forward bets on when
borrowing costs will rise, enhancing the currency’s allure.  “We are still very bullish on sterling,” said James Kwok,
the London-based head of currency management at Amundi, which
oversees the equivalent of $970 billion. “Many economists
remain persistently bearish on sterling even though recent data
keeps surprising on the upside. They seem to think that the
improvement we’ve seen is just temporary.”  Economic Surprises  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for the U.K. has
risen to 84.8 from this year’s low of minus 49.9 in March.
Positive readings suggest economic releases have been generally
better than analysts’ forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys. The
gauge has been above the bank’s  Group of 10 index  since May 27.  The pound has strengthened at least 1.9 percent against all
31 of its most-traded peers in the past six months, setting a
four-year high against the yen and touching records against the
Turkish lira and Indian rupee.  The U.K. currency was little changed at $1.5795 at 9:51
a.m.  London  time after earlier reaching $1.5832, the strongest
level since Feb. 8. Implied volatility from options trading
shows there is a greater chance of sterling reaching $1.60
before Dec. 31, the highest prediction among 64 year-end analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, than of it weakening to the
median forecast of $1.51.  Sterling Reversal  As recently as April, sterling was this year’s worst
performer among the 10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes on speculation Carney would step up
efforts to boost Britain’s economy.  It’s the biggest gainer on the gauges in the past six
months, climbing 7.7 percent, on signs the economy may require
less stimulus to reach what Carney has described as “escape
velocity.”  Carney said in August that policy makers planned to hold
the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent until
unemployment fell to 7 percent, which the central bank didn’t
see happening until the fourth quarter of 2016.  The jobless rate dropped to 7.7 percent in the three months
through July, the  Office for National Statistics  in London said
yesterday. Economists predicted it would stay unchanged at 7.8
percent, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  U.K. services expanded the most since 2006 in August and
manufacturing growth accelerated to a 2 1/2-year high,
Purchasing Managers Indexes showed last week. A gauge of U.K.
house prices is at the highest level since November 2006.  Corner Turned  Gross domestic product expanded a revised 0.7 percent in
the second quarter, a report showed on Aug. 6. The economy has
“turned a corner,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said in a speech on Sept. 9.  Carney, along with policy makers  Paul Fisher , David Miles
and  Ian McCafferty , will give evidence in parliament today for
the first time since the bank’s forward-guidance policy was
introduced.  “People may interpret that good news as implying that we
might reach the 7 percent threshold relatively quickly,” Miles
said in reference to the jobless rate at an event in London
yesterday. “That may turn out to be the case. I rather doubt
it, myself.”  The premium traders pay for options to sell the pound
against the dollar on a three-month basis narrowed to 1.078
percentage points today, 25-delta risk reversals show. That’s
the smallest gap since May 9 and compares with 1.638 points in
July.  Pound Options  Options to buy the pound versus the euro last week reached
the most expensive relative to sell options since November. That
shows bearish bets established at the beginning of the year are
being unwound, according to Olivier Korber, a currency-derivatives strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  “The options market is really less bearish on the pound,”
Korber said yesterday. “The options markets can’t ignore growth
being revised higher, stunning PMIs and good housing numbers.
Hence, the risk-reversal is much softer.”  The pound reached 83.83 pence per euro yesterday, the
strongest level since Jan. 23, and the most relative to the 85-pence median analyst forecast for year-end since May 2. That’s
still weaker than the average  exchange rate  over the lifetime of
the 17-nation shared currency of about 73 pence.  The run of strong economic data in the U.K. is unlikely to
continue, according to Mankash Jain, the head of foreign
exchange and investment management at Solo Capital Partners LLP
in London. Investors should buy the euro against the pound if it
weakens toward 82 pence, betting the 17-member currency will
rise to 88 to 89 pence within the next three months, Jain said.  “The overall outlook for the U.K. is still very bad,”
Jain said. “The BOE are going to have to take some kind of
positive action to reinforce their statement that interest rates
will remain low.”  Pound Futures  Futures traders are betting that the pound will decline
against the dollar, according to the  latest data  from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with
those on a gain, or net shorts, was at 43,046 on Sept. 3 from
38,226 a week earlier. Net shorts reached 77,738 in June.  The positioning of the market means there are prospects for
further sterling strength, according Stuart Bennett, the head of
Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Banco Santander SA in
London. Bennett’s year-end forecast of $1.60 is the most bullish
in the Bloomberg survey.  “The speculative market is still significantly net short
cable,” he said, referring to the pound against the dollar.
“If that part of the market unwinds those positions, given the
upbeat economic news, that could be the catalyst to knock
sterling higher. The background for the pound is pretty
positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  