-- Primark Almost Alone in Giving Aid to Bangladesh Victims
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-13T08:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/primark-almost-alone-in-giving-aid-to-bangladesh-victims.html
Clothing retailers that sold
garments made at the collapsed Rana Plaza factory in  Bangladesh 
failed to reach agreement on compensation after talks yesterday,
with Primark saying it will pay more short-term aid.  Of 29 brands that were invited to yesterday’s meeting in
Geneva, only nine attended, the IndustriALL Global Union said in
a statement. One of the absentees, Benetton Group SpA, said the
meeting wouldn’t provide a framework to address compensation.  More than 1,000 people were killed in April’s collapse of
the Rana Plaza factory, Bangladesh’s worst industrial accident.
Yesterday’s meeting came a day after representatives of
retailers, labor unions and non-governmental organizations met
to discuss compensation for those affected by a November fire at
the Tazreen factory, in which at least 112 people died.  “Consumers will be shocked that almost a half year has
passed since the Rana Plaza disaster, with only one brand so far
providing any compensation,” Monika Kemperle, assistant general
secretary of IndustriALL, said in an e-mailed statement. “I
respect those brands that came to these meetings. But I cannot
understand brands that are not around the table.”  IndustriALL said it, along with the Workers Rights
Consortium and Clean Clothes Campaign, proposed a model for
compensation to pay for pain, suffering and loss of income. The
amount needed for the Rana Plaza victims would be about $74.6
million, it said, adding that clothing brands have been asked to
contribute $33.6 million of that amount.  Food Aid  Primark, a unit of  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , said it
will pay salaries to all the factory’s workers and their
families for three months, declining to disclose the amount.
That follows earlier payments and food aid of about $1 million
to victims and their families. The retailer has registered the
details of 3,333 workers as part of the program.  “The company remains concerned about the length of time it
is taking to agree a framework for long-term compensation,”
Primark said in a statement late yesterday.  Benetton, which joined a safety initiative called
Bangladesh Fire & Building Safety Accord earlier this year, said
it participated in discussions over the last two months that
were “aimed at setting forth a multi-stakeholder framework” to
address compensation.  Most companies felt that this week’s meeting wouldn’t
provide such a structure “mainly due to lack of clarity around
the objectives as well as the nearly complete the lack of
involvement allowed to several key stakeholders,” Benetton
Chief Executive Officer Biagio Chiarolanza said in a statement.  Also yesterday, C&A Group said it had allocated 1 million
euros ($1.3 million) in total to support the long-term needs of
victims of the Tazreen blaze.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  