-- Principal Increases Mortgage Loans in Property Bet
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-12T20:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/principal-increases-mortgage-lending-as-cfo-adds-to-property-bet.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
seller of life insurance and retirement products, is adding
investments in commercial mortgages as part of an increased bet
on real estate, the company’s chief financial officer said.  Principal held $10.9 billion of the loans as of June 30,
compared with $9.8 billion a year earlier. The proportion of the
 Des Moines , Iowa-based company’s portfolio that’s invested in
commercial mortgages climbed to 16 percent from 14 percent.  “We’re probably getting a higher return than we would be in
other markets,” CFO Terry Lillis said today in an interview,
citing the risk-adjusted returns of the commercial mortgages.  Principal has a  $69 billion portfolio  that backs future
obligations to customers who’ve purchased  life insurance  and
other coverage. About half of the investments are in corporate
bonds, and the company also holds real estate equity, government
debt and stocks.  The equity real estate investments rose to about $1.3
billion as of June 30 from $1.2 billion a year earlier. Principal
also runs funds that invest in real estate debt and equity for
clients. Principal Global Investors managed $21.3 billion of real
estate debt and $26.3 of real estate equity as of June 30,
according to a  document  on the company’s website.  Principal is scheduled to discuss investment strategy and
provide a business update at an investor day tomorrow. The
insurer slipped 0.9 percent to $43.44 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
and has rallied 52 percent this year, compared with the 18
percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Asset Management  Principal has been bolstering its asset-management unit to
add clients and increase fee income, and hired Indraneel Karlekar
from Cole Real Estate Investments Inc. to oversee global research
at the real estate unit this week. The company is considering
expanding real estate investing outside the U.S., Lillis said.  “We’re very much of an expert” in U.S. property, Lillis
said. “Taking that expertise in the U.S. into select global
markets around the world is also an attractive area for us.”  The average yield on Principal’s commercial mortgages was
5.1 percent in the three months ended June 30, according to the
company’s quarterly report. That compares with 4.7 percent in the
fixed-maturity portfolio. The yield on real estate holdings was
4.9 percent.  About a third of Principal’s commercial mortgage loans were
tied to offices, and a quarter were for retail properties. Based
on Principal’s internal ratings, $471 million of the commercial
mortgages portfolio has credit risk equivalent to junk debt, the
company said.  Two-thirds of the commercial loans had principal balances of
less than $10 million, the company said, and the average loan
size was $10.9 million.  “We have typically not invested in those trophy buildings
that always attract all the attention,” Lillis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  