-- Putin Price Growth Freeze to Further Sink Power Stocks
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-13T10:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/putin-price-freeze-to-sink-power-stocks-russia-overnight.html
Russian power companies, the worst
performers on the  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index this year, will extend losses
after President  Vladimir Putin  supported a measure to freeze
utility prices next year,  Renaissance Capital  Ltd. said.  OAO RusHydro, Russia’s biggest renewable energy producer,
tumbled 1.2 percent at 1:48 p.m. in Moscow after extending the
biggest 12-month plunge on record in  New York .  Federal Grid (FEES)  Co.,
the nation’s power transmission monopoly, dropped for a second
day in the Russian capital following the steepest decline in
almost two weeks in London trading on Sept. 12. The RTS Index
and benchmark Micex retreated today.  The group of utilities on the gauge have tumbled 31 percent
in 2013, compared with a 1.3 percent gain for the broad index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on  total returns .
The  Economy Ministry , which is seeking ways to slow consumer-price growth, has proposed freezing utilities’ prices next year.
President Putin supported the measure at a budget meeting Sept.
11, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said.  “There is no more hope, not even a chance, for those
revenues and profits initially planned by utilities,” Vladimir Sklyar, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, the investment bank
controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , said by phone from
Moscow yesterday. “Investors should look at Russian utilities
as the government’s tools for achieving certain macroeconomic
indicators and not real companies. The sector will no doubt
remain the worst performer among Russia stocks.”  Rate Cut  Russia’s central bank refrained from cutting its main
 interest rates  today as policy makers await a decision on
regulated tariffs with inflation still above target, even as the
economy grows at its weakest pace since 2009. Bank Rossii
expects inflation to slow further in 2014, it said today. The
 RTS Index (RTSI$)  dropped 0.8 percent while the Micex headed for the
biggest decrease this month with a decline of 0.6 percent.  The proposed freeze on regulated-price growth for natural
gas, power and rail monopolies may help lower the inflation rate
by 40 to 50 basis points, Ulyukayev said in a Sept. 9 interview
with the Interfax news service. If tariffs are frozen, the
ministry may lift its 2014 growth forecast to 3 percent from 2.8
percent, he said this month.  Gross domestic product  will rise
1.8 percent this year, the Economy Ministry said in August.  RusHydro Retreats  Grid companies need to control their costs to “manage the
tariff growth freeze,” Dmitry Bulgakov, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “The likelihood
that the value of power companies will be improved by favorable
regulatory decisions are low. Most of the improvements should
come from changes in corporate governance and focus on value
creation.”  RusHydro (RSHYY)  retreated to 54.69 kopeks in Moscow today while
the London-traded stock declined 1.7 percent to $1.62. The
securities in New York dropped 1.2 percent to $1.64 on Sept. 12,
the first decrease in four days. The ADRs, each representing 100
underlying shares, traded at a 3.3 percent discount to the
Moscow-listed stock.  Federal Grid, which posted a 10.5 billion ruble ($321
million) first-half loss compared with a profit a year earlier,
lost 1.6 percent to 10.41 kopeks in Moscow, bringing a two-day
drop to 4.6 percent. The stock slipped 0.6 percent to $1.59 in
London trading yesterday, the steepest retreat since Aug. 30,
with trading volume at almost five times the average of the past
90 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mechel Tumbles  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s biggest producer of coal for steelmakers,
tumbled 4 percent in Moscow after declining 7.4 percent, the
most since June 20, to $3.62 in New York yesterday. The ADRs
closed 3.4 percent above the company’s Moscow-listed stock,
after reaching the widest premium since 2010 on Sept. 11.  West Texas Intermediate crude tumbled today as the U.S. and
Russia started talks on a plan for  Syria  to surrender its
chemical weapons to avert a strike that investors speculate may
disrupt oil supplies. Crude for October delivery declined 1
percent to $107.53 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. fell for the first time in seven
days yesterday, with a decrease of 0.7 percent. The Market
Vectors  Russia  ETF, the biggest U.S.-traded exchange-traded fund
that holds Russian shares, dropped 0.5 percent to $27.96.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  