-- Rand Retreats From Five-Week High as U.S. Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-09-12T15:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/rand-retreats-from-five-week-high-before-mining-output-report.html
The rand weakened, retreating from
a five-week high, after jobless claims in the U.S. fell to the
lowest since April 2006, fueling speculation the Federal Reserve
is set to scale back monetary stimulus next week.  First-time claims for unemployment insurance fell by 31,000
to 292,000 in the week ended Sept. 7, after work on computer
systems in two states caused those employment agencies to report
fewer applications. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
was for 330,000 applications. Federal Reserve policy makers may
next week comment on plans to taper its $85 billion in monthly
bond buying. Mining output in South Africa unexpectedly expanded
in July, a report showed today.  “With the Fed meeting next week, this kind of data filters
into tapering expectations, and it is slightly rand-negative,”
Sean McCalgan, head of real-time research at ETM Analytics, said
by phone from Johannesburg. “Data out of the U.S. has been
sufficient to warrant tapering of bond purchases.”  South Africa’s currency declined 0.6 percent to 9.9251 per
dollar as of 5 p.m. in Johannesburg, retreating from a 1.1
percent gain yesterday. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds
due December 2026 dropped 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage
point, to 8.14 percent. The bond tracked the rand’s gain after
the South African market’s close yesterday, McCalgan said.  Prospects that the Fed will scale back its bondbuying have
reduced the relative attractiveness of developing-nation assets.
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said any reduction in stimulus
would depend on the U.S. economy’s performance.  South Africa’s mining output expanded 0.6 percent in July,
compared with a contraction of 6.2 percent the previous month.
Metals and other commodities account for more than 50 percent of
South Africa’s exports. The currency was bolstered yesterday by
South African data that showed manufacturing growth accelerated
more than estimated in July as the rand’s 15 percent decline
against the dollar this year boosted revenue for exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  