-- RBNZ Signals It Missed Opportunity to Cut Rates in Recent Years
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-12T03:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/rbnz-signals-it-missed-opportunity-to-cut-rates-in-recent-years.html
New Zealand ’s central bank, which
pioneered  inflation (NZCPIYOY)  targeting in the 1980s, said it could have
cut borrowing costs more than it did in recent years had it more
accurately predicted how low prices would stay.  “If the bank had anticipated the extent to which inflation
has stayed so low, it probably would have been appropriate for
the  Official Cash Rate (NZOCR)  to be lower than has been the case,” the
 Reserve Bank  said in its quarterly monetary policy statement
today. Still, “had the OCR been reduced, given the inflation
outlook now faced, it is likely that the bank would already be
tightening monetary policy,” it said.  Governor Graeme Wheeler spurred gains in the currency today
when he said the benchmark rate will probably need to rise next
year after being held at a record-low 2.5 percent since early
2011. Inflation has stayed below the RBNZ’s 1 percent-to-3
percent target band since the third quarter of 2012, when
Wheeler replaced Alan Bollard as central bank chief.  “Hindsight is a wonderful thing and there could have been
scope to lower rates a bit more,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland and a former RBNZ
economist. “But it isn’t just the RB that’s tended to
overestimate inflation in the past 18 months.”  The “stronger-than-expected”  New Zealand dollar  has
damped prices on imported goods, while domestic price pressures
have been “softer than anticipated,” the Reserve Bank said.
Had the benchmark been lower, pressure on the housing market
could have increased, it said.  Wheeler said one of the reasons rate increases are likely
in the first half of 2014 is the risk that the overheating
housing market will spill over into broader inflation pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  