-- RBS Sued by WestLB Bad Bank Over CPDO Deal That Lost $42 Million
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-12T09:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/rbs-sued-by-westlb-bad-bank-over-cpdo-deal-that-lost-42-million.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
was sued by the successors of WestLB AG for allegedly misleading
the failed German lender in a 2007 derivatives investment that
lost more than 60 percent of its value.  WestLB lost 31.7 million euros ($42 million) on a 50
million-euro deal linked to constant proportion debt obligations
created by RBS’s ABN Amro unit, Erste Abwicklungsanstalt and
Portigon AG, the two entities that control the remnants of the
bank, said in court documents filed Sept. 6 in  London .  The triple A-rated instruments were “considerably
riskier” than advertised, while ratings companies assessed them
using faulty models provided by ABN, according to the claim.
Portigon is helping EAA sell Dusseldorf, Germany-based WestLB’s
holdings and wind up its operations.  CPDOs, leveraged vehicles that comprised default insurance
linked to company indexes, lost almost all their value after the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused the price
of underlying credit-default swaps to fall. Banks have been sued
over a variety of products that faltered after the crisis,
ranging from  interest-rate swaps  to mortgage-backed securities.  Twelve Australian towns lost more than 90 percent of what
they invested in ABN Amro’s “Rembrandt” notes, and won A$20
million ($18.5 million) in damages after suing ABN and  McGraw
Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) ’s  Standard & Poor’s  for misleading them.  “The notes, and the rating assigned to them, were an ABN
creation and ultimate liability for the wholesale failure of the
notes rests with ABN and RBS,”  Sean Upson , a lawyer for EAA and
Portigon, said in an e-mailed statement.  Ceased Operations  WestLB’s push into international  investment banking  ended
when the European Union ordered it to cease operations last year
as a condition for 17 billion euros in aid.  EAA is a state-backed entity winding down and selling
WestLB’s assets. Portigon is a service and portfolio management
provider to EAA and other parties.  CPDOs valued at more than $4 billion were sold by banks
from 2006 through 2007, according to data compiled by
CreditSights Inc.  RBS bought Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Holding NV for 72
billion euros in 2007. Sarah Small, a spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on the suit.  The case is: Erste Abwicklungsanstalt (Anstalt des
offentlichen Rechts) & Anr v. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc &
Ors,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC13A01413.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  