-- House Republicans Lack U.S. Fiscal Plan as Deadline Nears
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-09-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/republicans-shift-fiscal-strategy-to-health-care-delay.html
U.S House Republican leaders
started this week with a strategy to appease their members and
win passage of a spending bill that would avoid a federal
government shutdown.  They ended the week without a vote, no plan in place and
several days closer to the Oct. 1 deadline when government
funding expires.  House members left  Washington  for the weekend yesterday
after leaders shifted strategies in an effort to win over
dissenting Republicans willing to risk a financial crisis to
sidetrack President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. Republicans
said they will try to use the spending-bill talks to delay the
health-care law instead of defunding it.  Senate Democrats  immediately rejected that idea.  “This is not the time for political stunts,” Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told reporters
yesterday. Democrats will insist on a “clean” spending bill
without side issues, he said.  The Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year is the “drop-dead
date” to enact a spending bill, Reid said. The House and Senate
are scheduled to be in session for only five days during the
rest of the month. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, said yesterday the chamber may cancel a planned
recess the week of Sept. 23 because of the negotiations.  The U.S. also will reach its debt ceiling as early as mid-October, requiring a congressional agreement to raise the limit.  Initial Strategy  Cantor and House Speaker  John Boehner ’s initial strategy
would have held up a spending bill until the Senate voted on
repealing the health-care law. Dozens of fellow Republicans
objected because the spending bill could be passed even if, as
is likely, the Senate kept funding for the health law.  House members then started talking about voting for
postponing the health law instead of trying to defund it.  Among them, Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho
Republican, said members realize that “we’re better off with a
delay.” The talks are centered on how to “best” delay the
law, he said yesterday.  Representative Trey Gowdy, a  South Carolina  Republican,
said postponing the health-care law would be a “good
fallback.”  Another option being discussed by  House Republicans  is a
plan to delay both the government funding and debt-ceiling
fights until just before next year’s midterm election, according
to two House Republican aides who asked not to be identified
because the talks were private.  One-Year Bill  That would entail a one-year government spending bill, a
one-year delay of the health-care law’s requirement that
individuals obtain insurance, and a one-year extension of the
debt ceiling, the aides said.  Obama and fellow Democrats said they won’t agree to
conditions in exchange for raising the debt ceiling.  The Obama administration would consider a “clean” stopgap
measure to fund the government at existing levels while budget
negotiations continue, White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters yesterday. House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi 
of California indicated that Democrats could vote for a short-term funding bill, a move that would give Boehner enough votes
to keep the government running.  The House has voted 40 times to repeal, postpone or defund
all or part of the health-care law. The Senate has refused to
take up almost all of those measures. The 2010 health-care law,
upheld last year by the U.S. Supreme Court, is designed to
expand coverage to at least 30 million people.  Leaders’ Meeting  Boehner and Reid met yesterday with Pelosi and Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, to
discuss financing the government and raising the  debt ceiling .  The Republican Study Committee, a group of lawmakers that
promotes small government, this week discussed demanding a one-year delay in the health law in exchange for increasing the debt
limit. Florida Republican  Dennis Ross  said a postponement would
produce savings that could be used to cancel some of the
automatic federal spending cuts that started in March.  Another variation floated by Louisiana Republican John C. Fleming would be to undo the automatic spending cuts in return
for postponing the health-care law a year.  Representative Tom Graves, a Georgia Republican, introduced
a spending measure for fiscal 2014 that would defund and delay
the health-care law until 2015. That bill has 42 backers,
including Representatives  Jim Jordan  and Steve Chabot of  Ohio ,
Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee and Gowdy.  Delaying the entire health-care law would be legislatively
and practically difficult to achieve. It has many popular parts,
including barring insurance companies from refusing coverage
based on pre-existing conditions and permitting children to stay
on their parents’ insurance plans until age 26.  Funding Autopilot  Further, many of the law’s participating programs are on
funding autopilot, so Congress would have to cast at least 60
separate votes affecting such programs as Medicaid, according to
one Senate Republican estimate.  The  Heritage Foundation , a Washington group that promotes
limited government and is headed by former Republican Senator
 Jim DeMint  of South Carolina, is paying for a billboard being
installed in  New York  City’s Times Square this week that reads,
“Warning: Obamacare may be hazardous to your health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  