-- Richemont Sales Growth Misses Estimates on China Sales
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-09-12T11:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/richemont-revenue-growth-misses-estimates-as-china-sales-decline.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , the
world’s largest jewelry maker, reported revenue growth for the
first five months of its fiscal year that missed estimates
because of weak demand in mainland  China .  Sales rose 9 percent, excluding currency shifts, in the
period through August, Geneva-based Richemont said today.
Analysts expected 10 percent growth, according to the median of
21 estimates gathered by  Bloomberg News . The  stock  fell as much
as 3.7 percent, leading declines in the Swiss SMI Index.  Revenue in the Asia-Pacific region, the source of 41
percent of Richemont’s sales last year, is rising more slowly as
China cracks down on the use of watches and jewelry as bribes
and illegitimate gifts. Growth in that market was 4 percent in
the five months, continuing a slowdown in the last fiscal year
and compared with a 46 percent gain a year earlier.  “The further decline in China is disappointing,” Allegra Perry, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald , said in a note. “The
upcoming anniversary of anti-gifting measures should raise the
prospect for stabilization in this critical market.”  The stock was down 3.1 percent at 90.55 Swiss francs at
1:27 p.m. in Zurich. The  shares  have gained 52 percent in the
past year, compared with a 26 percent gain for shares of  Tiffany
& Co. (TIF) , the second-largest luxury jewelry maker.  Mainland China’s deceleration was mostly due to “prudent
consumer sentiment after several years of exceptional
expansion,” Richemont said. Sales rose in  Hong Kong  and Macau.  Year Off  Total revenue gained 4 percent, compared with the 6 percent
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose
14 percent in the 12 months through March, Richemont said in May
when Chairman and controlling shareholder Johann Rupert also
announced plans for a one-year sabbatical following today’s
annual general meeting. Rupert didn’t stand for reelection to
the board and said he plans to start his year off by celebrating
his wife’s birthday at a game camp in Tanzania.  “Trust me, if there’s something that’s funny, you’ll see
me back immediately,” Rupert said at the meeting. “I have too
big an investment.”  Yves-Andre Istel, a former vice chairman of Rothschild
Inc., is taking the role of chairman during Rupert’s absence and
Josua Malherbe, who has worked in other companies related to the
Rupert family. will be deputy chairman.  Makers of  luxury goods  have boosted sales as the ranks of
the rich expanded. The number of people with assets worth at
least $30 million rose more than 6 percent to a record 199,235
this year, with a combined fortune of almost $28 trillion,
according to the Wealth-X and UBS World Ultra Wealth Report.  Richemont reports five-month sales figures each year when
it holds its shareholder meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  