-- Richmond Eminent Domain Plan Goes to Court Showdown
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-12T17:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/richmond-eminent-domain-plan-heads-to-court-showdown.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Pacific Investment
Management Co., DoubleLine Capital LP and other bondholders are
asking a court to block a proposal by Richmond,  California , to
seize underwater mortgages through eminent domain.  With this week’s vote by Richmond’s city council to press
ahead with an effort its mayor claims will help homeowners avoid
foreclosure and fend off blight, the dispute between the
northern California oil refinery town and  Wall Street  moved
today to the federal courthouse in  San Francisco .  U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer is hearing arguments
from both sides on whether to order the city to halt efforts to
use eminent domain to take over loans. He will also consider the
city’s request to find that the bondholders went to court
prematurely and dismiss their claims because the city council
hasn’t approved the plan.  A ruling favoring bondholders, who sued the city through
their bank trustees, would dissuade other cities from following
in Richmond’s footsteps, said Dan Schechter, a law professor at
Loyola Law School,  Los Angeles . A decision for Richmond won’t
encourage other municipalities to follow suit because it
wouldn’t deal directly with the merits of bondholders’ claims
that the Richmond plan is unconstitutional, he said.  “The court will hold that no injunctive relief is
available at this time. That doesn’t mean the bondholders are
without remedy,” Schechter said by phone. “If no injunction is
issued, it would preserve the status quo.”  Troubled Mortgages  The city council voted at about 2 a.m. yesterday to move
forward with a program to reduce the principal on troubled
mortgages. Under the plan proposed by Steven Gluckstern’s
Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC, the city would seize the loans
and refinance them, providing borrowers with built-in equity, to
avert foreclosures.  San Francisco-based Mortgage Resolution Partners would
provide services and arrange for private investment funds that
would profit by buying the loans for less than property values.  The company is shopping around the plan to several
communities; Richmond is the only one to pursue the plan, City
Manager Bill Lindsay told the council Sept. 10.  The city’s plan violates constitutional protections for
private contracts, interstate commerce and the taking of private
property for public use without just compensation, according to
complaints filed by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Deutsche Bank AG and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  on behalf of investors that hold bonds
backed by the Richmond mortgages.  Banks’ Attorney  “If Richmond is allowed to proceed, other local
governments would likely follow suit, with the result that
losses across residential mortgage backed securities trusts and
their investors would exceed billions of dollars,” Rocky Tsai,
an attorney for the banks, said in a court filing.  The Wells Fargo lawsuit is “harassment,” and an
injunction should be rejected because the city council hasn’t
voted to use eminent domain, and even if it did, the banks could
fight back in the court that will decide matters in the seizure
proceeding, Scott Kronland, an attorney for the city, said in
court filings.  “The parade of horribles the banks invoke are unfounded,”
he said.  The cases are Wells Fargo Bank v. City of Richmond,
13-3663, and Bank of  New York  Mellon v. City of Richmond,
13-3664, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  