-- Ringgit has Longest Winning Run Since April as U.S. Holds Fire
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-09-12T02:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/ringgit-has-longest-winning-run-since-april-as-u-s-holds-fire.html
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed for the
fourth day, its longest winning streak since April, as
diminishing concern the U.S. will attack  Syria  boosted demand
for emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  were steady.  President  Barack Obama  has asked Congress to delay a vote
on authorizing force against Syria while the administration
pursues a Russian offer to get the regime to give up its
chemical weapons. Malaysian exports rose for the first time in
six months in July while factory output grew at the fastest pace
in a year, according to data released this month. Industrial
production in China, Malaysia’s second-biggest market, expanded
the fastest in 17 months in August, a Sept. 10 report showed.  “Syria tensions have reduced quite a lot,” said Wong Chee Seng, a currency strategist at Ambank Group in Kuala Lumpur.
“There’s been stronger Asian macro data flow, especially from
China.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.2550 per dollar
as of 9:30 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  after touching a one-month high
of 3.2527, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange
rates used to price options, fell 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 9.45 percent.  Factory output  grew 7.6 percent in July from a year ago,
the fastest pace since May 2012, according to official figures
released yesterday.  Overseas shipments  increased 4.5 percent in
July from a year earlier, a Sept. 6 report showed. A net $3.2
billion has flowed into stock markets in India, Indonesia, the
Philippines,  South Korea , Taiwan and Thailand this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.48 percent sovereign notes due
March 2023 was steady at 3.86 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 