-- Roche Perjeta Wins Panel Backing for Early Breast Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-12T19:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/roche-s-perjeta-wins-panel-backing-for-early-breast-cancer-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Perjeta won the
backing of U.S. regulatory advisers to potentially become the
first pre-surgical drug treatment for  breast cancer  that could
lead to a less-invasive procedure.  The benefits of expanding use of Perjeta to early-stage
breast cancer patients outweigh the risks, advisers to the  Food
and Drug Administration  voted 13-0 today in  Silver Spring ,
 Maryland . The drug was approved last year for patients with
HER2-positive advanced breast cancer that has spread.  Expanded clearance would allow treatment with Perjeta as an
initial, or neoadjuvant, step before surgery that may shrink
tumors. That could lead to a less-invasive surgical procedure.
The FDA is pushing approval of early breast-cancer therapies
based on suggestive benefit, a move that may bring treatments to
patients several years faster than older methods.  Mikkael Sekeres , chairman of the advisory panel and a
cancer doctor at the  Cleveland Clinic , called the vote “a
historic moment.”  “We are supporting the rapid movement of a highly active
drug in the metastatic setting to an earlier setting with the
hope that women who use this drug will live longer,” he said.  The FDA may decide by the end of October whether to approve
Perjeta’s wider use.  Tumor Tissue  Perjeta, first approved for advanced breast cancer in June
2012, may generate  sales  of $1.9 billion in 2016, according to
the average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Roche’s Genentech unit estimates about 15,000 women with HER2-positive early stage breast cancer could receive neoadjuvant
treatment with Perjeta each year.  The panel’s “recommendation is a step toward bringing
Perjeta to people with HER2-positive early stage breast cancer,
where treatment can potentially prevent the disease from
returning and spreading,”  Hal Barron , Roche’s chief medical
officer, said in a statement.  Cancer drugs often are approved for early stages of a
disease several years after the treatments are cleared for
advanced stage. Roche’s Herceptin was approved in 1998 for
metastatic breast cancer, then in 2006 for early forms of the
disease. Perjeta could be approved for earlier use just more
than a year after original clearance under a new FDA policy that
bases accelerated approval on tumor shrinkage.  Quantum Leap  This is a “significant quantum leap,”  Richard Pazdur ,
director of the Office of Hematology & Oncology Products in the
FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said at the
meeting.  The FDA released a draft proposal in May 2012 guiding
companies to use tumor eradication as a study goal to gain
accelerated approval for neoadjuvant breast cancer treatment.  Roche is seeking accelerated approval of Perjeta based on
mid-stage trials that showed “statistically significant
improvements” in eradication of tumor tissue, FDA staff said in
a Sept. 10  report . The drug would be cleared for sale on the
condition the company conduct trials after the approval proving
Perjeta extends disease-free survival.  The Basel, Switzerland-based company is doing a final-phase
trial called Aphinity measuring disease-free survival that could
confirm the benefit of the drug, FDA staff said. Roche expects
data on disease-free survival from the trial in 2016, Susan
Willson, a Genentech spokeswoman, said.  Roche studied Perjeta’s ability to eradicate tumors when
used with its older breast-cancer drug Herceptin and
chemotherapy. The majority of people with HER2-positive early
stage breast cancer who receive neoadjuvant treatment take a
combination of Herceptin and chemotherapy, Willson said. HER2-positive breast cancer tends to be more aggressive than other
forms.  Herceptin brought in revenue of $6.3 billion last year.
Roche is also studying another treatment, Kadcyla, in the
neoadjuvant setting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  