-- Rogers Communications Names Vodafone’s Laurence as CEO
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-12T20:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/rogers-communications-names-vodafone-s-laurence-as-ceo.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,
Canada’s largest wireless carrier, ventured overseas to pick its
new chief executive officer, naming  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Guy Laurence.  Laurence, who runs Vodafone’s U.K. division, will replace
CEO Nadir Mohamed on Dec. 2, the Toronto-based company said
today in a statement. Mohamed previously announced plans to step
down in January.  Laurence will take the reins at Rogers as the carrier tries
to fend off faster-growing wireless rivals  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus
Corp. (T)  The government also is encouraging fresh competitors to
come into Canada, presenting another threat to the company. To
stay on top, Rogers has increased its investment in sports
programming, giving it more content to sell to smartphone and
digital-television subscribers.  “The breadth and depth of his experience in
telecommunications, pay television and media are perfectly
suited to Rogers and to the challenges and opportunities we see
ahead,” Rogers Chairman Alan Horn said in the statement.  Laurence joined Vodafone, the world’s second-largest
wireless carrier, in 2000. The 51-year-old was chief of its
Dutch unit before taking over the U.K business in 2008. Prior to
that, he worked at a range of media companies, including MGM
Studios.  Rogers shares fell 1.2 percent to C$42.95 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. The stock has dropped 4.9 percent this year.  Spectrum Auction  Laurence will take over just a few weeks before  Canada ’s
spectrum auction in January. Rogers, BCE and Telus have said
they need the 700-megahertz airwaves up for grabs to meet
surging data use from consumers. The government, however has
restricted the Big Three to bidding for just one of four blocks
of spectrum in each region of the country. Smaller rivals and
foreign companies will be able to bid for two blocks.  Laurence oversaw Vodafone’s construction of faster, fourth-generation networks in the U.K., which started offering service
in  London  last month after a 790.8 million-pound ($1.25 billion)
investment in wireless spectrum in February.  He is known for his turnaround of Vodafone in Britain,
through a combination of cost cuts and better  customer service ,
said Greg MacDonald, an analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto.  “This is the main positive” as the Canadian smartphone
upgrade cycle matures, said MacDonald.  Mohamed said he will retire when Laurence becomes CEO.
Laurence will be replaced at Vodafone by Jeroen Hoencamp, the
head of the U.K. enterprise business and a former CEO of
Vodafone Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  