-- Tropical System May Be Forming in Mexico’s Bay of Campeche
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-12T18:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/tropical-system-may-be-forming-in-mexico-s-bay-of-campeche.html
An area of thunderstorms over the
Bay of Campeche, in the southern Gulf of  Mexico , may become a
tropical system later today, the National Hurricane Center said.  A U.S. Air Force reconnaissance plane has been dispatched
to investigate the disturbance, the center in Miami said  in an
advisory  at 2 p.m. Eastern time. There’s an 80 percent chance of
a tropical depression or storm forming in the bay in the next
two days.  “We think it will become Tropical Storm Ingrid within 24
hours, making landfall somewhere near Tampico, Mexico,” said
Dan Kottlowski, a meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State
College,  Pennsylvania . “It will bring a large area of rain
across Mexico.”  Storms in the Gulf of Mexico and the bay tend to be closely
watched because of their proximity to U.S. and Mexican oil and
gas production.  The Gulf is home to about 5.6 percent of U.S. natural gas
output, 23 percent of oil production and more than 45 percent of
petroleum refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil
company, known as Pemex, has rigs in the bay.  If Ingrid does emerge, it will be the third tropical storm
to slam into southern Mexico’s Atlantic coast since the Atlantic
hurricane season began on June 1. Tropical storms Barry and
Fernand struck the area in June and August.  A depression, the weakest form of tropical system, hit the
area earlier this month.  “It seems like every three or four weeks we have something
organize there,” Kottlowski said.  Second System  Another system off Mexico’s Pacific coast, south of
Acapulco, has a 30 percent chance of becoming tropical in the
next two days. The two disturbances together “could bring heavy
rains to portions of southern and eastern Mexico for the next
several days,” the hurricane center said. “These rains could
cause life-threatening flash floods and mud slides.”  Elsewhere in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Gabrielle is
moving north with sustained winds of 40 miles (65 kilometers)
per hour and is expected to brush Nova Scotia sometime tomorrow,
according to the hurricane center.  Hurricane Humberto, with top sustained winds of 85 mph, was
about 515 miles northwest of the Cape Verde Islands. It isn’t an
immediate threat to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  