-- J.K. Rowling, Warner to Make ‘Harry Potter’ Spinoff Films
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-09-12T20:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/rowling-to-write-harry-potter-inspired-script-for-warner-bros-.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
studio announced plans for a new series of films based on the
works of “Harry Potter” writer J.K. Rowling, expanding a
partnership with the best-selling author.  Rowling will write the script for the first film in the
series, “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” making her
screenwriting debut, the Burbank, California-based studio said
today in a statement. The work will be based on a fictional
textbook used by students at the Hogwarts wizard school attended
by Harry Potter in Rowling’s original seven books.  “Although it will be set in the worldwide community of
witches and wizards where I was so happy for 17 years,
‘Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them’ is neither a prequel
nor a sequel to the Harry Potter series, but an extension of the
wizarding world,” Rowling said in the statement. The new story
will start in New York, 70 years before the events in the
original Harry Potter series, she said.  Time Warner, led by Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes,
is seeking to create new film franchises after the conclusion of
the original Harry Potter movies and the Batman trilogy helmed
by director Christopher Nolan. The eight Harry Potter films have
together grossed more than $7.7 billion worldwide, making it the
largest-grossing franchise in Warner Bros.’ history.  Video Games  The new script will depict the adventures of Newt
Scamander, the author of the  “Fantastic Beasts”  textbook. In
addition to serving as the first in a film series, the work will
be developed into a video game and merchandise. The expanded
partnership with Rowling also will be incorporated into the
 Wizarding World of Harry Potter  theme parks, which are run with
partner Universal Parks & Resorts.  Time Warner was little changed in New York trading today,
closing at $62.80. The stock has climbed 31 percent this year.  The original seven Harry Potter books were published
between 1997 and 2007 and sold more than 450 million copies
worldwide. Rowling also wrote two related titles that appear as
textbooks within the novels -- “Fantastic Beasts and Where to
Find Them” and “Quidditch Through the Ages” -- as well as
another work called “The Tales of Beedle the Bard.”  The Harry Potter books were turned into eight films, with
the final installment split into two movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  