-- Safaricom Asks Government to Halt Tax Rises on Money Transfers
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-09-12T14:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/safaricom-asks-government-to-halt-tax-rises-on-money-transfers.html
Safaricom Ltd., the mobile-phone
operator 40 percent owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , asked
government to stop burdening the poor by increasing taxes on
cash transfers including its M-Pesa service.  In February Kenya introduced a 10 percent excise duty on
transaction fees on cash transfers. Safaricom’s M-Pesa generates
18 percent of its revenue. M-Pesa, which means mobile money in
Swahili, started six years ago as a money transfer service
between customers and has since expanded to include the purchase
of goods such as airline tickets as well as paying salaries and
cash withdrawals.  “Government should be wary of putting any additional tax
burden on the customer, and in particular on the poor who rely
on M-Pesa,” Chief Executive Officer Bob Collymore told
reporters today in the capital Nairobi. “Taxation in the
telecommunication sector is amongst the highest in the world
with more that 28 shillings ($0.32) of every 100 shillings that
the customer spends going to tax.”  The company’s revenue from M-Pesa grew by almost a third to
21.8 billion shillings in the year through March. Safaricom more
than doubled the number of M-Pesa agents to 80,000 over the past
year and plans to boost revenue from the service to 20 percent
of group sales in two years from 18 percent.  “Our intention is that M-Pesa needs to replace cash,”
Collymore said today in an interview.  Safaricom’s M-Pesa service in  Kenya  competes with Airtel
Kenya Ltd.’s Airtel Money, YuCash operated by Essar Telecom
Kenya Ltd. and Telkom Kenya Ltd.’s Orange Money.  M-Shwari, a mobile banking and loan product introduced in
November, now has two million active customers with deposits
amounting to 20 billion shillings, he said. Outstanding loans
total 60 million shillings while the average size of deposits
and loans is 1,000 shillings, Collymore said.  Safaricom shares have gained 59 percent this year,
outperforming a 26 percent rise on the FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Index.
The stock was little changed at 8.05 shillings by the close of
trading in Nairobi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  