-- San Francisco Said to Discuss Making City Offshore Yuan Center
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T03:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/san-francisco-said-to-discuss-making-city-offshore-yuan-center.html
San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee
discussed ways to make the city an offshore  yuan  hub in a
meeting with  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  executives this week, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The Sept. 9 meeting in San Francisco also included
officials from the city’s Chinese consulate and was a
preliminary discussion, said the people, who asked not to be
identified as the talks are private. State-owned  Bank of China 
clears yuan transactions in  Hong Kong  and Taiwan, enabling
companies in those locations to use the Chinese currency in
trade and finance.  San Francisco would join London, Paris and Frankfurt in
seeking to become centers for yuan trading, which the Bank of
International Settlements  said last week  more than tripled
globally from 2010 to 2013, making the currency the world’s
ninth most-traded.  China  has promoted international use of the
yuan as it moves to allow greater cross-border capital flows and
loosen controls on exchange and interest rates.  Lee had “a very good meeting with representatives from the
 Bank of China ,” Christine Falvey, director of communications
for the mayor’s office, said by e-mail. “He regularly meets
with business leaders in the banking industry to discuss
investment opportunities in San Francisco,” she said, without
elaborating.  Calls today to the office of Bank of China spokeswoman Zhao
Rong and the lender’s news department in Beijing went
unanswered.  Hong Kong, the first yuan hub set up outside China,
accounted for almost 90 percent of all transactions in the
currency outside the mainland last year, according to data from
the city’s monetary authority.  Singapore signed a memorandum in April with China’s central
bank for cooperation on the yuan business, with Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. being appointed to clear yuan
transactions in the city.  Bank of China’s Taipei branch won the right to clear yuan
transactions in Taiwan in December.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  