-- Asiana Boosts Pilot Training Amid San Francisco Crash Review
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-09-13T07:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/san-francisco-crash-spurs-asiana-to-bolster-training-for-pilots.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560) , the South
Korean carrier whose pilot training is under scrutiny after a
fatal crash in  San Francisco , said it will expand instruction
for air crew and begin an outside review of safety standards.  Pilots will get more hours in flight simulators to prepare
for approaches to airports without landing guidance systems,
Seoul-based Asiana said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Asiana said it also will hire another company to evaluate its
procedures, add safety specialists and boost maintenance.  Manual flying skills and cockpit teamwork are part of the
U.S. probe into the crash of Asiana Flight 214, which struck a
seawall short of the San Francisco airport on July 6, killing
three people. G.W. “Bo” Corby, a former commercial pilot who
is now an industry consultant, said Asiana should take human and
cultural considerations into account in whatever it does.  “To really understand what is needed requires an analysis
of the current way you’re doing things,” said Corby, vice
president of training and standards at Future & Active Pilot
Advisors in Florence,  Alabama . “The solution may not be to
increase the number of training hours, the solution may be to
refocus training.”  Asiana climbed 7.9 percent, the most since October 2011, to
close at 5,190 won in  Seoul . The stock has fallen 16 percent
this year, compared with a 0.1 percent decline in the benchmark
Kospi index.  43 Hours  Asiana’s move followed through on Chief Executive Officer
Yoon Young Doo’s comments on July 9 that  South Korea ’s second-largest airline would look at strengthening pilot training.  Co-pilot Lee Kang Kuk, who had only 43 hours of experience
flying a  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 model, was using a visual approach the
day of the accident because the instrument landing system’s
glide slope, which helps line up the correct path to the runway,
was closed for construction. Former Asiana pilots and trainers
have said in interviews that the company’s pilots were well
trained on automatic systems yet rarely flew manually.  The crash was surprising because “a visual approach under
good weather conditions is as easy as it gets,” said Cass
Howell, associate dean of the college of aviation at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. Still, additional practice in
takeoffs and landings can’t hurt, especially for pilots who fly
long distances, said Howell.  “What ends up happening is that pilots who are otherwise
qualified may only have a dozen landings a year,” Howell said.
“They accumulate a lot of hours but they are on the low side in
terms of approaches and landings.”  It was the first fatal crash in the U.S. of a large jet
since 2001, and Asiana’s first such accident since a Boeing 747
cargo plane went down at sea in July 2011.  There was no evidence that the plane’s automated systems
malfunctioned, said  Deborah Hersman , chairman of the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board, in a briefing after the
accident. The NTSB’s investigation is continuing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  