-- Sanofi Pulls U.S. File for Lixisenatide Diabetes Drug
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-09-12T15:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sanofi-pulls-u-s-file-for-lixisenatide-diabetes-drug.html
Sanofi (SAN)  withdrew the application for
U.S. approval of an experimental drug called lixisenatide,
delaying the company’s effort to bolster sales of diabetes
medicines in the world’s biggest pharmaceutical market.  Giving regulators access to data from an existing trial,
known as Elixa, to study the treatment’s cardiovascular effects
could affect the integrity of the test, the Paris-based company
said in a statement today. The drugmaker will resubmit the
application in 2015, after completion of the study, Sanofi said.
The withdrawal isn’t related to safety issues or deficiencies in
the application, Sanofi said.  The delay benefits  Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  and AstraZeneca Plc, which make competing treatments. The
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  had been expected to rule by
mid-December on lixisenatide, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The drug is marketed elsewhere under the brand name
Lyxumia. Earlier approval would have let it benefit from joint
promotion with Sanofi’s Lantus, the world’s best-selling
insulin, said Eric Le Berrigaud of Bryan Garnier & Co.  “This is a setback for a franchise that would have
benefited from Lyxumia in the U.S. starting in 2014,” the
Paris-based analyst said in a report to clients today. He
 recommends  buying Sanofi shares.  Zealand Pharma A/S (ZEAL) , the Glostrup, Denmark-based company
that licensed the drug to Sanofi, fell the most since its
initial public offering in 2010.  Stricter Standards  A late-stage clinical trial of lixisenatide combined with
Lantus is on schedule to begin in the first half of 2014, Sanofi
said. Lantus loses U.S. patent protection in 2015.  The FDA introduced tougher standards for the cardiovascular
safety of diabetes medicines in 2008, after GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s Avandia diabetes pill was linked to heart attacks.  The Elixa trial is comparing lixisenatide with a placebo in
about 6,000 patients with  Type 2 diabetes  who recently
experienced an acute coronary event such as a heart attack. The
goal is to see whether the drug affects cardiovascular outcomes
for patients.  Elixa is a so-called double-blind study, where neither
patients nor their doctors know who is receiving the drug and
who’s getting a dummy. The design helps ensure an objective
result, since the expectations of the patient and doctor about
the drug’s efficacy can’t affect the outcome.  Study Integrity  “Sanofi believes that potential public disclosure of early
interim data, even with safeguards, could potentially compromise
the integrity of the ongoing Elixa study,” the company said in
the statement.  Sales of lixisenatide continue in the European Union,
 Japan ,  Mexico  and  Australia , Zealand said in a separate
statement. Analysts predict revenue of 481.2 million euros
($639.7 million) for the drug by 2018, based on the average of
five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Zealand plunged 15 percent to close at 66 kroner at 5:30
p.m. in Copenhagen. The stock declined as much as 23 percent,
the biggest intraday drop since the company’s Nov. 24, 2010,
initial share sale. Sanofi sank 2.6 percent to close at 72.32
euros.  “Zealand has a solid cash position and we foresee
continued commercial roll-out of Lyxumia in 2013 and 2014 in
 Europe , Japan and elsewhere, where approval has been granted,”
Zealand Chief Executive Officer David Solomon said. “We support
Sanofi’s view that the integrity of the ongoing full Elixa study
should not be put at risk by making interim results publicly
available.”  Digestive Hormone  The European Commission approved lixisenatide for sale in
February under the brand name Lyxumia, and the FDA accepted the
company’s application the same month.  Lixisenatide belongs to a class of drugs known as GLP-1
analogues, which mimic the function of a digestive hormone that
stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin after meals.
Diabetics lack the insulin needed to convert blood sugar into
energy. Novo’s GLP-1 is called Victoza, while Bristol-Myers and
AstraZeneca jointly market Byetta and Bydureon. 