-- Seattle Undercover Police to Wear 49ers’ Jerseys for NFL Game
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-12T14:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/seattle-undercover-police-to-wear-49ers-jerseys-for-nfl-game.html
The  Seattle Seahawks  are trying to
ensure their rivalry with the  San Francisco 49ers  doesn’t go too
far off the field.  When the Seahawks host the 49ers in a National Football
League night game on Sept. 15, undercover police officers will
be wearing 49ers’ jerseys to quickly detect fans exhibiting
“unruly and inconsiderate behavior.”  The Seahawks said the effort will continue through the
season, with jerseys changed to match the opponent.  “Our goal is to ensure a safe environment for all in
attendance, including visiting-team fans,” team President Peter
McLoughlin said in a statement.  The game on NBC is scheduled to start at 5:30 p.m. on the
U.S. West Coast, about 4 1/2 hours later than a normal Sunday
afternoon kickoff, allowing fans more time to drink at tailgate
parties and neighboring bars and restaurants.  Two fans were shot after a 49ers-Oakland Raiders preseason
game at  San Francisco ’s Candlestick Park in August 2011. The
shootings came five months after a San Francisco Giants’ fan,
Bryan Stow, was left in a coma following a beating by two men
wearing Los Angeles Dodgers gear in the parking lot at Dodger
Stadium on the opening day of the Major League Baseball season.  This week’s game marks the Seattle opener for the Seahawks,
the only NFL team to go unbeaten at home last season. The
Seahawks went 11-5 overall and split their two meetings with the
49ers, who won the  National Football Conference ’s Western
Division at 11-4-1.  Super Bowl  Both teams are led by young quarterbacks and coaches who
were rivals while coaching in college in the Pac-12 Conference.
Both are 6-1 second choices behind the  Denver Broncos  among
oddsmakers to win the  Super Bowl .  The Seahawks said their game-day staff intends to provide
an environment free of verbal or physical harassment of opposing
team’s fans, unruly or disruptive behavior, irresponsible
actions caused by intoxication, and abusive language or obscene
gestures.  Anyone asked to leave CenturyLink Field for violations of
the team’s code of conduct will be required to complete -- and
pay the $75 cost of -- a four-hour online course focused on fan
behavior before being allowed to return.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  