-- Sharp to Announce Share Sale as Early as Next Week, Yomiuri Says
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-09-12T04:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sharp-to-announce-share-sale-as-early-as-next-week-yomiuri-says.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  may announce a public
share sale and third-party allotment to bolster its balance
sheet as early as next week, according to Japanese media
reports.  The company plans to raise as much as 200 billion yen ($2
billion), with up to 10 billion yen each of stock to be sold to
 Makita Corp. (6586) ,  Denso Corp. (6902)  and  Lixil Group Corp. (5938) , Yomiuri said,
without attribution. The share sale may be worth 170 billion yen
next week, Kyodo reported.  Sharp is trying to rebuild its  balance sheet  after
intensifying competition in liquid-crystal displays and flat-panel televisions drove it to consecutive losses totaling 921
billion yen during the past two financial years. The 100-year-old company, which supplies screens for Apple Inc. iPads and
iPhones, has raised funds since last year in minority stake
sales to Samsung Electronics Co. and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   “Sharp is considering raising money through public
offering and is in negotiations for third-party allocation, but
nothing has been decided,” Hiroshi Takenami, a spokesman for
Osaka-based Sharp, said by phone today.  The stock fell 6 percent to 363 yen as of 1:20 p.m. in
Tokyo, headed for its biggest drop since July 29. The shares
have  climbed  20 percent so far this year, trailing the 38
percent rise in  Japan ’s benchmark Topix index.  Sharp last month delayed a plan to raise about 100 billion
yen from public and private share sales because of concern with
the company’s growth prospects, two people with knowledge of the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the matter is
private.  Net Loss  Last month, Sharp reported a  net loss  of 18 billion yen in
the three months ended June, narrower than the 138 billion-yen
loss a year earlier. Its ratio of  equity to total assets  was 6
percent at the end of the period.  “Sharp must do a public offering this fiscal year,” said
Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Research Institute in  Tokyo .
“It’s earnings are still not stable, and its equity ratio is
very low.”  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, totaled 3 billion yen for the quarter,
compared with a loss of 94 billion a year earlier, the company
said. Sales rose 33 percent to 608 billion yen.  The operating loss at  the LCD unit  narrowed to 9.5 billion
yen during the quarter, from a loss of 63.5 billion yen a year
earlier, according to the company. The audio-visual and
telecommunications unit, which sells TVs and mobile-phones, also
narrowed its loss, while the solar-panel division turned
profitable.  Sharp has 200 billion yen of convertible  bonds maturing  at
the end of this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its debt is  rated  B+ by Standard & Poor’s, which is four levels
below investment grade.  The electronics maker is forecasting net income of 5
billion yen for the year to March 2014, its first annual profit
in three years, after job cuts. The company sold a stake in its
largest LCD plant to Taiwanese billionaire Terry Gou last year
to boost sales through his Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s
biggest contract manufacturer of electronics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  