-- Shorten Stands as Labor Leader After Australia Election Loss
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-12T04:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/shorten-stands-as-labor-leader-after-australia-election-defeat.html
Bill Shorten , who played a key role
in the demise of former prime ministers  Kevin Rudd  and  Julia Gillard , said he’ll stand for the Labor leadership as the party
seeks to rebuild following its loss in  Australia ’s election.  “I want to lead the rebuilding,” Shorten, 46, the
outgoing education minister, told reporters in Melbourne. “I
believe that Labor can win the battle of ideas and put our party
back into serious contention for the next election.”  Labor lawmakers meet tomorrow to discuss who should lead
the party after Rudd stepped down following the party’s defeat
in the Sept. 7 election by  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition. If another candidate nominates, lawmakers and rank
and file members of the party will hold a ballot to determine
the leader.  Shorten, a former union official, supported Gillard when
she ousted Rudd in a party coup three years ago. He switched
allegiances in June, publicly backing Rudd minutes before a
party vote that restored him to the leadership over Gillard.  “There’s a sense of irony in that the man whose factional
games that helped engineer the downfall of two prime ministers
is now trying to be the force that unites Labor,” said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst and lecturer in politics at
Melbourne’s  Monash University . “Labor party elders have long
placed expectations on him that he will lead the party. Taking
up the reins after a heavy election loss will be the great test
of his leadership skills.”  Union Links  Shorten is married to the daughter of Australia’s Governor-General Quentin Bryce, who serves as Queen Elizabeth II’s
representative in the nation.  He worked as a solicitor before joining the Australian
Workers’ Union as an organizer in 1994. Shorten was national
secretary from 2001 to 2007 and was elected to parliament in
November of that year.  He represents the safe Labor seat of Maribyrnong in
Victoria state, which he held with 61.5 percent of total votes,
according to preliminary results on the  Australian Electoral
Commission ’s website.  The party shouldn’t reject its positive legacy from its six
years in power, which includes putting a price on  carbon
emissions , Shorten said today. Acting Labor leader Anthony Albanese is yet to announce whether he will vie for the
leadership.  “We must learn the lessons of this defeat and take up the
fight,” Shorten said. “To do this, Labor will need to reach
out beyond its traditional constituencies. Labor will need to
reignite the passion of our base.”     To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  