-- Silver Slumps Most in Nine Weeks on Syria Talks, Demand Concern
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-09-12T19:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/silver-drops-most-in-11-weeks-on-syria-talks-industrial-concern.html
Silver slumped the most in nine
weeks as optimism that the Syrian crisis is easing coupled with
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus curbed
investor demand for the metal.  Gold also retreated the most since July as U.S. Secretary
of State  John Kerry  arrived in Geneva to meet with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to discuss a plan for  Syria  to
surrender its chemical weapons and avert a potential U.S.
military strike. Copper reached a five-week low as a report
showed euro-area factory output fell more than analysts
estimated in July, signaling demand for silver in industrial
uses may decline.  Silver has slumped 27 percent this year, the second-biggest
drop among the 24 commodities in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge, as investors lost faith in precious metals as a store of
value and the Fed indicated it could reduce debt purchases.
Slowing economic growth may cause further price declines because
about half of demand goes to industrial applications from solar
panels to batteries, data from the Silver Institute show.  “There’s less safe-haven” demand, Ole Hansen, the head of
commodity strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said today by
telephone. “We’re seeing industrial metals extending their down
move. When you have both gold weakness and copper weakness at
the same time it seems to have a bit of double whammy on
silver.”  Silver futures for December delivery slumped 4.4 percent to
settle at $22.149 an ounce at 1:45 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York , the biggest drop since July 5. Earlier, prices touched
$22.06, the lowest since Aug. 15.  Syrian Proposal  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has made Syria’s alleged use of
chemical weapons the rationale for a potential attack on Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s war-making ability. Obama said Sept.
10 he was asking Congress to postpone the vote authorizing
military action following a Russian-backed proposal to place
Syria’s chemical arsenal under international control.  Holdings in silver-backed exchange-traded products climbed
5.6 percent this year, reaching a record 20,081.7 metric tons in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Assets in gold-backed
ETPs dropped 26 percent this year.  Silver rallied as much as 38 percent from the end of June
through Aug. 28 when it touched $25.16 as demand surged in  Asia .
Prices will retreat to $21.70 in three months and $19.60 in a
year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts.  The metal tripled in price from December 2008 to June 2011
as the Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial
system by buying debt. Policy makers will cut monthly debt
purchases by $10 billion at their Sept. 17-18 meeting, a
Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists Sept. 6 showed.  Less stimulus “could potentially be a bit negative for
silver,” Hansen said. “If they do a smaller amount than
expected, that could indicate, ‘Yes, we have to start tapering,
but we’re not entirely sure whether the economy is going to
carry on from here.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  