-- Sino Biopharma Investigates Bribery Allegations at Unit
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-09-12T18:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sino-biopharma-investigates-bribery-allegations-at-unit.html
Sino Biopharmaceutical Ltd. (1177) , a
Chinese drug developer and producer, said it’s investigating
mainland media reports of bribery at a unit and said neither
board members nor senior managers were involved.  The company’s statement is in response to a broadcast by
state-run Chinese Central Television on Sept. 11 that claimed
two groups of doctors attended 50-minute meetings organized by
the company in  China  and then left on sponsored trips.  The broadcast is the latest to claim malfeasance involving
physicians amid China’s crackdown on corruption in its $350
billion health-care market. China has extended the probe to
multiple drug companies and hospitals after it said it was
investigating  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over claims employees used
cash and sexual favors to bribe doctors and health officials.  Neither the board nor senior management were involved with
or authorized “the incident” at unit Chia Tai-Tianqing
Pharmaceutical Holdings Co., according to a  Hong Kong  stock
exchange filing yesterday. The board is investigating whether
certain Chia Tai employees were involved in the incident and
will publish a further announcement when the investigation is
complete.  The news reports prompted the company’s shares to plunge 16
percent to HK$4.76 before trading was suspended at 11:49 a.m.
yesterday, the biggest drop since Oct. 9, 2000. Trading will
resume in Hong Kong today.  Apart from media reports, including others on financial
websites and local newspapers which it didn’t identify, the
company said there is no news to account for its share-price
fluctuation.  Compliance Control  “Sino Biopharm is now mostly exposed to policy
headwinds,” Iris Wang, a health-care analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in a note yesterday, before the company
statement. “We believe this event will force Sino Biopharm to
strengthen its compliance control and largely affect top-line
growth.”  Wang cut her  rating  on the company to underperform from
neutral.  Sino Biopharma provides all employees with a work manual
and expects them to comply with it, according to the filing. The
company said it will step up communication with workers about
the rulebook and continue to enforce rules and take disciplinary
measures.  ‘Beautiful Memories’  CCTV’s broadcast showed an invitation printed on Chia Tai-Tianqing’s letterhead for a meeting on Aug. 21 at Airport Hotel
 Shanghai . The text said: “After the meeting, Chia Tai
Tianqing’s Tiance products group has prepared an exciting and
comfortable trip for you to  Chiang Mai ,  Thailand . We believe
this medical meeting will leave you with deep and beautiful
memories.”  The report also said another group of doctors attended a
meeting in Nanjing in eastern China and then went to Taipei.  In July, China accused Glaxo of crimes involving 3 billion
 yuan  ($490 million) of deceptive travel and meeting expenses as
well as trade in sexual favors. Authorities detained four senior
executives in China at Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker.  Sanofi and Eli Lilly & Co. were among drugmakers that
subsequently said they had received visits from Chinese
regulators. Separately, two units of Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s biggest maker of health-care products, were fined by
Chinese authorities for monopolistic practices.  China’s crackdown on possible misbehavior by companies has
extended to industries ranging from formula milk to gold. In
August,  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and Danone were among six
dairy companies ordered to pay a combined 669 million yuan for
fixing minimum resale prices of their products. Five gold
retailers in Shanghai and a local trade association were fined
in the same month for manipulating jewelry prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  