-- Sino Biopharm Plunges After CCTV Bribery Report: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T07:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sino-biopharm-plunges-after-cctv-bribery-report-hong-kong-mover.html
Sino Biopharmaceutical Ltd. (1177)  plunged
the most in about 13 years before being suspended in  Hong Kong 
trading, after a report by state-run Chinese Central Television
alleged bribery at a unit of the medicine maker.  Sino Biopharmaceutical fell 16 percent to HK$4.76, headed
for the largest drop since October 2000, before being halted at
11:49 a.m. The stock has been suspended pending an announcement
to clarify certain information in recent press reports, the
drugmaker said today. Two groups of doctors attended 50-minute
meetings organized by the company in  China  and then left on
sponsored trips, according to the broadcast yesterday evening.  The report is the latest claim of bribery involving
physicians amid China’s crackdown on corruption in its $350
billion health-care market. The probe has extended to multiple
drug companies and local hospitals after China said it was
investigating  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over claims that company
employees used cash and sexual favors to bribe doctors and
health officials.  “Sino Biopharm is now mostly exposed to policy
headwinds,” Iris Wang, a health-care analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG, wrote in a note today. “We believe this event will
force Sino Biopharm to strengthen its compliance control and
largely affect top-line growth.”  Wang cut her  rating  on the company to underperform from
neutral.  The TV program referred to  Jiangsu Chia Tai-Tianqing , one
of 23 “principal subsidiaries” listed by Sino Biopharm in its
2012 annual report.  Sino Biopharmaceutical has sent a team to Jiangsu to
investigate the allegations, Cao Xiwen, the company chairman’s
secretary, said in a telephone interview. It will issue a
statement after it gets more clarity on the matter, which could
be as soon as today, he said.  ‘Beautiful Memories’  The broadcast showed an invitation printed on Tianqing’s
letterhead for a meeting on Aug. 21 at Airport Hotel  Shanghai .
The text said: “After the meeting, Chia Tai Tianqing’s Tiance
products group has prepared an exciting and comfortable trip for
you to  Chiang Mai ,  Thailand . We believe this medical meeting
will leave you with deep and beautiful memories.”  The report also said another group of doctors attended a
meeting in Nanjing, eastern China, and then went to Taipei.  In July, China accused Glaxo of crimes involving 3 billion
 yuan  ($490 million) of deceptive travel and meeting expenses as
well as trade in sexual favors. Authorities detained four senior
executives in China at Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker.  Sanofi and Eli Lilly & Co. were among drugmakers that
subsequently said they had received visits from Chinese
regulators. Separately, two units of Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s biggest maker of health-care products, were fined by
Chinese authorities for monopolistic practices.  China’s crackdown on possible misbehavior by companies has
extended to industries ranging from formula milk to gold. In
August,  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and Danone were among six
dairy companies ordered to pay a combined 669 million yuan for
fixing minimum resale prices of their products. Five gold
retailers in Shanghai and a local trade association were fined
in the same month for manipulating jewelry prices.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  