-- SoftBank to Cut Costs Signing $20 Billion Loan With Banks
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-09-12T09:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/softbank-to-cut-costs-signing-21-billion-facility-to-refinance.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984)  plans to sign a loan
agreement for as much as 1.98 trillion yen ($20 billion) with 19
banks tomorrow to help refinance debt from its purchase of
 Sprint Corp. (S) , according to a  Tokyo  Stock Exchange statement.  The financing will help  Japan ’s third-largest mobile
carrier to cut borrowing costs, three people familiar with the
matter said. SoftBank will pay a margin of about 110 basis
points more than the one-month  Tokyo interbank offered rate  on a
five-year portion of the debt and about 140 basis points more
for a seven-year part, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private. The company paid an
average 5.14 percent for long-term debt in the fiscal year ended
March 2011.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless company, sold a
controlling stake to Tokyo-based SoftBank in July for $21.6
billion. Reducing borrowing costs may help ease investor
concerns that the debt burden from the acquisition will
undermine SoftBank’s finances. Both Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s rating to non-investment
grade in July, citing the Sprint purchase.  Rising Profit  SoftBank  rose  0.8 percent to 6,670 yen in Tokyo. The stock
has more than doubled this year.  The company posted a profit in July that beat analyst
estimates after using Apple Inc.’s iPhone and acquisitions to
lure subscribers. Net income rose to 238 billion yen in the
three months ended June from 106 billion yen a year earlier, the
company said in a statement at the time.  Billionaire President Masayoshi Son is forecasting record
domestic earnings this year as he accelerates the addition of
new subscribers and the Sprint deal saves $2 billion annually by
pooling purchases of handsets and network equipment.  SoftBank’s loan will be arranged by lenders including
Mizuho Bank Ltd., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., the company said in today’s filing.  Japan Bank for International Cooperation ,  Development Bank 
of Japan and Deutsche Bank AG will also contribute, the people
familiar with the matter said today.  Proceeds will be used to help pay for the Sprint
acquisition, refinance maturing debt and to repay some existing
debts at eAccess Ltd., a local competitor SoftBank gained
control of in January, SoftBank said today.  Part of the facility will include a 300 billion-yen
borrowing from JBIC and Development Bank of Japan, and the other
banks plan to market the debt in syndication to regional lenders
from October, the people familiar said. Spokesmen at JBIC and
Development Bank of Japan declined to comment.  Son, Japan’s second-richest man according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, said in October he targeted Sprint because
it can challenge  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T Inc.’s dominance of
the U.S. mobile-phone industry.  SoftBank acquired a 78 percent stake in Sprint after it won
a bidding war with  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  by raising its takeover
bid, prompting Dish to abandon its competing proposal. The
company now owns 80 percent of the  Overland Park , Kansas-based
carrier, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  