-- South Africa Oil, Swedish Debt, Derivatives: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/south-africa-oil-swedish-debt-derivatives-compliance.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other energy companies operating in South Africa
said planned changes to mineral and energy laws lack clarity and
will deter investment in the continent’s largest economy.  Changes to the 2002 Mineral and Petroleum Resources
Development Act, being processed by parliament, would give the
state an unspecified free stake in all new  oil  and gas ventures
and the right to name two directors to their boards. The state
would be able to force mine operators to process some output
locally and declare some minerals strategic to secure supplies.  South Africa, closed to foreign investment until apartheid
ended in 1994, is seeking to develop its oil resources to boost
and diversify an economy with a 25.6 percent  unemployment  rate.
While Irving, Texas-based Exxon and the Hague-based Shell have
stakes in offshore blocks, extraction has yet to take off. The
country imports 70 percent of its oil needs, processing the
remainder of its fuels from coal and gas.  Parliament’s mineral resources committee began four days of
public hearings on the draft bill yesterday. On July 30,
officials from the Department of Mineral Resources told
lawmakers they were winning over business to the new laws and
they didn’t expect the regulations to hurt investment.  Shell said the proposed bill gives the mineral resources
minister excessive regulatory discretion and doesn’t clarify the
size of stakes the state intends to take in new energy ventures.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state power company, said coal
should be declared a strategic mineral and exports of some
grades should only be permitted after being offered to domestic
energy producers at a cost that provided for “fair returns.”  The draft law has also drawn objections from mining
companies.  Compliance Policy  Swedes Face Forced Deleveraging as Debt Swells to Record  Sweden is looking into the option of forcing households to
start amortizing their mortgages in an effort to prevent debt
loads rising from a record.  Martin Andersson , director-general at the Swedish Financial
Supervisory Authority, made the remarks about mortgages to
reporters after a parliament hearing in Stockholm, saying the
measure could be necessary if household debt accelerates.  Swedish apartment prices have more than doubled since 2000,
sparking concern a housing bubble may be brewing after private
debt hit a record last year. A report in March from the
Financial Supervisory Authority showed that, at the current pace
of amortization, it takes Swedish households 140 years on
average to repay their home loans. Only 40 percent of borrowers
with mortgages smaller than 75 percent of their property’s value
actually pay down their debt, according to the report.  The government and central bank say the development has
left households vulnerable to financial shocks. Sweden is
already pursuing stricter regulatory standards for  Nordea Bank
AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB than those
set elsewhere in an effort to protect the  economy  from a bank
industry that’s four times its size.  The central bank has sought to tame debt growth by keeping
its  main lending rate  higher than the rate of  inflation  alone
would warrant. The bank estimates private debt will swell to a
record 177 percent of disposable incomes in 2015.  Singapore Proposes Rule Changes to Protect Credit-Card Borrowers  Financial institutions will have to review borrowers’ total
debt and credit-card limit before granting new cards or
additional unsecured credit, the  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
said in a statement.  Companies must inform borrowers of costs when rolling over
credit-card debt, according to the statement.  In addition, companies will not be allowed to grant more
unsecured credit to individuals who have debt 60 days past due,
or unsecured debt already exceeding one year’s income, the
authority said in the statement.  The authority is seeking public comment on draft amendments
until Oct. 10, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  SEC Probing Schilling’s Failed 38 Studios Video-Game Bond Deal  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating a $75 million financing by a  Rhode Island  agency
for  Curt Schilling ’s bankrupt video-game company.  The Rhode Island Economic Development Corp. sold federally
taxable municipal bonds backed with the state’s moral obligation
to induce the former Boston Red Sox pitcher to move 38 Studios
LLC from Massachusetts to Providence in 2010. The company
declared bankruptcy last year, with taxpayers on the hook to
repay the bonds.  Rhode Island television station WPRI was first to report
that the Economic Development Corp. hired a  law firm  to help
respond to the SEC’s staff during five months last year, citing
documents it obtained through an open-records request. Melissa
Czerwein, a spokeswoman for the Economic Development Corp., said
in an e-mail that the report was accurate and that the agency
wouldn’t comment at the SEC’s request.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the investigation in an e-mail. Christine Hunsinger, a
spokeswoman for Democratic Governor Lincoln Chafee, also
declined to comment.  “We don’t talk about the 38 Studios issue because of
pending litigation,” Hunsinger said.  Rhode Island is suing the insolvent company.  Courts  Corzine Urges Dismissal of CFTC Suit Over MF Global Collapse  Jon Corzine , the former chief executive officer of bankrupt
MF Global Holdings Ltd., asked that a lawsuit against him by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission be dismissed.  The CFTC sued Corzine in June for failing to oversee the
brokerage company properly while it spiraled toward failure in
2011 as $1.6 billion in customer funds went missing. After
“exhaustive investigations lasting 19 months,” the CFTC hasn’t
produced evidence to support its claims, Corzine said in a
filing Sept. 10 in federal court in New York.  MF Global’s collapse on Oct. 31, 2011, a year and half
after Corzine joined, was the eighth-biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history. Wrong-way $6.3 billion trades on bonds of some of
Europe’s most-indebted nations helped destroy the firm and its
brokerage unit, which listed assets of $41 billion and debt of
$39.7 billion in its Chapter 11 filing.  Corzine, who is also a former U.S. senator and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman, came to MF Global in March 2010.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
after regular business hours to a phone call seeking comment on
the filing. Chad Silverman, a lawyer representing the CFTC, also
didn’t immediately respond after regular business hours to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. MF
Global Inc., 13-cv-04463 and 11-cv-07866, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Interviews/Speeches  Bair Says U.S. Banks Still Have ‘Way Too Much Leverage’  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
talked about the fifth anniversary of the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the prospects for avoiding another
failure of the U.S. financial industry.  Bair, now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable Trusts,
talked with  Trish Regan  and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Coeure Says ECB Needs Global Derivatives Data for Bank Oversight  European Central Bank Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
said the ECB will need better access to international data on
over-the-counter derivatives when it starts to supervise euro-area lenders.  Access to derivatives data relating to a European bank’s
overseas operations “is key to assessing the overall risk
exposure of a given banking group,” Coeure said at an event in
Paris yesterday. “We need to remove barriers to access and
provide a mechanism to aggregate data across trade repositories
and jurisdictions in order to be able to have a comprehensive
overview of the risks in OTC derivatives markets.”  Nations are trying to bolster and align rules for the  $633
trillion  market for swaps and other OTC derivatives. The
instruments became a target for reinforced oversight after the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in
credit-default swaps.  Comings and Goings  Deutsche Bank May Extend Fitschen’s Contract to Match Jain’s  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, will consider
extending co-Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Fitschen ’s contract
to match that of Anshu Jain.  The chairman’s committee of the supervisory board will
propose extending his contract through March 2017 at a board
meeting in late October, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said
yesterday in a statement on its website.  Deutsche Bank paired the 65-year-old head of operations in
Germany with investment banker Jain, 50, last June to bridge its
roles as a trading colossus. The bank is navigating litigation
and probes that include allegations it mis-sold products related
to U.S. mortgages and may have colluded with other lenders to
try to rig interbank lending rates.  In their first year, Fitschen and Jain focused on shoring
up their firm’s capital levels and set aside cash to pay for
potential legal costs such as those resulting from the probe
into interbank lending rates.  The bank increased litigation reserves to 3 billion euros
($4 billion) at the end of June from 800 million euros at the
end of September, according to presentations on its website.  Regulators from Canada to Switzerland are investigating
whether more than a dozen lenders, including Deutsche Bank,
colluded to rig benchmark  interest rates  including the London
interbank offered rate for profit or to mask their true cost of
borrowing.  Deutsche Bank lost a lawsuit yesterday filed by four
traders fired as part of the lender’s probe of the rigging of
interest-rate benchmarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  