-- South Africa Wine Industry Labor Costs a Growing Risk, PwC Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-09-12T09:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/south-africa-wine-industry-labor-costs-a-growing-risk-pwc-says.html
The biggest risk to South Africa’s
wine industry is increasing power and labor costs in the wake of
strikes this year that boosted minimum wages,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s local unit said.  “Given recent labor-related issues experienced in the
agri-sector, as well as persistent increases in energy costs, it
is not surprising to see labor and electricity as the expenses
that executives are most concerned about over the next 12 to 36
months,” the Johannesburg-based unit of  PricewaterhouseCoopers
said in a report released today.  In February, South Africa’s government agreed to a 52
percent increase in the minimum wage for farmworkers following
violent pay strikes in the Western Cape province, the country’s
main wine-production region. The stoppages claimed three lives
and interrupted harvests. Power prices have climbed by an
average of 25 percent in each of the past six years to help the
electricity utility finance its spending. This year, the rand
has slumped 14 percent against the dollar, the worst performing
of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While the “relative weakness of the rand certainly offers
growth opportunities for wine exporters,” it has driven up
input costs for those importing equipment, PwC said. “Despite
the recent economic uncertainty, an increase in national crop
size and higher yield per ton has kept cellar costs per ton
under control and has resulted in higher net revenues per ton.”  Sales at the average cellar rose 19 percent to a record
66.1 million rand ($7 million) for the 2012 harvest, according
to the report. The average profit climbed to 812,667 rand from a
loss of 13,910 rand for the 2011 harvest.  South Africa was the world’s eighth-largest wine producer
in 2012, accounting for 4 percent of global output, according to
 South African Wine Industry Information & Systems . The country
mainly grows white wine grapes, including chenin, chardonnay and
sauvignon blanc, while its red varieties include pinotage, which
is indigenous to South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  