-- Soybeans Gain a Second Day as USDA Set to Lower Harvest Outlook
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-12T02:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/soybeans-gain-a-second-day-as-usda-set-to-lower-harvest-outlook.html
Soybeans advanced for a second day
on speculation the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will cut its
domestic crop estimate today after dry weather in the past month
curbed yields. Corn declined.  The oilseed for November delivery gained as much as 0.5
percent to $13.65 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was
at $13.6275 by 10:21 a.m. in  Singapore . Prices climbed last week
for a fifth straight weekly gain.  Futures surged 13 percent since the end of July as dry
weather and heat intensified in the Midwest. U.S. farmers may
harvest 3.13 billion bushels of soybeans, 3.7 percent less than
estimated by the USDA a month ago, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Conditions in August signal a large cut to
expected production, curbing the decline in soybean prices in
coming months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said yesterday.  “Soybeans continue to trade weather as persistent dry
conditions trim U.S. crop yields,” Profarmer  Australia , a unit
of NZX Ltd., said in a report dated yesterday. “The expectation
is U.S. soybean  yield  estimates will be reduced.”  The USDA cut its ratings for the crop for four straight
weeks, with 52 percent of fields in good or excellent  condition 
as of Sept. 8, down from 64 percent that received the top
ratings in early August.  Corn for December delivery dropped 0.2 percent to $4.7175 a
bushel. The price has slumped 32 percent this year on
expectations that the U.S. harvest will rebound to an all-time
high after drought curbed last year’s crop.  The USDA may lower its production forecast to 13.6 billion
bushels, 0.9 percent below the August outlook while still the
largest crop on record, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Wheat for delivery in December fell 0.2 percent to $6.47 a
bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  