-- Structured Note Buyers Boost Bets on Europe Stocks, Not S&P 500
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-09-12T17:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/structured-note-buyers-boost-bets-on-europe-stocks-not-s-p-500.html
U.S. investors are increasingly
buying structured notes tied to European stocks in preference to
domestic equities as the area emerges from recession while the
 Federal Reserve  prepares to slow asset purchases.  Sales of U.S. notes linked to the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E) 
climbed to $379.2 million in August and total $2.01 billion for
the year, more than seven times the $275.8 million issued
through the same period in 2012. The volume of securities tied
to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, while still the highest for
any linked asset, has declined 20 percent to $5.99 billion.  Investors are looking to Europe as the euro-area economy
ended its  longest recession  last quarter and sovereign defaults
are less likely. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said on Sept. 5 that monetary policy will remain accommodative
for “as long as necessary.”  “For a period of time the U.S. was viewed as a safe
haven,” said  Mark Freeman , chief investment officer overseeing
$15.8 billion at  Westwood Holdings Group Inc. (WHG)  in  Dallas . “As
people start to feel better about going back into Europe and
other areas, some of that flight-to-safety comes out of the U.S.
market.”  Investors see more “relative value” in European stocks as
ECB easing supports continental stock markets, Freeman said.
Better-than-estimated corporate earnings and monetary stimulus
from the Fed helped the  S&P 500  Index more than double to a
record 1,709.67 on Aug. 2, after touching a 12-year low in 2009.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the central bank may
reduce its monthly purchases if the employment outlook
substantially improves and the economy grows in line with
forecasts. Higher construction spending and falling jobless
claims have sent Treasury yields up and stock prices down.  Goldman Sales  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  leads issuers this year with
$400.5 million of securities linked to the Euro Stoxx 50 Index,
Bloomberg data show. That’s more than 13 times as much as during
the same period last year.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sold last month’s largest offering tied
to the benchmark, $59.6 million of 14-month notes. The
securities, issued Aug. 29, yield three times the gains of the
gauge, with returns capped at 19.2 percent and all capital at
risk, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. The bank estimated their initial value
at 96.8 cents on the dollar. Bank of America Corp. distributed
the notes for a 2 percent fee.  Sovereign Risk  A gauge of western European sovereign credit risk fell this
year as the ECB continued its easing.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped about 21
basis points this year to 90.7 at the close of trading
yesterday, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure typically falls as investor confidence improves.  The Euro Stoxx 50 climbed 8.6 percent to 2,863.44 this year
at the close of trading yesterday, while the S&P 500 rose 18
percent to 1,689.13.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in New
York, and Juanita Gutierrez of HSBC in New York, declined to
comment.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  