-- Sun Hung Kai’s Annual Earnings Fall 14% on Lower Home Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-09-12T14:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sun-hung-kai-s-underlying-profit-falls-14-on-lower-home-sales.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s second-biggest developer by market value, said full-year
earnings fell more than estimated as home sales slowed after the
government implemented tougher measures to curb prices.  Underlying profit, or those excluding property
revaluations, declined to HK$18.6 billion ($2.4 billion) for the
12 months ended June 30, compared with HK$21.7 billion a year
earlier, the company said in a statement to the city’s stock
exchange today. That compares with the HK$19.6 billion  mean
estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Hong Kong  builders are selling the fewest homes in more
than four years after the government in February imposed its
toughest measures yet to rein in prices that  Savills Plc (SVS)  says
are now the world’s highest. Sun Hung Kai this month paid a
record 21.8 billion  yuan  ($3.6 billion) for a commercial site in
 Shanghai , as it seeks to expand in mainland  China .  “Given the tough market conditions, they’ll probably stay
conservative with their sales strategy in Hong Kong,” Alfred Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom International Holdings
Co., said before earnings were announced. “They won’t cut
prices aggressively to push sales.”  Falling Sales  The developer sold HK$32.9 billion of properties for the
year ended June 30, down from HK$38.2 billion a year earlier, it
said today. Sun Hung Kai in March lowered its home-sales target
for the period to HK$32 billion from the HK$35 billion set in
September last year, because of the government measures.  Sun Hung Kai’s  shares  have declined 11 percent this year,
compared with a 4.5 percent drop in the Hang Seng Property
Index, which tracks nine of the city’s biggest developers
including the company. The stock rose 0.5 percent to HK$103.10
at the close of trading today, before the results were
announced.  The company plans to sell HK$28 billion of properties in
Hong Kong and mainland China in the year through June 2014,
Victor Lui, deputy managing director, said at a briefing in Hong
Kong today.  The developer, controlled by the family of co-chairmen
Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sold more than 1,100 apartments in the
city for about HK$12.2 billion in the first half, according to
figures compiled by realtor Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Developers sold about 4,300 units in the first half, the
fewest since the second half of 2008, when homebuyers were
deterred by the global credit crisis.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , Hong Kong’s largest developer
after Sun Hung Kai, said Aug. 1 that first-half profit fell 13
percent after booking fewer apartment sales in the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  