-- Sun Life’s Adatia Sees Canadian Home Prices Dropping
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-12T18:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sun-life-s-adatia-sees-canadian-home-prices-dropping.html
Canadian  home prices  will drop 10
percent to 15 percent “over time” as mortgage rates rise and
supply swells, said Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer of
Sun Life Global Investments Inc.  “I don’t think the demand is going to be there for
housing,” Adatia, who manages about C$6.4 billion ($6.2
billion) at Sun Life Global, a unit of  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)   The recent upswing in housing activity is being driven by
buyers rushing in as banks raise borrowing costs, Adatia said
said today at the Bloomberg Canadian fixed-income conference in
 New York .  “I do think it’s a dead cat bounce,” he said.  Home sales surged in Canada’s two largest markets in
August. Sales rose 21 percent to 7,569 units in Toronto from a
year ago, according to the Toronto Real Estate Board, and
 Vancouver  existing home sales surged 53 percent, said that
city’s real estate board.  The average price of a home sold in Toronto was C$503,094
($487,636) in August, the Toronto realtors group said.  Home prices rose 2.3 percent in August from the year-ago
period, according to the Teranet-National Bank Composite House
 Price Index  released today. Toronto prices advanced 3.8 percent
from a year ago, while Vancouver housing prices fell 0.1 percent
in the month from last year.  The country’s housing market will probably experience a so-called “soft landing,” as the near-record household debt-to-income ratio continues to constrain construction, said Julien Reynaud, desk officer for Canada at the  International Monetary
Fund .  Ideal Opportunity  Canada ’s economy is slowing as its Group of Seven peers
show signs of improvement. Output growth eased to a 1.75 percent
pace in the second quarter while the U.S. expanded 2.5 percent.
The country’s jobless rate will exceed the U.S. next year for
the first time since 2008 as hiring slows and the  Bank of Canada 
will delay raising rates until the fourth quarter of next year,
according to a Bloomberg economist survey.  The slowdown presents the ideal opportunity for investors
to plan a Canadian portfolio and line up asset allocations for
when the economy picks up, said John Cerra, a portfolio manager
at TIAA-CREF, a New York-based financial services firm which has
$523 billion in assets.  The global economy is picking up already, he said. “We
have a situation now in 2013 where the  U.S. economy  is growing,
and rates are rising and our stock market’s rising, money is
coming back to the U.S. from many other markets,” Cerra said.
“Money is moving away from Canada because we don’t necessarily
need a safe harbor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  