-- Sun Hung Kai to Sell Fewer, Smaller Homes as Curbs Added
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-09-13T01:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sun-hung-kai-to-sell-fewer-smaller-homes-as-curbs-added.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s second-biggest developer by market value, set a lower
sales target for this year and said it will build more small
apartments as Hong Kong stepped up measures to curb prices.  The builder plans to sell HK$28 billion ($3.6 billion) of
homes in Hong Kong and mainland  China  in the year through June
2014, Deputy Managing Director Victor Lui said at a briefing in
the city yesterday. That compares with home sales of HK$32.9
billion a year earlier, the company said.  Hong Kong  builders  are selling the fewest homes in more
than four years after the government in February imposed its
toughest measures yet to rein in prices that  Savills Plc (SVS)  says
are now the world’s highest. Sun Hung Kai is considering selling
more offices, small shopping malls and carpark spaces over the
coming year to make up for slowing home sales, Lui said at the
briefing after the company announced full-year earnings.  “I’m a bit disappointed,” said Alfred Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bocom International Holdings Co. “It seems
like the sales pace will slow quite substantially and the
company is still trying to figure out what to do under all these
uncertainties.”  The Hong Kong-based company said underlying profit, or net
income excluding property revaluations, declined to HK$18.6
billion for the 12 months ended June 30 from HK$21.7 billion a
year earlier. That compares with the HK$19.6 billion  mean
estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Sun Hung Kai’s  shares  fell 1.3 percent to HK$101.80 as of
9:56 a.m. local time, extending their decline this year to 12
percent. That compares with a 5 percent drop this year in the
Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks nine of the city’s
biggest developers including the company.  Biggest Investment   Of the HK$28 billion sales target for the year, HK$19
billion will be in Hong Kong and HK$9 billion in mainland China,
where the company had land reserves of more than 81.1 million
square feet at the end of June.  Lui said the developer will “slow down” property sales,
without specifying the number of units it plans to sell during
the year at the briefing.  Sun Hung Kai this month paid a record 21.8 billion  yuan 
($3.6 billion) for a commercial site in  Shanghai . The
acquisition is the biggest ever investment by the company, which
expects to generate HK$20 billion from selling 40 percent of the
project, Co-chairman Thomas Kwok said at the briefing.  Sun Hung Kai will sell more medium- and small-sized
apartments as demand from end-users outstrips that from
investors seeking luxury units, Kwok said.  “We have to follow the shifting demand in the market,”
said Kwok. “The demand for luxury homes moves in cycles and we
always need to look at where we are.”  Home Prices  The company, which focuses on luxury homes, has benefited
from an influx of wealthy mainland Chinese buyers over the past
decade, which helped  Hong Kong  home prices to more than double
since early 2009.  Hong Kong’s government defines a luxury residential unit as
one with an area of at least 100 square meters (1,076 square
feet). Those units account for about 7.7 percent of the city’s
1.1 million privately built homes at the end of 2012, according
to government statistics.  Home prices  have fallen about 2 percent since peaking in
March. Leung Chun-ying, who took over as the city’s leader in
July 2012, in February doubled stamp-duty taxes on all real
estate transactions, after having imposed extra taxes on non-resident buyers earlier.  Property Sales  The developer, controlled by the family of co-chairmen
Thomas and  Raymond Kwok , sold more than 1,100 apartments in the
city for about HK$12.2 billion in the first half of the 2013
calendar year, according to figures compiled by realtor
Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Developers sold about 4,300 units in the first half, the
fewest since the second half of 2008, when homebuyers were
deterred by the global credit crisis.  For the fiscal year ended June 30,  profit  from property
sales fell to HK$7.2 billion from HK$13.1 billion a year
earlier, the company said. Hong Kong builders begin selling
apartments while they’re still in construction and book profit
upon completion.  Rental Income  Net rental income at the developer, which owns the
International Finance Centre office and mall complex, and the
International Commerce Centre, Hong Kong’s tallest building,
rose 11 percent to HK$12.2 billion, Sun Hung Kai said.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok each have a net worth of $8.6
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  The brothers and two other men are charged with conspiring
to provide payments, loans and free use of apartments totaling
more than HK$35 million to the city’s former No. 2 official
Rafael Hui, according to court documents. They were first
arrested in March last year and will next appear in court in May
2014. The brothers have denied any wrongdoing.  The developer has been run by Thomas and Raymond since the
ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  