-- Swedish Inflation Lags Behind Target as Unemployment Rises
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-12T08:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/swedish-inflation-lags-behind-central-bank-target-for-20th-month.html
Sweden ’s  inflation  rate stayed well
below the central bank’s price target for a 20th consecutive as
a report showed unemployment rose more than estimated last month
amid a tepid recovery in the largest Nordic economy.  Consumer prices rose an annual 0.1 percent in August, the
same as the previous month,  Statistics Sweden  said today, which
was in line with the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
 Adjusted for mortgage costs , annual inflation was 1.2 percent,
exceeding the 1.1 percent forecast in the survey.  Unemployment rose to a seasonally adjusted 8 percent in
August from 7.8 percent the previous month, a separate report
from the statistics agency showed today. It was estimated to
rise to 7.9 percent in a Bloomberg survey. The Riksbank said
last week inflation in the $540 billion economy won’t reach its
2 percent target until early 2015 as a slow recovery in the euro
area hampers Sweden’s labor market.  “Despite today’s figures, the trend in the labor market
has been rather strong in recent months,” said Andreas
Wallstroem, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in  Stockholm , in a
note. “We see no reason to alter our view that unemployment has
peaked -- or is close to its peak -- and that we will see a
gradual improvement in the labor market.”  The krona pared some gains, and weakened 0.1 percent to
8.6723 per euro as of 10:19 a.m. in Stockholm.  Riksbank Rate  The Riksbank said Sept. 5 it won’t raise its  main lending
rate  until late next year after keeping it unchanged at all four
meetings this year to stimulate the economy and boost prices.
Inflation will average 0.1 percent this year and 1.3 percent in
2014, the central bank predicts. Policy makers next meet on Oct.
23 followed by another meeting on Dec. 16.  The government of Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said
last month it will spend 25 billion kronor ($3.8 billion) on new
measures next year to boost the economy, which it predicts will
grow 1.2 percent in 2013 and 2.5 percent in 2014. Reinfeldt has
said he wants to spend most of the money on more income tax cuts
to bring down  unemployment , which the government predicts will
rise to 8.2 percent this year from 8 percent in 2012.  “The labor market is recovering even if it’s a gradual
recovery,” said Ake Gustafsson, an analyst at  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  in
Stockholm, before the report. “People will get slightly thicker
wallets” which will “allow certain sectors to raise their
margins a bit,” he said.  The Riksbank will probably raise rates three times next
year to 1.75 percent starting in April, according to Swedbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  