-- Sweden’s Banks Face Extra Buffer as Private Debt Hits Record
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-09-13T11:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/sweden-s-banks-criticized-by-basel-head-ingves-for-high-leverage.html
Sweden’s financial watchdog said
banks in the largest Nordic economy will probably need to hold
extra capital to reflect households’ record debt burdens.  That means a countercyclical buffer that’s yet to be
calculated for Nordea Bank AB,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  may stay above zero for “several years,” said
Martin Andersson, director general of the Swedish Financial
Supervisory Authority.  “It has been seen as another fine-tuning instrument for
the economic cycle, but that’s never been the intention and that
wouldn’t be a good way to use it,” Andersson said yesterday in
an interview in Stockholm. “It’s about dealing with a credit
cycle that’s much longer.” The FSA isn’t planning to adjust the
buffer “particularly often,” he said.  Sweden’s government last month unveiled the biggest
clampdown on banks since November 2011, when it told lenders to
target some of the world’s toughest capital standards. Banks now
face an even higher core Tier 1 minimum capital requirement than
the 12 percent of risk-weighted assets due to take effect in
2015 as  Sweden  plans to expand its use of countercyclical
buffers to ensure there’s no upper limit to capital levels.  Protecting Taxpayers  The nation is stepping up efforts to rein in its financial
industry even after banks built up some of Europe’s biggest
capital buffers. Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman has
argued the measures are needed to protect taxpayers from an
industry that’s grown to four times the size of Sweden’s $540
billion economy.  Andersson said the FSA will try to keep the countercyclical
buffer steady to help banks plan ahead.  “You can’t, from one month to another, change capital
requirements for the banks,” he said. “It would be very
difficult for them to operate in an environment where things
bounce up and down. They may then position themselves a bit
over” the current minimum capital requirement “and stay there
and you will then have defeated the whole purpose of the
countercyclical buffer.”  The FSA will work closely with a financial stability
council, whose work the government last month proposed should be
formalized, before deciding on the buffer, Andersson said. Apart
from the FSA the council consists of the finance ministry, the
debt office and the central bank.  Starting Point  The drive to ensure banks have adequate capital follows
continued growth in household borrowing. The central bank
estimates private debt will reach 177 percent of disposable
incomes by 2015, the highest level ever in Sweden.  “If one is worried that growth in household debt is too
high, then it’s reasonable that the starting point” for a
countercyclical buffer “won’t be zero,” Andersson said.  Sweden’s FSA in October 2010 capped mortgages at 85 percent
of a property’s value. While that measure helped slow  credit
growth  to 4.5 percent last year from above 10 percent between
2004 and 2008, the pace of borrowing has started to accelerate
again. Household credit growth picked up to 4.8 percent in July
from 4.7 percent from June and May and 4.6 percent in April even
as the economy slumped 0.2 percent in the second quarter.  Andersson said earlier this week the FSA will consider
forcing households to amortize their mortgages if the pace of
borrowing becomes unsustainable.  140 Years  An FSA report in March showed it takes Swedes 140 years on
average to repay their home loans. Only 40 percent of borrowers
with mortgages smaller than 75 percent of their property’s value
actually pay down their debt, according to the report.  For now, Swedish household credit growth is still “at a
level that’s fairly well balanced in relation to the development
of disposable incomes,” Andersson said.  Should private debt continue to rise, the most logical step
for the FSA would be to set a threshold “a bit below 75
percent” of a property’s value, forcing households to amortize
all debt that exceeds that level, he said.  The Swedish Bankers’ Association already recommends that
lenders force mortgage holders to amortize debt above 75 percent
of a property’s value. Banks have done well in following the
association’s advice, Andersson said.  This year, the Swedish FSA started requiring banks to raise
risk weights on their mortgage assets to 15 percent from as low
as 5 percent previously.  Stefan Ingves, governor of the central bank and chairman of
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, said yesterday banks
in Sweden remain “highly leveraged” even though capital
relative to risk-weighted assets is high. Riksbank Deputy
Governor Per Jansson the same day joined Ingves in urging banks
to raise mortgage risk weights further.  Sweden should consider introducing a leverage ratio -- a
measure of capital relative to total assets -- before
international standards are set, Ingves said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  