-- Swiss Stocks Retreat After Industrial Production Report
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-13T14:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/swiss-stocks-little-changed-as-richemont-drops-on-revenue.html
(Corrects direction of share-price move in final paragraph
in story published yesterday.)  Swiss stocks  declined from a four-week high as a report showed industrial output in the euro area
contracted more than economists had forecast and Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA declined.  Richemont lost 2.3 percent after the maker of Cartier
watches reported revenue for the first five months of its
financial year that  missed  analysts’ estimates. Holcim Ltd. lost
0.7 percent after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. lowered its
recommendation on the shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  retreated 0.2 percent to 8,033.45 at
the close in Zurich. The equity benchmark has still surged 18
percent this year as central banks around the world pledged to
leave interest rates low for a prolonged period of time. The
broader Swiss Performance Index also fell 0.2 percent today.  “The euro-zone recovery will be very gradual and bumpy,”
Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam,
wrote in a note. “July’s sharp fall in industrial production is
a clear reminder that while the euro-zone economy has left
recession behind, the return to growth is fragile.”  A Eurostat release showed that  industrial production  in the
17-nation euro area slipped 1.5 percent in July from the
previous month. The  median forecast  of economists in a Bloomberg
survey had called for a contraction of 0.3 percent. Output from
factories, mines and utilities rose 0.6 percent in June.  Unemployments Benefits  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that  jobless
claims  declined last week to their lowest level since 2006 as
upgrades to computer systems in two states caused those
employment agencies to report fewer applications.  The Federal Reserve holds its next policy meeting on Sept.
17-18. Officials will decide whether to reduce its monthly asset
purchases. The central bank’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has
said that policy makers may consider tapering if the economy
grows in line with their forecasts.  Richemont (CFR)  lost 2.3 percent to 91.30 Swiss francs for the
biggest decline on the SMI. Sales rose 9 percent, excluding
currency fluctuations, in the five months through August,
Geneva-based Richemont said today. Analysts had forecast revenue
would rise 10 percent, according to the median of 21 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg News. Sales in Asia have risen at a slower
pace after the Chinese authorities introduced measures to stop
people from offering watches and jewelry as bribes.  China Sales  “The further decline in  China  is disappointing,” Allegra Perry, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, wrote in a note.  Holcim lost 0.7 percent to 67.05 francs. Sanford C.
Bernstein lowered its rating on the world’s largest cement maker
to market perform from outperform, meaning that investors should
not hold more of the shares than are represented in benchmark
indexes. The brokerage said India remains a weak market.  Holcim (HOLN) 
generates more of its sales from Asia Pacific than any other
region.  Swiss Prime Site AG  added 3 percent to 69.75 francs, its
biggest one-day gain since Nov. 30. The real-estate company said
profit increased 25 percent to 222.3 million francs ($239
million) in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  