-- Syncrude Discount Reaches Widest Level This Year on Plant Work
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-12T19:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/syncrude-discount-reaches-widest-level-this-year-on-plant-work.html
Syncrude reached the weakest level
this year against West Texas Intermediate on expectations that
demand will decline as U.S. and Canadian refineries process
less. Other Canadian oils also weakened against the benchmark.  Several refineries and upgraders in  Canada  and the U.S.
Midwest and Gulf Coast regions are shutting down part of their
operations for maintenance in October. Refinery utilization
rates typically decline in September and October.  Syncrude, a Canadian light crude processed from oil-sands
bitumen, weakened by $1 to a $3.75-a-barrel discount to U.S.
benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. It was the weakest level since Nov. 28,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Refineries in general are planning for more maintenance
heading into October, which suggests that less oil demand is
going to be on the market at that point,” said David Bouckhout,
senior commodity strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Calgary.  Other Canadian grades also weakened. The discount of
Western Canadian Select, a blend of heavy oil-sands bitumen, to
WTI widened by $1 to a $26.75. a barrel, Net Energy said. It was
the steepest discount for the grade since March 4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Conventional light, sweet oil at
 Edmonton  lost $1 a barrel to trade at a $9.50 discount to WTI,
Net Energy said.  Refineries including BP’s 420,000-barrel-a-day plant in
Whiting,  Indiana , are shutting down units for work. The plant is
shutting a 75,000-barrel-a-day crude unit for 30 days of repairs
starting in the third week of September, according to IIR
Energy, a Sugar Land, Texas, energy information provider.  Northern Tier  In the U.S. Midwest, Northern Tier Energy LP’s 74,000-barrel-a-day St. Paul Park  refinery  in Minnesota plans to halt a
fluid catalytic cracker during October, the company said during
its earnings conference call in August.  Suncor Energy Inc. said it began in early September four to
five weeks of maintenance at its Fort McMurray,  Alberta ,
 upgrader  that will reduce production by 50,000 to 60,000 barrels
a day.  Delek US Holdings Inc. is planning a shutdown of an
alkylation unit at its 60,000-barrel-a-day Tyler, Texas  refinery 
during October, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. refinery utilization  rate  was 92.5 percent last
week, according to the Energy Information Administration, versus
the 85.6 percent five-year average for this time of year.
October gasoline crack  spreads , or the profits refiners make,
have declined this month.  “That could also be weighing on some of the physical
crudes markets, the fact that refining margins are looking less
appealing,” Bouckhout said.  Bouckhout said he expects the spread to narrow again later
in the year as maintenance is completed and the Whiting refinery
brings a new coker online that will increase demand for heavy
crude.  Iain Conn, BP’s CEO of refining and marketing, said on July
30 that the new 250,000-barrel-a-day coker will come online in
the middle of the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  