-- Syrian Stalemate Endures as Diplomacy Fails to Help Assad’s Army
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-09-12T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/syrian-stalemate-endures-as-diplomacy-fails-to-help-assad-s-army.html
A diplomatic breakthrough brokered
by his Russian allies is doing little for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad on the battlefield.  As U.S. and Russian officials meet in Geneva to discuss how
to dismantle Assad’s chemical arsenal, it’s business as usual in
the Arab country, with government forces bombing areas around
Damascus. Rebels including Islamist militants have killed at
least 64 of Assad’s troops in six provinces nationwide this
week, while more than 70 civilians lost their lives, according
to the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights .  While Assad said last month the civil war can only be
resolved by force, more than two years of fighting has left his
army too weak to win the war, according to security analysts in
 Europe  and the  Middle East . With opponents divided and unable to
take regime strongholds, the two sides are left deadlocked in
one of the deadliest conflicts in the region’s history.  “I don’t see a real strategic shift,” said James Fallon,
a Middle East analyst at Control Risks in Dubai. “Both sides
know the end game is negotiations. This could take years, but a
clean military victory is not a realistic option for either.”  Square One  Assad has lost authority over swathes of  Syria , including
parts of the northern province of Aleppo.  While his army controls coastal areas and the capital, it’s
still fighting for dominance in suburbs of Damascus and needed
the help of Iranian-backed Lebanon-based group Hezbollah to
retake a strategic town near the border of Lebanon in May.  “It’s back to square one,” said Matt Qvortrup, a senior
researcher at the  Centre for International Security and
Resilience  at Cranfield University in the U.K. “The chances of
Assad winning haven’t improved and it’s going to be status quo.
The compromised position is a draw.”  Battered by defections and casualties, Assad’s forces fell
to about half of their national strength of 220,000 by this time
last year, according to a report by the International Institute
for Strategic Studies in  London .  In justifying military action, the U.S. accused Assad of
killing more than 1,400 people near Damascus using chemical
weapons on Aug. 21, a charge the Syrian government has denied.
When Obama’s request for Congress approval to strike faced
defeat, he seized on Russia’s proposal.  Lost Opportunity  The move left the Western-backed Free Syrian Army lamenting
a lost opportunity to turn the tide in the war.  Fighters from the rebel group, financed and armed in part
by Gulf Arab countries including  Saudi Arabia , had taken
positions to exploit a U.S. strike, Colonel Qassem Saadeddine, a
member of the Free Syrian Army’s high command, said on Sept. 2.
This week, he said he was “dismayed” at the Russian plan and
that it would come “at the expense of Syrian blood.”  The Central Intelligence Agency has begun delivering
weapons to the rebels, ending months of delay in military aid
promised by Obama, the Washington Post reported yesterday,
citing unidentified U.S. and rebel officials.  Yet whatever military success Assad’s enemies had has been
overshadowed by their disunity and influence of al-Qaeda-linked
Islamist militants, a factor that had contributed to the absence
of Western intervention in a conflict the United Nations
estimates has killed more than 100,000 people.  “Assad leads the most cohesive and most powerful single
military faction in the country,” said Fallon at Control Risks.
“He no longer leads, in any sense, a national army.”  War Atmosphere  Assad’s government still feels threatened by the
possibility of a U.S. strike even after Obama’s decision, Ali Haidar, Syria’s minister for national reconciliation, said in a
telephone interview on Sept. 11.  “We consider that the atmosphere of war persists until we
go to a comprehensive political process that will solve the
Syrian crisis fully,” he said.  The lingering tension pushed  Brent crude  up yesterday for a
second day. Brent for October settlement gained as much as 96
cents to $112.46 a barrel in London before U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov
started talks on Syria in Geneva.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  said that for his
country’s proposal to work, the U.S. and its supporters must
renounce the use of force against Assad.  Before any inspection could begin, Assad would likely have
to sign the Chemical Weapons Convention, which prohibits their
production and possession and requires the destruction of a
country’s stockpile on an agreed-upon schedule.  Cementing Gains  “When you look at the Russian proposal, it’s impossible to
implement,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.
Assad’s forces could still attempt to “move toward key areas
and they could try and solidify gains.”  Government troops are trying to retake Maaloula, an ancient
Christian-dominated village 35 miles (65 kilometers) northeast
of Damascus, where rebels led by groups affiliated to al-Qaeda
have advanced. Pro-Assad television stations, including
Lebanon’s OTV, aired footage showing government forces in the
village, while the  BBC reported  fighting was continuing.  Assad’s priorities ultimately will be limited to trying to
regain full control over Damascus suburbs and to assert his
authority in the coastal areas and along the Lebanese border,
analysts say. Russia’s only naval base outside the  Soviet Union 
is in Tartus, the Syrian port still controlled by Assad.  ‘Very Difficult’  “Retaking what’s been lost is very difficult,” said
Ghanem Nuseibeh, founder of  Cornerstone Global Associates , a
London-based consultant on political and economic risk. Assad
will use any territorial gains to improve his negotiating
position for negotiations, he said.  Attempts to broker a non-military resolution to the
conflict have so far faltered. The Syrian National Coalition,
the main political opposition group, has rejected any negotiated
settlement that keeps Assad as part of the country’s future. The
president, whose family has ruled Syria for four decades, has
said regime change can only come through the ballot box.  The U.S. strike “would have tipped the balance,” Nuseibeh
said. The stalemate now “increases the chance that of Assad
being part of the political solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  