-- Syrian Conflict: Sept. 12 Digest of Middle Eastern Editorials
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   A m y   T e i b e l
-- 2013-09-12T08:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/syrian-conflict-sept-12-digest-of-middle-eastern-editorials.html
The following is a round-up of
editorial comment across the  Middle East  as world powers debate
whether to carry out punitive strikes against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s government for its alleged use of chemical
weapons last month. Assad denies the charge.  *Israel  Ha’aretz   Independent Israeli daily Ha’aretz commends President
 Barack Obama  for returning the “massive sword” he brandished
over Bashar Assad’s head to its sheath.  “Obama realized that the saber-rattling isn’t that
effective when the sword he is brandishing is a double-edged
one.”  “Without solid support from inside and out, implementing
the military option could do more harm than good.”  In due course, “he may draw it again to strike the Syrian
regime, but the chance of this is diminishing.”  ----------------------------------------  * Syria   Al Thawra   Syria’s state-run Al Thawra newspaper said the anniversary
of Sept. 11, 2001 attacks passed without the White House having
time to remember them. Its staff and advisers were “busy
intimidating and preparing to launch into a gamble where the
hands of the administration lock into the hands of al-Qaeda that
was, according to the Americans, behind the 9/11 events.”  ----------------------------------------  *Lebanon  Daily Star   Lebanon’s privately owned Daily Star newspaper said that
for months there has been rising speculation and hope that
 Washington  was grudgingly coming around to the idea that the
U.S. and other Western powers should do more to provide material
support to the Syrian rebels.  “But Tuesday, Obama’s speech appeared to reduce the entire
Syrian crisis into a chemical weapons issue, causing even
further dismay in the ranks of the opposition to Syrian
President Bashar Assad.”  “While removing such lethal weapons is certainly a plus
for the world, in political and technical terms, this diplomatic
solution could turn out to be a resounding failure if the whole
process becomes bogged down by technicalities and stalling by
Damascus.”  “Obama must maintain his resolve and stand by his
insistence that Assad’s weapons be destroyed as the days turn
into weeks in the negotiation and implementation of the deal.
The threat of a military strike must remain real, visible and
certain until Assad disarms.”  ----------------------------------------  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Teibel in Jerusalem at 
 ateibel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  