-- U.K. Wins Backing in Fight Over EU Short-Selling Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-12T14:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-k-should-win-short-selling-clash-with-eu-court-aide-says.html
The U.K. won the backing of a top
European Union court official for its bid to overturn rules
allowing EU regulators to ban short selling.  Emergency powers granted to the  European Securities and
Markets Authority  were based on a flawed interpretation of EU
treaties, Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general at the EU Court
of Justice said in a non-binding opinion today. The decision to 
give the powers to ESMA should have required a unanimous vote 
among nations to ensure “enhanced democratic input.”  The short-selling skirmish is one of several legal U.K.
challenges against EU financial regulations at the bloc’s  
courts . It opposed a proposed common financial transactions tax
and sued the  European Central Bank  over policies it says push
clearing of some derivatives away from the  City of London . U.K.
opposition has prompted warnings from EU officials that it can’t
pick and choose the terms of its relationship with the bloc.  If the court follows today’s advice, it “would be a very
significant development in the field of EU law and would have
immediate read-across to a number of dossiers currently being
negotiated,” said Alexandria Carr, a lawyer with Mayer Brown in
London. These include plans for a single bank resolution
mechanism and also proposals to overhaul the EU’s Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid.  The Luxembourg-based court follows these opinions in a
majority of cases and normally rules about six months later.  Emergency Powers  A  provision  in the short-selling rules that grants Paris
-based ESMA the powers to intervene in the financial markets 
to regulate or prohibit short selling was adopted in a manner 
that goes beyond what is “necessary for the establishment or 
functioning of the internal market,” the court said in the 
opinion.  While Jaeaeskinen backed the U.K.’s argument that the
emergency powers were wrongly adopted, he dismissed the
government’s remaining claims. He didn’t agree that the EU
authority’s powers are too “wide” and give it a “large
measure of discretion.”  ESMA’s powers “are in line with the relevant EU
constitutional rules in relation to the delegation of powers to
an agency and do not leave too wide a margin of discretion to
ESMA,” the EU court adviser said.  Volatile Markets  ESMA, which brings together markets regulators from the EU,
was handed an upgraded mandate to police short selling  last year 
as part of a bid by EU lawmakers to make markets less volatile
and tame speculation by traders blamed for driving up
governments’ borrowing costs.  Short sellers seek to profit on declining markets by
selling borrowed shares or bonds, on the belief their price will
fall, then replacing them with securities bought at a lower
price.  The opinion “vindicates the U.K. challenge to ESMA’s power
to impose short selling restrictions against the will of U.K.
regulators,” Michael Wainwright, a partner at Eversheds LLP in
 London , said in an e-mail. “The outcome hangs in the balance.”  While the advocate general rejected the U.K.’s argument
that the power was too broad, he ruled that the power was based
on a provision in the EU’s treaties that could not justify it.
The acceptable treaty provision would have required unanimity by
the EU’s 28 member nations, including the U.K.  Full Court  If the full court disagrees on the interpretation, “then
the U.K.’s challenge could still be lost,” said Wainwright.
“If the U.K. was hoping that the decision might provide support
for arguments to restrict the powers of the other new EU
financial regulators, including on bank regulation, then this
opinion provides little assistance.”  The U.K. Treasury said in a statement that it “supports
the short-selling regulation, and has engaged constructively”
with the European Commission, ESMA and other  member states .  “Our legal challenge does not change this,” the Treasury
said. “We are seeking legal clarity on how powers given to ESMA
to restrict or ban short selling sit with the principles
established under the existing case law.”  While Prime Minister  David Cameron  has promised a
referendum on EU membership by the end of 2017, this has failed
to quell calls from members of his  Conservative Party  for
Britain’s European destiny to be put to the people sooner.  Bonus Rules  The U.K. has often found itself on the defensive in EU
discussions on financial regulation. The nation was the sole
dissenting voice in March opposing a deal to ban bonuses more
than twice fixed pay.  The U.K. said in June that that part of the Mifid proposal
to give ESMA agency emergency powers to ban some securities
trades may also be illegal.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief and
architect of draft laws for the industry, has warned Britain
that it must accept EU financial regulations in exchange for
access to the bloc’s single market.  “We take note of the advocate general opinion,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Barnier, said in an e-mail. “We will
look at it carefully, and need to wait for the court’s final
ruling.”  The German Finance Ministry said that the treaty limits
invoked in the advocate general’s opinion echo its concerns
about the centralized powers of the proposed single resolution
mechanism for banks. The resolution proposal is part of a bid by
the euro area to restore confidence in its banks by pooling
oversight and crisis management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  