-- U.S. Video-Game Sales Rise in September on ‘Grand Theft’
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-10-17T23:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-s-video-game-sales-rise-in-august-helped-by-software.html
U.S. sales of video-game products
jumped 27 percent last month to $1.08 billion, driven by
purchases of Take-Two Interactive Inc.’s “Grand Theft Auto V.”  Software sales increased 52 percent to $754.3 million, from
a year earlier,  Port Washington , New York-based NPD Group Inc.
said today in an e-mail. The advance countered a 13 percent drop
in hardware sales to $183.2 million.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation 3
broke  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s 32-month streak as the best-selling home
console, to take the top spot.  “The launch of ‘Grand Theft Auto V’ this September was a
much-needed shot in the arm for the industry,” said Liam Callahan, an analyst for NPD, said in the statement.  The title from New York-based Take-Two, a mayhem-filled 
fantasy of thug life in  Southern California , surpassed $1 billion
in three days after its release last month, hitting the mark 
faster than any other game or movie. It’s a boost for the 
industry, which has suffered as consumers have shifted to Web-delivered titles played on smartphones and tablets.  With Sony’s PlayStation 4 and Microsoft’s Xbox One going on
sale next month, the first upgrades in more than six years, both
companies are betting the faster machines will entice
enthusiasts and casual gamers.  Take-Two’s results weren’t the only highlights for the
month.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Disney Infinity,” the product that
combines collectible figurines with an on-screen game, was the
seventh-best selling title, NPD said. Along with  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “Skylanders” game, interactive gaming toy
sales rose more than 180 percent from a year ago, the researcher
said.  Nintendo Co. (7974) , based in Kyoto,  Japan , led video-game
hardware sales for the fifth consecutive month in September with
its 3DS handheld console, the company said in a separate
statement, citing NPD. The company cut the Wii U price by $50 to
$300 ahead of the new units from Microsoft and Sony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  