-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Hold Close to a Two-Year High
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-09-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-s-mortgage-rates-hold-close-to-a-two-year-high.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. were
unchanged, with the 30-year average close to a two-year high, as
fewer homeowners sought to refinance.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage held at 4.57
percent,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement today. The average 15-year rate remained at 3.59 percent, according to the McLean,
Virginia-based company.  A jump in borrowing costs from near-record lows in early
May has reduced affordability for would-be buyers and
discouraged homeowners from applying to lower their monthly
payments. While applications for  purchase  loans dropped 17
percent in the past four months, the decline was 71 percent for
a measure of  refinancing , according to data from the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  released yesterday.  “The biggest impact of higher rates, by far, is the
decline in refinancing,”  Jed Kolko , chief economist at San
Francisco-based property-listing service  Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We had two months of big
rate spikes, both May and June, and rates have continued to
climb, though not as steeply, since June. Altogether, that
should keep pushing refinancing activity down.”  August’s data may show the biggest decline in home sales
since rates have climbed, Kolko said. Refinancing applications
historically have dropped sharply immediately after a rate spike
and purchases have fallen three months later, according to his
analysis.  “The impact of rising rates on home sales is nowhere near
as dramatic as the impact of rates on refinancing,” Kolko said.  Bank Cutbacks  Lenders are paring staff and tempering profit forecasts as
mortgage demand declines. Bank of America Corp. said this week
it’s cutting 2,100 jobs and closing 16 offices by Oct. 31.  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the top U.S. home lender, said third-quarter
originations may fall 29 percent, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
it expects to lose money on home lending in the second half of
the year.  The 30-year fixed mortgage rate has climbed from 3.35
percent in early May as the  Federal Reserve  signals it may pare
its stimulus efforts. It rose to a two-year high of 4.58 last
month. The rate is less than the average of about 6.3 percent
for the past 20 years,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show. The 20-year  average  for a 15-year loan is about 5.8 percent.  “The bigger picture is that the cost of credit, even at
today’s slightly higher rates, is historically very low,”  Paul Diggle , property economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said in a research note yesterday. “Higher rates will slow, but
not derail, the recovery in housing market activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  