-- U.S. ’Collision Course’ Looms Over Water, Energy: Report
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-09-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-s-collision-course-looms-over-water-energy-report.html
The U.S. would be wise to adopt
more aggressive measures to avert water and energy shortages as
population and power consumption rise, according to a  report .  Climate change is worsening heat and drought, raising
demand and lowering cooling supplies for nuclear, coal and
natural-gas plants that generate 97 percent of the nation’s
electricity, according to the “Water Constraints on Energy
Production” report prepared for the Civil Society Institute.  Subsidizing renewable power generators such as wind
turbines and solar cells that require little or no water would
help, the report said. Clean energy also demands less water in
an era of increasing scarcity in the U.S. West and elsewhere
than the extraction of coal, gas and uranium, said the report by
Synapse Energy Economics Inc. of Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “It is time to be decisive, to choose an energy path that
is sustainable and that protects public health,” Pam Solo,
president of the Washington-based institute, said in the report.
“A hard-headed analysis of our water resources and how to
manage them in the context of energy choices should be our road
map.”  Nuclear, coal and gas-fueled plants withdraw 41 percent of
the nation’s freshwater, the most of any sector including
agricultural irrigation, according to the report. Though
most plant cooling water is returned to streams, data shows that
4 billion gallons a day is lost to evaporation and use.  A drought in the normally damp Southeast from 2007 to 2009
put at risk the cooling supplies for almost one-fourth of U.S.
reactors while last year,  Connecticut ’s Millstone reactor had to
shut because of too warm cooling waters, Solo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  