-- U.S. Can Take In More Than 33 Syrian Refugees
-- B y   M o r t o n   A b r a m o w i t z
-- 2013-09-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-s-can-take-in-more-than-33-syrian-refugees.html
Predicting the number of Syrians
leaving their homes has one rule of thumb: Just keep raising the
totals. The  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees  does
this periodically. Now, after two years of war, the agency
estimates that 7 million Syrians, or one-third of the
 population , are displaced in their own country or refugees in
other countries. This movement already represents the largest
forced migration since Afghans fled their country following the
 Soviet invasion  in 1979.  The UN says that  more than 2 million refugees  are in
neighboring countries. The real numbers are higher, as many
Syrians have fled to neighboring countries without registering
with the UN. Many refugees remain outside of camps in those
countries. Sizable numbers are huddled along the borders of
 Turkey  and Jordan waiting to enter. Worse, no one knows how long
the present 2 million will remain refugees, even as the costs of
maintaining them rise exponentially.  One needs to pay tribute to the extraordinary and costly
effort by UN agencies and numerous nongovernmental organizations
to keep Syrians alive and safe under trying conditions. There is
room and need for a greater effort by the U.S. and its friends
and allies, not to mention countries such as Russia and China
that have been quick to preserve Syrian President Bashar al-Assad but have stayed on the humanitarian sidelines.  Refugee Burden  The refugee burden, not surprisingly, has fallen mostly on
four bordering countries:  Iraq , Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey.
Turkey is managing well and is more capable than its neighbors
of taking in more refugees, although an increase would stoke
sectarian differences and political tensions. The opening for
those allowed by the government to cross the border, however,
continues to narrow. The biggest burden falls on a very weak
Lebanese state, where the Syrian war has already provoked
considerable internal violence. If Damascus were to fall,
refugees would inundate Lebanon. A troubled Jordan shares only a
slightly lesser burden and also needs enormous economic help.
Iraq -- and particularly Kurdistan, whose inhabitants were
massively displaced after the first Gulf War -- has recently
accepted significant numbers of refugees.  Because the civil war shows no sign of ending, helping more
refugees and the internally displaced -- possibly up to 2
million more -- requires that all regional countries remain
politically able to keep their borders mostly open and that
donor countries provide even larger sums. The longer-term
development and economic needs of some host countries also
require far more attention. To help stop even more people from
leaving  Syria , sizable funds will be needed to deliver more food
and other essential goods in both government- and opposition-held areas -- a difficult and often dangerous task.  Can neighboring countries handle another million or more
Syrian refugees?  Turkey has the capacity to take many more refugees, perhaps
as many as another half a million, however politically unpopular
that will be. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has been the
strongest and most vocal supporter of destroying Assad and has
impressively supported maintaining refugees; additional outside
funds would be both politically and financially useful.  Kurdish Iraq can host considerably more than the present
200,000 refugees, and not just Kurds from adjoining areas. More
financial assistance from  Baghdad , which has just begun, would
help. Stories from recent Kurdish refugees have made clear that
the lack of food and basic necessities, not violence, in that
part of Syria is driving flight. That points to the need for
getting more assistance into Syria quickly.  Western Response  Jordan and Lebanon are increasingly overburdened, so
Syrians are also going to  Egypt ,  Libya  and parts of eastern
 Europe . The 100,000 Syrian refugees in Egypt have been
increasingly troubled, and many are struggling to leave. Muslim
European countries such as Bosnia, Kosovo and Albania could
support limited numbers of Syrian refugees. And  Iran  should not
be overlooked as a source of support and refuge, whatever the
political complexity. Unlike Turkey, Iran gave refuge to more
than a million Kurds after the first  Gulf War . Whether many
Syrians would want to go to Iran is another matter.  Should Western governments get a free pass on accepting
Syrian refugees? Certainly not, although they will find it
politically hard to accept large numbers of Muslim refugees.
Nevertheless, the West must demonstrate its willingness to bear
part of the burden. So far this fiscal year, the U.S. has
admitted just  33 Syrian refugees . The new fiscal year will
permit President  Barack Obama  to provide for a  significant
number  of Syrian refugees within the 70,000 total allotted to
the U.S. refugee program. In turn, the U.S. willingness to
accept more refugees can also help accelerate resettlement
efforts by other Western countries. Under normal U.S.
procedures, resettlement could take a few years. So as the U.S.
has done with Indochinese and other refugee groups, it must
 expedite  processing.  Who will pay for all the humanitarian requirements? Funding
shortages have been chronic. A succession of UN conferences have
gotten most of the necessary pledges, but they have not been
fulfilled, especially by rich Arab states that are quicker to
supply weapons to jihadists. Russia and  China , meanwhile, have
 contributed  a paltry $17.8 million and $1.2 million,
respectively. The U.S. pledge of almost $1 billion has been the
biggest, but that’s not overwhelming given the growing magnitude
of the problem. Right now, the UN refugee agency estimates
requirements of $3.1 billion through the end of this year, only
40 percent of which has been delivered.  In a year of sequestration, many would consider the U.S.
contribution impressive. In another sense, however, the U.S.
humanitarian response has been dismaying. Obama has not made
opening American pockets to Syrians a major public concern,
perhaps out of fear of being seen as taking over the Syrian
problem. He has not spoken to the public except through White
House statements or brief references to what the U.S. has
already provided, his top officials have not banged on doors,
and U.S. participation at pledging conferences has not been at
high levels. The response of U.S. churches, normally a mainstay
of such humanitarian efforts, has apparently been stunningly
weak.  The U.S. is understandably agonizing over how to respond to
the apparent use of chemical weapons by Assad’s regime. It is
surprising, however, that for more than two years, Americans, a
very generous people, have paid so little attention to the
destruction of a major Middle Eastern state and its people’s
continuing travails. And regardless of what happens to Assad’s
chemical arsenal, there is no end in sight.  (Morton Abramowitz, a senior fellow at the Century
Foundation, is a former U.S. ambassador to Thailand and Turkey.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Morton Abramowitz at  abramowitz@tcf.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 