-- U.S. Threat Needed to Avoid Syria Stalling, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-12T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/u-s-threat-needed-to-avoid-syria-stalling-lawmakers-say.html
The U.S. must maintain a credible
military threat against the Syrian government to prevent
stalling tactics when it comes to securing and dismantling
chemical weapons, the leaders of the House intelligence
committee said.  “I believe you need a credible military threat in order to
continue to have a negotiated success,” Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and chairman of the panel, said
during a conference in  Washington  today.  Rogers said he was skeptical that a plan proposed by
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  to secure chemical weapons in
 Syria  would work.  “This gives them time to dig in, to engage in denial and
deception campaigns on the ground about their chemical weapons
programs,” he said. It also sends “a pretty dangerous message
to the opposition” that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will
remain power, he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has agreed to hold
off on launching military strikes against Assad’s government to
determine if Putin’s proposal can lead to a diplomatic solution.  The U.S. should enforce a timeline for Assad to surrender
the weapons, Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of
 Maryland , the intelligence committee’s top Democrat, said at the
conference hosted by the Arlington, Virginia-based Intelligence
and National Security Alliance.  “I think we need time limitations,” Ruppersberger said.
“If this is a stalling tactic then we have to continue on with
the present course or nothing is going to happen. That is our
leverage.”  Rogers said Russia has “a military and strategic interest
in keeping a footprint” in Syria. “They’re concerned about
losing a strategic asset,” he said.  Syria is Russia’s only Arab ally. The two nations have had
close ties since Assad’s father came to power in a bloodless
coup in 1970. Russia maintains its only military base outside
the former  Soviet Union  at Syria’s Mediterranean port of Tartus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  