-- Lululemon Cuts Profit Forecast on New Merchandise Delayed
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-12T20:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/lululemon-cuts-annual-profit-sales-estimates-amid-competition.html
Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the
retailer that recalled shipments of yoga pants earlier this year
for being too sheer, cut its annual profit forecast after delays
in getting new merchandise restrained sales.  Earnings per share will be as much as $1.97, down from a
previous projection of a maximum of $2.01, the Vancouver-based
company said today in a statement. The average of 29 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $1.99.  Chief Financial Officer John Currie said on a conference
call today that third-quarter sales were off to a slow start
because the recall of the black Luon pants delayed the delivery
of new apparel. The recall, announced in March, left Lululemon
without one of its best-selling products and was followed by the
departure of the company’s top product officer and the planned
exit of Chief Executive Officer Christine Day.  “Over the past several months, we’ve focused on quality
and getting Luon back into our stores,” Currie said on the call
with analysts and investors. “While this is clearly what was
important for our future, it resulted in some short-term pain.”  Full-year sales will be as much as $1.64 billion, down from
a previous projection of a maximum of $1.67 billion, Lululemon
said. The average of 27  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was
$1.67 billion.  Lululemon fell 5.4 percent to $65.29 at the close in New
York, the biggest drop since June 11. The  shares  have declined
14 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Beyond Yoga  Day, who said in June that she’ll leave the company when a
replacement is found, has been moving beyond yoga as competitors
including  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  boost their assortments of
products in Lululemon’s core market. Consumers also have been
pulling back on non-essential purchases, causing retailers from
Macy’s to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to cut their profit forecasts for
the year.  “The guidance obviously disappointed,” Anna Andreeva, a
New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said today in an
interview. “People are trying to figure out how much of this is
macro and how much of this is company-specific.”  She rates the shares market perform, the equivalent of a
hold.  Net income for the second quarter ended Aug. 4 fell 1.3
percent to $56.5 million, or 39 cents per share, from $57.2
million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, Lululemon said. Analysts
projected 35 cents, the average of 28 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Store Sales  The retailer said sales at stores open at least 12 months
increased 8 percent in the second quarter. Lululemon projects
same-store sales to increase at a mid single-digit percentage
rate in the third quarter. Earnings per share will be as much as
41 cents. That trails analysts’ 44-cent average  estimate ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lululemon today also announced a partnership with Noble
Biomaterials, giving the retailer exclusive access to the
company’s antimicrobial technology in its apparel to prevent
odor in its garments.  Lululemon has been a retailing phenomenon since its
founding in 1998 as it used free yoga classes and local brand
“ambassadors” to help amass a cult-like following in the U.S.
and  Canada . Those customers have proven willing to shell out
about $60 for tank tops and $90 for stretchy pants that are
meant to be as fashionable on the street as they are comfortable
in the yoga studio.  New Rivals  The rapid growth of recent years has drawn rivals into a
yoga market Lululemon once had largely to itself.  This week, Macy’s said it will expand its athletic apparel
offerings to attract younger customers. Gap’s Athleta mirrors
Lululemon, linking with local yoga instructors, sponsoring
classes and training staff to make recommendations tailored to
customers’ interests.  Lululemon now is moving into menswear and clothing for
other sports as well as opening stores internationally. That
expansion will bring the retailer into competition with
entrenched rivals such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Adidas AG (ADS) , which offer
lower prices and sponsor high-profile athletes. Lululemon men’s
short-sleeve running t-shirts start at $58, while at  Under
Armour Inc. (UA) , they cost as little as $25 and at Nike they start
at $38.  Currie said in June that his company, which has 25 stores
in  Australia  and New Zealand plus a handful of showrooms
elsewhere, eventually can have about as many stores
internationally as it does in North America. The company had 192
stores in the U.S. and Canada as of May 5.  New Customers  Another of the new CEO’s goals will be to find new
customers at home. To that end, the company has been adding
apparel for golf and tennis to its stores and plans to introduce
its first standalone men’s store by 2016.  The chain has been partnering with U.S. athletic events to
help build a higher profile among American men. The Olympic
men’s beach volleyball team wore Lululemon uniforms, and the
yoga-wear maker supplanted Under Armour as the supplier of
uniforms for the Wall Street Decathlon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  