-- United Studying Whether to Honor $0 Fares Sold in Error
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-09-12T21:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/united-studying-whether-to-honor-0-fares-sold-in-error.html
United Airlines (UAL)  said it’s reviewing
whether to honor an unknown number of tickets accidentally
offered online for free after faulty data was put into its
reservations system.  The $0 fares were only on the United.com website for “a
couple hours” at midday and weren’t distributed via channels
such as travel agencies, said  Megan McCarthy , a spokeswoman for
the unit of Chicago-based United Continental Holdings Inc.
United’s Shares reservation system didn’t cause the fault, she
said, without giving further details.  “For a time, we closed the booking engine on United.com so
we could correct the error,” McCarthy said. The website was
back to normal at about 2:30 p.m. Chicago time, she said.  Many of the tickets cost $5 or $10 in total, suggesting
that United was only collecting a mandatory 9/11 security fee of
$2.50 per leg, said  Rick Seaney , chief executive officer of
FareCompare.com, a ticket research firm based in  Dallas . Taxes
and fees typically add up to $22 or more a ticket, he said.  McCarthy said she had no information about when United
would decide on whether to accept the tickets for travel, or on
what trips the fares had been made available.  A similar pricing mistake occurred in May 2002 when a fare
sale accidentally appeared as a $5 round-trip ticket for about
45 minutes, the  Chicago Tribune   reported  at the time.  Today’s incident was at least the fourth public computer
disruption at United since March 2012, when the carrier switched
its former Apollo reservation system over to Shares, the program
used by merger partner Continental Airlines. United’s former
parent, UAL Corp., combined with Continental in October 2010.  In the reservation shift, United struggled with long lines
at airport check-in counters and a surge in call volumes while
making the transition.  Automated check-in access was lost at airport kiosks and on
United’s website in August 2012, and a software breakdown in the
carrier’s flight dispatching system delayed hundreds of flights
in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  