-- Huntington $4 Billion Carrier Deal Said to Be Delayed
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-12T20:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/huntington-4-billion-carrier-deal-said-to-be-delayed.html
The Navy will delay by as much as a
year awarding  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  a contract for
at least $4 billion to start construction on the second vessel
in a new class of aircraft carriers, according to U.S.
officials.  Award of the “detail design and construction” contract
for the USS  John F. Kennedy , designated CVN-79, was planned for
this month until recently, said the officials, who asked not to
be identified because the postponement hasn’t been announced.  The Navy is grappling in a time of budget cuts with how to
pay for a shipbuilding plan that anticipates $43 billion for
three carriers in the new class, as well as $34 billion for 52
Littoral Combat Ships and the costs, not yet estimated, for a
12-vessel nuclear submarine fleet to replace the Ohio-class
subs.  Huntington Ingalls is currently operating under a $4.9
billion construction contract awarded in 2008 for the USS Gerald
R. Ford, or CVN-78, the first vessel in the three-ship class.
The Ford, already the costliest warship ever built, is projected
to cost $12.8 billion when completed and fully equipped, 22
percent more than estimated five years ago.  Negotiations Continue  Sean Stackley, the Navy’s assistant secretary for
acquisition, made the decision to delay the Kennedy contract,
the officials said. Also, the Pentagon’s independent Cost
Assessment and Program Evaluation office hasn’t completed an
analysis of total costs for the Kennedy carrier that’s required
before a contract award.  Commander Thurraya Kent, a Navy spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement that the service continues to negotiate with
Huntington Ingalls on the contract and, “until these
negotiations conclude,” the Navy intends to extend funding on a
current, smaller, construction-preparation contract to “avoid a
costly production break.” The Navy awarded that $296 million
contract to the shipbuilder last year.  Continued negotiations on the larger contract “will allow
Huntington Ingalls and the Navy to account for construction
process improvements and other cost reduction opportunities,”
she said.  Suppliers, Workers  Beci Brenton, a spokeswoman for  Newport News , Virginia-based Huntington Ingalls, said in an e-mailed statement that
extension of the existing contract “will help ensure that the
fragile supplier base and our shipbuilders remain working,
minimizing delay to ship delivery and associated cost
increases.”  “This extension also provides time for the Navy and
industry team to implement lessons learned from CVN-78
construction, implement further construction process
improvements, identify any government requirement reductions,
and increase the maturity of government technologies in order to
stay within a challenging budget,” Brenton said.  The Navy’s action wasn’t prompted by a recommendation made
by the Government Accountability Office this month to delay the
contract until deficiencies with systems on the Ford were
corrected and tested, according to a Navy official.  Michele Mackin, the GAO official who led the carrier study,
said in an e-mail that “a delay in the CVN-79 detail design and
construction contract would improve the government’s negotiating
position. The additional time could enable the Navy to
incorporate results of ship system testing and to have better
insight into the expected costs of the ship.”  Huntington Ingalls rose less than 1 percent to $68 at the
close of  New York  trading and has increased 57 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  