-- Verizon Nets $2.54 Billion Windfall for Bond Sale Buyers
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r ,   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-12T21:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/verizon-produces-2-09-billion-windfall-for-buyers-in-bond-sale.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
rewarded investors with a profit of about $2.54 billion for
agreeing to buy the record $49 billion of bonds it sold
yesterday as the price of the securities surged.  The company’s $15 billion of 30-year debentures, the
biggest portion of the eight-part deal, traded at 107.26 cents
on the dollar at 4:20 p.m. in  New York , up from an issue price
of 99.883 cents, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The $11
billion of 10-year notes rose 3.906 cents to 103.582 cents.  Demand soared after the New York-based phone company
offered yields that were higher than market rates to raise
interest in an offering that was about the size of all the
outstanding obligations of the  Slovak Republic  amid the worst
selloff in the  bond market  since 2008. The 10-year securities
were priced to yield 225 basis points more than similar maturity
Treasuries, or 47 basis points wider than bonds with similar
maturities and ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Two billion seems like a big number to leave on the
table,” Peter Tchir, the founder of hedge-fund adviser TF
Market Advisors, said in a telephone interview. “Maybe Verizon
was just so happy to get the deal done. That’s a pretty big
price move for any size issue.”  ‘Big Number’  The initial spread on the 10-year bonds, ranked Baa1 at
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , exceeds
the 178 basis-point average spread the day before Verizon’s sale
for bonds due in seven to 10 years with a Bloomberg composite
rating of BBB.  “New issue concessions that are meaningful are something
we haven’t seen for some time,” said Bonnie Baha, the head of
global developed credit at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital
LP. “There’s a cushion built in there for a little bit of a
rise in rates.”  Bob Varettoni , a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
the sale and the secondary trading levels. The sale is almost
triple the previous record of $17 billion that Apple Inc. issued
in April, Bloomberg data show.  Verizon’s sale was managed by Barclays Plc, Bank of America
Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, the company said
in regulatory filings. The underwriters were paid $265.3 million
in fees, according to a regulatory filing.  Offering Proceeds  The five  biggest holders  of Verizon debt based on
regulatory filings are Vanguard Group Inc.,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
Prudential Financial Inc., MetLife Inc. and Capital Research &
Management Co., Bloomberg data show. The company’s existing
bonds lost 3.95 percent in the week leading up to the offering.  Proceeds from the offering, along with $14 billion of
loans, will help finance Verizon’s buyout of partner  Vodafone
Group Plc. (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake in the largest and most profitable
U.S. wireless carrier, Verizon Wireless.  “The new issue concession is significant,” Dorian Garay,
a New York-based money manager at ING Investment Management,
which oversees about $230 billion, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “They’re trying to lock in  interest rates  now
because of all the concern about rising rates, and at the same
time lock up most of the funding for the acquisition, so they
have to pay up for sure.”  Independent bond research firm CreditSights Inc. issued a
report yesterday reiterating its “outperform” recommendation
on Verizon’s bonds, saying the yield spreads offered were “much
wider” than for previously issued debt of the company and those
sold by rival  AT&T Inc. (T)   AT&T Bonds  Dallas-based AT&T sold $1.5 billion of 10-year debentures
in December at a spread of 105 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 120 basis points, or 1.2
percentage point, lower than the 225 basis-point spread Verizon
offered for similar-maturity debt.  Verizon had its credit grades cut to Baa1 by Moody’s and
BBB+ at S&P on Sept. 2, with both firms citing heightened
leverage from the acquisition. The purchase may boost Verizon’s
ratio of debt to  cash flow  to 3.4 from 3, according to S&P,
which it said will contribute to a “significant” financial
risk profile.  Excess Cash  “We believe almost all excess cash flow will be used for
de-levering in the next few years,” analysts at CreditSights
said in their report. The firm noted that Verizon officers said
on a call with investors and analysts after the  Verizon Wireless 
purchase announcement that it may be able to get back to its
previous credit rating of A3 as its leverage shrinks to about 2
times.  As the  Federal Reserve  has signaled it may begin tapering
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases that have bolstered
credit markets, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Index has lost 4.12 percent since year-end. That’s poised for
the worst performance since a 6.82 percent decline in 2008 as
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse ushered in the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Yields on the debt increased to 3.59 percent yesterday from
a record-low 2.65 percent on May 2, index data show.  The second-biggest U.S. telephone  carrier  issued fixed-rate
debt with maturities ranging from three to 30 years as well as
two portions of floating-rate securities.  Fixed, Floating  Besides the 5.15 percent notes due in 2023 and the 6.55
percent bonds due in 2043, Verizon also sold $4.25 billion of
2.5 percent, three-year fixed-rate notes to yield 165 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries; $4.75 billion of
3.65 percent, five-year debt at a spread of 190 basis points; $4
billion of 4.5 percent, seven-year securities yielding 215 basis
points more than benchmarks; and $6 billion of 20-year, 6.4
percent notes paying 250 basis points, Bloomberg data show. The
30-year bonds pay a spread of at 265.  Verizon sold $2.25 billion of three-year floating-rate
notes at a spread of 153 basis points more than the three-month
London interbank offered rate and $1.75 billion of five-year
floaters at 175 basis points above Libor, Bloomberg data show.  Libor, the rate at which banks say they can borrow from
each other, was set today at 25 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  