-- Verizon to Sell Part of NYC Tower to Condo Developer
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/verizon-to-sell-part-of-n-y-headquarters-tower-for-274-million.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, agreed to sell part of its
New York headquarters building for $274 million to a developer
who plans to convert the space to luxury housing.  Magnum Real Estate Group is buying a condominium stake in
the tower at 140 West St. in lower Manhattan, including the top
22 floors and a sub-basement level, Verizon said yesterday in a
statement. The carrier is keeping 60 percent of the building,
across from the almost-completed 1 World Trade Center. The rest
will be converted into a “world-class residential property,”
Magnum President Benjamin Shaoul said in the statement.  The 32-story tower, a city landmark, will be transformed
“from a traditional telecommunications hub to a multipurpose
building that will contribute meaningfully to the city’s long-term vision for a vibrant World Trade Center neighborhood,”
said John Vazquez, Verizon’s senior vice president of global
real estate.  It’s become increasingly attractive to convert New York
office space into housing, something that’s already happened to
other Verizon buildings.  Manhattan  apartment prices climbed to a
median of $865,000 in the second quarter, up 4.3 percent from a
year earlier, as buyers competed for a dwindling supply of
properties for sale, according to data from appraiser Miller
Samuel Inc. and brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  Walker Tower  A Verizon building on West 18th Street in Chelsea was sold
in 2009 to a partnership led by JDS Development Group, which
converted it into luxury condos. The 24-story Walker Tower
project, where a top-floor penthouse was listed for sale at $55
million, is expected to be completed this year.  Magnum plans to convert the West Street space into as many
as 175 condominium units, a majority of which would have three
bedrooms or more, Shaoul said in a telephone interview. The
property would include a gym as well as playrooms for children
and teens. Apartments will start on the 11th floor and rise to
the 32nd.  Shaoul said he aims to price the apartments at less than
the market rate for condos in the Tribeca neighborhood, with
three-bedroom units starting at about $3.2 million and five-bedrooms in the $6 million to $7 million range. He anticipates
being able to start sales in April and have residents move in as
early as June 2015.  “The building does not have one bad view from one
window,”  he said. “Every apartment has great views. We have
water views from three sides.”  Limestone Carvings  The tower, built in the 1920s and once known as the  New
York  Telephone Co. Building, has a vaulted pedestrian arcade
along Vesey Street, the side that faces 1 World Trade Center. It
survived the collapse in 2001 of the twin towers to its south
and 7 World Trade Center to the east. Many of the building’s
ornate limestone carvings were destroyed and later restored by
artisans, according to the website NYC-Architecture.com.  Last year, the lobby was submerged as the result of
flooding from  Hurricane Sandy .  Verizon is keeping the second through 10th floors and four
of the five sub-basement levels. The company is moving its
headquarters uptown to 1095 Avenue of the Americas and
transferring about 1,100 employees to a building on Flatbush
Avenue in  Brooklyn .  The company is bolstering its finances after agreeing to
buy  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 45 percent stake in the Verizon
Wireless joint venture for $130 billion. Two days ago, the
company sold a record $49 billion in bonds in an eight-part
offering to help fund the transaction.  Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Executive Vice Chairman Josh Kuriloff led the marketing of the West Street property.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  