-- Verizon Bond Demand Aided by Index Weightings After Record Sale
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-09-12T23:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/verizon-bond-demand-aided-by-index-weightings-after-record-sale.html
Demand for  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  bonds is being bolstered by investors seeking to align
their holdings with debt indexes after the phone carrier doubled
its notes outstanding with a record $49 billion offering.  Prices on Verizon debt have soared with the issuer poised
to climb to the fourth-largest borrower from 12th on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index. The $45 billion of
fixed-coupon securities in the sale may increase the New York-based company’s weighting on the Barclays U.S. Corporate
Investment-Grade Index to 2.25 percent from 1 percent.  Verizon stoked investors’ appetite for the debt maturing in
three to 30 years by paying a premium to assure it could raise
the cash necessary to obtain full control of  Verizon Wireless ,
the largest and most profitable U.S. carrier, in a $130 billion
deal with Vodafone Group Plc. Funds that track benchmark indexes
may have been left with less debt than their managers had hoped
to own, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Hans Mikkelsen.  “Then they have to go out and buy,” Mikkelsen, the head
of U.S. investment-grade credit strategy at the bank, said in a
telephone interview from  New York . “That could be one of the
reasons that we saw the deal perform so well in the secondary
market.”  Verizon’s sale was managed by Barclays Plc, Bank of
America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, the company
said in regulatory  filings . The underwriters were paid $265.3
million in fees.  $2.54 Billion  The surge in Verizon bonds rewarded investors with a profit
of about $2.54 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The $15 billion of 6.55 percent bonds due September 2043, the
largest security ever issued, have soared to 107.38 cents on the
dollar from an issue price of 99.88 cents, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The yield declined to 6.016 percent.  The 6 percent average coupon on $32 billion of new notes
due in 10, 20 and 30 years compares with a 5.44 percent yield
for similar-maturity bonds before the sale on a Bloomberg
investment-grade  index .  The higher rates offered by Verizon, especially in the
longer-maturity portions, “are like spotting Bigfoot these
days,” said Noel Hebert, the chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon  Wealth Management , which
doesn’t benchmark to indexes. “To the degree your allocation
wasn’t terrific, you are going to have to go source some paper,
or otherwise carry an underweight versus the index.”  Added Risk  The new  Verizon bonds , which enter the Bank of America
index at the end of the month, will also add more risk to the
benchmark, Bank of America strategists led by Mikkelsen wrote in
a report dated Sept. 11. The securities have an average duration
of 9, compared with an index average of 6.4, they wrote.
Duration measures a bond’s price sensitivity to yield changes.  Debt of Verizon accounted for 27.5 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of at least $1 million yesterday, Trace data show.
Second-ranked Bank of America represented 2.2 percent.  “There is no denying the degree to which Verizon will
dominate the indices in which it is included,” CreditSights
Inc. analysts led by  Louise Purtle  wrote in a Sept. 11 report.
“That guarantees a certain level of consistent support for the
bonds given the volume of passive, index tracking money in the
market -- and also the sensitivity that even active managers
have to index tracking error.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  