-- Vietnam’s Rice Output Faces Slide on Crop Switch: Southeast Asia
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-12T00:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/vietnam-s-rice-output-faces-slide-on-crop-switch-southeast-asia.html
Rice production in  Vietnam  is
poised to drop next year for the first time in more than a
decade as the second-largest shipper promotes other crops,
lessening competition in the global export market.  The switch is designed to boost farmers’ incomes, and corn
is one of the alternatives that will be favored because of good
demand and high yields, according to Pham Dong Quang, deputy
head of the government’s crop-production department. A plan to
convert rice-growing areas will be approved by the Ministry of
Agriculture and  Rural Development  before the end of the year,
Quang said in an interview in Hanoi.  A reduction in supplies will benefit  India  and  Thailand ,
Vietnam’s biggest export rivals, as global supplies increase to
an all-time high. The three nations accounted for about two-thirds of worldwide shipments last year, according to data from
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The first decline in
Vietnam’s crop may happen as early as next year, Quang said.  “If Vietnam’s rice production goes down, it will tend to
benefit exporting countries and tend to hurt importing
countries,” said David Dawe, a Bangkok-based senior economist
at the Food & Agriculture Organization. The plan “sounds
relatively good in the sense that they’re encouraging
flexibility on the part of farmers,” said Dawe.  Vietnamese 5 percent-broken rice has dropped 3.4 percent
this year to $400 a metric ton in August, according to USDA data
compiled by Bloomberg. Rough-rice futures traded at $15.495 a
100 pounds in  Chicago  today, 2.1 percent higher in 2013.  Bigger Harvests  Milled output in Vietnam has increased every year since
2001, rising 34 percent to 27.4 million tons in the period,
according to the USDA. Shipments surged from less than 100,000
tons in 1988 to 7.4 million tons in 2012-2013 as Vietnam
promoted reform and embraced international trade. India shipped
9.7 million tons that year, as Thailand exported 7 million.  “Rice output may fall in the next few years because
farmers will switch,” Quang said, without giving a forecast.
While the issue of boosting rural incomes has been addressed for
some years, it’s now become much more urgent amid the difficult
economic situation and more competitive rice market, he said.  The $142 billion economy is expected to grow 5.4 percent
this year, according to Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the government
office. That would be a third year of expansion less than 6
percent, the worst run since 1988, according to data from the
 International Monetary Fund . Agriculture accounted for 17
percent of gross domestic product in 2012, data from the Hanoi-based General Statistics Office show.  Self-Sufficient  The global harvest of the staple for half the world has
grown to a record even as export demand stagnates. The crop will
gain 1.9 percent to 477.9 million tons in 2013-2014, according
to the USDA, which forecasts worldwide exports of 39 million
tons this season, in line with the total in 2011-2012. The
 Philippines , previously the biggest importer, won’t buy any
overseas rice in 2013 as it becomes self-sufficient, Agriculture
Secretary Proceso Alcala said last year.  Thailand is among countries raising rice output as Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government buys the crop at
above-market rates to boost farmers’ incomes, with losses of
about 137 billion baht ($4.4 billion) seen for last year. Thai
stockpiles will gain 24 percent to a record 15.5 million tons
this season, a USDA forecast shows. The government will sell 1.2
million tons to  China  over 12 months and seek further deals,
Commerce Minister Niwattumrong Boonsongpaisan said yesterday.  Output in  Cambodia , which borders Vietnam, will expand to
the highest ever this season at 4.9 million tons. The country
plans to increase its exports to 1 million tons by 2015, Kan
Channmeta, undersecretary of state, told a conference in May.  Market Demand  The Vietnamese government won’t set targets for how much of
each crop needs to be grown, leaving the choices to farmers and
local governments, depending on market demand, Quang said. The
government will provide growers across the country with
technical training, seeds and suitable irrigation systems to
support the conversion effort, he said.  The country has about 4 million hectares (9.9 million acres)
of riceland, where farmers can also grow other crops, Quang said.
The most fertile areas will still be reserved for rice and it
will remain the key crop with the biggest growing area, he said.  Urbanization will cut into the 4 million hectares, and
Vietnam plans to maintain 3.8 million hectares in 2020-2030, he
said. Corn has yielded 9 tons to 10 tons per hectare in some
test programs in the Mekong Delta, he said, referring to the
region in the south.  While rice is not very lucrative, yields are relatively
stable and it’s not that vulnerable to pests and diseases, the
FAO’s Dawe said. Fruits and vegetables are more vulnerable to
attacks and price fluctuations are high, creating additional
risks for farmers, with risks for corn between the two, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  