-- Visa-MasterCard Judge to Weigh Final Approval of Fee Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/visa-mastercard-judge-to-weigh-final-approval-of-fee-deal.html
Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  will
ask a judge to put to rest antitrust allegations that have
plagued the companies for years over fees that are paid by U.S.
merchants to support the credit card networks.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
will hear arguments today over whether to grant final approval
to a multibillion-dollar class-action settlement on behalf of
merchants nationwide. Opposed by scores of big-box retailers and
other consumer businesses, the accord is aimed at ending future
court battles with U.S. merchants over the practice of setting
credit card interchange payments, known as swipe fees.  “They’re seeing this settlement as finally buying them
some peace,” said  Steven Semeraro , a former U.S.  Justice
Department  lawyer who isn’t involved in the case. “And that’s
worth it to them, however many billions of dollars it’s going to
cost.”  Developed by banks half a century ago, Visa and MasterCard
have been subject to government scrutiny over their business
practices for decades, Georgetown University law professor Adam Levitin wrote in a 2008 report on credit card merchant
restraints. The card firms faced an antitrust suit filed by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other retailers in 1996 and actions by the
Justice Department, leading to changes in some of their rules.  Bank-owned groups spun off the card companies through
initial public offerings in 2006 and 2008 in a move that
merchants alleged was intended to dodge antitrust liability.  Previous Settlement  Not long after  Foster City , California-based Visa and
Purchase, New York-based MasterCard received final approval for
their previous settlement of more than $4 billion in January
2004, the current case was brought against them in October 2005.  The firms thought they would be protected from future
antitrust lawsuits over interchange fees by releases written
into the settlement of the earlier Wal-Mart-led case, said
Semeraro, a professor at the  Thomas Jefferson School of Law  in
 San Diego .  This time, the card companies “think they really have the
language in there” and included an “unbelievably broad”
release, he said.  “It prohibits virtually anyone except an antitrust
enforcement authority from ever suing them again for anything
that relates to antitrust claims,” he said.  Estimated to be the largest ever in a U.S. antitrust case,
the settlement is currently valued at about $5.7 billion. In an
August report, a court-appointed expert said that plaintiffs
might have difficulty establishing that the companies violated
antitrust laws at trial and are probably better off with the
accord.  Interchange Payments  Merchants are expected to receive about one-third of a
year’s worth of interchange payments if final approval is
granted and the order isn’t delayed by an appeal. That estimate
is based on assumptions about the number of merchants that will
file claims and other factors.  Visa and MasterCard forged ahead with the settlement
despite objections from hundreds of retailers, including Wal-Mart and  Target Corp. (TGT) , which contended that the releases would
cover too many of the firms’ policies and allow them to raise
rates in the future.  In a conference call with investors this July, MasterCard
President and Chief Executive Officer  Ajay Banga  disclosed that
the companies decided not to back out of the accord even though
a termination provision had been triggered by the volume of
merchants that dropped out. Some of those merchants have chosen
to file their own lawsuits.  ‘Gigantic Nightmare’  The settlement will help the card companies rid themselves
of a “gigantic nightmare” in terms of legal fees and other
costs, said Sarah Jane Hughes, a professor at Indiana University
Bloomington’s Maurer School of Law, who isn’t involved in the
litigation.  MasterCard said it’s confident the court will grant final
approval.  “The scope of the release is reasonable and logical,”
Noah Hanft, the company’s general counsel, said in a phone
interview.  Paul Cohen, a Visa spokesman, declined to comment about
today’s hearing.  In a joint court filing in April, lawyers for the card
companies and major U.S. banks said the release “covers only
claims based on continued rules and practices that are the same
as, or substantially similar to, those currently in place or
modified by the settlement, which courts have held a class may
properly release.”  Interchange fees are collected by Visa and MasterCard and
turned over to banks, which use the funds to help cover the
costs of issuing cards.  The U.S. began regulating debit-card interchange fees under
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010. In July, a federal judge found those fees had been set too
high and ordered the  Federal Reserve  to revisit the rates.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  