-- Vodafone Hacker Accesses 2 Million Customers’ Banking Data
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-12T09:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/vodafone-germany-hacker-accesses-2-million-clients-banking-data.html
An intruder hacked into a  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  server in  Germany , gaining access to 2 million
customers’ personal details and banking information.  A person with insider knowledge stole data including names,
addresses, birth dates, and bank account information, the
world’s second-biggest mobile-phone carrier said in a  statement 
today. The hacker had no access to credit-card information,
passwords, PIN numbers or mobile-phone numbers, Vodafone said.  The attack was detected by Vodafone at the beginning of
September, stopped and reported to the police, Kuzey Esener, a
Vodafone spokesman, said. Clients can check on Vodafone’s German
 website  to see if they are affected, and will also be informed
by mail, he said. While the data stolen does not allow criminals
to access bank accounts, Vodafone will warn clients of the
possibility of so-called phishing attacks, he said.  Vodafone, based in Newbury,  England , is the latest high-profile company to announce a security breach. Last month there
were hacker attacks on  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Twitter Inc. and the  New
York  Times. KT Corp., South Korea’s largest phone and Internet
company, fell the most in seven months in July last year after
saying customer data were leaked by hackers.  Vodafone shares fell 0.8 percent to 208.40 pence at 10:40
a.m. in London, giving the company a market value of 101 billion
pounds ($158 billion).  Vodafone said the incident only affects clients in Germany.
Authorities have identified a suspect, Esener said. He didn’t
say whether the suspect was an employee or an outsider.  Germany contributes more to Vodafone’s revenue and profit
than any other country. It accounted for about 18 percent of
 sales  in the fiscal year ended March 31. The company is trying
to conclude a 7.7 billion-euro ($10.2 billion) takeover of Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG, Germany’s biggest cable company, to
expand in the country and increase customer loyalty with
packages combining phone, Internet and TV services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  