-- Vodafone’s $10.2 Billion Cable Bid Wins Shareholder Support
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-09-13T07:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/vodafone-wins-kabel-deutschland-bid-in-late-night-share-tally.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 7.7 billion-euro ($10.2 billion) bid for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) 
cleared a major hurdle by winning the backing of at least 75
percent of the German company’s shareholders.  The minimum threshold for the takeover to go through was
met by the Sept. 11 deadline, Newbury, England-based Vodafone
said yesterday, without giving detailed results of the tender.
 Kabel Deutschland  investors who haven’t given up their stock
will get a second chance, from Sept. 17 to Sept. 30.  Kabel Deutschland is a key part of Vodafone’s expansion
strategy as the carrier looks for ways to boost revenue and lock
in customers with Internet and television offers in addition to
wireless service. Kabel Deutschland is the biggest cable company
in Germany, Vodafone’s largest market, and had drawn a rival bid
from  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Plc. (LBTYA)   The acquisition had been threatened by investors who held
on to their shares in anticipation of getting a bigger payout.
Elliott Management Corp., the company run by billionaire  Paul Singer , accumulated shares to become Kabel Deutschland’s biggest
stakeholder with a 10.9 percent holding in the days leading up
to the deadline.  The hedge fund wanted to take advantage of a German law
that often requires a buyer that gets at least 75 percent of a
target’s shares to offer more money to hold-outs, a person
familiar with the matter has said, asking not to be identified
discussing private deliberations.  Regulatory Scrutiny  Kabel Deutschland rose 3.5 percent to 89.40 euros at 9:08
a.m. in  Frankfurt . Vodafone’s 87-euro-per-share offer price
includes a 2.50-euro dividend payment. Vodafone added 0.3
percent to 210.65 pence on the London exchange.  Vodafone said it plans to publish detailed results of the
tender on Sept. 16. It anticipates an initial regulatory review
by the European Commission to be completed by Sept. 20.  The deal is wrapping up as Vodafone agreed this month to
sell its most valuable asset, its 45 percent stake in U.S.
mobile-phone company Verizon Wireless, for $130 billion to
Verizon Communications Inc. It’s the biggest M&A transaction in
more than a decade and puts Vodafone’s center of gravity firmly
in Europe.  Vodafone will have about $30 billion in cash left over from
the Verizon sale to reduce debt, make acquisitions and build its
broadband Internet and faster, fourth-generation mobile
networks. Project Spring, as the effort has been named, will add
about $10 billion to local units’ budgets over the next three
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  