-- Vontobel’s Staub Sees Fewer Swiss Banks After U.S. Probe
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-09-12T15:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/vontobel-s-staub-sees-fewer-swiss-banks-after-u-s-probe.html
Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  Chief Executive
Officer Zeno Staub said a U.S. initiative to reveal undeclared
accounts in Switzerland will speed up the disappearance of one
third of the nation’s banks.  “I would expect it accelerates the process,” the CEO of
the Zurich-based bank and brokerage told reporters at a briefing
in  London  today, referring to an Aug. 29 U.S. Department of
Justice program for Swiss financial firms to volunteer
information and pay fines to avoid prosecution.  Hundreds of banks may be covered by the U.S. plan to punish
firms that used accounts to help American clients evade the
 Internal Revenue Service . Banks that seek to avoid prosecution
for fostering  tax evasion  through secret accounts held by U.S.
clients face penalties of as much as 50 percent of the value of
those assets under the plan announced by the U.S. and accepted
by the Swiss government last month.  The accord lets  Switzerland , the world’s largest offshore
financial center with about $2.2 trillion of assets, resolve
talks spanning two years after U.S. criminal prosecutions eroded
bank secrecy. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report
earlier this year that more global wealth-management firms see
increasing mergers, with more than a third of those surveyed
forecasting a “significant consolidation” over the next two
years.  Switching Licenses  UBS AG, the world’s largest wealth manager according to
Scorpio Partnership, avoided prosecution by paying $780 million
in 2009, admitting it aided U.S. tax evasion and handing over
data on 4,500 accounts. Wegelin & Co., the oldest Swiss private
bank, pleaded guilty in January, paid $74 million and closed its
doors.  The number of banks in Switzerland will drop to about 200
from more than 300 today, said Staub, 44. Some smaller banks are
considering switching regulatory licenses to become asset
managers to help eliminate regulatory costs, while others may be
acquired or close, he said.  The  Justice Department  expects Swiss banks seeking to avoid
prosecution to disclose their cross-border activities, give
detailed account information on U.S. clients, describe other
banks that received secret accounts and cooperate with requests
for information.  “I haven’t yet fully made up my mind” how Vontobel will
respond, said Staub. Banks that consider themselves having
violated U.S. tax law must request non-prosecution agreements by
Dec. 31. Other firms that assert they are compliant can request
a non-target letter from the Justice Department.  The U.S. has said it will also continue criminal probes of
14 banks that aren’t eligible for those options under the
voluntary program. Credit Suisse Group AG, the nation’s second-biggest bank,  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  and the Swiss private bank
of  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  are among the firms being probed. Rahn &
Bodmer Co., Zurich’s oldest bank, is also under investigation,
it said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  