-- Voyager 1 Treks Past Solar System to Unexpected Frontier
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/voyager-1-treks-into-interstellar-space-an-unexpected-frontier.html
After 36 years and a journey that
took the spacecraft 12 billion miles beyond the sun, Voyager 1
has left the solar system, the first human jaunt into
interstellar space, U.S. scientists said.  The probe crossed into a region of cold, dark space outside
the  heliosphere , a bubble of charged particles at the boundary
of the solar system, on Aug. 25, 2012, according to  a report  in
the journal Science by researchers from the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration and the  University of Iowa .  Designed for just a four-year mission, Voyager is  powered
to operate until 2025 . After flying past Jupiter and Saturn, it
now takes 17 hours for Voyager’s signals to reach NASA’S Jet
Propulsion Laboratory, the agency said.  “Voyager, like the ancient mariners, is pushing into new
territory,” John Grunsfeld, NASA’s associate administer for the
Science Mission Directorate, and a former astronaut, said
yesterday in  a news conference . “Someday humans will leave our
cocoon in the solar system to explore beyond our home system.
Voyager will have led the way.”  Data from Voyager indicate that the craft has been
traveling through plasma, or ionized gas, which is found in the
environment between stars, according to a  statement from NASA .  Voyager’s plasma sensor broke, complicating the task of
pinpointing its location. The plasma inside the heliosphere is
hot, and highly charged. Outside, the denser, cooler plasma is
made up of particles from explosions millions of years ago.  Energy Burst  A massive burst of energy from the sun in March 2012
reached the Voyager 13 months later, causing the plasma around
the craft to vibrate. The space craft picked up this movement,
and the pitch of the vibrations helped scientists determine
where the spacecraft was.  Voyager appeared to be in plasma more than 40 times denser
than that at the outer edge of the heliosphere, the kind of
density associated with interstellar space.  The signals from the spacecraft are very dim, with about
the power of the refrigerator light bulb,  NASA  said. Scientists
aren’t sure when Voyager 1 will reach the part of interstellar
space that is undisturbed by the sun.  “We made it,” Ed Stone, a Voyager project scientist based
at the  California Institute of Technology ,  Pasadena , said during
the press conference. “We still have enough power to send back
home what we’re now exploring, this new region of space.”  The cost of Voyager 1 and Voyager 2, which is not far
behind its younger sibling, has been about $988 million through
September, according to NASA. Voyager 2 was launched 16 days
earlier than Voyager 1, in 1977.  The study was led by  Donald Gurnett , at the University of
 Iowa  in Iowa City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  