-- Wage Increase Targeting Wal-Mart Vetoed by Washington Mayor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-09-12T21:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/wage-increase-targeting-wal-mart-vetoed-by-washington-mayor-gray.html
Washington Mayor Vincent Gray
vetoed legislation requiring  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other
large retailers to pay  workers  at least 50 percent more than the
capital city’s  minimum wage , saying it would hurt economic
development.  Stores larger than 75,000 square feet that lack collective-bargaining agreements would have to pay employees at least
$12.50 an hour in wages and benefits under the bill.
Washington’s minimum wage is $8.25 an hour. The District of
Columbia Council, which approved the measure in July, may
override the veto.  “The bill is a job-killer, because nearly every large
retailer now considering opening a store in the District has
indicated that they will not come here or expand here if this
bill becomes law,” Gray said in a statement. “It would do
nothing but hinder our ability to create jobs, drive away
retailers, and set us back on the path to prosperity for all.”  Washington would have been the first U.S. city to force
retail chains to pay a higher minimum wage than smaller rivals,
according to the National Employment Law Project, a  New York 
non-profit that advocates laws that help low-wage workers. The
effort was opposed by retailers including Wal-Mart, which said
it may back out of plans to build stores in the city if it
becomes law.  Cities Divided  Efforts elsewhere to boost pay at targeted businesses have
divided city officials. In 2006, then-Chicago Mayor Richard Daley vetoed a bill similar to the one passed in Washington, and
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  this year prevailed in a court
challenge to a law that would have raised wages for workers at
buildings that receive government subsidies or where the city is
a tenant.  About 120 cities have laws requiring businesses receiving
government contracts or subsidies to pay higher wages, according
to the National Employment Law Project.  Such efforts have drawn criticism from businesses that say
it will lead them to curb hiring, an argument that resonates
with some municipal officials eager for investment in their
communities.  Shares of Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, fell 14
cents to $73.91 at the close in New York.  The measure in Washington pitted labor unions against
retailers, including Wal-Mart,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,
that urged Gray to veto it. Municipal officials were divided
over whether it would create better-paying jobs or set back
redevelopment efforts by pushing the retailers away.  Wal-Mart Victory  The mayor’s decision is a victory for Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, which said the law would cause it to
reconsider opening as many as six stores. Its planned stores
include some in economically struggling neighborhoods bypassed
by development.  “Mayor Gray has chosen jobs, economic development and
common sense over special interests -- and that’s good news for
D.C. residents,” Steven Restivo, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in
a statement. “Now that this discriminatory legislation is
behind us, we will move forward on our first stores in our
nation’s capital.”  The bill, which the council approved 8 to 5, applies only
to retailers with revenue of $1 billion or more that aren’t
covered by union contracts, and would have given retailers
already in the city four years to comply. An override would
require the support of nine council members.  Council Chairman Phil Mendelson, plans a Sept. 17 vote on
whether to override the mayor’s veto, said Karen Sibert, a
spokeswoman for Mendelson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  