-- Warren Says Congress Should Act Now on Too Big to Fail Measure
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-12T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/warren-says-congress-should-act-now-on-too-big-to-fail-measure.html
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  said
banks remain too big to fail even amid the progress that has
been made on financial regulation since the 2008 credit crisis.  “If Dodd-Frank gives the regulators the tools to end too
big to fail, great -- end too big to fail,” Warren, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said of the Wall Street rules overhaul
in a Washington speech today. “If the regulators won’t end too
big to fail, then Congress must act to protect our economy and
prevent future crises.”  Warren, who set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
before being elected to Congress in 2012, used her speech at an
event marking the fifth anniversary of crisis to promote her
proposal to re-create the  Glass-Steagall Act , the 1930s law that
separated commercial and  investment banking .  The senator’s call to end too big to fail aligns her with
Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Vice Chairman  Thomas Hoenig . While regulators
and lawmakers acknowledge the problem still exists, consensus
hasn’t formed around a single approach.  Her bill, also sponsored by Senators John McCain, an
Arizona Republican,  Maria Cantwell , a Washington Democrat, and
Angus King, a Maine independent, would separate traditional
banks that offer checking and savings accounts insured by the
FDIC from “riskier financial institutions.” The latter
category includes companies involved in investment banking,
insurance, swaps dealing,  hedge funds  and private equity.  Previous Senate attempts to revive Glass-Steagall, which
was repealed in 1999, or otherwise limit the size of banks have
failed to gain enough support to become law.  Warren rejected calls to wait for regulators to finish
implementing Dodd-Frank before moving her bill.  “I don’t understand the logic,” she said. “Since when
does Congress set deadlines, watch regulators miss most of them,
and then take that failure as a reason not to act? I thought
that if the regulators failed, it was time for Congress to step
in. That’s what oversight means.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  