-- Who Killed Online Privacy? We Did.
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-09-12T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/who-killed-online-privacy-we-did-.html
It has been a rough couple of
months for the folks at the Tor Project.  Tor  -- it stands for “The Onion Router” -- camouflages
its users’ Web communications with encryption and by bouncing
signals around server nodes in different parts of the world so
that it’s all but impossible for either governments or
advertisers to track them to their origins. Its fans hail Tor as
a vital tool for those who live under repressive governments.  But Tor has suffered a series of public embarrassments --
embarrassments that teach important lessons about the
increasingly desperate search for online privacy.  Last month,  we learned  that the anonymity protocols that
are Tor’s reason for existence had been hacked, apparently by
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, which was investigating an
alleged purveyor of child pornography. Then, last week, we  were
reminded  that some 60 percent of the budget of the Tor Project
comes from the federal government, including a whopping 40
percent from the  Department of Defense . (Tor responded in an e-mail published in the Washington Post that these are research
grants, and the U.S. does not control its research or software.)  Now, most unkindly of all, Technology Review is piling on.
This week, the popular technology site  reported  a study by the
same researchers at the University of Luxembourg who earlier in
the year found a major security flaw at Tor. (They informed Tor
of the problem, and it has been repaired.) In their  new study ,
the researchers have unpeeled a few layers of Tor’s celebrated
onion of anonymity, releasing a tabulation of the most popular
among Tor’s “hidden services” -- that is, sites that can be
accessed only via Tor itself.  Worse News  The news wasn’t good.  For a site whose glory has long been the image of the
courageous freedom fighter in, say,  Syria  bravely sending
messages to the world, the results were depressing: “Of the top
twenty most popular Tor addresses, eleven are command and
control centres for botnets, including all of the top five. Of
the rest, five carry adult content, one is for Bitcoin mining
and one is the Silk Road marketplace. Two could not be
classified.” It gets even worse: “The FreedomHosting address
is only the 27th most popular address,” according to Technology
Review.  In other words, the anonymity of Tor appeals principally to
botnets, commonly used by spammers; those who peddle or seek
pornography; and those who use a marketplace that  has been
called  “Amazon.com for illegal drugs.”  As for Freedom Hosting: It was, for a while, one of the
glories of the Tor universe. Although not sponsored by Tor,
Freedom Hosting promised free accounts to anyone. But in August,
the founder of Freedom Hosting  was arrested , charged by the U.S.
government with being the world’s biggest purveyor of child
pornography. He was also said to have turned a blind eye to
other people’s use of Freedom Hosting for that purpose.  So what are the lessons of Tor’s long summer? Principally
this: We are unlikely ever to be able to ensure our privacy
through technical means alone. Ever since the days of the
Polybius square, the race between encryption and decryption has
been won by the decrypters.  Just this week,  we learned that  the National Security
Agency may have developed either decryption capabilities or
secret backdoors that enabled it to break most Internet
encryption. (The problem may be even worse if, as some  experts
speculate , NSA is developing dedicated chips that will aid in
cracking even the elliptical keys that  not long ago  were said to
carry the promise of a more secure online future.)  Nor can we protect privacy online through laws and court
orders. The NSA, we are now told  by a federal judge , for three
years “frequently and systematically” breached the limits
placed on database searches by the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court. Think this isn’t about you? The database in
question  includes  “the phone records of nearly all Americans.”  Worst News  Privacy is  best understood  not so much as a collection of
discrete constitutional rights but as a shared sense that it is
possible for us to go about the business of daily life protected
by a government that neither knows nor cares how we spend the
bulk of our time. The minutes of our lives are entirely our own.  But in a world ruled by the Web, privacy in this
traditional sense seems so … 1990s. “There’s nothing you or I
can do to put the genie back in the bottle,” writes security
analyst Neil J. Rubenking. (The title of  his post : “Privacy is
Dead. The NSA Killed it. Now What?”) “The best we can hope
for,” he writes, “is to keep the government in check by
electing sane, sensible candidates.”  That won’t be enough. The government’s appetite for
information isn’t going to wane under either party. A voracious
security bureaucracy isn’t going to go on a sudden diet. The bad
guys will always be drawn to the shadows. Those who chase them
will always find this an adequate reason to ban darkness.  So yes, as Tor users have lately learned, privacy in the
traditional sense is most certainly dead. But the killer isn’t
the NSA. It’s the Internet itself -- or, more to the point, our
entire reliance on it, our naive belief that we can spend hours
each day sending signals into the ether and nobody will pluck
them out.  If we don’t want anyone to know what we’re buying, we’ll
have to visit brick-and-mortar stores and pay cash. If we don’t
want those who are sworn to protect us reading our e-mail and
listening to our calls, we’ll have to meet our friends in
person. It’s our growing unwillingness to take those time-consuming steps that’s killing our privacy.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” Follow him on
Twitter at  @StepCarter .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 