-- Won Reaches Six-Month High as BOK Holds Rate; Bonds Advance
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-09-12T06:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/won-climbs-to-six-month-high-as-bok-holds-rate-bonds-advance.html
South Korea’s won touched the
strongest level in more than six months as the central bank kept
its policy rate at the lowest since 2010 to support economic
growth.  Government bonds  gained.  The  Bank of Korea  today held its seven-day repurchase rate
at 2.5 percent, as predicted by all 15 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey, following a quarter percentage-point cut in May.
The won appreciated also after Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  said
Asia’s largest economy can achieve its main economic targets
this year. China is South Korea’s biggest export market.  “The central bank will keep a dovish tone for now because
it may not have much leeway to cut  interest rates  from here,”
given the risk to capital outflows from  emerging markets , said
Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a regional currency strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank in  Kuala Lumpur . “That will at least support
growth, as there are expectations for Korea to ride on the coat
tails of U.S. and Chinese economic recoveries.”  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,084.91 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier
reached 1,081.90, the strongest level since Feb. 28. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, fell 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 7.45 percent.  Stock Inflows  Global funds bought more local equities than they sold for
a 15th straight day, in the longest streak of gains since
December 2012, according to stock exchange data. The inflows
amounted to $4.67 billion in the last 14 days.  Government reports this month showed South Korean exports
jumped 7.7 percent in August from a year earlier, versus a 2.6
percent increase in July. The economy, Asia’s fourth-largest,
expanded 2.3 percent in the second quarter, the most in a year.  The won halted a three-day rally yesterday on speculation
the government intervened in the market to prevent excessive
gains. The authorities will take steps to check currency
volatility if “herd behavior” causes drastic movements, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a report to parliament in June.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
declined two basis points to 2.93 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show, the lowest level since Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  