-- Brent Rises a Second Day Amid U.S.-Russia Talks on Syria
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-12T12:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/wti-crude-little-changed-after-rising-first-time-in-three-days.html
Brent crude advanced a second day
before talks between the U.S. and  Russia  to resolve the crisis
in  Syria , a conflict that has sparked concern Middle Eastern oil
supplies may be disrupted.  Futures rose as much as 0.9 percent as Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
were to meet in Geneva today to discuss a plan for Syria to
surrender its chemical weapons. Prices jumped after the Israeli
army reported that two shells fired from Syria hit the southern
Golan. The International Energy Agency cut estimates for the
amount of crude OPEC will need to provide next year as supplies
from North America surge.  “The market has a good entry point to go long oil again as
the Syrian issue is far from being solved,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in  London . “Perhaps we are just postponing an
inevitable re-escalation in tension.”  Brent for October settlement gained as much as 96 cents to
$112.46 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and was at $112.17 as of 1:11 p.m. London time. The
more actively-traded November contract was up 76 cents at
$110.95. October futures will expire tomorrow.  The front-month European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $3.81 to West Texas Intermediate. The spread widened
yesterday for the first time in five days to $3.94.  IEA Forecast  WTI for October delivery was at $108.45 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, up 89
cents. The volume of all futures traded was about 10 percent
less than the 100-day average.  Demand for crude from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries in 2014 will be 29.2 million barrels a day
or 1.3 million lower than the group’s current production levels,
the IEA said today in its monthly market report.  Saudi Arabia Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said at a conference
in  Seoul  today that the global crude market is well-supplied and
geopolitical concerns are dominating. OPEC’s Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri echoed similar views at the same event and said
there’s no need for the 12-member group to act, even as Libya’s
output dropped because of worker strikes.  Brent gained amid concern that the conflict in Syria will
escalate and disrupt Middle East oil supplies. The U.S. says
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime used sarin gas outside of
Damascus on Aug. 21, killing more than 1,400 people.  The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent of global
oil output in the first quarter of this year, according to the
IEA. Syria borders  Iraq , OPEC’s biggest producer after Saudi
Arabia.  Crude stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for New York-traded futures, decreased by 639,000 barrels to
34.1 million in the week ended Sept. 6, according to data from
the Energy Information Administration. Supplies shrank for a
10th week, matching the longest stretch in almost two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  