-- Wynn Resorts Tightens Rules for Board Service, Meetings
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-09-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/wynn-tightens-rules-for-calling-meetings-board-service-1-.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , locked in a
dispute with its former vice chairman, tightened bylaws
governing who may serve on its board or call meetings.  Directors may not be compensated by others for service on
the board, according to a filing yesterday by the Las Vegas-based resort owner. The company also designated a Clark County,
 Nevada , court as its main legal forum for disputes.  The changes include new disclosure requirements for
investors seeking to make nominations or bring business before
shareholders. Such investors must identify people they’re
working with, along with any agreements they have, and certify
they have complied with legal requirements in connection with
the acquisition of  Wynn stock , according to the filing.  Companies may choose to designate specific courts where
claims can be made, just as they sometimes require arbitration
to settle disputes,  Rachel J. Anderson , a law professor at the
University of Nevada  Las Vegas , said today in an interview.  Michael Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn Resorts, said in an e-mail the changes are part of an annual bylaw review and in
keeping with actions other companies have taken lately.  Wynn Resorts sued Kazuo Okada in Nevada state court last
year for breach of fiduciary duty and forcibly redeemed his 20
percent stake in the casino operator, alleging he made
potentially illegal payments to Philippine government officials
that could threaten the company’s gaming licenses.  Okada, 70, filed counterclaims to undo the redemption and
unsuccessfully tried to have the dispute heard by a federal
court instead of a Nevada state judge in Las Vegas.  Wynn, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Steve Wynn , was little changed in extended trading yesterday after the
filing. The stock fell 0.8 percent to $149.65 at the close in
 New York  and has gained 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  