-- Yankees’ Jeter Is Out for Season With Ankle Injury, Cashman Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-12T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/yankees-jeter-is-out-for-season-with-ankle-injury-cashman-says.html
New York  Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter was placed on the disabled list in a move that will
“effectively end his season,” General Manager Brian Cashman
said.  Jeter, 39, has played 17 games this season and none since
Sept. 7 as he continues to feel the effects of leg injuries that
started with a broken left ankle last October. He was placed on
the 15-day disabled list retroactive to Sept. 8, the team said
in an e-mail.  “The entire year’s been pretty much a nightmare for me
physically, so I guess it’s fitting that it ends like this,”
Jeter said at a news conference. He said there was no new injury
involved.  Jeter most likely didn’t give the muscle that atrophied
during immobilization of his ankle enough time to regain its
strength, said Dr. Steven Weinfeld, 50, the chief of the foot
and ankle service at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai
in New York City.  “It’s easier for a 22-year-old player to come back than a
38- or 39-year-old player,” Weinfeld said in a telephone
interview. “It takes about a year to regain strength even for a
high-performance athlete. Athletes think when the bone is
healed, they’re done.”  Next Season  Jeter will benefit from the time off before spring training
begins as he works to overcome the residual weakness in his leg,
Weinfeld said. The prognosis is good that he will be able to
return to the team next season.  With September rules allowing teams to have additional
players on their active rosters, the decision to add Jeter to
the disabled list was made to protect him and the team from
being tempted to play him, Cashman said at a news conference in
Baltimore, where the Yankees defeated the Orioles 5-4 last
night.  “We learned the hard way, every step of the way, that this
was a more difficult rehabilitation than we ever expected,”
Cashman told reporters. “We feel it’s best to shut him down.”  Jeter won’t play if the Yankees make the postseason,
Cashman said. The Yankees remain in contention for the playoffs
with 16 regular-season games remaining.  “This is what’s best for Derek,” Cashman said. “We need
to protect ourselves from putting Derek in a position to hurt
himself.”  Playoff Spot  The Yankees are 78-68, leaving them in the chase for one of
the two wild-card playoff berths given to non-division-winning
teams.  Jeter, the team captain, hit .190 with one home run and
seven runs batted in over 73 plate appearances this season.  After attempting a comeback from surgery on the ankle,
Jeter cracked the ankle again and sat out until July. When he
made his season debut on July 11, he strained his thigh and
didn’t play again until July 28. After hitting a home run on the
first pitch he faced in his return, Jeter struggled at the plate
before being pulled from a Sept. 7 game after aggravating the
injury.  A 13-time All-Star, Jeter’s 3,316 hits are the most among
active Major League Baseball players and 10th on the career
list.  “I have not watched his last game,” Cashman said. “No
one has.”  The Yankees announced they had acquired infielder Brendan Ryan from the Seattle Mariners for a player to be announced
later, and designated right-handed pitcher Jim Miller for
assignment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  