-- Yanzhou Slumps on Coal as SouFun Drops: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-12T20:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/yanzhou-slumps-on-coal-as-soufun-drops-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks declined in New York
as  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  fell on concern about weaker demand
and  China  Telecom Corp. tumbled on speculation the granting of
fourth-generation service licenses will benefit its rivals.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 1.3 percent to 101.36 yesterday.
Yanzhou dropped to trade at the widest discount to its Hong Kong
stock in two months after the government said it plans to cut
the share of coal in energy consumption. China Telecom sank the
most since May.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  slumped for a second day
after a commentary in the Securities Times said mortgage lending
in big Chinese cities was halted.  China aims to cut the share of coal in overall energy
consumption to below 65 percent by 2017 and reduce output
capacity of iron and steel by 15 million tons each in 2015, the
cabinet said in a statement yesterday. Yanzhou surged 27 percent
in August. Premier Li Keqiang said on Sept. 11 that the
foundations of a growth rebound aren’t solid, ending an 8.5
percent six-day rally.  “Some broader market pullbacks are needed after we had
pretty impressive moves across a lot of different groups of
stocks,” said Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million of assets, said in a
telephone interview from Lisle,  Illinois  yesterday. “There’s a
shift away from coal in China, so the coal producers will have a
lot of more difficulty in the longer term than what they’ve seen
in the past.”  ETF Slumps  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 1.1 percent to $38.07
in New York, the steepest decline in two weeks. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent as investors weighed
prospects for Federal Reserve stimulus cuts and watched
developments on  Syria .  American depositary receipts of Yanzhou, China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, sank 5.4 percent to $9.89, the biggest
slump in eight weeks. The ADRs, each representing 10 underlying
shares in the Shandong-based company, traded 3.3 percent below
the Hong Kong stock, the largest discount since June.  A rebound in coal prices in China is being limited by
overcapacity, Goldman Sachs AG analyst Julian Zhu said at a
Singapore briefing yesterday.  Mobile Infrastructure  ADRs of China Telecom, the third-biggest mobile phone
carrier in China, dropped 3.8 percent to $51.95 in New York,
declining the most in three months.  China will issue 4G mobile licenses “very soon,” China
Securities Journal reported yesterday, citing  Zhang Xiaoqiang , a
deputy director of the National Development and Reform
Commission, the nation’s top planning agency.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,
the world’s biggest phone operator, said in February it will
expand its trial 4G network to 100 cities this year, with
200,000 base stations, after building the infrastructure in 15
cities in 2012.  “While China Telecom and China Unicom haven’t started
building their 4G network, China Mobile can start offering 4G
services shortly after the government issues licenses,” Di Zhou, a Santa Fe, New Mexico-based equity analyst at Thornburg
Investment Management, said by phone. “That will give a
competitive advantage to China Mobile. The network upgrade costs
for China Telecom will be higher than China Unicom’s, based on
their current network technology.”  Mortgage Lending  SouFun, owner of China’s biggest real estate information
website, tumbled for a second day, losing 6.4 percent to $47.35.  Some Chinese banks “temporarily” stopped mortgage lending
in big cities including Beijing,  Shanghai , Guangzhou and
Shenzhen as the property market faces the risk of large price
declines, which will hurt banks’ credit quality, according to a
commentary carried by the Securities Times yesterday.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , which provides Chinese map content
to companies from Sina Corp. to Apple Inc., slumped 7.1 percent
to $14.46 in New York, the biggest decline in two weeks. The
slide pared its gain this month to 28 percent.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , a developer of mobile-security software,
surged 11 percent to a $20.11, the highest level since its U.S.
listing in May 2011. The company had the biggest gain on the
China-US gauge.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI) , a maker
of automation systems, jumped 11 percent to $15.41, the highest
close since February 2011.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index was little changed at
10,637.53, while the Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.6
percent to 2,255.60, the highest level since June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  