-- Yen May Plummet to Infinity as Policies Diverge, Axel Merk Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-09-13T05:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-12/yen-may-plummet-to-infinity-as-policies-diverge-axel-merk-says.html
The yen may weaken to “infinity”
versus the dollar as central bank policies in Japan and the U.S.
diverge, according to Axel Merk of Merk Investments LLC.  The  Bank of Japan ’s unprecedented bond-buying program
designed to reach an inflation target of 2 percent in two years,
combined with the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast trimming of monthly
bond purchases, is putting pressure on the yen, said Merk, who
oversees about $635 million of currencies as founder and
president of  Palo Alto , California-based Merk Investments.  “The biggest fear that I have is that some of the policies
we have are working, be it in U.S. or Japan,” Merk said in an
interview yesterday on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee . “That means that yields are going
to spike -- it means that we cannot afford government deficits.
In Japan, it’s very clear that the Bank of Japan is going to
jump in to put a lid on that, and there the yen has to cave
in.”  The objective of Merk’s $373 million  Hard Currency Fund (MERKX)  is
to protect against the depreciation of the  U.S. dollar  relative
to other currencies. The fund has gained 2.3 percent in the
three years to yesterday, outperforming 92 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s currency slid 0.1 percent to 99.66 per dollar as of
1:41 p.m. in  Tokyo . That compares with an average of 99.71 in
the past decade.  Second Worst  The yen touched 100.61 on Sept. 11, the weakest since July
22. It has declined 13 percent versus the dollar this year,
making it the worst second-worst performer among the greenback’s
16 most-traded counterparts.  The yield  differential  between U.S. and Japanese government
securities reached its widest in almost two and a half years as
the respective monetary policies diverge. Treasuries due in 10
years yielded 2.22 percent more than similar maturity Japanese
sovereign debt on Sept. 10, the biggest premium since April
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda have implemented a bond-buying program to help combat
years of deflation. Abe will probably decide on Oct. 1 whether
to raise the  sales tax  to 8 percent in April from 5 percent now,
Economy Minister Akira Amari said on Sept. 9.  Officials are considering a reduction in the levy on
corporate income as part of a stimulus package to cushion the
economy from the planned increase, according to three people
briefed on the matter who asked not to be identified as the
discussions aren’t public.  Spending, Taxes  “They’re going to spend, they’re going to tax, they’re
going to print money,” Merk said. “It’s going to feel great
for a while, but that cannot have a good ending.”  The yen will probably be at 103 per dollar by Dec. 31,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey that
shows Royal Bank of Canada’s forecast for 92 as the most bullish
for Japan’s currency among 63 estimates, while Ebury Partners
Ltd. and and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  predict it will weaken to 115.  The currency will see a trough of 110 by the end of 2014
before recovering to 102 two years later, the poll shows.  “We continue to think the outlook for the Japanese yen is
more balanced than the extremely bearish consensus forecasts,”
analysts led by  Adam Cole , the London-based head of Group-of-10
currency strategy at RBC, wrote in a Sept. 6 report. “With
little evidence that BOJ easing has so far generated any yen
selling pressure from within Japan, however, our near-term
forecasts continue to be dominated by the steady erosion of yen
shorts.” A short is a bet an asset will decline.  Fed Tapering  The Fed this month will taper its monthly bond purchases to
$75 billion from the current $85 billion pace, according to the
median estimate of 34 economists surveyed Sept. 6 by  Bloomberg
News . The yield on  U.S. government debt  due in a decade was at
2.93 percent after exceeding 3 percent on Sept. 6 for the first
time since July 2011.  “I do think infinity is perhaps a little extreme,”  Andrew Salter , a Sydney-based currency strategist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “Our take on the yen is that a lot of the
reflation in the domestic economy has been priced into the
market. We think the next leg up in the yen really comes from
increasing U.S. Treasury yields,” said Salter, who predicts the
yen will weaken to 105 by the end of 2013.  The euro may rise to $1.40 this year, Merk said, echoing
his comments in February. The 17-nation currency has risen 0.7
percent in 2013 to $1.3278, the biggest advance after the Danish
krone among the dollar’s major counterparts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  