-- ‘Oz’ Leads Weekend Box Office With Sales of $41.3 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-03-18T22:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/-oz-leads-box-office-sales-for-second-weekend-with-42-million.html
“Oz the Great and Powerful,”  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s prequel to the 1939 classic “The Wizard of Oz,”
led box-office sales for a second weekend, taking in $41.3
million at theaters in the U.S. and  Canada .  “Oz” sales were more than double those of the weekend’s
new releases, the thriller “The Call” and the  Steve Carell 
comedy “The Incredible Burt Wonderstone,” researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Oz the Great and Powerful” is benefiting from March
school vacations, which have boosted attendance of younger
children and their parents. Inspired by L. Frank Baum’s novels,
the 3-D film opened last week with sales of $79.1 million, the
year’s best debut and the third-best-ever March opening.  “It’s scratched an itch,” said Phil Contrino, vice
president and chief analyst at  Boxoffice.com , another
researcher. “Adults see it because they get the references to
the first movie and kids can see the funny talking animals.”  The movie will face tougher competition this week when
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  releases “The Croods,” about a
Stone Age family with generational issues. That movie is
expected to take $40 million in opening-weekend sales, according
to Boxoffice.com.  Con Artist  “Oz” stars  James Franco  as Oscar Diggs, a circus con
artist who arrives in the magical land after his hot-air balloon
is caught in a tornado. He gets tangled in a conflict involving
three witches that will determine the future of Oz. The film
also features  Rachel Weisz ,  Mila Kunis  and  Michelle Williams .  The movie, directed by Sam Raimi, was forecast to generate
$44 million in its second weekend, according to Boxoffice.com.
It has taken in $144.1 million since opening on March 8.  In “The Call,” which finished second,  Halle Berry  plays
an emergency-services dispatcher who gets a call from a teenage
girl who has just been abducted. The film, from  Sony Corp. (6758) , took
in $17.1 million. It also features Abigail Breslin and Michael Imperioli.  “The Incredible Burt Wonderstone,” from Time Warner
Inc.’s  Warner Bros ., collected $10.2 million for third place. It
features Carell as a superstar magician whose career is
threatened by an upcoming rival played by Jim Carrey. Steve Buscemi and Olivia Wilde co-star.  Thriller Premise  “The Call” benefited from a “very clear and striking
thriller premise,” said  Brandon Gray , an independent box-office
analyst and former president of Box Office Mojo, an industry
tracker.  “In the case of ‘Burt Wonderstone,’ it was a tough sell
because Steve Carell was playing against type,” Gray added.
“His most successful pictures have featured him as a straight
man, whereas in ‘Burt Wonderstone’ he’s in character garb and
didn’t come off as relatable in the marketing.”  “Jack the Giant Slayer,” from Warner Bros.’s New Line
Cinema, fell to fourth place from second with $6.3 million. The
film, a 3-D re-imagination of the children’s fairy tale, has
taken in $54 million since it arrived in theaters on March 1.  In the film, directed by Bryan Singer, Jack’s ascent up the
beanstalk rekindles an ancient war between humans and a race of
bloodthirsty giants. Nicholas Hoult, who played the character
Beast in “X-Men: First Class,” portrays Jack.  Jason Bateman  “Identity Thief,” from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal
Pictures , was fifth with $4.4 million in receipts. The comedy
stars  Jason Bateman  as Sandy Bigelow Patterson, a man whose
gender-neutral name enables a woman to assume his identity and
wreck his credit. The film co-stars Melissa McCarthy as
Bateman’s nemesis. Amanda Peet plays Sandy’s wife.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 1.6 percent to
$96.2 million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said.
Sales this year are down 12 percent to $1.88 billion. Attendance
is down 13 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 15 to March 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  