-- Abu Dhabi to Identify Partner for Bab Gas Field, Suwaidi Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-03-17T14:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/abu-dhabi-to-identify-partner-for-bab-gas-field-suwaidi-says.html
Abu Dhabi is close to identifying a
partner to help produce natural gas at the Middle Eastern
emirate’s Bab field and is on schedule to renegotiate contracts
for its largest onshore oil fields, officials said.  State-owned Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. has recommended one
of two international companies that were in the running to
develop gas at Bab, Mohammed Sahoo Al Suwaidi, head of the
company’s gas directorate, said today. The company, known as
Adnoc, is awaiting government approvals for the proposal, and a
decision is imminent, he said.  Arab energy exporters Abu Dhabi and  Iraq  are among those
that have tapped foreign expertise to help produce crude and
natural gas, giving their partners a share of any output or
paying them in return. Abu Dhabi holds 2.9 percent of the
world’s gas reserves and 6 percent of its oil, according to data
from BP’s 2012 annual statistical review.  Adnoc will select partners for its largest onshore oil
areas in 2014 as planned, director general Abdulla Nasser al- Suwaidi said, dismissing reports that contract talks would be
extended by one year.  “We are still progressing as scheduled,” al-Suwaidi said.
Al-Suwaidi and Sahoo Al Suwaidi spoke to reporters at the
inauguration of a solar power plant about 120 kilometers (75
miles) from the city of Abu Dhabi.  Concession Holders  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Total SA (FP) 
and Partex Oil & Gas are shareholders in output from Abu Dhabi’s
main onshore oil fields, under concession agreements that the
international companies or their forebears have held since 1939.
Adnoc became a partner in the 1970s, forming  Abu Dhabi Co. for
Onshore Oil Operations , which has the rights for six main
deposits until 2014.  The five foreign partners as well as other producers may
participate in bidding for 1.4 million barrel-a-day onshore oil
rights as current contracts expire. Abu Dhabi holds more than 90
percent of the crude in one of the few Middle Eastern countries
that allow foreign companies to explore for and produce oil
within its borders.  Adnoc is poised to boost gas production from offshore
fields to 1 billion standard cubic feet “this summer,” from
about 200 million standard cubic feet now, Sahoo Al Suwaidi said
today. Adnoc is completing a project that will pipe gas captured
offshore to be processed on land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi or  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at   rrajendran4@bloomberg.net . 