-- Abu Dhabi Boosts Solar Power 10-Fold With Shams Plant in Desert
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-03-17T09:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/abu-dhabi-boosts-solar-power-10-fold-with-shams-plant-in-desert.html
Abu Dhabi , the largest sheikhdom in
the United Arab Emirates, is making a 10-fold boost in its
capacity to generate electricity from the sun by starting the
Shams 1 solar plant with partners  Total SA (FP)  and  Abengoa SA. (ABG)   Masdar, the state-owned renewable energy company, will
supply 100 megawatts of electricity from the Middle East’s
largest facility using concentrated solar technology, Chief
Executive Officer Sultan al Jaber said today at the plant’s
inauguration in the inland desert west of the U.A.E.’s capital,
also called Abu Dhabi.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa are
developing sources of renewable energy to help satisfy the needs
of growing populations and economies. Many of these states
export oil and natural gas and are trying to cut their own
demand for those fuels, which they use to produce power that
governments generally sell at subsidized prices.  Abu Dhabi, which holds almost all the oil reserves in the
U.A.E., seeks by 2020 to generate at least 7 percent of its
power from renewable sources. It already operates a 10 megawatt
solar facility at the Masdar City development and plans a 100
megawatt photovoltaic plant called Noor 1. It may build a 30-
megawatt wind farm on Sir Bani Yas island in the emirate.  Neighboring  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude
exporter, is seeking about $100 billion in solar investments to
generate a third of its power, or about 41,000 megawatts, by
2032. The kingdom currently has about 3 megawatts of solar
installations, trailing Egypt,  Morocco , Tunisia,  Algeria  and the
U.A.E., according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Photovoltaic plants attract the sun’s energy using panels
that convert sunlight directly to electricity. Concentrated
solar plants reflect the sun’s beams to heat liquids and create
steam to turn turbines and generate power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Abu Dhabi at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at   rrajendran4@bloomberg.net . 