-- ADB Sees Capital Inflows a Risk to Asia as Bond Market Grows 12%
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-03-17T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/adb-sees-capital-inflows-a-risk-to-asia-as-bond-market-grows-12-.html
Capital inflows into emerging East
 Asia  risk flooding the region with cash, creating asset bubbles,
as investors seek higher returns from the fast-growing economies,
according to the  Asian Development Bank .  Outstanding local-currency debt in the region rose 12
percent to $6.5 trillion in 2012, and increased foreign
participation has reduced yields, the Manila-based lender said
in its  quarterly  Asia Bond Monitor released today. Authorities
have taken measures to curb inflows, with Taiwan’s central bank
telling lawmakers in a March 15 report that global “hot money”
has overtaken economic fundamentals in determining the direction
of Asian currency and stock markets.  “These developments might put upward pressure on exchange
rates, making exports less competitive,” the ADB said in the
report led by Thiam Hee Ng, senior economist at its regional
economic integration office in  Manila . “There are concerns that
higher levels of liquidity could lead to excess credit growth,
thus fueling asset-price bubbles in the region.”  Six of the region’s currencies are among the top 10
performers among  emerging markets  in the past year, led by
advances of 5.8 percent for the Philippine peso and 4.3 percent
for Thailand’s baht.  Yuan  positions at local lenders accumulated
from sales of foreign exchange to the central bank, an indicator
of cross-border inflows to China, rose a record 684 billion yuan
($110 billion) in January, official data showed March 5.  Average Yield  The average yield on Asia’s local-currency debt fell 36
basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, in the past year to 3.6
percent on March 14, according to indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  A key consideration in managing capital inflows for several
of the small and open economies of the region is to have well-
developed and liquid government bond markets, the ADB said in
today’s report.  The lender classifies emerging East Asia as comprising
China,  Hong Kong , Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia, the
 Philippines , Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. Developing Asian
economies will grow 6.6 percent in 2013, bolstered by private
consumption and investment, the ADB said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  