-- Aeropostale Seen as Next Hot Topic on Discount: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-03-18T21:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/aeropostale-seen-as-next-hot-top-on-discount-real-m-a.html
Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , the clothing
chain for teens, is offering the biggest sales discount in
America for private-equity firms seeking a deal at the mall.  After reporting its smallest  annual profit  in at least a
decade and forecasting a first-quarter loss, Aeropostale’s stock
slumped last week by the  most  in two months. That left the
company valued at 0.46 times its revenue in the last year, the
cheapest among similar-sized U.S. specialty-apparel retailers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $1.1 billion chain,
with no debt and a lower price relative to free cash flow than
any of its peers, could follow fellow mall retailer Hot Topic
Inc. in attracting a buyout, Jefferies Group LLC said.  Private-equity suitors may be lured by Aeropostale’s free
 cash flow  generation and the chance to improve profitability,
while its lack of debt leaves room to finance a deal, according
to Morningstar Inc. Aeropostale, which sells hoodies and jeans,
earns less in profits for each dollar of sales than its peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Buyers could offer $20 a share
for the New York-based chain, a 45 percent premium, based on the
earnings multiple agreed to in Sycamore Partners’s $600 million
offer for Hot Topic, according to Wedbush Inc.  “There’s clearly value in this company but management is
finding some trouble with unlocking it,” Jaime Katz, a Chicago-
based analyst at Morningstar, said in a telephone interview. For
a buyout firm, “you could get gross margins up pretty quickly
and operating margins up pretty quickly and clean your hands of
it in five or six years and put it back out on the market.
That’s kind of a nice quick turnaround for someone looking to
make a buck in private equity.”  Profit Slump  Ken Ohashi , vice president of investor and media relations
at Aeropostale, declined to comment on whether the retailer
would be open to a sale or had received interest from potential
buyers.  Today, Aeropostale shares rose 3.2 percent to $14.19, the
biggest gain among 61 stocks in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap 400
Consumer Discretionary Index.  The company’s profit  peaked  at $231 million in the fiscal
year that ended in January 2011 before plummeting to $35 million
in its most recent year ended Feb. 2.  Same-store sales  have been
flat or down for 10 straight quarters, and Aeropostale’s  profit
margin  has shrunk to less than 2 percent from almost 10 percent
two years ago.  Last week, Aeropostale announced its first quarterly loss
in at least 10 years and forecast an even wider deficit in the
current quarter as it deals with unsold inventory from the
holiday season.  Disappointing Outlook  Aeropostale’s  stock  plunged more than 5 percent on March 15
after the company’s first-quarter outlook missed analysts’
estimates, bringing its  decline  during the past 12 months to 36
percent. It traded at a 54 discount to its sales during the past
year, cheaper than any other U.S. specialty-apparel chain with a
market value of more than $500 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  At last week’s closing price of $13.75, Aeropostale was
valued at 9.6 times its free cash flow during the 12 months
ended Oct. 27, the latest period for which such data is
available. That’s the lowest among its peer group, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Aeropostale’s valuations are among the “compelling
reasons” that private-equity firms may consider a takeover of
the company, Randal Konik, a New York-based analyst at
Jefferies, wrote in a March 7 note to clients, a week before the
company released its latest results.  Buyout Appeal  Sycamore’s bid this month for  Hot Topic (HOTT) , as well as
Starbucks Corp.’s purchase of Teavana Holdings Inc. and private-
equity firm Apax Partners LLP’s deal for  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s Cole Haan
brand completed this year, signal appetite for retail
acquisitions, and Aeropostale could be next, Konik wrote.  Aeropostale has no  debt  and $114 million in free cash flow
in the 12 months ended in October, making the company an
attractive target for private-equity suitors, Katz of
Morningstar said. She estimated an Aeropostale takeover could
fetch $19 to $23 a share, or as much as a 67 percent premium.  “It’s easy to lever up,” she said. Buyout firms “don’t
really have to put their own money on the table, which is
something they always like.”  Private-equity shoppers also may be drawn to the chance to
boost Aeropostale’s margins by addressing the inventory and
assortment struggles that have plagued its earnings, according
to Katz.  Merchandise Mismatch  For private-equity buyers, “it’s much easier to come in
and fix a bad business,” Katz said. “Where is the mismatch
between the merchandise and the target consumer? There’s clearly
some sort of disconnect.”  Even as fashion misfires depress margins, Aeropostale could
expand its presence  outside of the U.S.  and its  P.S. from
Aeropostale  chain, which targets kids between the ages of 4 and
12, could grow to several hundred U.S. locations, according to
Betty Chen, a San Francisco-based analyst at Wedbush.  “It certainly has a lot of the characteristics that a
private-equity firm would probably find attractive,” she said.
“They’ve got a growth concept from P.S. They generate a lot of
cash and it has a strong brand.”  Chen estimated buyers could offer about $20 a share for the
company, based on the multiple to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization that Sycamore agreed to pay
for Hot Topic.  No Bang?  Still, Aeropostale’s growth prospects may be limited, and
the retailer’s slumping results could cause buyout firms to
balk, according to  Richard Jaffe , a New York-based analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp.  “Private equity wants more bang for their buck,” he said.
“You don’t have a growth story here.”  Aeropostale’s most recent earnings slide also may drive its
gross margins to such a depressed level that adding leverage
becomes challenging, which would limit financing options for
private-equity suitors, John Kernan, a New York-based analyst at
Cowen Group Inc., wrote in an e-mail.  Even so, for buyers willing to take on the risk of a
turnaround, the effort could pay off, according to Katz of
Morningstar.  Private equity could see an “opportunity to kind of clean
this business up,” she said. “While Aeropostale is like the
dog this year, it could be the winner next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  