-- All Sides Embrace Tax Reform That Won’t Happen
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-03-17T15:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/all-sides-embrace-tax-reform-that-won-t-happen.html
Everyone in  Washington  celebrates
tax reform. President  Barack Obama  embraced it in his  State of
the Union  address. House Speaker  John Boehner  called it a top
legislative priority. The House Ways and Means and Senate
Finance committees are convening bipartisan working groups, and
lobbyists are licking their chops.  To the president and Democrats, tax reform is an
opportunity to create a more equitable  tax code  while bringing
in more revenue to reduce the  deficit ; to Republicans, it’s
about cutting marginal rates, especially the top ones, to
promote economic growth; to lobbyists, it’s about padding their
wallets.  It’s a mirage, say a number of serious participants who
would like to see something achieved. The chances of any
substantial overhaul in this Congress are slim to none.  The U.S.  tax code  is riddled with special-interest
provisions, economic inefficiencies and inequities. Yet every
preference enjoys either popular support or influential backing
from a vested interest.  This always makes the politics of  tax reform  daunting; in
reshaping a  code  that hands out more than $1 trillion a year in
preferences, there would be winners and losers. Inevitably, it’s
the potential losers who bring the most passion to the
deliberations.  Revenue Neutral  What makes an overhaul next to impossible today is the
added burden of total polarization: Democrats insist that any
changes must result in net revenue gains; Republicans say any
measure must be revenue neutral. Both sides agree that changing
the way taxes are allocated is politically perilous and only can
be done with bipartisan support.  That rules out any sweeping change, despite the genuine
support of both the president and House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican.  It’s conceivable, if unlikely, that a deal could be struck
to replace the current across-the-board spending reductions
under sequestration with some additional revenue along with cuts
to entitlements. That could open the way for a modest tax
overhaul that slightly lowers rates and cuts a few preferences.  The goal of strong reform advocates, to cut the top rate by
as much as a third and slash loopholes, runs into current
realities.  “Democrats just raised the top rate and Republicans say no
more tax increases,” says Bill Gale, the director of economic
studies at the  Brookings Institution .  It might be a little easier to take up the tax system for
businesses because there’s a general consensus that changes
should be revenue neutral. Camp wants to lower the top corporate
rate to 25 percent from 35 percent; the administration wants to
cut it to 28 percent.  Here, too, the trade-offs are tough. Even if the
controversial foreign source issue is resolved -- the largest
corporate preference is the ability of U.S.-based multinationals
to defer taxes on income abroad -- with some acceptable global
minimum tax, powerful sectors such as agriculture, mining and
real estate could face higher taxes.  The same could apply to partnerships, a sector that
includes law firms and financial companies with clout. (Camp
floated a surprising proposal last week that would curtail the
ability of partnerships, such as  hedge funds  and private equity
firms, to allocate income and tax benefits among their members.)  Untouchable Exclusions  On the individual side, the demand for more revenue means
the losers outweigh the winners. Yet experience shows that most
of the biggest preferences -- charitable write-offs, the
deductions for  home mortgages  and state, local and property
taxes and the exclusion of health-insurance benefits -- are
close to untouchable.  Republicans offer several ways to circumvent these
obstacles. One is to put a ceiling on overall write-offs instead
of attacking individual subsidies. The problem with that idea,
as former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  discovered when he
made a vague campaign pledge along these lines, is that it would
hit hard taxpayers who make $100,000 to $200,000 a year, and who
don’t consider themselves rich, and vote heavily. The other
impediment is the Republican argument that there’s no need for
net new taxes because effective reform would promote economic
growth and bring in more revenue. The evidence for that is
flimsy.  All right, proponents still say, some periodic overhaul of
the code is essential and Washington overcame similar obstacles
with the sweeping 1986  Tax Reform Act . It’s true that rates were
lowered and the base was broadened. However, it was financed
with huge increases in corporate and capital gains taxes, both
of which would be off the table today for Republicans and more
than a few Democrats.  In 1985-86, there also was real bipartisan cooperation
among a Republican president,  Ronald Reagan , Treasury Secretary
Jim Baker and Democratic lawmakers such as Representative Dan Rostenkowski and Senator  Bill Bradley . Even then it took almost
two years and on several occasions the effort very nearly died.
No trace of that spirit exists today.  Still, a major discussion of tax reform this year would be
healthy. It could be educational, underscoring the deficiencies
and unfairness of the code and the tough trade-offs required to
make it better. That could lead to gradual changes and
improvements at the margins.  It also probably would be a boon for the Washington
economy, as special interests rush to hire any lobbyist with a
pulse to protect their benefits.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 