-- America’s Dirtiest Coal Company
-- B y   B i l l   M c K i b b e n
-- 2013-03-17T22:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/america-s-dirtiest-coal-company.html
If you go to the website of the
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  of the Eastern District of  Missouri , you
can read more than 1,000 letters from retired coal miners and
their widows.  Their words are like the lyrics to an endless Johnny Cash
ballad, and even more heartbreaking. They tell the eternal tale
of the greedy few, this time playing out in real time in our
America.  Here’s the story: In the fall of 2007,  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU) , the coal-mining giant, spun off all its unionized mines
into a new company,  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  In the process, it got
rid of the promises it had made over generations to coal miners
and their families.  Or, as Peabody’s chief executive officer  put  it, “We’re
reducing our legacy liabilities roughly $1 billion.” This was
such a good idea that another coal giant,  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) ,
unloaded its union mines on Patriot as well, though it cycled
them first through yet another front. All totted up, Patriot now
had 10,000 retirees and their health-care benefits on its books.  This company was designed to fail. Patriot is almost
certainly the only five-year-old company on earth with three
times as many retirees as employees, 90 percent of whom never
worked for the company. And fail it did,  declaring  bankruptcy
last summer. Now it’s going through Chapter 11 reorganization
and hoping to emerge freed of its obligations for the pensions
and medical care of those miners.  Disappearing Benefits  In a corporate sleight-of-hand, the promises won with a
lifetime of hard work and hard bargaining disappeared first into
a holding company. Now, if the  bankruptcy  judge agrees, they
will disappear into thin air.  Or, to put it more explicitly, here’s a handwritten note
from Shirley Wells of Sullivan,  Kentucky : “Over the years
thousands were killed in explosions, fires, roof falls, and many
other accidents. ... Many others suffer from the slower death
called black  lung disease  ... confined to their homes, dependent
on oxygen.”  If Patriot has its way, they won’t have the medical cards
that pay for their treatment. And as one miner after another
points out in the letters, they bargained hard for those cards,
preferring guaranteed medical care over higher wages precisely
because of the toll the work took on their bodies. In this
country, coal mining is our metaphor for hard work. There’s
really nothing much tougher on a person.  Patriot’s deceit is indefensible even if you’re a laissez-
faire purist: It makes nonsense of accounting to socialize the
risks of coal mining by tossing miners on the mercy of Medicare.
It’s also completely unfair to any of Patriot’s competitors
willing to honor their obligations.  As a Temple University finance professor,  Bruce Rader , put
it in a stinging rebuke to Patriot: “Corporate socialism is a
system that privatizes profits and socializes costs. If that is
considered capitalism, then  Al Capone  is right in his statement:
‘Capitalism is the legitimate racket of the ruling class.’”  And in this case, Patriot is doing nothing to hide its fat-
cat heart. Its bankruptcy advisers billed $2,635 for a single
dinner; the company is even now seeking court permission to hand
out  $6 million  in bonuses to executives.  I’m an environmentalist. I think we can’t keep burning coal
because the carbon it produces is, right this moment, melting
the Arctic, acidifying the ocean and raising the temperature of
the earth in ways that most climate scientists think endanger
the prospects of our civilization.  But part of civilization is taking care of people who have
worked hard. That’s why every climate bill proposed in Congress
should have extensive sections designed to protect retirees and
retrain existing workers.  Hardest Work  And that’s why many environmentalists will join churches,
civil rights groups and labor unions in protesting Patriot’s
grotesque charade. It’s not all right to balance the ledger --
carbon or corporate -- on the backs of men and women already
bowed by a lifetime of the hardest work on earth.  As Billy D. Canterbury, also known as Docket Item No. 2638,
put it in his letter to the  bankruptcy court : “At 19 I started
working in the coal industry, but had to retire at 55 in 2007
due to orthopedic conditions. Among those are a ruptured disc in
back, L5, three injuries to my right knee, and two injuries to
my left knee. All of which were work-related.”  He continued, “In good faith we, the United Mine Workers
members, provided the labor needed to assist Peabody in its
endeavors to mine the coal necessary for them to conduct
business.” That’s how capitalism is supposed to work. But this
particular business turns out to be even grimier than it seemed.  ( Bill McKibben , the author of “Deep Economy: The Wealth of
Communities and the Durable Future,” is the Schumann
Distinguished Scholar at Middlebury College. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 