-- America’s Latest Phony Fiscal Crisis
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2013-03-17T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/america-s-latest-phony-fiscal-crisis.html
In most countries that experience a
fiscal crisis, there is no ambiguity about the situation.  The government is unable to sell debt at a reasonable
 interest rate . This probably coincides with a broader shift out
of domestic assets, as smart investors read the writing on the
wall or in the newspapers. The currency collapses and, often,
inflation accelerates. The government is forced to slash
spending and, cap in hand, asks for help from the world’s least
popular ambulance service: the  International Monetary Fund .  No part of this description fits the modern U.S. Rates on
government debt are very low, the currency isn’t depreciating
rapidly and inflation seems stable. There is no imaginable
circumstance under which the U.S. would need to borrow from the
IMF. Yet this great land of innovation has undeniably invented
its unique kind of fiscal crisis.  Or, to be more precise, we have reinvented the uniquely
American way of ruining our fiscal affairs. At the beginning of
the 19th century,  Thomas Jefferson  was obsessed with the idea
that debt was bad and that the U.S.’s obligations -- inherited
mostly from the War of Independence -- must be eliminated at all
costs. (Jefferson himself had had some bad personal experiences
with debt.)  Jefferson,  James Madison , and their colleagues in the
Democratic-Republican Party also wanted to shrink the size of
the federal government, a reaction to the agenda of  Alexander Hamilton  and the Federalists.  Smaller Navy  In 1801, when Jefferson became president, the U.S.
government embarked on a policy of cutting federal spending,
including for the military. The Navy, in particular, suffered
years of neglect or, in modern terminology, “lack of readiness
preparation.”  What any economy needs by way of publicly provided goods
varies with income level and stage of economic development. But
the U.S. has always needed a robust military that is capable of
protecting the country. And that’s not what remained after more
than a decade of cuts in the early 1800s.  Unfortunately, the American fiscal way -- then as now --
was to combine excessive expectations with inadequate revenue.
As a result, the dominant war-hawks faction in Congress sought
and achieved a confrontation with  Great Britain . It pitted the
world’s biggest navy against a depleted fleet in a sorry state
of repair. The contest wasn’t even close.  As a direct result, the British were able to trash
 Washington  and burn the White House. The U.S. government didn’t
 default , or even come close. The fiscal crisis was a failure to
deliver the public goods -- defense -- that the nation needed
and expected.  Fast-forward to today. We have a  budget deficit  because
revenue has been allowed to fall behind government commitments.
This is the net result of the George W. Bush tax cuts, two
foreign wars and the unfunded expansion of Medicare. Then, a
financial crisis cratered the economy and further pushed down
 tax revenue  while increasing unemployment and poverty. And,
looking at decades ahead, health-care costs (not just Medicare)
threaten to undermine competitiveness or even sink the economy.  So how does the political system respond? Most recently,
with a sequestration program of across-the-board spending
reductions that undermine military readiness and cut essential
programs that help poor children. And now, with a budget
proposal from  House Republicans  that slashes Medicaid, about
half of which goes to protect the health of poor children.  Does this make any sense? No, but there is likely to be a
lot more of this in our immediate future.  Tax Resistance  Republicans are dug in very hard against raising  taxes .  I
 testified  before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress last
week, and the discourse was much more cordial and constructive
than it had been in recent years. Still, I sincerely doubt the
House Republicans will budge in their opposition to raising
revenue.  Meanwhile, in December, the Obama administration decided
not to press its main advantage, which was the expiration of the
Bush tax cuts. The drama over the so-called fiscal cliff at the
end of last year was the right moment to put additional  revenue 
on the table; this happened, but only to a small and
insufficient degree.  At the hearing, Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat
who is vice chairman of the committee, said Medicare should be
able to negotiate the price of prescription medicine, which
 could save  hundreds of billions of dollars over 10 years. This
idea will soon be gaining traction. How could any reasonable
person keep this off the current budget table (unless they work
for Big Pharma)?  More broadly, we need to confront and limit health-care
costs (not just Medicare and Medicaid). Cutting government
support for health care and shifting the burden onto families
will have one clear and unavoidable impact: less care and less
good care for poor people and their children.  The U.S. needs a strong defense. And that includes helping
a generation out of poverty, up the education ladder, and into
the middle class.  We must look at how the world is changing and recognize
threats, including those from  North Korea ,  Iran  and terrorism
(including the cyber kind). We need the government to help
organize and pay for our protection, and that includes our  data
networks .  But we must also address the  poverty  all around us.  Income
inequality  has increased over the past three decades. Many
families thought they were making sensible decisions for the
future, only to see their jobs move overseas and their human
capital lose value. The housing boom-bust and recent recession
have exacerbated these problems. The social-insurance system is
already stretched very thin.  Cost Shifting  Shifting  health care costs  from the government to the
private sector doesn’t help anyone. I agree with the
 Congressional Budget Office  that doing so would probably
increase overall health-care costs (as a percentage of gross
domestic product and as a percentage of your total income). The
effect of raising the Medicare eligibility age to 66 or 67, from
65, would be similar -- creating a new group of people, ages 65
or 66, who can get insurance only at a high price.  Americans need to have a more honest and open conversation
about what we want to achieve as a nation -- and how to use our
government’s fiscal policy, in a responsible manner, to reach
these goals.  Congress should end the sequestration and replace it with a
more sensible process of determining how big the  federal
government  should be (in terms of spending as a percentage of
GDP) and how to pay for that.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management , as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author   of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  