-- Australia Faces ‘Massive Hit’ to Government Revenue, Swan Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-17T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/australia-faces-massive-hit-to-government-revenue-swan-says.html
Australia faces a “massive hit”
to government revenue, pushing the nation further into deficit
ahead of an election in September, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  The national budget fell a further A$4.6 billion ($4.8
billion) into deficit in the first four weeks of 2013, taking
the total shortfall to A$26.8 billion for the first seven months
of the financial year, according to  Treasury figures  released by
the government March 15. Just three week ago, Swan predicted a
reduction in revenue would add just A$2 billion to the deficit
in January.  “One of the big challenges we face is a massive hit to
government revenues,” Swan said in a weekly economic note
yesterday. Revenue downgrades “will inevitably continue to
impact beyond the current year.”  Labor Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to overcome the
opposition Liberal-National coalition’s lead in opinion polls is
being damaged by weaker growth, lower prices for  Australia ’s
resources, and a strong local currency that’s curbing tax
receipts. Gillard, the nation’s first female leader, was forced
in December to abandon a pledge to return the budget to a
surplus this year.  “We will not put growth and jobs in our economy at risk by
cutting further and deeper in the near term to fill in a hole in
revenues,” said Swan.  In its October  mid-year review , the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year.  Income Tax  Government revenues rose 7.7 percent during the first seven
months of the financial year, compared with the same period in
2011-2012, according to Treasury figures released March 15 by
Finance Minister  Penny Wong . Spending was up by 3.6 percent.
Personal income tax payments were up 9.8 percent, more than the
8.4 percent forecast in the budget update in October. Company
tax receipts fell 1.6 percent.  The Labor government’s support among voters rose 3
percentage points to 48 percent on a two-party preferred basis,
with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition falling 3 points
to 52 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published in the
Australian newspaper March 12.  Gillard’s so-called minerals resource rent tax, which puts
a 30 percent levy on iron-ore and coal profits, raised A$126
million in its first six months, trailing targets, the
government said last month. Abbott says the shortfall in revenue
is an example of the government’s fiscal bungling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  