-- Big Mac Fights Subway Shrimp in Russia Fast-Food Fracas
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-18T15:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/big-mac-fights-subway-shrimp-in-russia-fast-food-fracas.html
More than two decades after
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s outlet on Moscow’s Pushkin Square began
offering a golden-arched alternative to grey communist eateries,
the fast-food pioneer is on the defensive.  McDonald’s, which virtually created the market for burgers
and fries in the country and convinced Russians it’s OK to eat
with their hands, must fend off a growing challenge from rivals
 Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) , Subway Restaurants,  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) 
and  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)   “A huge number of Subways have appeared in Moscow in
recent years, I pass about five of them on my way home,” said
Dmitry Mikhailov, a 30-year-old consultant. McDonald’s “is
crowded -- it’s just for pigging out quickly and running away.”  To fend off rivals, McDonald’s this year will turn to
franchising, a model it uses in more than 80 percent of its
outlets worldwide but has shied from in Russia. The company has
chosen OAO Rosinter Restaurant Holding, which runs local chains
Il Patio and Planet Sushi as well as foreign franchises such as
T.G.I. Friday’s, to operate outlets in airports and train
stations. McDonald’s also plans to work with franchisees for a
push into Siberia and other far-flung areas.  “Russia is a priority market for McDonald’s,” said
Khamzat Khasbulatov, who heads the company’s operations in the
country. “And franchisees will play a significant role in our
success.”  Staying ahead in Russia is crucial to McDonald’s in Europe,
which accounts for two-fifths of its global revenue. The
company’s revenue in the region dropped in fiscal 2012 despite
growth in Russia, where it’s the top chain with 43 percent of
the market.  Siberian Franchises  Subway has opened 432 outlets in the past three years, for
a total of 514, working with almost 200 franchisees. It sells
shrimp sandwiches and other specialties created especially for
Russia, as well as beer--which McDonald’s doesn’t offer.
Subway’s sales more than doubled in 2011, the most recent data
available, according to researcher Euromonitor.  Since arriving in Russia in 2010, Burger King has opened 86
restaurants there, and it’s targeting Siberia, which accounts
for two-thirds of the country’s territory and is home to 26
million people. Burger King relies on franchises run with state-
run bank VTB Capital, and its sales jumped 151 percent last year
to about $266 million, Euromonitor estimates.  Yum has 196 KFC restaurants in Russia and says the country
was its fastest-growing market in 2012, with same-store sales up
46 percent. In 2010 Yum bought out partner Rosinter -- the
company now working with McDonald’s -- from a joint venture with
KFC, and it’s seeking to double its outlets by the end of 2015.
That would push sales to $1 billion, five times their 2011
level.  Increasing Competition  “People don’t go specifically to McDonald’s, they stop by
the nearest fast-food place, and the competition is growing,”
said Andrei Sterlin, head of researcher Business Analitica in
Moscow.  Yum gets more than half its revenue in China, which has
helped push its price-to-earnings ratio above that of
McDonald’s.  McDonald’s fell 1.2 percent to $98.49 at 11:10 a.m. in New
York. Yum declined 1.5 percent, while Burger King slid 1.1
percent.  McDonald’s shares are up 12 percent this year after
plunging to a 15-month low in November, when the company
replaced U.S. chief Jan Fields amid falling same-store sales.
Yum has climbed 4.1 percent after tumbling late last year on
news of an investigation of its chicken suppliers in China.
Burger King is up 14 percent.  Rye Burger  Russians spend $106 per person a year in restaurants, less
than half what the Chinese do and about a sixth of the average
for Germany, according to Euromonitor, so there’s plenty of
potential. After increasing 18 percent last year, Russia’s fast
food market is set to expand 7 percent annually through 2016,
outpacing the broader economy, Euromonitor predicts.  With its Big Macs, fries, and local offerings such as Beef
a la Russ (a burger served on rye bread), McDonald’s saw its
Russian revenue advance more than 10 percent last year,
according to Khasbulatov. Euromonitor estimates the company’s
2011 Russia sales at $1.4 billion.  Despite McDonald’s storied path in Russia -- the Pushkin
Square location, its first in Russia, attracted lines that were
blocks long -- management shied away from franchisees there for
fear of losing control of quality.  “Our first restaurant had queues for four years after
opening,” said Khasbulatov, who headed that outlet before
moving into management. “People were surprised how personnel
could smile and thank customers for coming in.”  Empty Shelves  Part of the company’s reluctance to partner lies in its
success in going it alone. When McDonald’s opened in Russia in
1990, grocers had trouble stocking shelves and shoppers often
waited hours for scarce products. To guarantee a steady supply
of everything from burgers to buns to special sauce, the company
built a production plant near Moscow to process beef, bake
bread, and make milkshake mix and sauces.  With the advance of the market economy in Russia, supplies
are no longer such a pressing issue. Today, the company relies
on outsiders for many ingredients, according to Khasbulatov.  After opening transport hubs with Rosinter, McDonald’s will
push on to remote regions such as sparsely populated Siberia and
Kaliningrad, a Russian enclave squeezed between Poland and
Lithuania, Khasbulatov said. In Siberia alone, McDonald’s
franchisees may open dozens of restaurants, he said, declining
to give details.  McDonald’s also plans to hasten the pace at which it builds
company-owned outlets. It took 23 years to reach its current 356
restaurants -- an average of 16 openings annually. In the next
three years, McDonald’s expects to add 150 company-owned
restaurants in addition to the new franchises, Khasbulatov said.  “People who live in cities where there are no places to go
out or no drive-ins will eat at home,” Khasbulatov said.
“That’s how many Russians live outside of Moscow, and it’s an
unplowed field where we can grow for years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  