-- Bullish Bets Jump Most Since July as Gold Rebounds: Commodities
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-03-18T21:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/bullish-bets-jump-most-since-july-as-gold-rebounds-commodities.html
Investors increased wagers on a
commodity rally by the most in eight months as signs of a U.S.
economic recovery bolstered the outlook for demand and drove
rallies in crude oil, cotton, copper and gold.  Hedge funds and other large speculators raised net-long
 positions  across 18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended
March 12 by 30 percent to 528,680 contracts, the biggest gain
since July and up from a four-year low the previous week, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Money managers
raised bullish bets on corn by 39 percent, cotton holdings were
the highest since 2010, and gold wagers increased 9 percent.  Open interest  in commodities rose 2.8 percent in the first
half of March, heading for a third monthly gain, and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials erased its
2013 losses. U.S.  retail sales  climbed twice as much as forecast
in February, the government said March 13. In the four weeks to
March 9, the average number of Americans filing for jobless
benefits fell to the lowest since March 2008. The U.S., the
largest economy, is the top consumer of corn and oil and the
second-biggest metals user.  “People are accepting the fact that we have a growing
economy, and there’s confirmation of that from the economic
data,” said Sal Gilbertie, who helps manage $69 million of
assets as president and chief investment officer of Teucrium
Trading LLC in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “It gives people a reason
to believe that there’s going to be sustained economic demand
for base commodities.”  Commodity Rebound  The S&P GSCI gauge has gained 0.6 percent this year after
being down 1 percent on March 4. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities climbed 5.7 percent, while the dollar advanced
3.6 percent against a basket of six trading partners. Treasuries
lost 0.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The euro fell today to its lowest level this year, sending
17 of the raw materials tracked by the GSCI lower, after euro-
area finance ministers reached an agreement on March 16 forcing
depositors in Cypriot banks to share the cost of the latest
euro-zone bailout.  First-time U.S. jobless  claims  fell 10,000 to 332,000 in
the week ended March 9, the fewest since mid-January, the Labor
Department said March 14. Output at factories, mines and
utilities climbed 0.7 percent, the most in three months,
exceeding the median projection in a Bloomberg survey of
economists, the Federal Reserve said on March 15.  Stimulus Measures  Europe’s leaders including German Chancellor Angela Merkel
spoke in favor of growth at a two-day summit in Brussels last
week. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said that he sees an
argument for bolstering economic recovery by expanding
quantitative easing. King and two colleagues were outvoted last
month in a push to expand stimulus. The U.S. will use 8.7
percent of the world’s copper this year, and western Europe will
account for 14 percent of demand, according to Morgan Stanley.  The S&P GSCI is up 86 percent since the end of 2008 as the
Fed expanded its balance sheet to more than $3 trillion, joining
central banks from Europe to Asia in global stimulus aimed at
boosting growth. U.S. policy makers probably will decide to
continue their $85 billion monthly asset-purchase program at a
meeting March 19-20, Credit Suisse Group AG economists Neal Soss
and Dana Saporta said in a note last week.  Bullish  commodity holdings  fell 24 percent since Jan. 1, as
equity markets outpaced gains for raw materials. Demand from
China, the biggest consumer of everything from copper to
soybeans, may decline as industrial output had the weakest start
to a year since 2009 and its copper imports tumbled to a 20-
month low in February. The country accounts for 42 percent of
global demand for the metal, Barclays Plc estimates.  Supplies Gaining  Copper stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London, New
York and Shanghai jumped 43 percent since the start of the year
to the highest since December 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The U.S. Department of Agriculture is forecasting record
corn and soybean crops, and U.S. crude-oil  stockpiles  have
climbed for eight weeks. Copper net-short positions, or bets
prices will decline, totaled 16,764 contracts on March 12, 2.3
percent more than a week earlier, CFTC data show.  “The question is: has China peaked?” said Tom Stringfellow, the president of San Antonio-based Frost
Investment Advisors LLC, which manages about $9 billion of
assets. “If you think there is an economic slowdown coming,
that could very well mean another global recession, and you
wouldn’t be interested in commodities in general.”  Investors withdrew a net $110 million from commodity funds
in the week ended March 13, including $194 million from gold and
precious-metals funds, said Cameron Brandt, the director of
research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based researcher EPFR
Global, which tracks money flows.  Declines Overdone  This year’s price declines are exaggerated, and investors
should buy, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a March 7 report,
raising its outlook for raw materials to “overweight” from
“neutral.” Goldman ranked No. 1 in commodities revenue in
2012, according to analytics company Coalition.  Gold holdings rose 9 percent to 43,195 contracts as of
March 12, after dropping 27 percent the previous week, according
to the CFTC. The price advanced 1 percent for the week, the
biggest gain in two months, as investors sought a hedge against
accelerating inflation.  The U.S. consumer-price index rose 0.7 percent in February,
more than forecast, after retail gasoline surged, the government
said March 15. Crude-oil futures rallied 1.6 percent last week,
the most since Feb. 1, and today touched $93.94 a barrel in New
York, the highest in three weeks.  Net-longs for  agricultural  products surged 73 percent in
the week ended March 12 to 243,238 contracts, the first increase
in five weeks, according to the CFTC.  Cotton Surge  Cotton holdings rose 12 percent to 67,632 contracts, the
highest since September 2010. Prices climbed to an 11-month high
of 93.93 cents a pound on March 15 in New York on speculation
that China, the largest buyer, will boost imports just as supply
tightens in the U.S., the biggest exporter.  Bets on higher  corn  prices rose to 87,671 contracts in the
biggest weekly gain since July, according to the CFTC. Futures
on the Chicago Board of Trade today rose to the highest since
Feb. 7. Soybean net-long holdings advanced 8.6 percent to
139,344 contracts, the highest since November.  Speculators also trimmed bearish holdings in  sugar  by 75
percent, leaving a net-short position of 11,540 contracts,
according to the commission, while the price rose 0.7 percent
for the week. Wheat net-shorts narrowed by 10 percent to 41,519
contracts, before prices advanced 3.7 percent.  Value-Oriented  Investors may be purchasing commodities after prices
declined earlier this year, said Adrian Day, who manages about
$170 million of assets as the president of Adrian Day Asset
Management in Annapolis, Maryland.  “Good economic news, particularly in the U.S., and
improved sentiment in Europe has driven” the rebound, said Day.
“A lot of money came out of commodities at the beginning of
this year and went into equities. There are always some fund
managers who are value-oriented, so the decline in commodities
has been long enough that it may get more people to move,
particularly if there’s good economic news.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  