-- California Doesn’t Need Enterprise Zones
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-17T22:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/california-doesn-t-need-enterprise-zones.html
Since 1986, California has used an
“enterprise zone” program in an effort to spur investment and
job creation in specified areas. The state awards tax credits,
more than $700 million a year as of 2010, to businesses that
hire designated kinds of workers within the zones. The program
is popular with businesses and local officials.  Unfortunately, it doesn’t appear to create jobs. A  2009
study  by the  Public Policy Institute of California  found no
difference in job creation between zoned and comparable unzoned
areas. Given this finding, Governor Jerry Brown wisely tried to
ax the program in his 2011-2012 budget, and is now working to
scale it back. He is meeting strong resistance. (Brown succeeded
in 2011 in getting rid of another wasteful program aimed at
“depressed” areas: 400 regional development agencies.)  Enterprise zones share errors of location-specific economic
incentive programs in many states. Although they are nominally
aimed at “economically depressed” areas, they often cover
neighborhoods with no need for tax credits to draw investment.
 San Francisco’s enterprise zone  covers the city’s financial
district and the tourist mecca at Fisherman’s Wharf.  Los
Angeles’s  covers its entire downtown office core.  As with similar programs, enterprise zones turn business
investment into a political process. You can see, for example,
the  2011 redrawing  of the enterprise zone in Santa Clarita,
north of Los Angeles; the red triangle near the center of the
map happens to match a location where the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  had
decided to open a new studio. The PPIC report found that while
zones didn’t increase employment, they appear to reduce the
number of employers, suggesting zones draw large companies with
the ability to work the system at the expense of small ones.  Brown’s latest move focuses on changing the rules about
claiming tax credits; companies would be limited to applying
within one year of hiring an eligible employee, instead of the
current four. His staff argues that you can’t encourage
businesses to hire specific classes of people, such as veterans
and released convicts, by giving companies credits for past
hires they didn’t know were eligible.  This change would be a step in the right direction, but it
would be better to get rid of the program altogether. At best,
all programs like enterprise zones do is shift jobs from one
place to another. California instead needs policies that will
draw companies to do business and create jobs wherever in the
state best suits their needs.  The state has a number of problems that make it a daunting
place to do business. Income tax rates are very high,
particularly at the top of the income scale, and therefore on
many small businesses. And California -- unlike, say, Maryland -
- has trouble making the case that its high taxes are a value
proposition, as the quality of government services is often
poor.  But the biggest barrier to job creation in California is
probably its  high home prices . Net domestic migration from
California is driven not by the rich fleeing higher income taxes
but by lower- and middle-income residents, whose savings on
housing in other states tend to be much larger than their
savings on taxes. More development-friendly laws -- essentially,
allowing more total housing units within popular cities such as
Los Angeles -- would make it easier for middle-class people to
afford to live and work in California, and therefore for
businesses to hire and expand.  Last month, the Los Angeles City Council passed a
resolution stating that a reduction in the enterprise zone
program would be “devastating to thousands of Los Angeles
businesses.” The mayors of Los Angeles and eight other large
California cities have since signed  a letter  opposing new
restrictions. If the PPIC report is any indication, they’re in
the wrong. The hundreds of millions of dollars the state would
save by ending the program could be put to use in ways that
would make Los Angeles, and the rest of California, a better
place to do business.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 