-- Chelsea Defeats West Ham to Move to Third as Fulham Upsets Spurs
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/chelsea-defeats-west-ham-2-0-as-fulham-upsets-tottenham-1-0.html
Frank Lampard  scored his 200th goal
for Chelsea as the Blues beat West Ham 2-0 to overtake Tottenham
and move into third spot in English soccer’s Premier League.
Spurs lost 1-0 at home to Fulham.  Ten-man Norwich held on for a 1-1 draw at Sunderland
yesterday and relegation-threatened Wigan defeated Newcastle 2-1
with a 90th-minute goal by Arouna Kone.  Lampard scored in the 19th minute against his former team,
heading in from Eden Hazard’s cross. Hazard doubled the lead
five minutes after half time at  Stamford  Bridge.  “It is one of my best days,” Lampard told reporters after
getting within two goals of Bobby Tambling’s record for Chelsea.
“Obviously, winning the  Champions League  and championships are
the best, but personally getting 200 goals for the club, I never
thought I would touch that so I’m pleased to get it. The
important thing is trying to score goals to win games.”  Manchester United , which beat Reading 1-0 two days ago,
leads by 15 points from defending champion  Manchester City ,
which lost 2-0 at Everton. United has 74 points, followed by
City (59), Chelsea (55), Tottenham (54) and Arsenal (50).  The next round of games is scheduled to start March 30
following a break for  World Cup  qualifying matches.  Former Tottenham striker Dimitar Berbatov shot Fulham’s
winner in the 52nd minute at White Hart Lane to dent the hosts’
target of a top-four finish and a Champions League place next
season. It was Spurs’ third consecutive defeat in all
competitions following an eight-match unbeaten run.  Berbatov’s Promise  Fulham manager  Martin Jol , previously in charge at Spurs,
said Berbatov promised he’d score the winner.  “Before the game you hope for a point, but Berbatov came
to me and promised me. He said: ‘You have to trust me.’ He is a
wonderful player, it was one of the best wins ever.”  Tottenham coach Andre Villas-Boas said his team had effort
and commitment, though lacked organization.  “It is down to us to get to business and correct that,”
he said.  After taking the lead at Sunderland yesterday through Wes
Hoolahan in the 26th minute, Norwich was set back by two
controversial decisions.  First, goalkeeper Mark Bunn was red-carded by referee Chris
Foy in the 30th minute for handling the ball outside the penalty
area, then Sebastien Bassong was ruled to have handled inside
the area.  Craig Gardner  scored the resulting penalty to level
the scores in the 40th minute.  Haidara Injury  At Wigan, Jean Beausejour put the home team ahead from
short range in the 18th minute. Davide Santon tied it in the
72nd minute and Kone got the winner in a goalmouth scramble
after the ball appeared to hit the hand of Wigan defender Maynor
Figueroa following a corner kick.  The game was marred by an injury to Newcastle defender
Massadio Haidara, who was stretchered off after a high tackle by
Callum McManaman that wasn’t penalized by referee Mark Halsey.
Newcastle assistant manager John Carver and Graham Barrow, a
member of Wigan’s coaching staff, were sent to the stands by
Halsey following a halftime fracas as Carver tried to confront
McManaman.  “It is an awful challenge,” Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew 
said. “The pictures speak for themselves. I thought it was a
bad challenge and I was 60 yards from the incident.”  The win lifts Wigan, which has played one game fewer than
the teams around it, to 27 points. Reading and Queens Park
Rangers, on 23 points with identical goal difference, are the
other teams in the relegation positions. Reading is higher on
goals scored.  Aston Villa  has 30 points, Southampton and Sunderland 31,
and West Ham and Newcastle 33. Norwich is 12th with 34, and
Fulham 10th on 36.  In other weekend games, Arsenal won 2-0 at Swansea and
Southampton upset Liverpool 3-1. Stoke drew 0-0 with West Brom
and QPR lost 3-2 at Villa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  