-- China Said to Appoint Xiao Gang Head of Securities Regulator
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-17T11:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/china-said-to-appoint-xiao-gang-head-of-securities-regulator.html
Xiao Gang, who resigned today as
chairman of  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , was named head of the nation’s
securities regulator, succeeding Guo Shuqing, said a person with
direct knowledge of the appointment.  Xiao’s appointment was announced to  China  Securities
Regulatory Commission staff at a meeting today, said the person
who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t authorized to
speak to the media. Guo’s future role wasn’t disclosed at the
meeting, the person said.  Bank of China said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange that Xiao had resigned because of “the needs of
national financial work,” without elaborating.  The move comes as the appointments of Xi Jinping as China’s
president and Li Keqiang as premier cement a leadership
transition that also saw the splitting of the Railway Ministry,
the selection of a new Foreign Minister and  Zhou Xiaochuan ’s
reappointment as central bank governor. In his first press
briefing as premier, Li pledged today to continue financial
reforms in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Xiao, 54, who is fluent in English, worked in various
positions at China’s central bank for more than 20 years,
according to the Bank of China’s annual report. He eventually
became deputy governor of the central bank before joining  Bank
of China (601988) , the nation’s fourth-biggest listed lender.  Like other key party and government posts, the top jobs at
Bank of China, ICBC and other large state-owned banks and
companies are assigned by the ruling Communist Party’s central
organization unit. The executives, who are also party members,
are under the oversight of its disciplinary committee.  Profit Growth  Bank of China’s profit has grown by an average  31 percent  a
year since 2006, when its shares started trading in Hong Kong
and  Shanghai . Its stock price has fallen 39 percent over the
past five years in Shanghai, compared with a 24 percent drop for
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender.  The Wall Street Journal reported March 14 that Xiao would
be named head of the securities regulator and that Guo would be
appointed governor of Shandong province in eastern China. Calls
to the regulator’s press office today seeking comment went
unanswered.  The CSRC has expanded foreign investor quotas to buy
stocks, cut trading fees and pushed companies to increase
dividends since Guo became chairman in 2011. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  entered a bull market on Jan. 29 after rallying
20 percent from a three-year low on Dec. 3.  Guo has also overseen a surge in corporate bond sales as
part of China’s effort to wean companies of a dependence on bank
lending to finance their operations. Sales of corporate bonds
more than doubled last year to 1.41 trillion  yuan  ($227 billion)
as share sales declined 12 percent to 286 billion yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Wenxin Fan in Shanghai at 
 wfan19@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  