-- China Replaces U.K. in U.S.-Led Top-Five Arms-Export List
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/china-replaces-u-k-in-top-five-arms-exporters-headed-by-u-s-.html
China  pushed the U.K. out of the
top-five weapons exporters for the first time in more than 60
years as the Asian country’s growing military and economic might
translated into global arms sales.  The U.S. led Russia, Germany, France and China in
deliveries from 2008 to 2012, the Stockholm International Peace
Research Institute said in a report today. Global exports rose
17 percent from the five-year period ended 2007, as China’s
foreign sales of major conventional weapons surged 162 percent.  China has worked to reduce dependence on arms imports and
has begun exporting indigenously developed military equipment,
such as JF-17 combat jets to  Pakistan . The government-owned
defense industry has been promoting equipment for sales abroad,
including the L-15 jet trainer aircraft and various missiles,
many with Russian design heritage.  “This is a tale of China’s rise,” Paul Holtom, director
of SIPRI’s arms transfers program, said in a phone interview.
“China is looking to move beyond  developing countries  for
sales, such as deals in north Africa with Algeria and Morocco.”  The U.K. dropped out of the top five for the first time
since 1950, SIPRI said. Even though exports from companies based
there, such as  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , were largely flat while those
from France and Germany fell, the U.K. still lost its fifth
place, Holtom said.  U.S. Dominance  The British government accounts for deals differently to
SIPRI and said it was the second-largest exporter of weapons in
2011, the last year for which it has published figures.  The U.S. held the top spot in the five-year period with a
30 percent market share, ahead of  Russia ’s 26 percent. China’s
share rose to 5 percent from 2 percent, and sent most of its
exports to  Asia , with Pakistan accounting for 55 percent of the
total, SIPRI said.  “Exports of military aircraft could provide potential
upside” for China’s aerospace and defense industry, Alex Chang,
an analyst for Citigroup, said in a note last week. The Hongdu
Aviation-made L-15 trainer “with its highly competitive
performance and price, has just received its first order and
could be China’s next flagship export product in military
aircraft.”  Chinese interests go beyond selling weapons. “For some
companies involved in the import-export side, the arms deals
certainly are not the major money maker,” Holtom said. “They
grease the wheels in getting access for the more lucrative deals
for infrastructure projects.”  Indian Imports  China fell to second place for weapons imports in the
period, ranking behind India, Russia’s largest client, and ahead
of Pakistan,  South Korea  and  Singapore .  Imports by European countries slumped 20 percent as
government austerity measures across the region reduced
spending. Greek imports declined 61 percent, making the country
the 15th-largest importer, down from fourth in the 2003-to-2007
period, SIPRI said.  European budget woes are also spurring efforts to sell
equipment. “With the financial crisis in Europe, the withdrawal
from  Iraq  and the drawdown in  Afghanistan , we can expect to see
Europe trying to export a considerable volume of surplus
military equipment,” Mark Bromley, senior researcher at SIPRI,
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  