-- Li Urges Paring State Role to Fuel 7.5% China Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T03:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/china-s-li-vows-to-keep-7-5-growth-and-spread-wealth-benefits.html
Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged
to open the economy to more market forces and strip power from
the government to achieve 7.5 percent annual  growth  through 2020
and spread the benefits of the nation’s expansion.  “It’s about cutting power, it’s a self-imposed
revolution,” Li, 57, said at a briefing yesterday at Beijing’s
Great Hall of the People, his first after being named premier on
March 15. “It will be very painful and even feel like cutting
one’s wrist.”  Li’s economic team retained People’s Bank of  China  Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  and added sovereign wealth fund chief  Lou Jiwei 
as finance minister after a once-in-a-decade leadership
transition. The premier vowed stronger support for migrant
workers in cities as the Communist Party pushes urbanization to
fuel growth constrained by a shrinking labor force and limits on
a property market where new home prices posted the broadest
advance since December 2011.  “The leadership knows what needs to be done, the key is
action,”  Ha Jiming , vice chairman and chief investment
strategist for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s investment management
division for China, said from  Hong Kong . “People in the market,
after hearing all these encouraging remarks, are waiting to see
concrete measures.”  Li talked of a “hand” mistakenly attached to the state
that needed to be returned to the market. He added that 7.5
percent growth is needed to meet targets for 2020, which include
doubling per capita income. Gross domestic product last year
 expanded  7.8 percent, the least in 13 years.  Stocks Fall  The Shanghai Composite Index is down about 7 percent from
this year’s Feb. 6 peak on concerns that an economic recovery
will falter as officials cool the  property market  and counter
risks for banks from an expansion in credit. The gauge fell 0.7
percent as of 11:01 a.m. local time today.  Li pledged to trim government bureaucracy, cut regulations
and fight graft while reducing environmental harm and pollution,
calling for “equal opportunities for everyone.”  “We shouldn’t pursue economic growth at the expense of the
environment -- such growth won’t satisfy the people,” he said.  State media transcripts that said he discussed 7 percent
growth were at odds with his spoken remarks. The government’s
five-year plan through 2015 calls for a 7 percent pace.  “We need to maintain steady economic growth, prevent
inflation and control latent risks,” Li said. “That will not
be easy, but we have favorable conditions in place and enormous
potential in domestic demand.”  Old Pattern  In the first two months of this year, the economy moved
back toward the old pattern of relying on exports, which rose
the  most  since 2010, and fixed-asset investment, rather than
 consumer spending , intended to be the new engine of growth.  New  home prices  climbed in 62 cities of the 70 the
government tracks in February from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today. China on March 1 imposed its
toughest property curbs in a year, including ordering the
central bank to raise some down-payment requirements and
mortgage rates and enforcing a property sales tax.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Singapore ’s  exports  fell almost twice as
much as economists estimated in February from a year ago as
shipments to  Europe  and the U.S. plunged. Data to be published
in Europe may show the euro area’s trade surplus narrowed in
January from the previous month, while a report in the U.S. from
the  National Association of Home Builders  and Wells Fargo is
projected to show an increase in confidence in March.  The two-week parliamentary session that ended yesterday
concluded a four-month transition process that saw  Xi Jinping 
assume the top party, military and government titles.  Commerce, NDRC  Zhou, 65, and Lou, 62, will be joined by new Commerce
Minister Gao Hucheng, 61, and Xu Shaoshi, 61, the new head of
the National Development and Reform Commission, the economic
planning agency. Lou may be the new appointee with the highest
international profile, after overseeing purchases including a
stake in Morgan Stanley as founding chairman of sovereign wealth
fund China Investment Corp.  “He brings a practical, rather than an ideological,
approach to financial diplomacy,” said  David Loevinger , former
senior coordinator for China affairs at the U.S. Treasury
Department, who’s now an analyst in  Los Angeles  at TCW Group
Inc., which oversees about $138 billion.  Zhang Gaoli, appointed as the most senior vice premier,
will be among officials serving as a counter-balance to those
pushing for change such as Zhou and Lou, said Yukon Huang, a
former China country director for the  World Bank . Zhang oversaw
a surge in infrastructure spending in Tianjin, a municipality
near Beijing, that left the city’s state-owned public works
companies among the most indebted in the country.  ‘Vested Interests’  State-owned companies and the country’s new wealthy class
may stand as barriers to change after benefiting from controls
on borrowing and savings rates, underpriced resources and the
absence of property taxes.  “Nowadays, stirring up vested interests is more difficult
than stirring up one’s soul,” Li said. “But no matter how deep
the water is, we must wade through because we don’t have other
options -- it’s our nation’s fate and future that are at
stake.”  Politburo members Wang Yang, who’s the former party
secretary of Guangdong, Liu Yandong and former state planner Ma Kai also became vice premiers. One of the officials at that
level, ranked higher than ministry heads, may serve as
counterpart to U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, due to
visit Beijing on March 19 and 20.  Deepen Changes  Li, who was named as the top vice premier in 2008 and was
previously a provincial leader, said the government would deepen
changes to the country’s exchange-rate and interest-rate
policies. Rate reform may squeeze profits at state-owned banks
including Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of
China Ltd.  The world’s second-biggest economy faces rising risks of a
financial crisis because of excessive credit, elevated property
prices, declines in the  labor force  and limited productivity
gains, according to a March 15 report from Nomura Holdings Inc.
A slowdown in “reform momentum” after China joined the  World
Trade Organization  in 2001 is holding the nation back, the bank
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  