-- Li Pledges Graft-Smog Battle as Scrutiny of China Leaders Grows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/china-s-premier-welcomes-scrutiny-in-battle-against-smog-graft.html
China ’s new premier promised to
crack down on corruption and clean up pollution, acknowledging
the need to tackle two issues that have stoked public anger
toward the country’s leaders.  “Corruption is incompatible with the nature of the
government like fire is to water,” Premier  Li Keqiang  told a
briefing after the nation’s legislature ended two weeks of
meetings yesterday. “A clean government should start with
itself. Only when one is upright can he ask others to be
upright.”  Li’s comments signaled that fighting pollution and corrupt
cadres will be top priorities for the team that took power last
week and will rule China for the next 10 years. Communist Party
leaders have warned that graft threatens to undermine their
legitimacy and promised action against pollution after record
smog blanketed Beijing in January.  Fighting pollution may stunt China’s economic growth by
forcing production shutdowns at times when emissions are high,
said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong , who previously headed China research at Hong
Kong’s central bank.  “The risk of pollution becoming a binding constraint on
China’s growth is under-appreciated by the market,” Zhang said.
“The government will be forced to take very tough actions to
control pollution.”  Cut Employees  Li said that the government will cut its number of
employees as revenue  growth slows , and officials shouldn’t use
their positions to enrich themselves. He said the government
also plans to cut red tape and won’t use state money to build
new government offices or guest houses.  “Since we have chosen government service we should give up
all thought of making money,” Li said. “We will readily accept
the supervision of all society and the media.”  Shortly before Li spoke, President  Xi Jinping  delivered a
speech to the closing session of the National People’s Congress
saying the party must reject excessive bureaucracy and
extravagance and fight corruption.  The leadership transition that concluded with the
appointments of Xi, Li and other state leaders last week was
roiled a year ago by the dismissal of Politburo member  Bo Xilai ,
whose wife was convicted in August of plotting the murder of a
British businessman. Bo, later expelled from the party, is
awaiting charges for his alleged involvement in his wife’s case,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  Party Secretary  The party has also been embarrassed by a steady flow of
stories about cadres behaving badly. A district party secretary
was fired last year after a sex tape of him circulated online.
Internet postings also led to the removal of an official
nicknamed “Brother Watch,” whose collection of luxury
timepieces was revealed online.  Neither Xi nor Li offered specific proposals on tackling
graft. The decision to focus on the issue is meant to resonate
with regular Chinese, said  Joseph Cheng , a political science
professor at the  City University  of Hong Kong. A real test would
be to force officials to disclose their assets, which won’t
happen soon, Cheng said.  “When Xi says he wants to combat corruption, I have no
doubt about his sincerity but certainly you can also ask the
question -- how do you make this effective?” Cheng said. “All
cadres understand that you have to show respect for the campaign
and you lie low for the moment.”  Environment Protection  Corruption was a focus of this year’s National People’s
Congress meetings. When the legislature voted in new ministers
March 16, the chief of the environment protection agency
received 171 no votes from among the 2,952 delegates, second
only to the housing minister, who had 181.  “My interpretation is that the negative votes were not
directed at the individuals, but were cast as expression of
disapproval of the government’s performance” on the environment
and other issues, said Minxin Pei, a professor of political
science at  Claremont McKenna College  in  California .  In his briefing, Li said smog blanketing eastern China gave
him a “heavy heart.” He promised more vigorous efforts to
reduce pollution.  “Green hills and clean water are not OK if people are poor
and development lags,” Li said yesterday. “At the same time,
being rich and well-off isn’t OK either if the environment
deteriorates.”  Outside the Great Hall of the People, where Li spoke, the
level of PM2.5, the small particulates that pose the biggest
risk to human health, was 364 as of 6 p.m. yesterday, according
to Beijing city government readings. The  World Health
Organization  recommends 24-hour exposure to PM2.5 of no higher
than 25.  For Related News and Information:  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  