-- Corker Praises Missile Defense Upgrade on U.S. West Coast
-- B y   L e s l i e   H o f f e c k e r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/corker-praises-missile-defense-upgrade-on-u-s-west-coast.html
The U.S. is taking needed
“precautionary” steps to bolster its missile defense system on
the West Coast because of recent threats by North Korea, said
Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the top Republican on the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  “I don’t think they have the delivery mechanisms that are
necessary to really harm us, but I think it’s really good that
we’re taking those precautionary measures to make sure that they
cannot do damage,” Corker said yesterday on the “Fox News
Sunday” program.  The U.S. is acting to “stay ahead of the threat” posed by
North Korea, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said on March 15.
Among the steps being taken, he said, is the addition of 14
interceptors based in Alaska to the country’s missile defense
system by fiscal year 2017.  The U.S. has to take the threats from North Korea and its
young leader, Kim Jong Un, seriously, said Representative Mike Rogers, the chairman of the House Permanent Select Intelligence
Committee, on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. Kim took
over as the country’s leader upon the death of his father,  Kim
Jong Il , in December 2011.  “You have a 28-year-old leader who is trying to prove
himself to the military, and the military eager to have saber-
rattling for their own self-interest,” said Rogers, a Michigan
Republican. “And the combination of that is proving to be very,
very deadly.”  ‘All-Out War’  Tensions on the Korean peninsula are at their highest since
at least 2010, with North Korea threatening nuclear strikes and
withdrawing from the 1953 armistice ending the  Korean War .
Earlier this month, after the  United Nations  imposed additional
sanctions on Pyongyang following a nuclear test, Kim said that
his military was ready for “all-out war” and that the country
would “reinforce as a nuclear weapons state,” according to the
Pyongyang-based Korean Central News Agency.  The North Korean threat of a nuclear attack against the
U.S. “is problem enough,” Rogers said. Add to that “their
military maneuvers along the DMZ, the Demilitarized Zone, in
 North Korea ,” and that creates “a whole new set of problems
for us,” he said, noting that North Korea has “the largest
military in the world still in uniform.”  Missile Defense Shift  Hagel told reporters last week that the U.S. is shifting
money from a Europe-based system to pay for the new U.S. West
Coast-based interceptors and the development of an advanced
warhead.  While Corker expressed some concern about what he called
the “non-deployment” of the fourth phase of the Europe-based
system, he said that “most all of us applaud the efforts to
beef up our missile defense on the West Coast.”  The ground-based system has interceptors built by  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)  topped by hit-to-kill warheads from  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
 Boeing Co. (BA)  manages the $34 billion system that now has 26
interceptors at Fort Greely, Alaska, and four at Vandenberg Air
Force Base in California.  Since the Pentagon’s  Missile Defense Agency  began testing
the U.S.-based anti-missile system in 1999, the interceptors
have hit dummy targets on only half of the 16 tests that have
been performed.  The last successful hit against a target was in December
2008. A test to intercept a target is scheduled for later this
year to confirm that the guidance flaw has been remedied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Hoffecker in Washington at 
 lhoffecker@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  