-- U.S. Lawmakers Warn of Security Threats From Cyberattacks
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/cyberattacks-increasing-risk-to-u-s-national-security-economy.html
The top two lawmakers on the U.S.
House committee dealing with intelligence matters warned that
cyberattacks are posing increasing risks to U.S. economic and
national security.  “We have attacks right now,” Representative Dutch
Ruppersberger of Maryland, top Democrat on the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, said yesterday on  CNN ’s
“ State of the Union ” program. “Wall Street has been attacked.
We have the capability of other countries, including Iran, for
destructive attacks, to knock out our grid system, to attack
some of our banks. We have got to stop this.”  U.S. officials say confronting threats to cybersecurity is
urgent because attacks on corporate networks and public
officials have increased in recent months.  James Clapper , the
nation’s top intelligence official, told lawmakers last week
that the risk of hackers causing significant disruption to
essential services ranks as the intelligence community’s top
concern, ahead of terrorism, in an annual worldwide threat
assessment.  Appearing with Ruppersberger on CNN, Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and the chairman of the
Intelligence Committee, said China has used cyberattacks to
steal the “blueprints that allow you to build your product and
have a job.”  “They go in and steal it, repurpose it, and use it to
artificially compete in the world market,” Rogers said. “That
costs us real jobs.”  China’s Role  President  Barack Obama  has told Chinese President Xi Jinping that the issue will be a key part of bilateral talks,
White House Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said
last week. The issue has moved near the top of the
administration’s agenda as attacks on corporate networks have
been traced to China, both by U.S. intelligence agencies and by
security firms such as Alexandria, Virginia-based Mandiant Corp.  On March 13 Obama attended a White House session with more
than a dozen corporate executives that included discussions
about cybersecurity. Among those present were Rex Tillerson,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and
Jamie Dimon, chairman, president and CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, said it experienced a
denial-of-service attack on March 12 that kept customers from
banking online through the Chase.com website for several hours.  In an interview with ABC News last week, Obama expressed
concern about computer hacking as U.S. law enforcement agencies
began probing the posting of purported financial information of
celebrities, government officials and first lady  Michelle Obama .  The Secret Service has opened an investigation into the
matter involving the first lady, said Brian Leary, a spokesman
for the agency. He declined to comment further on the probe.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into the
posting of the alleged personal financial documents, Jenny
Shearer, an agency spokeswoman, said by e-mail. Hackers said
they had posted data on celebrities such as  Kim Kardashian  and
Ashton Kutcher and government officials such as Attorney General
Eric Holder and FBI Director  Robert Mueller .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  