-- Cyprus Sparks Short-Term Nervousness, Not Crisis: AMP’s Oliver
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-03-17T23:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/cyprus-sparks-short-term-nervousness-not-crisis-amp-s-oliver.html
Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has
$126 billion under management, comments on the market impact of
a levy on Cypriot bank deposits.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades, who bowed to demands
by euro-area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.5
billion) by taking a piece of every bank account in Cyprus,
appealed to lawmakers in Nicosia the ratify the levy.  Immediate impact:  “The first reaction is there,  Europe  goes again and
there’s a contagion risk.  ‘‘In the short term, it could lead to some worries
regarding renewed contagion across Europe.  ‘‘It sets off a bit of risk-off since risk-on has been in
place for quite a while and equities have rallied generally, and
so we could go through a little rough patch today until we get
more clarity on what’s happening in Europe.’’  Limited impact:  ‘‘In Italy, banks don’t need to be recapitalized;  Spain 
already has a bank bailout in place and Irish banks already have
been recapitalized. The risk of the same occurring is extremely
low and close to zero, but we could go through a short period of
nervousness until we see how the rest of Europe responds and the
ECB responds.’’  Impact on the rest of the world  ‘‘If it happened three years ago, you had to be pretty
worried because the  U.S. economy  was a lot more fragile and
there was more concern about China having a hard landing.  ‘‘Now we’ve got a situation where bailouts are already in
place for Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and economic indicators
out of Europe are pointing up, instead of down.  ‘‘The general trend is improving rather than getting worse.
So, it’s coming at a time when the world is stronger.’’  Japan  adds to optimism after Haruhiko Kuroda was confirmed as
 Bank of Japan  governor last week by parliament:  ‘‘The pro-stimulus leadership team at the Bank of Japan,
led by Kuroda, is I think a sea-change in Japan.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  