-- Don’t Leave Families Out of Immigration Overhaul
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-17T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/don-t-leave-families-out-of-immigration-overhaul.html
There is a push in Congress to
expand visas for highly skilled immigrants, which would be very
good for the economy. Unfortunately, some lawmakers seem
determined to expand high-skills visas at the expense of family
visas, which are already subject to sharp quotas.  Their logic is easily grasped: A  study  by the American
Enterprise Institute and the Partnership for a New American
Economy found that a foreign-born worker with an advanced U.S.
degree in science, technology, engineering or math creates, on
average, 2.62 U.S. jobs. Between 1995 and 2005, immigrants
helped start more than a quarter of U.S. technology and
engineering companies.  What is less appreciated, however, is the crucial role that
stable families play in helping immigrants acquire an education,
hone skills, build businesses and create jobs. Under current
law, family immigration quotas are segmented into half a dozen
categories. Unmarried adult children of a U.S. citizen, for
example, enjoy a higher preference than a permanent resident’s
adult children or a citizen’s siblings. The quotas for the
respective categories vary, as do the wait times.  Individual country quotas impose even longer waits for
family members seeking to emigrate from nations where demand is
high. It can take two decades or more for a sibling from the
 Philippines  to immigrate, for instance. All told, more than 4
million people are caught in the family-immigration backlog.  There is a paucity of research on the economic effects of
such immigration, in part due to privacy concerns and in part
due to the inherent difficulties in measuring such things. As a
2007 White House Council of Economic Advisers memo noted, “This
is because immigration’s economic impact is complex and may play
out over generations, and because not all natives are alike in
terms of their economic characteristics.”  As Congress grapples with the need for a new immigration
policy, it’s worth keeping in mind that family immigration has
its own value -- economic as well as social. Immigrant families
who pool resources to succeed are often engines of economic
growth, especially in blighted neighborhoods where new small
businesses are both inexpensive to establish and vital to
community survival. Newly arrived Korean grocers in New York
anchored many neighborhood recoveries in the 1980s as the city
struggled to overcome epidemics of drugs and crime.  Research  suggests that immigrant spouses upgrade their
occupations over time, partially closing the gap with immigrants
whose visas are employment-based. Similarly, immigrant family
members often support one another financially, providing both
capital and labor for entrepreneurial efforts.  “Our experiences in the field suggest that the family is
often the main social organization supporting the establishment
and operation of a small business,” said University of South
Carolina sociologist Jimy Sanders in Senate testimony.  What’s more, when immigrants have their families with them,
as the Asian American Justice Center points out, they “invest
their earnings domestically to build their lives in America”
rather than sending remittances abroad.  The Obama administration in January created a waiver
designed to ease immigration obstacles for some families. The
White House has also proposed temporarily increasing annual
visas to “eliminate existing backlogs in the family-sponsored
immigration system.” But unless the quotas are raised, the
backlogs will soon reappear.  There is no way for the U.S. to accommodate everyone who
wishes to live here. But reducing family visas would exacerbate
personal hardships while foreclosing a pathway to opportunity
that is essential to the American story. Yes, we need more math
and science Ph.Ds, and we should adjust our immigration policy
accordingly. But America was built not just by an educated elite
but also by men and women who arrived with little and created
much.  Jerry Yang , the founder of Yahoo! Inc., didn’t immigrate to
the U.S. as a highly skilled entrepreneur; he came as a child.
So did Google Inc. co-founder  Sergey Brin  (albeit as the child
of a Russian mathematician). Yet the economic impact of both men
has been profound. The U.S. needs high-skills, low-skills and
family immigration, each of which contributes to economic growth
and the American character.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 