-- The Insupportable Equilibrium of Economic Thought
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-03-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/the-insupportable-equilibrium-of-economic-thought.html
Conjure an image in your mind: a
pencil resting on a small table, perhaps next to a notebook. In
what position did you imagine the pencil? Lying on its side,
right? Why not upright, with either the eraser or the graphite
tip touching the table and the rest pointing into the air?  In terms of strict physical forces, it’s possible to
position a pencil this way. We never see it happen because even
the tiniest vibration, from the rumble of someone tapping the
table to a slight shift in air currents, will knock it over.  The upright pencil is in what’s called unstable
equilibrium, a state of being that can exist if unperturbed, but
that will change rapidly if given the tiniest shock from the
physical world. By contrast, a pencil lying on its side is in
stable equilibrium. Blow on it, even slam your ﬁst on the table,
and the pencil will stay in that position or bounce around
momentarily and then go back to it.  Stable equilibria are generally more important than
unstable, because things in such states stay there. Whether
we’re thinking of forces affecting a pencil or the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average , we can expect something to remain near a
stable equilibrium but to wander away from an unstable one. So
whenever we consider a state of equilibrium, we’ve got to ask
whether it’s stable.  Elegant Mathematics  For several decades, academics have assumed that the
economy is in a stable equilibrium.  Distilled  into  a few elegant
lines of mathematics  by the economists  Kenneth Arrow  and Gerard Debreu back in the 1950s, the assumption has driven most
thinking about business cycles and financial markets ever since.
It informs the idea, still prevalent on  Wall Street , that
markets are efficient -- that the greedy efforts of millions of
individuals will inevitably push prices toward some true
fundamental value.  Problem is, all efforts to show that a realistic economy
might actually reach something like the Arrow-Debreu equilibrium
have met with failure. Theorists haven’t been able to prove that
even trivial, childlike models of economies with only a few
commodities have stable equilibria. There is no reason to think
that the equilibrium so prized by economists is anything more
than a curiosity.  It’s as if mathematical meteorologists found beautiful
equations for a glorious atmospheric state with no clouds or
winds, no annoying rain or fog, just peaceful sunshine
everywhere. In principle, such an atmospheric state might exist,
but it tells us nothing about the reality we care about: our own
weather.  Outside economics, in areas such as meteorology, the
biggest shift in scientific thinking of the last 50 years has
been the movement to understand “out of equilibrium” systems.
Consider tornadoes. The state of  Kansas  alone sees hundreds of
them every year, and they come about through perfectly ordinary
atmospheric processes. Warm, moist air sweeps in from the  Gulf
of Mexico , cold air descends from the Rockies, surface winds
blow. All these events build on one another, and soon an
ordinary gray sky becomes a violent, memorable twister.  More technically, we could say that the atmosphere is prone
to positive feedbacks, which prevent it from settling into a
nice equilibrium. As humans, we’re terrible at imagining how
such processes work. Take a piece of paper and fold it, and then
take that doubled paper and fold it again, and then again, 30
times in all. Actually, don’t waste your time. You’ll find you
can’t do it because the result, if you did, would be about 70
miles thick. This is the power of positive feedback: Each step
not only makes things bigger, but also makes them bigger more
quickly. This leads to consequences far beyond our expectations.  Blind Spot  In one form or another, positive feedback lies behind
almost everything that makes our world rich and surprising,
changeable and dynamic, lively and unpredictable. It makes seeds
sprout and grow into trees, matches burst into flame, and single
cells divide and proliferate into living, thinking human beings.
It drives political revolutions and new religions. Yet outside
of these areas, an intellectual blind spot to the power of
positive feedbacks still holds us back. Nowhere is this truer
than in the science of human systems, in social science, and
especially in economics and finance.  We’ll never understand economies and markets until we get
over the nutty idea that they alone -- unlike almost every other
complex system in the world -- are inherently stable and have no
internal weather. It’s time we began learning about the
socioeconomic weather, categorizing its storms, and learning
either how to prevent them or how to see them coming and protect
ourselves against them.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist, is the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You.” This is the first in
a series of three excerpts from his new book, “Forecast: What
Physics, Meteorology and the Natural Sciences Can Teach Us About
Economics,” to be published March 26 by Bloomsbury. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 