-- Tencent Chief Ma Passes Baidu’s Li in Wealth: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/tencent-chief-ma-passes-baidu-s-li-in-wealth-chart-of-the-day.html
Tencent (700)  Holdings Ltd.’s rally has
put the wealth of its chairman, Ma Huateng, above that of  Baidu (BIDU) 
Inc. counterpart Robin Li, making him  China ’s richest Internet
executive, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks Tencent, which operates the
WeChat and QQ instant-messaging services, Baidu, Google Inc. and
the Shanghai Composite and Standard & Poor’s 500 indexes.
Tencent has gained more than 75 percent since January 2012, as
the Beijing-based rival fell 27 percent. Baidu was the better
performer over five years as recently as Aug. 20, 2012, about a
week after Shenzhen-based Tencent reported a 32 percent profit
increase in the second quarter of the year, Bloomberg data show.  Ma, 41, was China’s third-richest man with a net worth of
$7.2 billion as of March 15, compared with $6.3 billion for Li,
who was the fifth richest, the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index 
shows. Shanghai-based Hurun Report ranked Li China’s third-
richest man and Ma the seventh-richest in September. Ma was
named to China’s National People’s Congress on Feb. 27, the
nation’s legislature, three weeks after Baidu’s co-founder was
appointed to the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference, an advisory body.  Tencent has a “more solid and diversified revenue model,
whereas Baidu is mostly focusing on online advertising,” said
Kevin Tam, an analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International
(H.K.) Ltd. Tencent’s challenges include potential data fees
from telecom operators on WeChat, which could be mitigated by
Ma’s increased “political status,” said Tam. Tencent had a
consensus rating of 4.25 out of 5 while Baidu was rated 3.97,
according to analyst recommendations compiled by Bloomberg.  About half of Tencent’s revenue was from online games,
based on its most-recent income report, with a fifth from
community products such as WeChat. Baidu operates China’s most-
used search engine. Its shares surged almost fourfold in the 19-
months from January 2010, when  Mountain View , California-based
 Google (GOOG)  said it would stop censoring its China website and
shifted searches to an unfiltered site in  Hong Kong .  “The NPC might be more prestigious than the CPPCC because
of its legislative status,” said Doug Young, author of the book
“The Party Line: How the Media Dictates Public Opinion in
Modern China.” “But the NPC is a rubber stamp.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  