-- Messi Extends Scoring Streak in Barcelona Win; PSG Blows Lead
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-17T23:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/messi-extends-scoring-streak-in-barcelona-win-psg-blows-lead.html
Lionel Messi  extended his scoring
run to 18 straight Spanish soccer league matches in a 3-1 win
against Rayo Vallecano that maintained Barcelona’s 13-point lead
over Real Madrid at the top.  World player of the year Messi scored in the 40th and 57
minutes last night to lift his season tally to 42 goals in La
Liga after  David Villa  had given Barcelona the lead at its Camp
Nou stadium. Messi is the first player in Europe’s top four
leagues to score at least 42 goals in two successive seasons,
according to Infostrada Sports.  “You live calmer when you know you have a Leo Messi,”
Barcelona assistant coach Jordi Roura told his team’s website.
“We’re in a good position to win the league.”  Barca has 74 points, with defending champion Real on 61 and
Atletico Madrid on 60 after a 2-0 win at Osasuna yesterday. Real
twice came from behind to beat Real Mallorca 5-2 two days ago.  Mario Balotelli  scored both goals, one of them from the
penalty spot, as AC Milan beat Palermo 2-0 in Italy yesterday.
Goran Pandev got the winner for Napoli in a 3-2 victory against
Atalanta, while Fiorentina defeated Genoa by the same score.  Goals by Mirko Vucinic and Claudio Marchisio gave Serie A
leader Juventus a 2-0 win at Bologna two days ago. Juve has 65
points, followed by Napoli with 56 and AC Milan with 54.  Yesterday’s game between Sampdoria and  Inter Milan  was
postponed because of the risk of snow and flash floods.  Paris Saint-Germain stretched its lead atop France’s Ligue
1 to five points even after blowing a two-goal lead in a 2-2
draw at Saint-Etienne last night. Early first-half goals from
Javier Pastore and Zlatan Ibrahimovic put PSG ahead before
Saint-Etienne fought back with an own-goal from Alex and a
Francois Clerc strike to preserve its unbeaten start to 2013.  Beckham Starts  David Beckham  made his first Ligue 1 start since joining
PSG on a five-month contract at the end of January. The former
Manchester United and Real Madrid midfielder was returning to
the ground where he was red-carded when playing for England
against Argentina at the 1998  World Cup .  Second-place Lyon lost 4-1 at Bastia and Marseille was held
to a 0-0 draw by Ajaccio in other weekend games. PSG has 58
points, Lyon 53 and Marseille 51 with nine matches left.  Bayern Munich  maintained a 20-point lead in Germany’s
Bundesliga after a 2-1 victory at  Bayer Leverkusen  two days ago
and needs two more wins from its remaining eight games to secure
a record-extending 22nd title. Second-place Borussia Dortmund,
the defending champion, routed Freiburg 5-1.  “We can be happy with a 20-point cushion, but we must not
lose our focus due to this big advantage,” Bayern forward  Arjen Robben  told his team’s website. “We’ve got to keep our
concentration in the coming weeks.”  Ajax stayed one point clear atop the Dutch league with 57
points after a 3-2 win at  AZ Alkmaar  yesterday. PSV Eindhoven
had a 2-0 win over RKC Waalwijk, Feyenoord defeated Utrecht 2-1,
and Vitesse Arnhem won 4-0 at Den Haag among other weekend games.
PSV and Feyenoord both have 56 points with Vitesse on 54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 