-- Mexico Not Planning Measures to Curb Peso Advance, Aportela Says
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-03-19T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/mexico-not-planning-measures-to-curb-peso-advance-aportela-says.html
Mexico  isn’t planning measures to
curb the peso’s advance in the wake of the central bank’s first
benchmark rate cut since 2009, Deputy Finance Minister Fernando Aportela said.  The peso rallied 1.6 percent last week, the most among
major emerging market currencies, after policy makers cut
benchmark borrowing costs by 0.5 percentage point on March 8 to
a record-low 4 percent. The peso strengthened 0.2 percent
yesterday to 12.4151 per dollar, the best performance among
Latin American currencies against the dollar. Markets were
closed in Mexico yesterday for a holiday.  “The flexible exchange rate has been working very well for
Mexico for years,” Aportela said in a March 17 interview in
Panama City.  The peso jumped after central bank policy makers signaled a
rate cut on March 8 was a one-time reduction and Standard &
Poor’s last week boosted its outlook for Mexico’s credit rating.
Officials aren’t considering capital controls or other measures
to curb the currency’s advance, Aportela said  “They’ve been very clear that at least for now they are
not going to intervene,” said Enrique Alvarez, the head of
Latin America fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal in New York,
in an interview yesterday. “It does clear in a certain sense a
path for the market to go back to its bullish ways.”  Since November 2011 Mexico’s central bank has been offering
$400 million daily of its reserves at a peso exchange rate at
least 2 percent weaker than the previous day’s level, providing
support for the currency. Mexico’s currency commission, which is
made up of representatives of the central bank and Finance
Ministry, suspended the sale of dollar options when introducing
the daily auctions to curb volatility.  Previously the bank had been buying as much as $600 million
through the options every month to bolster reserves while
assuring against capital outflows and curbing gains by the peso.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  