-- Finnish Government May Waive Deficit Target to Boost Growth
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-03-18T11:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/finnish-government-may-relinquish-deficit-target-to-boost-growth.html
Finland may scrap its central
government deficit target, backing away from excessive austerity
in a move Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen signaled will support
the economy and help the government halt debt growth.  The six-party coalition may ease a target of narrowing the
central government budget deficit to 1 percent of gross domestic
product, Katainen said yesterday in an interview with state-
owned broadcaster YLE Radio Suomi. He reiterated the aim of
ending debt growth by 2015.  “We must assess the means we have of reaching the maximum
of 1 percent central government deficit,” Katainen said. “As
the amount of austerity needed has increased, the 1 percent
deficit target has retreated further.”  Finland is mired in its second recession in four years,
according to the  statistics office , after the euro-area debt
crisis and slowing growth in world trade reduced export demand.
The contraction is weighing on the AAA rated government’s
finances ahead of March 21 talks in which the Cabinet will
decide on further spending cuts and tax increases.  The government will examine whether reaching the target
“is best done through as many spending cuts and tax increases
as possible or by ending debt growth and by taking measures that
foster growth,” Katainen said.  EU Compliance  Finland’s central government deficit was 3.4 percent of GDP
last year, and its general government shortfall, which also
includes municipalities and pension funds, stood at 1.9 percent,
according to the statistics office. The general government
deficit is in line with the European Union 3 percent rule.  The move to back away from the deficit goal gained support
from the Labor Institute for Economic Research today.  “The attempt to reach the deficit goal by significant
austerity measures could in the current circumstances cause the
economy to contract and tax revenue to decline,” Chief
Economist Eero Lehto said in an e-mailed statement. “Large
spending cuts and tax increases wouldn’t in that case help reach
the target.”  The northernmost euro member’s economy, which contracted
0.2 percent last year, will grow 0.6 percent this year and 2.5
percent in 2014, the institute forecast.  “Two things stand out in ensuring the credibility of our
fiscal policy,” Katainen said. Those are, “genuinely bringing
down government debt so that each investor with Finnish bonds
can rely on this country not amassing excessive debt, and taking
decisions that add to the number of jobs and foster economic
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  