-- Gonzaga Grabs First No. 1 Seed in NCAA Basketball Tournament
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/gonzaga-louisville-kansas-indiana-get-ncaa-s-no-1-seeds.html
Gonzaga University  landed the final
No. 1 regional seed in the National Collegiate Athletic
Association men’s basketball tournament after setting a school-
record with 31 wins, while the University of Louisville claimed
the top overall seed.  The University of  Kansas  and  Indiana University  were also
named No. 1 seeds for the tournament beginning tomorrow. The  68-
team field  is spread across four geographic regions who each
have a top seed.  Louisville (29-5) is the top seed in a Midwest regional
that also includes No. 2 seed  Duke University  and No. 3 Michigan
State, who have a combined 150 NCAA tournament wins and six
national championships. Gonzaga (31-2) was picked over the
University of Miami as the No. 1 seed in the West regional,
becoming the fourth school since 2000 to earn a top seeding
while playing outside college basketball’s top six conferences.  “I was just honored to be in the conversation,” said
Gonzaga coach Mark Few, whose Spokane, Washington-based Bulldogs
team went undefeated in the West Coast Conference. “When this
team plays at its highest level, we can definitely beat
anybody.”  The NCAA tournament, which two years ago expanded from 65
teams, starts in Dayton,  Ohio , with two games tomorrow and two
more on March 20 before full tournament play begins March 21.
The championship game is scheduled for April 8 in Atlanta.  Oddsmakers’ Favorite  Louisville, which has a 10-game winning streak and captured
the  Big East Conference  tournament title for the third time in
five years, is listed as a 9-2 favorite to win its third
national championship, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super
Book. The Cardinals play  North Carolina  A&T or Liberty, which
made the NCAA tournament with a record-tying 20 losses, in its
opening game in Lexington,  Kentucky , on March 21.  Indiana , the top seed in the East, has 7-1 odds to capture
its sixth national title, followed by Duke, Miami and the
University of  Florida , which are all 8-1 chances. Florida is the
No. 3 seed in the South regional led by Kansas, which is the
oddsmakers’ sixth choice at 10-1.  “I don’t think there’s a team that’s distinguished itself
as the favorite,” CBS college basketball analyst Clark Kellogg
said on a conference call. “Kansas is a No. 1 seed, but there’s
not a bunch of distance between them and Georgetown or Florida.
I don’t see a clear-cut favorite in any region.”  Bulldogs’ Odds  Gonzaga is next with 12-1 odds, yet the Bulldogs’ record-
setting season was enough to earn them a No. 1 seed from the
tournament’s selection committee. The only schools in the past
14 years to get a No. 1 regional seed from leagues outside the
 Big East , Atlantic Coast, Big Ten, Pac-12, Big 12 and
Southeastern conferences were Cincinnati in 2002, St. Joseph’s
in 2004 and Memphis in 2006 and 2008.  “Gonzaga gets everyone’s best shot when they show up,”
Mike Bobinski, chairman of the NCAA tournament selection
committee, said in a televised interview. “In our judgment,
that is a very complete and very strong basketball team. In our
collective estimation, they belong on that one line.”  With 15 consecutive NCAA tournament appearances, the
Bulldogs have the fourth-longest active streak behind Kansas,
Duke and Michigan State. Gonzaga plays Southern University in
its opening game in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah , on March 21.  Jayhawks’ Streak  Kansas (29-5) faces Western Kentucky in its March 22
opening game in  Kansas City , where the Jayhawks two days ago
captured their record ninth  Big 12  tournament title. Kansas has
won 10 of its past 11 games and is a No. 1 seed for the 11th
time, tied for the third-most all-time.  The Jayhawks are in the NCAA tournament for the 24th year
in a row, college basketball’s longest active streak and the
second-longest run in history behind North Carolina’s 27
straight appearances from 1975 through 2001.  Indiana (27-6), which won the  Big Ten  regular-season title
before losing in the semifinals of the conference tournament,
will play Long Island University-Brooklyn or  James Madison  in
its first game on March 22 in Dayton.  Since the NCAA tournament started assigning a No. 1 overall
seed in 2004, two such teams went on to win the championship --
Florida in 2007 and the University of Kentucky last year.
Kentucky was left out of this year’s tournament field with a
21-11 record.  In the past three years, only two No. 1 regional seeds
reached the Final Four.  Midwest Strength  Even with the No. 1 overall seed, Louisville might have the
toughest region, said ESPN analyst Jay Bilas. The Cardinals
could face No. 4  Saint Louis  (27-6), the Atlantic 10 Conference
champions, in the regional semifinals and then face a potential
matchup against Duke (27-5) or Michigan State (25-8) for a trip
to the Final Four.  Bilas picked Saint Louis as a team that may knock
Louisville out of the tournament.  “They’re an older team that can control the tempo, they
take care of the ball, they guard very well,” he said.
“Louisville is not a great shooting team.”  Kansas will be challenged in the South by No. 2 seed
Georgetown, No. 3 Florida, No. 4 Michigan and fifth-seeded
Virginia Commonwealth, which two years ago upset the top-seeded
Jayhawks to reach the Final Four.  Gonzaga’s region “is probably the easiest to navigate,”
Bilas added. Big Ten tournament champion Ohio State is the No. 2
seed, followed by No. 3  New Mexico , No. 4 Kansas State and
fifth-seeded  Wisconsin . New Mexico, which won the Mountain West
Conference tournament, plays Ivy League-champion Harvard in its
opening game.  Automatic Bids  Automatic bids went to 31 conference champions and the
remaining 37 participants received at-large invitations.  Middle  Tennessee  State (28-5), Saint Mary’s (27-6), La
Salle (21-9) and Boise State (21-10) were the last to secure at-
large spots in the tournament. Under the 68-team format, those
four schools are among those that play in Dayton over the next
two days for a seeded spot in the field.  In addition to defending champion Kentucky, schools left
out of the field included Southern Mississippi (25-7), Tennessee
(20-12),  Alabama  (21-12) and Virginia (21-11).  “When there are 68 teams and you don’t get in, you only
have to look in the mirror,” Turner Sports analyst  Steve Kerr 
said. “You can look at a number of games on the schedule that
Kentucky is probably kicking themselves for not winning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  