-- Li Rejects U.S. Hacking Allegations Against China as Groundless
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-17T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/li-rejects-u-s-hacking-allegations-against-china-as-groundless.html
Premier Li Keqiang said the U.S.
should stop making “groundless accusations” against China
regarding cybersecurity and focus on taking “practical” action
over the issue.  Hacking is a “worldwide problem and in fact China itself
is a main victim of such attacks,” Li said at his first press
briefing since his appointment by the National People’s Congress
March 15. “China does not support -- in fact it is opposed to -
- hacking attacks,” he said.  Cybersecurity has vaulted to the top of the U.S. agenda as
President  Barack Obama  seeks to curb attacks on corporate
networks that U.S. intelligence agencies and security firms such
as Mandiant Corp. have traced to China. Obama told his Chinese
counterpart Xi Jinping last week that the issue will be a key
part of bilateral talks, and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
will discuss the concerns during a visit to Beijing this week, a
senior U.S. administration official said March 15.  “I think we should not make groundless accusations against
each other and spend more time doing practical things that will
contribute to cybersecurity,” Li said yesterday. “In your
question I sensed the presumption of guilt,” he said in
response to a reporter who asked, “Will  China  stop the cyber-
hacking against the U.S. since it has now become an issue of
American national security?”  ‘Great Importance’  Li also said China’s new government will, as in the past,
“attach great importance to our relationship with the United
States, a relationship between the world’s largest developed
country and the world’s largest developing country.” China
“will work with the Obama administration to work together to
build a new type of major country relationship,” he said.  White House officials are increasing their public efforts
to hold China accountable for hacking. During a phone call on
March 14, Obama and Xi committed to discussions on hacker
threats as part of regular conversations on security and
economic matters, according to Ben Rhodes, deputy U.S. national
security adviser.  National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon last week said
that China is waging a campaign of cyber espionage against U.S.
companies that is threatening to derail Obama’s second-term
effort to improve ties. He called on the Chinese government to
recognize the scope of the hacking issue, take steps to halt
computer espionage and start a “constructive dialogue” with
the U.S. on standards for conduct in cyberspace.  Hacking Group  A report published last month by Mandiant said China’s
military may be behind a computer-hacking group that has
attacked at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  China’s military has never supported hacking and it’s
inaccurate and unprofessional to accuse it of Internet attacks,
the Ministry of Defense said after the report. The Chinese
government has repeatedly said it opposes cyber-attacks.  Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said last month
that China is concerned that some countries want to make the
Internet a “new battleground,” without naming the nations. At
a regular briefing last week, Hua said China will work with the
international community, including the U.S. to “protect peace,
safety, openness and cooperation in cyberspace.”  Yang Jiechi, who was elevated March 16 to state councilor
from foreign minister, said at a March 9 press briefing that
articles blaming China’s government and military for computer
hacking are on “shaky ground” and such stories serve political
motives.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  