-- IMF Official’s Egypt Visit Marked by More Unrest
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-03-17T08:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/imf-official-s-egypt-visit-marked-by-more-unrest.html
An International Monetary Fund
director is slated to meet today with Egyptian officials amid
efforts to advance a stalled $4.8 billion loan agreement, a day
after opponents and backers of President Mohamed Mursi clashed
near the Muslim Brotherhood’s Cairo headquarters.  Masood Ahmed, the head of the Middle East and Central Asia
department at the Washington-based lender, and Egyptian
officials will discuss the government’s economic program and the
other steps in  Egypt ’s bid for a loan seen as vital for
unlocking other donor aid and financing.  The clashes late yesterday outside the Brotherhood’s
headquarters underscored tensions boiling over as Mursi, who was
fielded for office by the Islamist organization, struggles to
revive the economy two years after  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.
Protesters pelted riot police with rocks and were rebuffed with
tear gas after they set fire to a police truck.  Egypt’s currency is at a record low after the central bank
introduced a dollar auction system Dec. 30 aimed at stemming the
plunge in foreign reserves, which are down more than 60 percent
below their December 2010 levels, at $13.5 billion.  Mursi’s secular and youth activist critics argue he has
focused on advancing the Brotherhood’s agenda at the expense of
the nation’s interests. Journalists were planning to hold a
protest against what they said were attacks by Brotherhood
supporters outside the group’s headquarters yesterday, the
state-run Ahram Gate reported.  Yesterday’s unrest in Cairo was mirrored on a larger scale
in the southern province of Sohag where Mursi pledged to start
development projects. Critics of the president attempted to
storm a hall where he was speaking, and were pushed back by his
backers and riot police, state media reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  