-- Japan’s Bid to Enter Trade Talks Opens Route For U.S. LNG
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-17T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/japan-s-bid-to-enter-trade-talks-opens-route-for-u-s-lng.html
Japan ’s bid to join negotiations
for the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement may make it
easier for the nation to import U.S. liquefied natural gas, a
prospect that is raising the hackles of environmental groups.  Japan, the world’s largest LNG importer, said March 15 that
it wants to be included in the accord, which now encompasses 11
nations in  Asia  and the Americas. Bringing Japan into a free-
trade agreement may boost companies trying to export natural gas
from the U.S., according to Randy Bhatia, an analyst with
Capital One Southcoast in Houston.  The Energy Department is reviewing 16 applications to build
export terminals to ship supplies to countries that don’t have
free-trade agreements with the U.S. Among the companies seeking
to export gas are  Sempra Energy (SRE)  of San Diego and  Dominion
Resources Inc. (D)  of Richmond, Virginia.  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  has
won approval for a facility that would begin exporting in 2015.  “Japan has been very clear that automatic access to LNG is
one of the things they want,” Ilana Solomon, trade
representative for the  Sierra Club  in  Washington , an
environmental group fighting those exports, said in an
interview. Success for Japan would mean “we’ll be paying the
price here, with more fracking in our backyards, near our
schools, and next to our hospitals -- only to help a handful of
big gas companies profit by shipping natural gas overseas.”  2011 Tsunami  Incorporating Japan in the trade agreement would unite one
country seeking new markets for booming supply with another
nation desperate for imports to help it replace nuclear plants.  Japan is increasingly reliant on imported gas for
electricity, following the March 2011 tsunami that damaged
several nuclear reactors, and it’s relying on supplies from
countries such as  Malaysia , Russia, Qatar, Australia and
Indonesia, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. The U.S. is not one of its top suppliers now.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , Japan’s largest utility,  Chubu
Electric Power Co. (9502)  and trading company  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  all have
agreements to buy LNG, gas cooled to a liquid for shipment by
tankers, from proposed export plants that have yet to win
government approval.  In the U.S., booming shale-gas output has driven prices
below those in much of Asia and Europe, creating an incentive
for producers such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , for more exports.  Price Differential  In Japan, imported LNG  prices  averaged almost $16.70 per
million British thermal units, a measure of energy output, last
year compared with about $2.83 per million Btu in U.S. natural-
gas futures trading in New York.  “The history of world trade since the dawn of civilization
is that commodities, labor and finished goods move from where it
is cheap to where it is expensive,” Walter Zimmerman, chief
technical strategist at United-ICAP, a brokerage in Jersey City,
New Jersey, said in an interview. Given the current gap between
U.S. and overseas prices, “it’s going to take quite a bit of
movement to equalize this.”  Gas exports to most  nations  with U.S. free-trade agreements
are largely exempt from Energy Department clearance. Shipping
supplies to all other nations requires a government review, and
a finding that those overseas sales are in the public interest.  So far two nations with free-trade accords with the U.S. --
Costa Rica and Israel -- aren’t covered by the natural-gas
exemption, according to Bill Cooper executive director of the
Center for Liquefied Natural Gas in Washington. For other free-
trade partners “that authorization to export the commodity is
automatic,” he said.  Sierra Club  However, outside groups such as the Sierra Club are
fighting those facilities, as are members of Congress such as
Representative Ed Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat. Some U.S.
manufacturers, led by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , are seeking to limit gas
exports, saying increases could raise their costs and damage
their competitiveness by making gas more costly in the U.S.  “In principle Dow supports free trade and would support
any nation concluding a free trade agreement (FTA) with the
U.S.,” George Biltz, Dow’s vice president for energy and
climate change, said in an e-mail. “In practice, we are still
in year four or five of a 100 year energy advantage, and our
view is that the US needs to continue to exercise prudence and
balance as we apply the law.”  Export Goal  The Trans-Pacific agreement among 11 nations, including
Brunei and  Peru , is being drafted as a model for future accords
as President  Barack Obama ’s administration seeks to double the
value of all American exports by the end of 2014. Negotiators
held the 16th round of talks in Singapore this week and are on
track for reaching an accord by the end of the year, according
to the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  An agreement would be the biggest free-trade deal for the
U.S., and the first new accord under Obama. The region
represents more than half of global output and more than 40
percent of world trade, according to the agency.  After Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said his nation
wanted to join the accord, a statement from the U.S. Trade
agency welcomed the announcement, while adding that “important
work remains to be done” on prior consultations.  The nations in the negotiations with the U.S. are
Australia,  Brunei Darussalam , Canada,  Chile , Malaysia, Mexico,
 New Zealand , Peru, Singapore and  Vietnam . Japan, the world’s
third-largest economy, has hinted for years that it would join
the talks.  Congressional Approval  If Japan were to become a free-trade agreement country --
with natural gas act treatment -- “it would give Japan access
to U.S. exports from the  United States ,” Octavio Simoes,
president of LNG operations at Sempra Energy, said in an
interview.  Joining the talks doesn’t mean access to Japan will
automatically open for exporters because an accord would have to
include natural gas and requires congressional approval, he
said. By itself, Japan entering the talks “doesn’t really do
anything,” he said. The Sierra Club’s Solomon said U.S.
negotiators have shown no inclination to exclude gas from any
agreement.  The focus should be on having the Energy Department issue
licenses to export to non-free-trade countries, Simoes said,
citing benefits shown in past studies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  