-- Japanese Stocks Cheap Relative to U.S. Equities, Amari Says
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-17T15:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/japanese-stocks-cheap-relative-to-u-s-equities-amari-says.html
Japanese  stocks  are cheap relative
to U.S. equities given the outlook for earnings, even after a
more than 50 percent surge in the Topix Index since mid-November,
Economy Minister Akira Amari said.  The Topix, the nation’s broadest equity measure, trades at
1.2 times book value, compared with 2.3 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 1.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Japanese gauge
 rallied  46 percent from Nov. 14, when elections were announced
that returned Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power, fueling
optimism the new government would do more to beat deflation.  “Given the potential of Japanese companies, the valuation
of the Japanese market is too low compared with markets in
countries like the U.S.,” Amari said yesterday in an interview
on NHK’s “Sunday Debate” program. “Obviously it’s good that
the stock market is rising, because it will boost companies’
reserves, increase certainty for pension payments, stabilize the
society, and turn into a positive spiral. It will be a challenge
how far we can take it.”  Japan’s equity markets rallied as the yen fell 19 percent
against the dollar since mid-November amid speculation the  Bank
of Japan  will loosen monetary policy and Abe will implement
reforms to end more than a decade of deflation. Abe nominated
 Haruhiko Kuroda  last month to lead the central bank.  Earnings-per-share (TPX)  for companies on the Topix will climb 15
percent in the next 12 months and 20 percent the subsequent year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
10 percent expansion forecast for companies on the  S&P 500  in
the next year and 10 percent the year after.  Dow Record  U.S. equity markets climbed the past three months as
better-than-expected housing and jobs data showed the world’s
largest economy is recovering from the financial crisis. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  surged to a record and the S&P 500
climbed on March 14 to within two points of its record closing
level of 1,565.15 set in October 2007.  The S&P 500 has more than doubled from its bottom in 2009,
fueled by corporate earnings that topped estimates and monetary
stimulus from the  Federal Reserve . The 116-year-old Dow
surpassed its record on March 5, and climbed higher each day
through March 14.  U.S. economic growth will need to accelerate to
“ridiculously strong levels” to justify any advance for the
S&P 500 above 1,600,  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, told Bloomberg Television on March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  