-- New Zealand’s Worst Drought in 30 Years May Cost NZ$2 Billion
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-03-17T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/new-zealand-s-worst-drought-in-30-years-may-cost-nz-2-billion.html
New Zealand ’s most widespread
drought in at least 30 years may cost NZ$2 billion ($1.7
billion) as dry conditions across the North Island threaten
economic growth, the government estimates.  “The latest advice is that somewhere between $1 billion
and $2 billion will be knocked off our national income, and as
every week goes by, the prospect of it being $2 billion instead
of $1 billion grows,” English said in an interview on TVNZ’s
Q+A program yesterday. “We’ll be getting updated advice over
the next few weeks from the Treasury as we prepare the forecasts
for the next budget in the middle of May.”  Finance Minister  Bill English  warned last week the drought
may curb economic expansion in the nation, where dairy exports
of NZ$11.4 billion last year made up 25 percent of all
merchandise shipments abroad. The central bank held the cash
rate at a record low on March 14 and cited concerns the dry
conditions may “substantially reduce economic output.”  Economists at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. have reduced
projections for first-half economic growth to 1.1 percent from
1.3 percent because of the drought.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the world’s biggest dairy
exporter that accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in dairy products, said in a Feb. 27 statement that dry weather
conditions in mid-December and January, particularly in the
 North Island , had resulted in a slowdown in milk supply growth.
Drought was declared earlier this month in several North Island
regions, including the largest dairying provinces.  Phil Rennie, a spokesman for the Minister for Primary
Industries Nathan Guy, has said 2013 is the first time in at
least three decades the entire island is suffering from drought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  