-- NFL’s Donte’ Stallworth Burned by Hot-Air Balloon in Florida
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-03-17T16:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/nfl-s-stallworth-burned-in-hot-air-balloon-accident-in-florida.html
Donte’ Stallworth and his
girlfriend suffered “severe burns” when the hot-air balloon
they were riding in struck  power lines  in Homestead, Florida,
the free-agent wide receiver’s attorney said.  Stallworth, 33, and Soleil Guerrero, have been transferred
to the Jackson Memorial Hospital Burn Center from the Trauma
Center at Kendall Regional Hospital, attorney Christopher Lyons
said in a text message this morning. Both remain in a stable
condition, Lyons said.  The hot-air balloon basket was carrying three adults when
it crashed into power lines at 10 a.m. local time, Detective Roy Rutland of the Miami-Dade Police Department said in an e-mail.
The third passenger wasn’t hurt.  “It happened while landing,” said Lyons, who declined
last night to discuss the extent of the burns.  Drew Rosenhaus , Stallworth’s agent, said the injuries
shouldn’t interfere with the player’s  National Football League 
career, according to the  Associated Press . Stallworth is looking
for a job in the free-agent market after playing last season
with the  New England Patriots .  “He’s going to be OK,” said Rosenhaus, who is heading for
the NFL owners’ meeting according to his Twitter site. “He will
be able to continue his NFL career. The injuries are not to the
extent they will jeopardize his career.”  The Patriots didn’t have any communication with Stallworth
since he no longer is a member of the team, spokeswoman Stacey
James said in an e-mail.  DUI Conviction  The accident occurred almost four years to the day after
Stallworth killed a pedestrian while driving drunk after leaving
a hotel bar near Miami Beach.  Stallworth, who was playing for the  Cleveland Browns , was
suspended for the 2009 NFL season by Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
for violating both the league’s substance-abuse and personal-
conduct policies.  Stallworth, driving his Bentley on March 14, 2009, killed
59-year-old construction worker Mario Reyes, police said. Tests
showed Stallworth had a blood-alcohol level of .126 after the
crash, above Florida’s legal limit of .08.  Three months later, Stallworth in June pleaded guilty to
manslaughter while driving under the influence of alcohol and
received a 30-day jail sentence. He also was sentenced to two
years of house arrest, eight years of probation and 1,000 hours
of community service. Attorneys for Reyes’s family reached an
undisclosed financial settlement with Stallworth, who signed a
seven-year, $35 million contract with the Browns before the 2008
season.  Ravens Deal  Stallworth signed with the Baltimore Ravens after he was
reinstated following the Feb. 7, 2010,  Super Bowl  and his
contract with the Browns was voided. He also played for the
 Washington Redskins  before joining the Patriots.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  was on the ground in
Miami to investigate the balloon accident, said Keith Holloway,
a spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board in an
e-mail.  A preliminary report of the findings can be expected in
about 10 days, while the complete investigation may take as long
as 18 months, Holloway said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  