-- Nordea Chairman Lashes Out at Plans to Stem Covered Bond Sales
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-17T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/nordea-chairman-lashes-out-at-plans-to-stem-covered-bond-sales.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  Chairman Bjoern Wahlroos criticized plans in Norway to stem covered bond
issuance, arguing regulatory intervention will drag the market
into what he characterized as a quagmire.  “It’s very dangerous to start tampering with things like
covered bond issuance,” Wahlroos, who heads the board of
Scandinavia’s largest bank, said in an interview in Stockholm.
“Once you start doing that, it’s basically a morass.”  Norway is working on drafting legislation designed to
prevent a property bubble after house prices doubled since 2002
and private  debt burdens  swelled to a record. Lawmakers are
considering proposals that include tripling risk weights
assigned to mortgage assets and stemming issuer reliance on
covered bonds. The financial regulator has thrown its support
behind both recommendations.  “Once you’re off the basic idea that you set up a system,
which has a couple of key parameters of which capital, of
course, is the most obvious, and start to micro-regulate, it’s
always a bad idea,” Wahlroos said.  A number of banks, including Nordea, raised mortgage rates
last week amid anticipation that stricter rules are unavoidable,
adding to capital requirements.  Since its creation just six years ago, Norway’s covered
bond market has grown to about 804 billion kroner ($140
billion). That’s left a smaller cover pool of collateral behind
to absorb losses for senior creditors, should an issuer fail.
Banks’ growing reliance on covered bonds also means they risk
cutting themselves off from other funding sources, leaving them
less diversified, Norway’s regulator and government have warned.  ‘Structural Intervention’  Wahlroos argues that trying to curtail issuance of bonds
financing home loans adds an unnecessary layer to existing plans
to raise capital requirements.  “I can’t see how trying to curb mortgages by what is in
essence a structural intervention makes sense,” Wahlroos said.
“I’m not sure there is a housing bubble in Norway, I’m pretty
sure the market can handle it and I’m pretty sure with cyclical
buffers and other elements of the capital requirement
mechanisms, authorities should have sufficient parameters to
make it a bit more expensive to take out a mortgage.”  Nordea already sees a 3 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) impact
on its risk-weighted assets stemming from Norway’s proposal to
assign higher loss probabilities to mortgage loans, according to
a presentation published this month.  1990s Crisis  The Finance Ministry in December proposed raising risk
weights to 35 percent, more than double the recommendation in
neighboring Sweden. Home  prices  in Western Europe’s biggest oil
exporter rose an annual 8.5 percent last month, according to the
Norwegian Association of Real Estate Agents. Household debt will
grow to more than 200 percent of disposable incomes this year,
the central bank estimates. In the years leading up to Norway’s
1990s property bubble, the debt ratio reached about 150 percent.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said at a seminar in
Oslo last month that the government will do everything in its
power to prevent another banking crisis. Johnsen, who was also
finance minister during the 1990s crisis, has warned Norwegian
households not to assume rates will stay low.  Still, Rune Bjerke, chief executive officer of  DNB ASA (DNB) ,
Norway’s largest bank, said last month he’s confident the
government won’t do anything to harm the covered bond market.  Banks and corporates “really need a well-diversified and
liquid bond market,” he said.  “If you need to change the rules when you’re in the game,
then something is wrong,” Wahlroos said. “Our experience from
the past is that stable and wise rules that are in force for an
extended period of time are by far the best thing for any
market, financial markets definitely included.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  