-- Obama Meetings Didn’t Ease Budget Standoff, Boehner Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/obama-meetings-didn-t-ease-budget-standoff-boehner-says.html
The fight between Democrats and
Republicans over how to address the nation’s fiscal health
continues even after a week of meetings between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans on Capitol Hill, House Speaker John Boehner said.  “It’s always a good thing to engage in more
conversation,” Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said in an
interview on ABC’s “This Week” program. “But when you get
down to the bottom line, the president believes that we have to
have more taxes from the American people, we’re not going to get
very far.”  In meetings with lawmakers in the Democratic-majority
Senate and Republican-led House over several days last week,
Obama urged Democrats to be open to revisions in entitlement
programs and pressed Republicans to put increases in revenue
onto the negotiating table.  Boehner told ABC that raising taxes is off the table.  “The president got his tax hikes on January the 1st,”
Boehner said, referring to a tax increase on top earners enacted
early this year. “The talk about raising revenue is over. It’s
time to deal with the spending problem.”  Entitlement Changes  Senator Bob Corker took a more flexible position in an
interview on “Fox News Sunday.”  “I think Republicans, if they saw true entitlement reform,
would be glad to look at tax reform that generates additional
revenue,” the Tennessee Republican told Fox.  As the White House continues to push for a broader
agreement that would help economic recovery, lawmakers plan to
move forward this week on competing fiscal 2014 budget
blueprints.  “We’ve got to, of course, pass this budget resolution in
the Senate,” Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois, the chamber’s
second-ranking Democrat, said on the “Fox News Sunday”
program. “And then we’re going to move to the next stage, and
that is the grand bargain stage.”  Alan Krueger, the Obama administration’s chief economist,
said in a March 15 Bloomberg Television interview that economic
growth would be in the range of 2 percent to 3 percent this
year. He also said that agreement in Congress that removed the
immediate threat of default has helped boost the stock market,
and emphasized an improving economy.  Market Reaction  For the week of March 11, the  S&P 500 (SPX)  advanced 0.6 percent
to 1,560.70, its third straight weekly gain, and the  Dow-Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  climbed for a fourth week, adding 117.04
points, or 0.8 percent, to 14,514.11. The 30-stock index posted
 10 straight days  of gains through March 14, the longest winning
streak since 1996.  The Senate budget proposal laid out last week by Budget
Committee Chairwoman Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat, would
generate almost $1 trillion in new revenue while protecting
Medicare and expanding Medicaid health-care coverage for more
low-income Americans. Her counterpart on the House Budget
Committee, Wisconsin Republican Paul Ryan, last week proposed a
plan for balancing the government’s books in 10 years by cutting
$4.6 trillion.  The document is a vehicle for an eventual agreement, Ryan
said yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  “I believe the president won’t pass our budget into law,
but let’s get a down payment,” Ryan said. “Let’s get a good
start on the problem.”  Debt Crisis  Obama is making the case that the U.S. isn’t facing an
immediate debt crisis. Further cuts to the nation’s budget
 deficit  will occur if lawmakers don’t act to reverse the
automatic cuts, known as sequestration, that went into effect on
March 1, with $85 billion in reductions this year alone.
Republicans are pressing for a deal that would restructure
entitlement programs, including Social Security and Medicare.  “What the president is saying is our focus right now
should be to get people back to work, sustain a recovery, and
then reduce the deficit in a measured, balanced way,”
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the top Democrat on
the House Budget Committee, said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.”  While the sequestration cuts have drawn criticism across
the federal government, lawmakers have few pathways for major
changes. The reductions total $1.2 trillion over nine years.
Government agencies as diverse as the Justice Department and the
Federal Aviation Administration are planning employee furloughs
and cutbacks to adjust to the new funding levels.  Growth Reduction  The Obama administration has urged lawmakers to come to an
agreement that would avert, or reshape, the spending cuts.
Krueger, in the Bloomberg Television interview, said that the
cuts would reduce economic growth by 0.6 percentage points.  The Congressional Budget Office projects that the economy
will lose 750,000 jobs this year if the automatic spending cuts
stay in effect through the Sept. 30 end of the federal fiscal
year.  “I don’t know whether we can come to a big agreement,”
Boehner said in the ABC interview. “If we do, it’ll be between
the two parties on Capitol Hill. Hopefully we can go to
conference on these budgets, and hope springs eternal in my
mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  