-- Ohio Attorney General Seeks Grand Jury Probe in Teen Rape
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-19T01:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/ohio-attorney-general-seeks-grand-jury-probe-in-teen-rape.html
Ohio  Attorney General Mike DeWine
said he’s asking a state court to convene a grand jury to
consider evidence of broader complicity in the sexual assault of
a teenage girl by two high-school football players last year.  The defendants, Trent Mays and Ma’lik Richmond, yesterday
were found delinquent, the equivalent of guilty, by Judge Thomas
Lipps in a juvenile court proceeding in Steubenville, Ohio. The
non-jury trial started on March 13.  Charges against each included rape by digital penetration
and kidnapping of a 16-year-old, De Wine said yesterday in a
statement. Mays was also accused of disseminating nudity-
oriented materials of a juvenile.  “Every rape is a tragedy. This is tragedy,” the attorney
general said. Agents of his office interviewed almost 60 people
in connection with the incident, which involved two house
parties. Sixteen people refused to be interviewed, he said.  DeWine said his office’s Bureau of Criminal Investigation
also analyzed almost 400,000  text messages , more than 300,000
photos, 940 video clips and more than 3,000 calls.  Richmond’s lawyer,  Walter Madison  of Akron, Ohio, said he
would appeal the ruling.  “He is delinquent. Only adults are guilty,” Madison said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “The distinction is
important because guilty suggests he’s committed a crime. He’s
been found delinquent of an act that if he was an adult would
have been considered a crime.”  Charge Dropped  That act, the attorney said, was one of digital penetration
of the teen victim. The kidnapping charge was dropped in
October, he said.  Mays’ attorney, Brian Duncan, said in a telephone interview
today that no decision has been made on whether his client will
challenge Lipps’s decision on appeal.  Duncan,  a partner  in the Columbus, Ohio-based firm Duncan
Simonette, described his client as disappointed and upset.  “He’s upset with himself. He’s upset with the entire
situation,” the attorney said. Speaking for Mays and his
family, he said, “our thoughts and prayers are with the young
lady and her family.”  DeWine said he sought a grand jury to meet on or about
April 15 to hear evidence of whether crimes were committed by
other individuals.  “I anticipate numerous witnesses will be called to
testify,” he said. Convening such a panel doesn’t necessarily
mean additional charges will be filed, he said.  DeWine said in another statement that two teeange girls
were arrested in Steubenville late this afternoon for
threatening the rape victim.  Misdemeanor Counts  A 16-year-old girl was charged with one misdemeanor count
of aggravated menacing for threatening the life of the victim on
Twitter, according to the statement. A 15-year-old was charged
with a misdemeanor count of menacing for threatening bodily harm
to the victim on Facebook. The girls weren’t named in the
statement.  Mays, 17, and Richmond, 16, both members of the
Steubenville High School football team, apologized in court
yesterday. Lipps ordered each held in a juvenile detention
facility for at least one year. The juvenile system could hold
them until age 21.  Mays faces a second year for the additional count, Duncan
said. “With good behavior, he could be out in two years, if not
before,” the attorney said.  Madison said his client will receive credit for time
served.  “He’s 16. Nine and one-half months from now seems like
forever,” the attorney said. “He’s going to get through
this.”  State Championships  The case ignited debate beyond the boundaries of
Steubenville because of the status accorded high-school football
players in the town of 18,000 on the banks of the  Ohio River .  Steubenville High School won the last of its nine state
championships in 2006. The Big Red rank third all-time in Ohio
with 746 wins and 305 losses in 110 seasons. The school has a
48-21 record in post-season play, the seventh-best mark in Ohio,
and head coach Reno Saccoccia has amassed a 311-56 record in 31
years with the school,  according to its website .  “This has been particularly hard for the victim and her
family,” DeWine said. “As I said already, any rape is a
tragedy. But it is even more of a tragedy when that victim is
continually re-victimized in the social media.”  Mays’ lawyer, Duncan, echoed those thoughts in his comments
today.  “We respect the decision of the court,” he said. “We
hope that this case case will be used as a teaching tool for the
youth of the country as to how they need to conduct themselves
with respect to social media, sexual relations and their overall
interactions with each other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  