-- Homebuilding Probably Climbed With Sales: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-17T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/homebuilding-probably-climbed-with-sales-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales of previously owned homes and
construction of new houses probably accelerated in February,
highlighting the strength in residential real estate that’s
helping propel the U.S. expansion, economists said before
reports this week.  Purchases of existing properties increased to a 5 million
annual rate, the strongest since November 2009, and housing
 starts  rose to a 915,000 pace, according to the median forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey. Other data may show an index of leading
economic indicators advanced for a third straight month.  Americans are gaining confidence in the housing market as
home values stabilize, the outlook for employment brightens and
mortgage rates hover near record lows. Federal Reserve officials
meeting this week will probably adhere to their plan of record
monetary policy stimulus that’s reduced borrowing costs and
helped sustain the expansion.  “Housing has definitely improved,” said Sean Incremona,
senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York  and the top
forecaster for housing starts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “There’s progress and it looks to be sustainable.
Cheap financing is definitely helping. We can thank the Fed for
that.”  Limited inventories and resilient sales are benefiting
builders including  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  and  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , showing
housing will keep contributing to growth this year after
emerging as an economic bright spot in 2012.  Last Year  Builders began work on 779,900 homes last year, a 28.1
percent increase from 2011 and the most in four years. Housing
starts remain well below the 2.07 million in 2005 at the peak of
the housing boom.  The Commerce Department will issue its February housing
starts data on March 19. The National Association of Realtors
report on sales of previously owned homes is due March 21.  Existing-home sales reached a peak of 7.25 million in
September 2005 before falling to a low of 3.45 million in July
2010, after the subprime-lending collapse pushed the economy
into its last recession. The Realtors group has said recent
sales have been restrained by a lack of properties on the
market.  Lean inventories and a pickup in homebuyer traffic have
boosted builder sentiment. A report tomorrow from the  National
Association of Home Builders  and Wells Fargo is projected to
show an increase in  confidence  in March.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  has
surged 59.4 percent in the last year, compared with an 11.3
percent gain in the broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   Foreclosure Filings  Rising home sales are pushing up prices and reducing
mortgage defaults. Foreclosure filings, including default
notices, auctions and repossessions, were down 25 percent in
February from a year earlier, according to a March 14 report
from RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-based data company.  At the same time, some areas of the country are struggling
to improve. New York,  New Jersey ,  Florida  and  Nevada  are among
16 states that reported an increase in foreclosure starts in
February, according to RealtyTrac.  AV Homes Inc. (AVHI) , a developer based in Poinciana, Florida,
that specializes in adult communities, reported a fourth-quarter
loss driven by falling property values in Florida and  Arizona .
Still, the company is purchasing land for new developments as
buyers return to the market, President and Chief Executive
Officer Roger Cregg said.  Regaining Confidence  “The value of their largest asset, their home, has
diminished and that has caused them to lose confidence and delay
their move and purchase of another home,” Cregg said on a March
15 earnings call. “We believe that as home values continue to
rise, they will regain their confidence and be returning to the
market.”  To ensure housing, the labor market and the rest of the
economy keep improving, Fed policy makers are unlikely to scale
back their $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, at the conclusion of the two-day meeting on
March 20, according to Roberto Perli, a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. in Washington and
a former economist for the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  “Based on recent statements by various policy makers as
well as the content of the minutes of previous meetings, changes
to the pace of QE will not be seriously on the table,” Perli
wrote in a March 15 note to clients.  Borrowing costs remain favorable. The average rate on a 30-
year fixed mortgage was 3.63 percent in the week ended March 14,
down from 3.92 percent a year ago, according to McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac. (FNMA)   Another report this week from the Conference Board, a New
York-based research group, is projected to show the economy will
keep expanding into the second half of 2013. The index of
leading indicators rose 0.3 percent in February after a 0.2
percent gain a month earlier, figures on March 21 may show,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  