-- Moody’s Sees Defaults as PBOC Warns on Local Risks
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-03-18T04:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/moody-s-sees-defaults-as-pboc-warns-on-local-risks.html
Moody’s Investor Services said
 China ’s local-government financing vehicles face greater risk of
default, as regulators warn 20 percent of their loans are risky.  A rally in LGFV bonds may reverse, particularly should
delinquencies emerge, Christine Kuo, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in
an e-mailed response to questions on March 8. The average yield
may rise to 7 percent by June from 6 percent now, according to
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., the first brokerage
incorporated in China and ranked the nation’s most influential
research provider by New Fortune magazine in 2010.  “I see increased risk of LGFV defaults because the
financial profiles of many remain weak and heavy refinancing is
needed,” Hong Kong-based Kuo said. “Regulators have asked
banks to control their LGFV exposures. Some of the projects
could default unless other sources of funds are found.”  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in a
March 13 press briefing that about one-fifth of loans to the
financing arms of local governments are risky. Net debt issuance
by these entities surged 179 percent in 2012 to 1.132 trillion
yuan ($182 billion), accounting for 50 percent of corporate bond
sales, according to Bank of America Corp. data.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission warned lenders to
exercise caution and limit their holdings of bonds sold by local
governments’ financing arms, the 21st Century Business Herald
said on March 13. Banks aren’t allowed to increase outstanding
loans to LGFVs above the level as of Dec. 31, 2011, the report
said. Phone calls made by Bloomberg News to the regulator’s
press office went unanswered.  Loan Curbs  The yield on Jilin Construction Holding Co.’s 7.1 percent
notes due March 2018 was 6.05 percent today, according to
Shanghai Exchange, after touching a record low of 6.04 percent
on March 15. The yield on Liaoyang City Assets Operation &
Management Co.’s November 2019 bonds rose two basis points to
6.78 percent. Companies pay an average 2.6 percent for debt
globally, according to a Bank of America index.  The financing units of local governments owe between 9.1
trillion  yuan  and 14.5 trillion yuan, or 18 to 30 percent of
China’s gross domestic product, according to a BNP Paribas SA
report published in January. Tighter curbs on bank loans
prompted the units to scramble for funds in 2012, driving a 50
percent jump in net corporate bond sales and a 404 percent surge
in trust financing, according to Bank of America.  Aggregate financing , which includes non-bank lending,
climbed 914 billion yuan to a record 2.54 trillion yuan in
January, official data show. China’s non-financial credit has
increased by nearly 60 percent of GDP in the past five years,
outstripping the rise in the U.S.’s in the five years preceding
the onset of its banking crisis in 2008, BNP Paribas said.  ‘Financial Risks’  The central government “is concerned about financial risks
and will take action to contain risks in 2013,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong
Kong. “We believe policy will have to be tightened eventually,
but the timing and pace of tightening remain uncertain. We
continue to focus on the size of total social financing as the
best indicator of potential policy change.”  CEBM Group, a Shanghai-based investment research firm,
estimated last month that about 4 trillion yuan to 5 trillion
yuan of credit -- including 2 trillion of bank loans, 2 trillion
of trust loans and 180 billion yuan of LGFV bonds -- is set to
mature this year.  The bond market has yet to show signs of concern. Most LGFV
notes are rated AA and above, according to Bank of America, and
the yield premium on one-year debt of that grade over AAA debt
shrank by 71 basis points to 50 basis points in the year through
March 15, Chinabond data show. A Feb. 22 gap of 45 basis points
was the least since September 2010.  Notes ‘Overpriced’  “The outperformance last year is unlikely to be repeated
in 2013,” said Yu Wenlong, an analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo.
“LGFV notes are now overpriced. The tightening by regulators on
shadow banking will mark a turning point for the market.
Authorities face tough challenges as they need to meet local
governments’ funding needs, while preventing defaults.”  The biggest threats to China’s financial stability are
shadow banking and loans to LGFVs, Bank of China Ltd. Chairman
Xiao Gang wrote in a commentary in the China Daily on Feb. 19.
China should pay special attention to such risks, the Economic
Information Daily reported on Jan. 22, citing Huang Shuhe, vice
chairman of State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission.  Hainan, Ningxia  The provincial debt levels in some second and third-tier
cities, particularly those in western China such as Hainan and
Ningxia, have increased with their debt-to-GDP ratios already
exceeding 40 percent in 2010, CEBM said in a Feb. 21 report.
More than 30 percent of LGFVs have insufficient operating cash
flow to cover debt payments, the report said, citing CBRC
estimates.  “This suggests that some local governments could
potentially default,” CEBM analysts including Steve Chen wrote.
“An actual default would reverberate throughout China’s
commercial banking system and have a systemic impact on China’s
financial system.”  China is encountering “some natural frictions” as its
capital markets develop, according to Wee-Ming Ting, head of
Asian Fixed Income at Pictet Asset Management, which oversees
$29 billion of emerging-market debt. Pictet’s holdings include
securities from China, although not LGFV notes, he said.  “Increasing debt in China is an issue to be addressed but
it’s not going to cause a major problem,” said Ting, who is
based in Singapore. “China is in a transition period as it
shifts away from a reliance on bank loans to the bond market.”  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring China’s sovereign notes using five-
year credit-default swaps fell five basis points this year to 62
in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government fails to adhere to debt agreements.  The yuan weakened 0.03 percent to 6.2155 per dollar as of
12:53 p.m. in  Shanghai  today, according to China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The government’s 10-year bonds yielded
3.59 percent on March 15.  CEBM Group estimated total social financing will rise 15
percent this year to 17.5 trillion yuan, providing ample
liquidity to companies and local governments. Loans to Tianjin’s
LGFVs are expected to post “stable” growth this year, after 30
billion yuan was extended last year, Lin Tiegang, head of the
the PBOC’s Tianjin branch said this month.  “The government will definitely continue to allow LGFV
bond sales, but may restrict some high-risk or low-level local
governments from selling bonds,” said Ethan Mou, a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America in Hong Kong. The yield spreads of
LGFV bonds could widen in 2013, due to supply or a credit event
associated with trusts, Mou said, adding that a “big sell-off”
could be a good opportunity for buy-and-hold investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in  Singapore  at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  