-- Osborne Hints at Parliamentary Deal Over Media Regulation
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/osborne-hints-at-parliamentary-deal-over-media-regulation.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  suggested Britain’s main political parties may be able
to agree on measures to regulate the press as coalition partners
side with the opposition in a vote today.  Osborne said that “there is still an opportunity” of
agreement before a vote. Cross-party consensus is needed to
ensure the powers remain in place, he said.  “It will be great on Monday if we can get some kind of
agreement even at this late stage between the parties because,
frankly, I think press regulation that is achieved in a way that
divides the political parties is not press regulation that’s
really going to last,” Osborne told BBC Television yesterday.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives will introduce
amendments to the Crime and Courts Bill to establish a “Royal
Charter” backing a system of non-statutory regulation. The
coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats, are siding with the
 Labour Party , demanding tougher regulatory powers.  “Ultimately we’re not about grandstanding on this,”
Osborne said. “We’re about getting a press law that works.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  last week accused Cameron
of “party-political point scoring” after talks among the
U.K.’s three main parties over the new system of press
regulation broke down.  The parties have been split over how to implement the
findings of Judge Brian Leveson’s report into media ethics,
published last year, with differences over whether to accept its
recommendations in full and on passing laws to give backing to a
new media regulator.  “On this issue I don’t think there should be any party
political dividing lines,” Labour’s deputy leader,  Harriet Harman , told Sky News yesterday. “I think we should protect the
freedom of the press but also protect victims from abuse.”  The Leveson inquiry was set up after the phone-hacking
scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now defunct News of the World tabloid,
which has led to at least 36 arrests.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ’s
Sunday Mirror was dragged into the affair last week as London
police arrested four journalists connected to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  