-- Toyo Ito Wins $100,000 Pritzker Prize for Bravura Designs
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-03-18T02:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/toyo-ito-wins-100-000-pritzker-prize-for-bravura-designs.html
Toyo Ito, an architect who uses
bravura engineering to achieve effortless-looking lyricism, was
yesterday named the 2013 laureate of the prestigious  Pritzker
Architecture Prize .  The Tokyo-based architect will receive the bronze medal and
a $100,000 check at a May 29 ceremony at the John F. Kennedy
Presidential Library in  Boston .  The prize was established in 1979 by billionaire Jay A. Pritzker, who founded  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , and his wife, Cindy.  Big international prizes like the Pritzker have often
celebrated architects who need neither the money nor the
attention.  In recent years the Pritzker juries have chosen
transformative, but less-known talents, like last year’s winner,
Wang Shu, who has resisted  China ’s wholesale obliteration of its
traditional cityscapes.  Toyo Ito, 71, is no celebrity. His inviting, even
voluptuous forms come from a painstaking attention to
circumstances. He topped sober marble cubes in a funeral hall in
 Japan ’s Gifu prefecture with an undulating roof that seems to
dance.  Sendai Mediatheque  “There’s an underlying discipline that allows him to be
open, fresh and young in many ways,” said Ken Tadashi Oshima,
an associate professor of architecture at the  University of
Washington , who is a Japan specialist and has worked with Ito.  The architect’s best-known building is the  Sendai
Mediatheque  (2000) in Japan’s Miyagi prefecture, a rectangle
wrapped in transparent glass so passersby can see in. It
anticipated how digital technologies would transform libraries.
A broad open floor plan invites people to work and collaborate
in new ways.  Working with structural engineer Mutsuro Sasaki, he
supported the building with elegant latticework bundles of pipes
that run inside tubes of glass. They gently tilt in different
directions, an effect likened to swaying seaweed.  In spite of its fragile appearance, the library, near the
epicenter of the 2011 Fukushima earthquake, suffered only minor
damage and was reopened two months after the tragedy. (A video
shot inside during the quake went viral.) In an e-mail, Ito said
the library is now used by record numbers of visitors.  Ito was born in 1941 in  Seoul , but his family returned to
Japan a short time later. He became passionate about design
while working for the architect Kiyonori Kikutake in 1964.  Cecil Balmond  In Ito’s projects, playfulness warms dull sobriety. In an
early Tokyo house he designed for himself, metal vaults, like
stylish Quonset huts, seemed to have jumped on top of each
other. The 1986 Tower of the Winds is a light sculpture that
registers passing breezes.  Working with the engineer Cecil Balmond, he built the 2002
Serpentine Pavilion in  London  of shattered fragments suspended
impossibly in air.  Ito’s un-built 2008 project for the Berkeley Art Museum and
Pacific Film Archive at the  University of California  (his only
U.S. commission) would have been among his most ambitious.  He sought to marry an easy, fluid visitor experience with
the neutrality of the white-box gallery. So he designed
rectangular walls to warp near the corners, like draperies, to
form curvy, inviting doors and windows.  In recent large-scale projects, he has demanded exacting
engineering and construction techniques, yet the designs have
not lost an easy, inviting grace. In the 40,000-seat 2009 World
Games Stadium, in Kaohsiung,  Taiwan , the rounded form of the
seating bowl becomes a serpentine tail that sails across an
entry plaza to shelter fans.  Digestive Piping  The Taichung Metropolitan Opera House, under construction
in Taiwan, fits three theaters (2,000, 800 and 200 seats) in
what looks like a monumental network of pipe fittings.  We are urged to “imagine human digestive organs,”
according to Ito, intending the fluid shapes to bring the
adjacent park inside “as a continuous space that would lead you
to the theaters spontaneously as if you were exploring a cave.”  Repairing the Sendai Mediatheque took Ito back to the scene
of the Fukushima devastation. Unhappy with the pace of
rebuilding, he worked with volunteer architects on “Home-for-All,” a series of small, house-like gathering places for people
who have been confined to isolated temporary housing.  “It’s caused us to rethink the fundamental question, ‘What
is architecture?’” he wrote.  It’s a rare architect who would ask such a question after a
successful four-decade career.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jorg von Uthmann on art,  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 