-- Pakistan Reaches Democracy Milestone Amid Economy-Security Woes
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-03-17T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/pakistan-reaches-democracy-milestone-amid-economy-security-woes.html
Pakistan ’s government became the
first democratically elected administration in the nation’s 65
years of independence to serve a full five-year term, a landmark
marred by a struggling economy and rising sectarian violence.  In a televised speech to the nation late on March 16, Prime
Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf said the Pakistan Peoples Party-led
government had overcome all threats, drawing a line under a past
punctured by military coups. Ashraf remains in office until a
caretaker premier is appointed to govern in the runup to a
general election scheduled for May.  “It is true that we have not been able to turn Pakistan
into a land of all honey and milk in the past five years,”
Ashraf said. “But we have lessened the inherited problems and
strengthened democracy so much that no one will be able to
derail it in future.”  The weekend milestone for Pakistani democracy may not help
the Peoples Party, which is headed by President Asif Ali Zardari. The party got less than  half the support  of its main
challenger, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, in an opinion poll
released March 4. Its popularity has shrunk amid the nation’s
worst energy crisis,  inflation  above 7 percent, a Taliban
insurgency in the northwest and growing insecurity.  While Zardari and his government worked to entrench
democracy and appease opponents with decisions in 2010 to give
greater autonomy to the country’s provinces and strip the
presidency of the power to dissolve parliament, prices rose and
factories were shuttered by rolling electricity cuts.  Afghan Role  “Zardari found the instinct of survival,” said Rashid
Ahmed Khan, a professor of politics and international relations
at the University of Sargodha in central Pakistan. The ruling
party managed its coalition well and improved ties with rival
 India , “but failed to address the economic challenges faced by
the people,” Khan said.  After being carved out of British-run India in 1947,
Pakistan has been ruled for half its history by the army, with
civilian governments ousted by generals following allegations of
corruption and misrule.  Whichever party wins in May will have to boost the $210
billion economy which has grown at an average  3 percent  since
2007, less than half the annual pace of the previous five years
and too slow to reduce poverty in the world’s sixth-most
populous country. The U.S. is seeking help from Pakistan’s
civilian and military leaders to stabilize  Afghanistan  as
American combat troops withdraw from an 11-year war with Taliban
guerrillas by the end of 2014.  Caretaker Talks  The Peoples Party was preferred by 16 percent of
respondents, according to the March analysis by Gallup Pakistan
of two national polls carried out in November and February.
Former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s PML stood at 37 percent,
with ex-cricket star  Imran Khan ’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf on 16
percent. The February survey of 9,660 voters had a margin of
error of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Talks between the parties of Zardari and Sharif on the
make-up of the interim administration are set to continue, and
if no agreement is reached by the beginning of next week, a
premier may be appointed by the country’s Election Commission.  Former finance minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, who resigned
last month, and an ex-governor of the central bank, Ishrat Husain, are among the candidates. Zardari’s term expires in
September. Pakistan’s president is elected by members of the
national and regional assemblies.  Bombing Wave  Pakistan is grappling with a slide in foreign reserves and
an almost 8 percent plunge in the value of the rupee against the
dollar in the last year, increasing the odds it will need a
further bailout by the  International Monetary Fund . Foreign
investment has slumped 85 percent since 2008. The benchmark
Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has climbed 33 percent in the
period, helped by increases in corporate profits.  Ashraf’s speech, after which parliament was dissolved,
marked the end of a tumultuous five years for the government.  The Peoples Party emerged as the largest in the National
Assembly following elections in 2008, two months after its
leader and former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto  was assassinated
at an election rally in Rawalpindi, just outside Islamabad.
Zardari, Bhutto’s widower, took over party’s reins, forging a
short-lived alliance with Sharif.  The army extended its campaign against Taliban insurgents
in the northwest, sending 28,000 troops into South Waziristan in
October 2009 and triggering a nationwide wave of retaliatory
attacks by militants. A year later, the country’s worst ever
floods displaced 20 million people.  Karzai Anger  The American special forces raid that killed al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden in a Pakistan army town in 2011 escalated
a downturn in ties with the U.S., Pakistan’s largest aid donor.
It also led to a prolonged confrontation between Zardari and
Pakistani generals, who were subject to rare criticism over the
military’s failure to detect the airborne operation.  Even before bin Laden’s killing, Pakistan’s relationship
with the U.S. -- and President  Hamid Karzai  in neighboring
Afghanistan -- had been plagued by distrust.  Karzai and officials in  Washington  had long accused
Pakistan of assisting Taliban guerrillas in a bid to derail
Kabul’s closer ties with India and retain its traditional
influence over Afghanistan’s majority Pashtun community.  In 2012, Pakistan’s Supreme Court ousted prime minister
 Yousuf Raza Gilani  after he cited the president’s immunity as a
barrier to seeking the reopening of corruption cases against
Zardari in Swiss courts.  Scholar’s Protest  Top judges, who were accused in the media of unfairly
targeting Zardari, in January ordered the arrest of the
replacement premier Ashraf for alleged graft in rental power
projects when he was power minister. The head of the country’s
main anti-corruption agency later told judges there wasn’t
enough evidence to proceed.  That challenge came as a popular cleric led some of the
country’s biggest ever political rallies in central Islamabad
demanding the government step aside and, controversially, that
the army help run the country ahead of elections.  Ties with neighbor India improved after talks resumed in
2011 following a more than two-year hiatus triggered by the
terrorist attack on Mumbai by Pakistani guerrillas. Deadly
border clashes in disputed Kashmir in January have since cast a
shadow on efforts to repair the relationship.  At home, bomb attacks targeting the Shiite minority have
killed 200 hundred people this year forcing the government to
announce a belated attempt to curb some Sunni extremists. In
Karachi, the country’s financial capital, almost daily gun
battles claimed 2,000 lives in 2012.  “Zardari silenced detractors who thought the government
was going home in six months,” Khan of the University of
Sargodha said. “His government wasn’t good, but it wasn’t the
worst” Pakistan has had.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  