-- Panasonic Is Considering Various Options in Health-Care
-- B y   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-03-18T10:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/panasonic-says-considers-various-health-care-business-options.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  rose the most in
six weeks in Tokyo trading after the Nikkei newspaper reported
it’s considering an exit from the plasma TV  business  and may
sell its health-care business.  Panasonic  rose  as much as 4.9 percent to 722 yen, its
biggest advance since Feb. 4, in Tokyo trading before closing
0.6 percent higher at 692 yen, extending its gain to 33 percent
this year. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 2.7 percent.  The company is “seeking various growth strategies for the
TV business,” spokeswoman Chieko Gyobu said today. It’s
considering options for the growth of its health-care unit,
spokeswoman Megumi Kitagawa said yesterday, declining to comment
on whether it could be sold.  Japan ’s No. 2 TV maker is cutting  jobs  and selling assets
as it forecasts a net loss of 765 billion yen in the fiscal year
ending March amid competition from Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co. President Kazuhiro Tsuga plans to cut the number
of units to 56 from 88 to focus on those offering the widest
profit  margins , such as beauty appliances and welding machinery.  The company is considering exiting the plasma TV business
while reducing production of liquid-crystal displays and
increasing outsourcing to companies including  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) , the Nikkei reported today, without citing anyone.  Generating Cash  It’s considering selling the unit that markets devices to
check blood sugar levels and hearing aids for as much as 100
billion yen ($1.1 billion), the newspaper said yesterday,
without citing anyone. That would be part of the plan to
accelerate selling “non-core” businesses, the Nikkei reported.  “The direction is right for Panasonic to try to generate
 cash  by selling and restructuring its business and I feel
positive about this direction,” said Koki Shiraishi, an analyst
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “I still worry about speed
because cash generated in this way needs time to find buyers.”  LG Electronics gained 1.5 percent to 80,300 won in Seoul
trading.  Private equity funds such as  KKR & Co. (KKR)  may be interested in
buying the health-care unit, the Nikkei reported. John Sunley, a
spokesman for KKR in Japan, said, “We do not comment on
speculation.”  The health-care unit reported an operating loss of 8.8
billion yen for the fiscal year ended March 2012, on sales of
133.6 billion yen, Nikkei said.  Panasonic earlier this month agreed to sell a building in
Tokyo for about 50 billion yen to Sumitomo Mitsui Finance &
Leasing Co. and  Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  