-- Pemex Said to Announce Maximino Deepwater Results Next Month
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-03-17T19:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/pemex-said-to-announce-maximino-deepwater-results-next-month.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest crude producer, expects to have results next
month on the potential reserves of its third ultra-deepwater
exploration well on the Mexican side of the Perdido basin,
according to a person with knowledge of the offshore well.  Final tests at Maximino-1 will be completed in April, one
month later than planned, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  Maximino, referred to by the company and analysts as “the
jewel in the crown” of Mexico’s deepwater portfolio, is in the
Perdido area, about 200 miles (320 kilometers) east of the
Texas-Mexico border in the  Gulf of Mexico . The area is where the
state-owned producer last year found its first two commercially
viable deepwater crude discoveries after 23 attempts.  Maximino is at a depth of 2,900 meters (9,515 feet), the
deepest ever for the Mexican oil producer.  A Pemex press official confirmed the new timeline on
Maximino’s results. The official asked not to be identified,
citing company policy.  Pemex, as the company is known, is expected to announce
today the 2012 proven crude reserves and the number will reflect
two previous discoveries in Perdido, at the Supremus and Trion
wells, the person said.  Another large discovery by the Mexican oil producer last
year, in the Navegante onshore field, showed mechanical problems
and its potential may have been reduced to 100 million barrels
from the 500 million barrels estimated in November, the person
said.  The state-owned company, which is constitutionally banned
from having partners for exploration projects, has invested
almost $10 billion in exploration since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  