-- Protesters May Target Olympic Visit as Madrid Bids for Games
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-03-17T23:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/protesters-may-target-olympic-visit-as-madrid-bids-for-games.html
Protests against spending cuts
could disrupt a visit by Olympic officials to assess  Madrid ’s
bid to host the 2020 Games amid record unemployment and mounting
public-sector debt in  Spain .  A group of  International Olympic Committee  members begin a
four-day visit today. Madrid is vying with  Tokyo  and Istanbul to
stage the Summer Games.  Spain’s economic and political stability will be the main
concerns for the IOC, according to Ferran Brunet, a Barcelona
University professor who has written about the economics of
hosting the Olympics. Barcelona was the last Spanish city to
stage the games in 1992.  “There was an economic risk when Barcelona was awarded the
games but it wasn’t as big as there is today” for Madrid,
Brunet said. IOC members “will have to study what the  credit
rating agencies  and political analysts say.”  Madrid, which would share about $5 billion of budgeted
costs with the Spanish government, is least likely of the three
bidding cities to win at odds of 4-1, according to Dublin-based
 bookmaker Paddy Power , which rates Tokyo as the 8-13 favorite
and Istanbul at 2-1. A successful $1 wager on Madrid would yield
a $4 profit.  Subway workers three days ago called off a three-day strike
that was scheduled to start tomorrow, though workers at public
sports facilities in Madrid are planning to protest municipal
government cuts outside the hotel where IOC members are staying,
 El Mundo newspaper  reported on March 15.  Spain made five rounds of austerity cuts in less than a
year, including reductions in public-sector wages and
 unemployment benefits  while raising the value-added tax, as it
tries to reduce its  budget deficit .  Madrid is making a third straight bid to host the Olympics
after losing out to  London  and  Rio de Janeiro  in the last two
votes. In 2009, Madrid was second to Rio in voting to stage the
2016 Games after beating out Chicago and Tokyo in earlier
rounds.  Spain’s economic woes have worsened since then, with the
 unemployment rate  rising to a record 26 percent from 18.5
percent. Public sector debt last year surged 20 percent to 884.4
billion euros ($1.15 trillion) -- 84.1 percent of gross domestic
product -- according to the central bank on March 15, as the
government backstopped municipalities, tax-funded pensions and
jobless-benefit systems.  Madrid’s bid leaders, who say about 80 percent of venues
are already built, have cut planned spending on stadiums and
infrastructure by 24 percent to $1.9 billion compared to its
last bid, according to Bloomberg News calculations. Organizing
costs are budgeted at $3.1 billion.  “You can stage the games without throwing money around,”
Alejandro Blanco, president of the Spanish Olympic Committee,
told the  As newspaper  on March 15.  Rome pulled out of a bid to host in 2020 in February of
last year when then Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said it would be
a drain on public resources.  When Barcelona got the games in 1986, its textile and
manufacturing industries were in decline and the city needed
regeneration, Brunet said. A six-year economic upturn and low
 interest rates  allowed the city to pay off its debts by 2000 as
visits by tourists surged, Brunet added.  “The big question is not whether Madrid can afford the
games but what kind of impact they will have,” Brunet said.
“Some cities don’t get as much out of it as others.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  