-- Raikkonen’s Two-Stop Strategy Pays Off at Opening Formula 1 Race
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-17T13:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/raikkonen-wins-season-opening-formula-one-race-in-australia.html
Kimi Raikkonen  played a two-stop
strategy to perfection to win the season-opening Australian
Grand Prix and secure his 20th career Formula One victory.  Lotus driver Raikkonen finished 12.4 seconds ahead of
Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  in yesterday’s 58-lap race at
 Melbourne ’s Albert Park circuit, with defending champion
Sebastian Vettel of  Red Bull  in third. It was the Finn’s first
win in  Australia  since 2007, when he went on to take the title.  “The team got the strategy perfect,” said Raikkonen,
whose two stops for fresh tires contrasted with Alonso and
Vettel’s three. “I could push when I needed and the car felt
really good. Probably one of my easiest wins.”  In six of the past 10 years, the Melbourne race victor has
gone on to clinch the championship. Raikkonen, 33, finished
third in the standings last season after returning to Formula
One following a two-year stint racing rally cars.  Vettel, seeking his fourth straight title, was third after
starting from pole position. Qualifying concluded yesterday
morning after heavy rain forced the postponement of Saturday’s
second and third sessions.  “You’re always a little disappointed when you start first
and don’t finish first,” Vettel said. “We didn’t see Kimi on
the track, he was too quick and Fernando jumped us at a
vulnerable time, but we can be happy with third.”  Felipe Massa  finished fourth in the other Ferrari, ahead of
 Lewis Hamilton  in his first race for Mercedes after ending a 13-
year association with McLaren.  Hamilton Compromised  As happened with Raikkonen, Mercedes tried a two-stop
strategy with Hamilton, though his car’s tire wear was too high
and the 2008 world champion had to make an unplanned third trip
to the pits and fell back to fifth. Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  was
sixth in his home Grand Prix.  “The decision to convert to a three-stop strategy
compromised Lewis relative to those cars who had gone for three
from the start,” Mercedes team principal  Ross Brawn  said in a
team statement. “The behavior of the tires is something we will
have to think about and understand over the next days.”  After coming in for his second stop on lap 34, Raikkonen
managed his tires to hold off Alonso and even pulled further
away in the closing stages after taking the lead for good on lap
43. Seven drivers led the race.  Fastest Lap  The Finn, who stayed out a dozen laps longer than the other
leaders, posted the fastest lap on the second-last circuit.  Adrian Sutil , who led at mid-race after starting from 11th
place, finished seventh ahead of Force India teammate Paul di
Resta. McLaren’s Jenson Button and  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus
rounded out the points-scoring positions.  “It was the best start we could have had to the season,”
said Lotus Team Principal Eric Boullier. “Not only is it a win,
but the strategy we chose also worked. Reduced tire wear was one
of the strengths of the car that we inherited from last season
and it was useful because during Kimi’s second stint the other
cars were starting to challenge a bit more.”  Sauber driver  Nico Hulkenberg  didn’t start yesterday’s race
because of a fuel system problem. The German, who’d qualified in
11th place, has failed to finish in any of his three appearances
at Albert Park after retiring in the 2010 and 2012 races.  The Malaysian Grand Prix, the second of 19 events in the
2013 season, is scheduled March 24.  “We hope we can be fighting at the front of the
championship,” Raikkonen added. “But there’s a long way to go
still and we need to keep pushing hard all the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  