-- Rudd Twice as Popular as Gillard in Australian Opinion Poll
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-18T03:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/rudd-twice-as-popular-as-gillard-in-australian-opinion-poll.html
Australia ’s former Prime Minister
Kevin Rudd is twice as popular with voters as incumbent Julia Gillard six months ahead of an election, according to an opinion
poll that may stir more talk of a leadership challenge.  Asked who of the two was the preferred leader of the ruling
Labor party, 62 percent of respondents said Rudd and 31 percent
chose Gillard, according to the Nielsen poll published in
Fairfax newspapers today. The same survey puts the government on
course to lose the Sept. 14 ballot, with the Liberal-National
coalition on 56 percent to Labor’s 44 percent on a two-party
preferred basis.  Gillard’s minority government has trailed in opinion polls
for almost two years and the Nielsen survey shows she lags
opposition leader Tony Abbott on the question of preferred prime
minister. As parliament enters its last sitting week before the
May 14  federal budget , media speculation is mounting that Labor
members will return the leadership to Rudd, who was ousted by
Gillard in a June 2010 party coup.  “It’s a matter of survival for some of these guys” in the
Labor party, said Nick Economou, a political analyst at Monash
University in  Melbourne . “The people who count now are those
Labor MPs who hold seats on 5 percent to 10 percent. If they
suddenly panic and think they’re going to be out of parliament
if they don’t do something, then they could just as easily go
for Rudd.”  ‘Rudd Joke’  Among solely Labor voters, support for Rudd is 51 percent
to Gillard’s 48 percent, the poll shows. That’s narrowed from
the 13 point lead he held over Gillard when he unsuccessfully
challenged her for the leadership in February last year when he
was serving as her foreign minister.  Rudd, who has repeatedly denied he intends to challenge
Gillard again since his 2012 bid, joked about the issue in a
speech last week and referred to the Ides of March, when Julius
Caesar was assassinated by political rivals.  “Today is also the Ides of March, a day which commands the
stark attention of anyone involved in the fratricide -- I mean
the profession -- of politics,” Rudd said in an address in
Brisbane also marking St. Patrick’s Day that was posted on
YouTube. “It’s time to announce that I will challenge … any of
the Liberal politicians to demonstrate that they have any more
Irish blood than me.”  Among reasons cited by Gillard and her supporters for
Rudd’s ouster in 2010 were his erratic decision-making, lack of
communication and his desire to concentrate power away from his
own ministers. Rudd said early last year that he’d learned the
lessons from his time as prime minister and would try to
delegate more and consult more widely.  ‘Won’t Happen’  Support for Australia's first female prime minister has waned
after a series of policy back flips -- including on a tax on carbon 
emissions -- and scandals involving senior party members. A 
weakening manufacturing sector in some key Labor seats on the 
fringes of major cities has also seen her support dissipate.  Gillard  told Fairfax newspapers  in an interview published
today that she wouldn’t yield to leadership speculation: “If I
haven’t flinched yet, why would I flinch now?” she was cited as
saying.  She also rejected the possibility of being asked to step
down by senior ministers. “It just won’t happen. [It’s] much
speculated upon and just won’t happen,” she said.  Voter Enthusiasm  Voter enthusiasm for any Labor figure outside of Rudd and
Gillard was subdued, the Nielsen poll showed, which may damp
talk of a third-party challenger or for one of Gillard’s
confidants to offer themselves as a middle-ground candidate:
Employment Minister Bill Shorten was supported by 38 percent of
respondents compared with 52 percent for Gillard; Climate Change
Minister Greg Combet was backed by 35 percent to Gillard’s 53
percent; and Foreign Minister Bob Carr by 41 percent to 50
percent for the prime minister.  “Rudd’s the most popular person around, as is well
known,” Economou said. “But his chances of becoming leader
again depend on his caucus colleagues changing their attitude
towards him.”  The Nielsen survey of 1,400 respondents was conducted March
14-16. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  