-- SAC’S Plotkin Said to Have Been Tipped by Analyst
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-18T20:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/sac-s-plotkin-said-to-have-been-tipped-by-analyst.html
A convicted SAC Capital Advisors LP
analyst at the center of a federal criminal probe of insider
trading passed inside information to SAC fund manager Gabriel Plotkin, according to internal e-mails and two people familiar
with the matter.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said last week
in a court filing that the analyst, Jon Horvath, funneled
nonpublic information on technology stocks to two unidentified
portfolio managers at Steven Cohen’s $15 billion hedge fund. The
men then traded on the information, reaping more than $6 million
for SAC Capital. Previously, only one had been identified in a
separate court case: SAC fund manager Michael Steinberg.  The SEC’s complaint, filed the same day as its $616 million
insider trading settlement with two SAC units, cited the same e-
mails included as evidence by prosecutors in the trial of two of
Horvath’s co-defendants. In those messages, Horvath passed
information that came from inside  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ,
previewing earnings announcements. Steinberg and Plotkin, listed
as recipients, exchanged messages with Horvath, according to the
government’s evidence.  “It’s rarely good news to be mentioned in such detailed
fashion by the U.S. like this,” said  Anthony Sabino , who
teaches law at St. John’s University in New York.  “Notwithstanding the settlements that SAC Capital has
reached with the SEC, which are very narrow in scope, it still
leaves the door wide open to further civil litigation and
potential criminal prosecution for others mentioned in the SEC’s
complaint,” Sabino said.  SAC Units  The government has been charging hedge fund employees and
obtaining the cooperation of many as it pursues insider cases,
including one against Cohen himself, who is being investigated.
Since the five-year crackdown on market corruption began, at
least nine current or former SAC Capital employees have been
tied to allegations of illegal trading. Four have pleaded
guilty. Cohen hasn’t been sued or charged, and has denied any
wrongdoing.  Plotkin, 34, didn’t return a message seeking comment left
at his home. The SEC’s March 15 complaint against the SAC units
didn’t name him or Steinberg, or indicate whether they knew
Horvath’s information was obtained illegally. Horvath pleaded
guilty and is cooperating with the government.  Portfolio Managers  Neither Steinberg, a 15-year veteran of SAC Capital, nor
Plotkin, one of 10 portfolio managers at its Sigma Capital
Management unit focusing on consumer stocks, has been accused of
any wrongdoing.  Plotkin did “nothing wrong” and “has built a successful
career on a commitment to sound fundamental research,” Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Plotkin lost over $6 million that day on
a large Dell long position. He owned 1.8 million shares and
3,000 of Oct. 24 call options.”  Plotkin, who lives on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side, joined
SAC in 2006 and is among the firm’s top portfolio managers,
overseeing more than $1 billion, according to a person with
knowledge of the firm.  Steinberg was one of 15 SAC Capital portfolio managers
handling technology, media and telecommunications stocks before
he was placed on leave in September, said a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because they
aren’t authorized to speak about the case.  ‘Detailed Analysis’  Steinberg has done “absolutely nothing wrong,” said his
lawyer, Barry Berke. “At all times his trading decisions were
based on detailed analysis as well as information that he
understood had been properly obtained.”  Plotkin’s identity was revealed in e-mails submitted as
government evidence in the trial last year of Horvath co-
defendants Anthony Chiasson, a co-founder of Level Global
Investors LP co-founder, and former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman.  Chiasson and Newman were convicted on federal insider
trading charges in December and await sentencing in Manhattan
federal court. They face as long as 25 years in prison.  A comparison of the SEC’s complaint, filed in the same
court, with the e-mail evidence from that trial indicates
Steinberg, Horvath’s supervisor, and Plotkin are the two men who
executed the multimillion-dollar trades described by the
securities regulator.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara’s office, and John Nestor, a spokesman for the
SEC, declined to comment on the agency’s allegations or the two
recipients of Horvath’s e-mails.  Horvath’s Tips  The Justice Department and the SEC previously identified
Steinberg as the lone Sigma fund manager who traded on Horvath’s
tips on Dell, the Round-Rock, Texas-based computer manufacturer,
and Nvidia, the Santa Clara, California-based maker of graphics
processors. New York-based Sigma, with about $2 billion of
assets under management, earned $1.4 million from Horvath’s
tips, according to a federal grand jury indictment of him in
August.  The SEC’s new complaint against Sigma, filed as part of
last week’s SEC settlement of insider-trading claims tied to
technology and pharmaceutical stocks, shows that Horvath’s tips
on Dell were passed to two fund managers, helping Sigma earn or
avoid losses which the U.S. now tallies at more than $6 million.  SAC and its affiliates settled the SEC’s claims of insider
trading without admitting or denying wrongdoing. George Canellos, the regulator’s acting enforcement director, said the
accord doesn’t preclude the commission from pursuing others at
SAC.  The SEC’s investigation of the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund is continuing, Canellos said. While the Justice
Department and U.S. Attorney Bharara may initiate criminal
prosecutions, the SEC is restricted to lawsuits with no penalty
of incarceration.  Criminal Probe  Davis declined to comment on whether the criminal probe
will result in additional prosecutions tied to Horvath’s plea.  Horvath, 43, of San Francisco, a technology analyst at
Sigma from 2006 to 2011, pleaded guilty before he was set to go
on trial along with Chiasson and Newman. He is cooperating with
Bharara’s office and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New
York. His lawyer, Steven Peikin, declined to comment on the
case.  The U.S. said Horvath, Chiasson and Newman were members of
“a tight-knit circle of greed,” a group of hedge fund analysts
and technology company employees who prosecutors said trafficked
in inside information, allowing their funds to reap more than
$72 million in illicit profits.  Plea Hearing  During his plea hearing in September, Horvath said he
obtained material nonpublic information on Dell in August 2008
and Nvidia in May 2009 from insiders at the two technology
companies, which he then passed to an unidentified portfolio
manager who traded on his tips. In court, he didn’t name the
fund manager who received and later traded on his tips.  During Chiasson and Newman’s trial, prosecutors showed
electronic messages that Horvath sent in 2008 to Sigma superiors
including Steinberg and Plotkin discussing the Dell trade.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan ruled in December that
Steinberg could be considered an unindicted co-conspirator in
the insider-trading scheme. The e-mail chain in the criminal
trial mirrors that cited by the SEC in its March 15 complaint.  The SEC referred to Steinberg as “Portfolio Manager A”
and Plotkin as “Portfolio Manager B.” The two people familiar
with the case confirmed Plotkin is Portfolio Manager B. They
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter.  Dell Earnings  On Aug. 26, 2008, two days before Dell was set to report
second-quarter earnings, Horvath warned Steinberg and Plotkin in
his e-mail that one of his sources said the computer-maker would
miss earnings estimates.  The SAC e-mails show Steinberg consulted with Cohen about
the Dell trade. Steinberg told Plotkin that he and Horvath
believed Dell’s gross margin numbers were at risk. The e-mails
don’t show whether Steinberg relayed Horvath’s information or
whether he or Cohen knew that it was confidential.  “I was talking to Steve about DELL earlier today, and he
asked me if to get the two of you to compare notes before the
print, as we are on opposite sides of this one,” Steinberg
wrote to Plotkin and Horvath, referring to Dell’s Aug. 28
earning’s announcement.  Steinberg told Plotkin that he and Horvath thought Dell’s
gross margins were at risk for the quarter and that the computer
maker wouldn’t be able to offset a weak gross margin number with
better operating expenses.  Gross Margins  Plotkin then asked both men the basis for their Dell
position, inquiring, “Where are you modeling GM%?,” a
reference to gross margin percentage, prosecutors said. “What
are your insights?” Plotkin asked, according to the e-mail.  Fifteen minutes later, Horvath responded to both fund
managers, providing details on gross margins, expenditures and
revenue. Horvath tells both portfolio managers that Dell’s gross
margins would miss by 50 to 80 basis points, that would result
in an earnings per share miss.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company --
this is 3rd quarter I have gotten this read from them and it has
been very good in the last two quarters,” Horvath said and then
gives the detailed list of reasons that include operating
expenses and revenue, then adds, “Please keep to yourself as
obviously not well known.”  Steinberg responded to both Plotkin and Horvath: “Yes
normally we would never divulge data like this, so please be
discreet. Thanks.”  Sell Shares  Twenty-four minutes after receiving Horvath’s e-mail, the
SAC fund manager identified by the SEC as “Portfolio Manager
B” began selling Dell stock, according to the complaint.  By the time Dell made its Aug. 28, 2008, earnings
announcement, both fund managers had reduced their Dell holdings
by 600,000 shares, the SEC alleged.  In the days that followed, Portfolio Manager A closed out a
short position in Dell and multiple options positions, reaping
more than $1 million in profit while the second fund manager’s
sale of Dell holdings helped another Sigma unit avoid losses of
about $2 million, the SEC said.  The SEC also alleged insider trading of Dell in 2009,
claiming that Horvath passed a tip to Portfolio Manager A that
Dell was going to beat analysts’ expectations on earnings per
share, ahead of an August 2009 announcement.  SAC Capital was able to earn almost $500,000 in profit and
avoid $700,000 in losses based on Horvath’s tip, the SEC said.  In May 2009, Horvath provided inside information about
Nvidia’s earnings to Portfolio Manager A, allowing Sigma to earn
more than $500,000, the SEC said.  Material, Nonpublic  The SEC in its complaint doesn’t allege that either
Portfolio Manager A or Portfolio Manager B knew the information
Horvath sent them was material or nonpublic, a prerequisite to
any insider trading prosecution.  Of the eight people originally charged with Horvath, six
have pleaded guilty to insider trading charges and are
cooperating with the U.S.  They include Jesse Tortora, a former Diamondback analyst;
Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, an analyst at New York-based Level
Global; and Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a
South Pasadena, California-based wealth-management company.  While Kuo didn’t testify, he provided Horvath with inside
information about Nvidia, both prosecutors and the SEC alleged
in the new complaint.  Prosecutors last week were granted an adjournment of Kuo’s
sentencing after they told Judge Sullivan his cooperation is
“ongoing.”  Cohen Connection  In November, the U.S. charged Mathew Martoma, a former fund
manager for SAC’s CR Intrinsic Investors, with what prosecutors
called the biggest insider-trading scheme in history.  Bharara said Martoma helped SAC Capital make $276 million
on illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug by trading in shares
of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC. It was the first case in which
Cohen, 56, was directly linked to a trade tied to an insider
trading prosecution. Prosecutors said Martoma shared his
information with Cohen, who then traded on it. Cohen has denied
any wrongdoing.  As part of the SEC’s March 15 accord, SAC agreed to pay
more than $600 million to settle the regulator’s lawsuit tied to
Martoma’s alleged insider-trading at CR Intrinsic. Martoma has
pleaded not guilty to the charges and is awaiting trial in
Manhattan federal court. SAC didn’t admit or deny any wrongdoing
in the SEC settlement.  The FBI and the SEC are also probing trades that SAC
Capital made in shares of  InterMune Inc. (ITMN) , a Brisbane,
California-based biopharmaceutical company, a person familiar
with the matter said. That inquiry wasn’t resolved in last
week’s settlement.  ‘Options Open’  “The fact that you haven’t heard from the U.S. Attorney’s
office doesn’t bode well,” said St. John’s Sabino regarding
last week’s SEC settlement announcement. “They’re not jumping
in on settling anything yet, which means to me that they may be
keeping their options open.”  “In light of Horvath’s guilty plea, there was no way SAC
could argue against liability,” he said. “This settlement with
the SEC still leaves open all kinds of possibilities, including
possible civil suits and prosecutions of others at SAC.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121; the SEC
case is SEC v. Sigma Capital, 13-01740. Both are in U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 