-- Sarkozy Lifestyle Dents Hollande Efforts to Narrow Budget Gap
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-17T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/sarkozy-lifestyle-dents-hollande-efforts-to-narrow-budget-gap.html
Keeping former President Nicolas Sarkozy in style costs the French taxpayer more than 2 million
euros ($2.6 million) annually as his successor drags citizens
through an unprecedented shrinking of the state budget.  Sarkozy, Jacques Chirac and Valery Giscard d’Estaing, the
three living French ex-presidents, are each entitled -- like
their U.S. counterparts -- to an office, staff and a lifetime of
security at taxpayers’ expense. Unlike the U.S., where the
compensation and perks of ex-presidents are capped by the
“ Former Presidents Act ,” France has no laws that limit or
review the benefits.  “It seems impossible for the government, let alone
parliament, to get a fair estimate of the cost to the state of
an ex-president,” said Rene Dosiere, a lawmaker affiliated with
the ruling Socialist Party, who specializes in  state expenses .
“There’s no budget line for it. My estimate puts it between 1.5
and 2 million euros per president. Sarkozy seems to have a
bigger staff, his benefits may surpass 2 million euros yearly.”  With President Francois Hollande hauling France through a
belt-tightening to meet European Commission demands on fiscal
discipline, every centime of public money is under scrutiny.
Although expenses of ex-presidents are minuscule when set 
against the 5 billion euros more in spending cuts Hollande is 
seeking this year, with  Europe ’s second-largest economy on the 
brink of a recession and unemployment at a 13-year high, 
mounting social discontent is putting all compensation under the 
microscope.  “Austerity is unlikely to hit former presidents,” said
 Philippe Braud , a professor at Paris’s Political Sciences
Institute. “It would be considered stingy for a current
president to crimp his predecessor’s lifestyle.”  Sarkozy Exit  Hollande is struggling to contain a budget deficit that the
European Commission sees at 3.7 percent of gross domestic
product this year, more than the French pledge of 3 percent. The
president is pushing through a series of unpopular overhauls,
including streamlining an overextended pension system and making
labor rules more flexible -- steps that have made him  France ’s
most unpopular president in more than 30 years. Worse, a
majority -- or 53 percent -- of the respondents in an Ifop poll
said Sarkozy would have done a better job.  Sarkozy, who in May became the first French president to
fail to win re-election in more than 30 years, was both a victim
of Europe’s debt crisis and sanctioned for his flamboyant,
“bling-bling” personal style -- with his penchant for Ray-Ban
sunglasses and holidays on the yachts of rich friends.  The 58-year-old lawyer-by-training now has a 300 square
meter (3,230 square feet) state-paid office less than half a
mile from the  Elysee presidential palace  at an annual rental
cost of 180,000 euros.  Ex-Presidential Perks  At least eight people work in Sarkozy’s office, including
 Consuelo Remmert , his model-turned-singer wife Carla Bruni’s
stepsister. Staff wages are paid by ministries to which they
used to belong.  Giscard, 87, president from 1974 to 1981, has seven
staffers and an office near the National Assembly, an upscale
Paris neighborhood on the left bank of the Seine river. The
office of Chirac, 80, president for 12 years until 2007, who’s
suffering from ill health, didn’t respond to questions.  Each ex-president’s car, office and staff salaries and
bonuses cost about 1.7 million euros a year, MP Dosiere said. In
addition, there are travel, postage, supplies and phone charges.
According to a  State Auditor  report in 2010, the annual cost of
a security officer was 71,879 euros, excluding bonus.  Ten security guards, including two chauffeurs, ensure the
security of Sarkozy, his wife and daughter, more than Giscard
and Chirac, Dosiere said.  Monthly Allowance  In the U.S., the four ex-presidents, Jimmy Carter, George H.
W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, cost about  $3.8
million a year , excluding security and health.  A  1985 letter by then-French Prime Minister  Laurent Fabius
to set guidelines for ex-presidents never became official. It
gave no spending cap, while recommending ex-presidents get two
chauffeurs, two security guards, protection measures for private
homes, seven aides, including a cabinet chief, two secretaries,
one archivist, three “typists” and a personal assistant.  The monthly allowance for a former president is about 6,000
euros. They’re also lifetime members of the  Constitutional
Council , a seat that earns 11,500 euros monthly as long as
they’re an active member. Sarkozy’s office said he only gets
half the allowance because he’s not currently active. Hollande
has said he’ll drop the membership rule, starting with himself.  The prime minister’s office, which handles a part of the
expenses of former presidents, declined to comment.  Sarkozy Solicited  “It is legitimate that people wonder about the cost, but
former presidents have a role to play and need to maintain a
status,” Francoise de Bollardiere, Giscard’s communication
chief, said in an interview. “But times have changed. A young
ex-president can do a lot when he leaves the Elysee.”  Shortly after his defeat, Sarkozy promised to retire from
French politics, telling Le Monde newspaper “I want to make
money,” a rare remark in a country that has a complicated
relationship with wealth and doesn’t talk about getting rich.  In an interview this month in the conservative magazine
 Valeurs Actuelles , Sarkozy talked about his post-presidential
life with Bruni and their 17-month-old daughter Giulia, saying
it was his “duty” to consider returning to public life to help
the country facing an economic and social crisis.  Sarkozy’s office has refused to deny reports in Le Monde
and the Financial Times that he was offered a position to head a
$500 million fund by the Qatar Investment Authority devoted to
investments in Brazil, Spain or  Morocco .  Needs Review  Sarkozy gets a lot of offers, but has not committed to any,
his press officer said. A member of his Union for a Popular
Movement Party told Agence France-Presse he would create his own
fund to invest in France and create jobs.  Giscard’s aide Bollardiere said ex-presidents’ compensation
needs to be reviewed to adapt to new circumstances.  “A former president gets offers today, like from private
equity funds,” she said. “That didn’t exist in 1981.”  Giscard and Chirac have both published books. Giscard
participated in the writing of the European Constitution, which
was never passed, and gives a few paid-for conferences every
year. Chirac, who has an  environmental foundation , is no longer
active in public life.  Sarkozy’s Paris-based law office reported 2011  revenue of
3,511,818 euros  and a profit of 517,455 euros. He is one of the
three major shareholders of  the firm .  Costs, Benefits  The former president has also been on the global speaker
circuit like his counterparts Tony Blair from the U.K. and the
U.S.’s Clinton.  He has spoken on economic and global topics in the U.S.,
Qatar, Abu Dhabi, Switzerland and  Brazil  for more than 100,000
euros a pop according to French media reports, a figure his
office declined to confirm, except to say that he’s not paid for
all conferences.  Sarkozy’s activities, while uncommon in France, mirror
those of Blair, who was U.K. Prime minister for a decade until
2007. Blair advises foreign governments and companies, including
JPMorgan Chase, in addition to aiding charities and playing a
role in the Middle-East peace process.  “Sarkozy’s choices will set a precedent about what can and
can’t be done by an ex-president,” said political science
professor Braud. “He must do a cost-benefit analysis -- he
likes a certain lifestyle and to make money. Is that compatible
with a return on the political stage? France’s public opinion
prefers politicians who pretend to disdain money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  