-- Saudi Aramco, Dow Venture Begins Bond Sale for Chemicals Complex
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-17T10:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/saudi-aramco-dow-venture-begins-bond-sale-for-chemicals-complex.html
Sadara Chemical Co., a joint
venture of Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , started
selling an Islamic bond that may raise at least $1.4 billion to
fund construction of a chemicals complex.  The sale of floating-rate securities in Saudi riyals is
open only to Saudi nationals and institutions and will have a
tenor of about 16 years, the Dhahran-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. Investors will receive a payment every
six months equivalent to the six-month Saudi Interbank Offered
Rate plus a margin to be decided later.  The size of the Islamic bond, or sukuk, is 5.25 billion
riyals ($1.4 billion), although it may be increased to as much
as $2.5 billion depending on demand, according to the sukuk
prospectus. Other sources of funding will be scaled back if the
issue exceeds the initial target.  Sadara is building the chemicals complex at the Saudi port
of Jubail in the  Eastern Province  of the kingdom, which will be
the world’s biggest erected in a single phase. The first units
of the chemicals facility will begin production in the second
half of 2015 and full completion is expected in 2016.  Funding for $19.3 billion project also includes $6.8
billion of equity, $7.3 billion of export credit agency loans,
$1.3 billion of facilities from  Saudi Arabia ’s Public Investment
Fund and $2.6 billion of bank loans, according to the
prospectus. Subscription to the issue will close no later than
three business days after March 30, according to the prospectus.  AlBilad Investment Co., Alinma Investment Co., Deutsche
Securities Saudi Arabia LLC and Riyad Capital are managing the
sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  