-- Sweden Laments ‘Crazy’ Devaluations Amid Krona Strength
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-03-18T13:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/sweden-laments-crazy-devaluations-amid-krona-strength.html
Sweden  took another step to
distance itself from policies targeting competitive devaluations
as exporters were told a strong krona provides opportunities to
make their businesses more efficient.  “It’s good for companies that they need to understand that
they have to compete with real tools rather than the imaginary
tool that the  exchange rate  is,” Financial Markets Minister
Peter Norman said in a March 15 interview in the Swedish town of
Karlstad, where his Moderate Party laid out the foundations for
its 2014 election campaign.  While Swedish exporters have warned that continued krona
appreciation will force them to cut jobs, the government and
central bank have repeatedly rejected talk of boosting trade
competitiveness through the exchange rate. And while policy
makers from  France  to  Japan  argue in favor of weaker currencies,
the Swedes have praised their krona’s strength. Central bank
governor Stefan Ingves in an interview last month said he was
“happy” with the currency’s gains.  Sweden didn’t always have such a hands-off approach.
Between 1976 and 1981, when the krona was linked to the
Deutschmark and later to a basket of currencies dominated by the
 U.S. dollar , it was devalued four times. In 1982, its value was
again cut, by 16 percent. After the Riksbank was  unable  to
defend the fixed exchange rate inside the European Exchange Rate
Mechanism -- even resorting to a 500 percent marginal interest
rate in 1992 -- the peg was scrapped and a free float was
introduced.  ‘That’s Crazy’  “From the middle of the 1960s until the beginning of the
1990s it was a returning theme in Swedish crisis fighting to
devalue the currency, so we got used to that if we devalued the
currency we could get an export-led growth, and that’s been part
of our DNA,” Norman said. “That’s how we created wealth in
Sweden, but I would like to argue that that’s crazy.”  On March 12, the krona reached its highest level against
the British pound since the 1992 currency crisis. Since the
height of the global financial crisis in March 2009, the krona
has soared 40 percent against the euro, 46 percent against the
dollar and 42 percent against Japan’s yen.  Krona’s Ascent  On Aug. 10 last year, the krona hit its strongest level
against the euro, at 8.1821, since the  European Central Bank 
began circulating euro coins and notes in 2002. The krona last
month hit its highest level against the U.S. dollar, after
gaining 14 percent since May last year. The krona is also the
best-performing major currency in the world this year after
rising 4.5 percent, according to the 10 developed-market
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index.  The krona strengthened as much 0.4 percent against the euro
and traded at 8.3356 as of 2:34 p.m. local time. Against
 Norway ’s krone, Sweden’s currency rose as much as 0.9 percent
earlier today, before trading 0.17 percent lower.  SEB AB forecasts the krona will strengthen to about 8.15
against the euro in the next year, thanks to Sweden’s current
account surplus, policy makers’ near-indifference to the
exchange rate and public finance health.  Sweden’s trade surplus rose to 6 billion kronor ($939
million) in January from 400 million kronor a month earlier,
 Statistics Sweden  said on Feb. 27. Since January 2012, the
surplus has averaged 5.9 billion kronor, compared with an
average of 10.2 billion kronor in the preceding decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Exports make up half of
Sweden’s gross domestic product.  ‘Idealized Picture’  Norman argues that any negative currency effect on Swedish
exports is “cancelled out” by cheaper imports, which also
support demand in the largest Nordic economy.  The “sometimes idealized picture that’s existed in Sweden
for almost thirty years, that a weak exchange rate development
is good for export activity, doesn’t hold in the long-term,”
Norman said. “It’s good that we’ve moved away from that.”  Sweden’s exporters, who send about 70 percent of the goods
they sell abroad to  Europe , don’t agree. The strong krona “is a
phenomenon that affects the entire Swedish export industry,”
Jan Johansson, chief executive officer of Europe’s largest
paper-tissue maker,  Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAA) , said this month. “The
consequence now is that we have to cut costs, decrease staff,
cut as much as we can, so it’s directly affecting employment.”  Unemployment rose to 8.5 percent in February from 8.4
percent a month earlier, the statistics office estimates. A
weaker krona won’t help Swedish industry hold on to jobs in the
long run, Norman said.  “When we get a rising krona, companies must become even
better at rationalizing and developing products to keep market
shares,” Norman said. “So, to keep companies on their toes
it’s not good to have a constantly weak currency, but it should
then rather be strong, or at least constant. The stronger the
Swedish krona, the more money we get when we buy foreign
goods.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  