-- Euro, Stocks Fall as U.S., German Bonds Advance on Cyprus
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-03-18T21:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/u-s-stock-futures-euro-decline-on-cyprus-turmoil-yen-gains.html
The euro weakened to its lowest
level this year, while stocks and commodities slipped, as an
unprecedented levy on Cyprus’s bank savings renewed concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis. German two-year note yields dropped
below zero and rates on  U.S. Treasuries  fell as gold rose.  The 17-nation shared currency sank 1.1 percent to $1.2930
at 4 p.m. in  New York . The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  lost 1
percent, retreating from the highest level since June 2008. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent, trimming a plunge of
1.2 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated for a
second day, losing 0.6 percent after dropping 1 percent earlier.
Copper tumbled more than 2 percent and gold rose almost 1
percent.  Germany ’s note yields fell to as low as minus 0.003
percent and 10-year Treasury yields reached a two-week low.  Banks in Cyprus will be closed until March 21 after finance
ministers in the euro area reached an agreement on March 16
forcing depositors to share in the cost of the latest bailout.
Bank creditworthiness deteriorated the most since inconclusive
Italian elections three weeks ago as Moody’s Investors Service
said today the Cypriot levy is negative for bank depositors
across Europe.  Bill Gross  at Pacific Investment Management Co.
said it moves “risk-on” trades to the back seat.  “It tells me that the EU still doesn’t have a good way of
dealing with the periodic banking crisis that they have,”
 Bernie Williams , a San Antonio-based money manager at USAA
Investments, which oversees over $54 billion, said in a phone
interview. “It does put a lot of angst and anxiety.”  Cypriot Vote  Cypriot lawmakers will meet tomorrow to ratify a levy to
raise 5.8 billion euros ($7.6 billion) as part of a bailout
aimed at preventing a financial collapse and a possible exit
from the euro area. The meeting was delayed from today in order
to examine changes to legislation, Speaker Yiannakis Omirou told
reporters in Nicosia, in comments broadcast on state-run CYBC.
Banks will remain closed tomorrow and March 20, a government
official said, asking not to be identified.  Equity markets were closed in Cyprus and Greece for a
scheduled bank holiday today. Cypriot banks will remain shut
tomorrow and March 20, a government official said, asking not to
be identified.  After U.S. markets closed, European officials said Cyprus
can ease the terms of the levies on small depositors while
maintaining its target. Cypriot banks had 68.4 billion euros in
deposits from clients other than banks at the end of January. Of
that, 21 billion euros, or 31 percent, were from clients outside
the EU area, 63 percent were from domestic depositors, and 7
percent were from other nations within the euro region,
according to data from the Central Bank of Cyprus.  Euro, Bonds  The euro slid as much as 1.5 percent against the dollar to
$1.2882, its weakest level since Dec. 10, before paring its
decline. It weakened against all 16 major counterparts and was
1.1 percent lower against the yen as  Japan ’s currency
strengthened against all its 16 major peers.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-
year securities instead of benchmark German bunds widened nine
basis points to 356 basis points. Portugal’s 10-year yield
spread to similar-maturity bunds widened to as much as 486 basis
points today, the most in two weeks.  U.K., Finnish and French securities also rallied and
Austrian 10-year yields fell to a record as investors sought
haven assets amid concern the levy would spark a run on Cyprus’s
banks. Italian bonds pared a decline on speculation contagion
will be contained.  Systemic Risk  “The approach of applying haircuts to  bank deposits  in the
Cypriot bailout is driving credit spreads substantially wider,”
Greg Venizelos, a fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 London , wrote today in a report. “ Systemic risk  has risen as
the market contemplates the read-through of breaching the
sanctity of deposits.”  While the rate on  Portuguese debt  due October 2023 rose as
much as 30 basis points to 6.25 percent, that’s only the biggest
increase since Feb. 26, when it climbed 48 basis points after
the Italian election failed to produce a clear winner. Spanish
yields rose 20 basis points on Feb. 26. The yield on Italy’s 10-
year bonds added four basis points today, trimming a jump of as
much as 21 points, compared with a 41 basis-point jump three
weeks ago.  “So far it seems like it’s fairly calm and if it can stay
that way that’s good,” said Allan von Mehren, chief analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The markets are not too scared.
It is a big deal but everything depends on what happens within
the next couple of days. If we get a deal then it should calm
down very swiftly. That’s what I think is going to happen.”  The yield on U.S. 10-year Treasuries slid four basis points
to 1.95 percent.  ‘Contagion Fears’  The cost of insuring against default by banks rose the most
since Feb. 26, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-
default swaps on 25 banks and insurers jumping 15 basis points
to 158 as of 11:30 a.m. in London. Italian and Spanish lenders
were the worst performers.  “More contagion fears will spread through investors and it
will encourage depositors in the European periphery to move
their funds to a safer place, either under the pillow or to
Germany,” said Mark Bayley, a Sydney-based credit strategist
with advisory company Aquasia Ltd. “This is essentially a bail-
in of depositors and sets a dangerous precedent.”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.2 percent, paring a
plunge of as much as 1.2 percent. Banks and insurers led losses.
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, France’s Societe Generale
SA and Barclays Plc dropped more than 3 percent. Marks & Spencer
Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, rallied 6.9
percent in London trading after the Sunday Times reported that
the Qatar Investment Authority is considering an 8 billion-pound
($12 billion) takeover.  Market Leaders  The  S&P 500  declined for a second day after rising to
within two points of its 2007 record last week. Citigroup Inc.
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost more than 1 percent to pace
declines in  financial  shares, which led the equity market’s
losses.  Nine of 10 groups in the S&P 500 fell with Boeing Co., Walt
Disney Co. and Cisco Systems Inc. dropping more than 1.2 percent
for the biggest declines in the Dow. Schlumberger Ltd. retreated
3.9 percent after saying North American activity was below
estimates. Carnival Corp. declined amid analyst downgrades.  Apple Inc. rallied 2.7 percent, extending its three-day
advance to 6.4 percent. Apple is poised to boost its dividend by
more than half, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
providing investors hit by a share slump with one of the highest
yields in the U.S. technology industry. Apple will probably lift
its quarterly dividend by 56 percent to $4.14 a share for an
annual payout of $15.7 billion, according to the average
estimate of six analysts.  Valuations  Even after U.S. stocks  more than doubled  in the four-year
 bull market , S&P 500 companies are cheaper than at any record
high since 1980 as individual investors shun equities.  The S&P 500 rose to within 1 percent of its high last week,
gaining 131 percent from its lows. The index trades at  15.4
times reported profit , below the average 19.9 reached in bull
markets since 1962, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  erased all losses from the
financial crisis on March 5 and has added 11 percent this year.  While individuals added almost $20 billion to U.S. stock
funds this year, the amount is just 3.5 percent of the
withdrawals since 2007 and compares with $44 billion placed with
fixed-income managers in 2013, according to the  Investment
Company Institute . For bulls, the absence of private buyers
shows there’s plenty of money to keep the rally going. Bears say
the pessimism means the rally is too dependent on Federal
Reserve stimulus and will fizzle once central bank support ebbs.  ‘Investable Pullbacks’  “There’s so many investors in the U.S. that are looking
for pullbacks to add to this market, to add money,” Timothy Hoyle, director of research and fund manager at Radnor,
Pennsylvania- based Haverford Investments, which oversees $6
billion, said in a phone interview. “Pullbacks right now are
viewed as investable pullbacks, and that’s what we had this
morning. The fundamental underpinnings of our economy remain
robust enough to offset the fears of what’s happening in the
euro zone.”  Traders are placing a record number of bets that U.S.
stock-market swings will increase after a six-year low in the
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index fueled
speculation volatility has fallen too far, too fast.  Volatility Bets  The shares outstanding for the iPath S&P 500 VIX Short-Term
Futures ETN, the most-active security that tracks changes in VIX
futures, has climbed 95 percent to an all-time high of 61.9
million this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The total
for the ProShares Ultra VIX Short-Term Futures is up 10-fold to
39.9 million last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The VIX
jumped 18 percent to 13.36 today after falling 37 percent to
11.3 this year through last week.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 0.3 percent.
Copper fell as much as 2.7 percent to $7,545.75 a metric ton.
Gold for immediate delivery rose as much as 1.2 percent to
$1,611.32 an ounce, the highest since Feb. 27. West Texas
Intermediate oil added 0.3 percent to $93.74 a barrel, erasing a
decline of as much as 1.8 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.1 percent to the
lowest this year. Russia’s Micex Index tumbled the most in four
months, dropping 2.2 percent. Moody’s Investor Service said
Russian corporate deposits in Cyprus may total $19 billion. The
ruble weakened 0.8 percent against the dollar.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index tumbled 2.1 percent,
extending declines from this year’s peak to 12 percent as
slowing growth and accelerating inflation spurred JPMorgan to
downgrade the nation’s shares to underweight. Benchmark gauges
in  Taiwan , the  Philippines ,  Poland  and  South Korea  fell at least
0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  