-- VW Profit Lead Over Toyota Under Threat as Demand Wobbles
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2013-03-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/vw-profit-lead-over-toyota-under-threat-as-demand-wobbles.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  can check one thing off his to-do
list: beat rivals in profit.  VW, which six years ago set out to become the world’s
biggest carmaker and a leader in profitability by 2018, reported
record operating income of 11.5 billion euros ($15 billion) for
2012. That surpassed  General Motor Co. (GM) ’s $7.9 billion and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s 1.06 trillion yen ($11.1 billion) for the year.  When Winterkorn set the growth targets in 2007, VW didn’t
look much like a world-beater. It had just gone through a
disruptive round of job cuts, its namesake brand was barely
breaking even, and Toyota earned about $10 billion more than VW.  Winterkorn vowed to raise pretax profit margins to 8
percent from just 1.7 percent in 2006. And he said VW would
boost deliveries to more than 10 million vehicles from 6.2
million in 2007 -- in effect adding the sales of a carmaker
almost as big as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “It’s been a master class in execution,” said  Max Warburton , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein in  Singapore .
“Of course there are always elements of luck with corporate
plans like this, but mostly they’ve just gone out and done what
they said they wanted to do with good products and increasingly
competitive prices.”  This year’s race will be tighter and may come down to
currency fluctuations. With Toyota bouncing back from product
recalls and natural disasters, the Japanese manufacturer is set
to report 1.7 trillion yen in operating profit this calendar
year, according to  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Tighter Competition  That could beat analysts’ forecasts of 13.2 billion euros
for VW, depending on the strength of the yen. At current
exchange rates, Toyota’s estimated 2013 profit would be $17.9
billion while Volkswagen’s would be $17.3 billion. The average
forecast for GM’s operating profit is $7 billion.  In a sign of skepticism about VW’s prospects,  Waddell &
Reed Financial Inc. (WDR)  sold 5.8 million of the company’s preferred
shares on March 15, a day after Volkswagen released full 2012
results. The investor was the  third-largest  holder of the widely
traded stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. VW closed
at 160.30 euros, down 2.6 percent.  VW’s price to earnings ratio is 2.45, the lowest among
automakers with a market value above $5 billion and far behind
Toyota at 20.7 and GM at 9.43.  VW is closing in on becoming the biggest automaker by
sales. Deliveries surged 11 percent to 9.07 million passenger
vehicles last year, boosted by growth in  China  and expansion in
the U.S. Toyota had 9.75 million deliveries, while GM sold 9.29
million. VW also sold more than 200,000 heavy trucks and buses
at its MAN SE and  Scania AB (SCVB)  brands.  Europe Woes  “I think we’ll reach our volume target earlier than
planned,” Winterkorn, 65, said last week on the sidelines of
the company’s annual press conference.  Volkswagen will have to work hard to hold on to its
achievements. Its profit lead will be challenged this year as
the effects of the sovereign-debt crisis spread from southern
 Europe  to  Germany , said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center
of Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences
in  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany.  “Volkswagen is extremely focused on growth,” Bratzel
said, “and that makes it very dependent on the global economy
expanding and other regions balancing out the weakness in
Europe,” where sales are forecast to fall for the sixth
straight year in 2013.  Expansion Spending  The risks facing VW, which makes about one in every four
cars sold in Europe, have become evident as German demand
wobbles. New vehicle registrations in Volkswagen’s home market
dropped 9.6 percent in the first two months of 2013, with VW
brand sales tumbling 14 percent, according to the country’s
motor vehicle office, KBA. VW, based in the city of Wolfsburg,
has cautioned that first-quarter earnings will be lower than a
year ago as it ramps up production of a new version of the Golf.  To safeguard its expansion, Volkswagen plans to invest 50
billion euros in the next three years in developing vehicles and
technologies and building new factories. Investment in the VW
brand alone will increase by more than 700 million euros this
year, to more than 5 billion euros.  Volkswagen can also lean on its expanded slate of upscale
brands for profit after completing the takeover of Porsche AG
last year. High-end cars helped VW generate an operating profit
margin of 6 percent last year, beating Toyota’s 4.8 percent and
GM’s 5.2 percent.  False Security  Audi, VW’s biggest profit generator and the world’s second-
largest luxury brand, is projecting higher revenues and
deliveries this year as it aims to surpass Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG by the end of the decade. The VW luxury unit has an
interim target of selling 1.5 million cars by 2015, a goal it
says it will hit this year or next.  Audi beat BMW in profitability last year, posting an 11
percent operating margin, slightly ahead of the 10.9 percent
margin at BMW’s car division.  Even after making more progress than expected half-way to
2018, VW is showing no signs of easing the pressure on rivals.  “Leading at half-time in no way means that victory is at
hand,” Winterkorn told about 2,200 managers at an annual
company gathering in Dresden in December. “We should never be
lulled into a false sense of security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  