-- WTI Drops From 3-Week High on Cyprus; Libya Pipeline Shut
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-03-18T12:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/wti-drops-from-three-week-high-on-cyprus-libyan-pipeline-shuts.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
from the highest price in three weeks as an unprecedented levy
on bank savings in Cyprus threatened to worsen  Europe ’s debt
crisis. Libya shut an oil pipeline after protests.  Futures slipped as much as 1.4 percent in New York,
dropping for the first time in three days. Cyprus bowed to
demands by euro-area finance ministers to raise 5.8 billion
euros ($7.6 billion) by taking a piece of every bank account,
sending the euro tumbling and sparking public outrage. The
closing of the Waha Oil Co. pipe after a strike by truck drivers
cut Libyan crude output by 120,000 barrels a day, according to
Oil Minister Abdulbari al-Arusi.  “Confidence is rattled,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen said by phone. “We have
to figure out where this Cyprus debacle leaves us. Until we know
for sure what’s happening, it’ll probably keep the market on the
defensive for a few days.”  WTI for April delivery declined as much as $1.31 to $92.14
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $92.47 at 12:20 p.m. London time. The
contract climbed 42 cents to $93.45 on March 15, the highest
settlement since Feb. 20. The volume of all futures traded was
75 percent more than the 100-day average.  Euro Weakness  Brent for May settlement dropped $1.37 to $108.45 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The number of
futures traded was 5 percent below the 100-day average. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $15.62 to WTI for
the same month. That’s down from $16 on March 15 and is the
lowest since Jan. 17.  The euro fell as low as $1.2882, the weakest since
December. A declining euro and stronger dollar typically
decrease the appeal of investing in dollar-priced commodities
such as oil.  “If we do see more robust economic growth in 2013, as
indicated by a stronger U.S. dollar, oil demand will likely grow
as well, putting pressure on an already tight global oil
balance,” analysts at Morgan Stanley said in a note today.
“Demand growth may even break out of the tepid range the oil
markets have seen since 2008.”  Bank Run  While Cyprus accounts for less than half a percent of the
17-nation euro economy, the levy on bank accounts risks
triggering new convulsions in the financial crisis that began in
2009 in  Greece , extending the region’s recession and curbing
fuel demand. In a bid to ease a run on banks, depositors who
keep their account for two years will receive securities linked
to future revenue from the country’s natural gas reserves,
President Nicos Anastasiades said.  Cyprus may have as much as 60 trillion cubic feet of gas in
its territorial waters, Charalambos Ellinas, the chairman of
Kretyk, as the nation’s state-owned hydrocarbons company is
known, said in Nicosia March 15. That’s similar to  Kuwait ’s
proved reserves of 63 trillion cubic feet at the end of 2011,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. Russia
had the world’s biggest reserves at 1,575 trillion cubic feet,
the BP data shows.  “A sell-off is occurring and that’s following a general
reaction from risk markets in Asia from news about Cyprus,”
said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney. “Further weakness from here would be potentially
bearish in the sense that it indicates the end of a minor upward
correction against a longer-term downtrend in oil.”  Downward Pressures  Fereidun Fesharaki, the chairman of FGE, an energy
consultant, forecast in a Bloomberg television interview today
that Brent will fall to about $88 a barrel in two years as oil
output in the U.S. increases and demand there slows.  “The price of oil is too high,” said Fesharaki. “You
hear the news about Cyprus, which is maybe a one-day story, but
it does add to the pressures downwards. Fundamentally, prices
are higher than they should be.”  Saudi Arabia and  Iraq  raised crude exports in January for
the first time in three months as demand from Asian countries
climbed, according to data on the website of the Joint
Organisations Data Initiative yesterday.  Oil-price fluctuations aren’t good for the global economy
in the long term, Saudi Arabia’s Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  said
in Hong Kong today. “Oil at $100 is reasonable and prices will
stay at these levels in the foreseeable future and it will not
affect in Asia,” he said.  Net-long positions in WTI held by money managers, including
hedge funds, commodity pools and commodity-trading advisers,
slipped by 554 futures and options combined, or 0.3 percent, to
166,944 in the week ended March 12, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s March 15 Commitments of Traders
report. Bullish bets were at the lowest level since Jan. 1.  Hedge funds and other money managers cut bullish bets on
Brent crude by 11,796 contracts in the week ended March 12 for
the fifth week to the lowest in almost three months, data from
the ICE exchange show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  