-- Xiao Quits Bank of China to Take Helm at Securities Watchdog
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-18T08:27:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/xiao-quits-bank-of-china-to-succeed-guo-at-securities-regulator.html
Xiao Gang, who stepped down
yesterday as chairman of  Bank of China Ltd. , will take on the
challenge of restoring confidence in Asia’s third-largest stock
market as head of the nation’s securities regulator.  His appointment was announced to China Securities
Regulatory Commission staff at a meeting yesterday, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because he isn’t authorized to speak to the media.
The 54-year-old, who resigned from Beijing-based  Bank of China 
because of “the needs of national financial work,” will
succeed Guo Shuqing at the watchdog.  Xiao is tasked with overseeing stocks in Asia’s worst-
performing major market of the last three years, as well as
deepening a  bond market  supervised by multiple regulators. His
appointment comes as China transitions to a new government under
Premier  Li Keqiang , who pledged over the weekend to open the
world’s second-biggest economy to more market forces even when
it feels “like cutting one’s wrist.”  “Xiao is likely to extend Guo’s policies, but there will
definitely be some changes,”  Wang Aochao , Shanghai-based head
of research at UOB Kay Hian Ltd., said today. “Handling
resistance to reforms will be Xiao’s biggest challenge.”  China’s equities benchmark index, which had plunged to near
a four-year low in December even as Guo, 56, withheld approval
for more than 800 initial public offerings, rallied to end
January in a  bull market  before paring back gains.  Government Reshuffle  Guo’s future role wasn’t disclosed at the CSRC meeting, the
person said. He may be appointed governor of Shandong province
in eastern China, the  South China Morning Post  reported on March
13. The regulator’s Beijing-based press office declined to
comment on Xiao’s appointment today.  Shares of  Bank of China  fell as much as 3.4 percent in Hong
Kong trading today, closing at HK$3.49, a loss of 1.7 percent.
The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 2 percent.  Li, 57, vowed to target 7.5 percent annual economic growth
through 2020 after being named premier on March 15. His economic
team retained People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and
added sovereign wealth fund chief  Lou Jiwei  as finance minister
after a once-in-a-decade leadership transition. Zhou, 65, had
previously served as chairman of the securities watchdog between
2000 and 2002.  Xiao may be a “transitional figure” at the securities
regulator as the government prepares him for a more senior role,
such as succeeding Zhou, said UOB’s Wang.  Reforms Slowdown  “If that’s the case, the pace of new measures being pushed
out may slow,” said Wang. “His focus may be on making sure
there’s no major problem within the securities system.”  Xiao’s success in steering the nation’s largest foreign-
exchange lender through the global economic crisis and to
mounting record profits, as well as his calls for a crackdown on
shadow banking, may give him credibility with global and
domestic investors.  Xiao was named head of  Bank of China  in March 2003. Under
his stewardship, the Beijing-based lender’s  net income  probably
grew for a seventh straight year to a record 132.5 billion yuan
($21.3 billion) in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of 34
analysts. That would match earnings at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
most profitable  U.S. bank . Bank of China will report 2012
results by the end of the month.  Still, Xiao’s strategy at Bank of China has been “rather
conservative” compared to its local rivals, said Rainy Yuan, a
Shanghai-based analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp.  ‘Law Abiding’  “Xiao leaves no room for criticism,” said Yuan. “Other
banks have come out with all sorts of ways to circumvent new
regulations and restrictions, but Bank of China has been
conservative and law abiding.”  Xiao had previously held various posts at the People’s Bank
of China for more than 20 years, and rose to become deputy
governor of the central bank before joining Bank of China,
according to the lender’s annual report. He had graduated from
the Hunan Institute of Finance and Economics in 1981, and
obtained a master’s degree in international economic law at
Renmin University of China in 1996.  He became a full member of the Communist Party’s 205-member
 Central Committee  in November.  Bank of China’s  profit  has grown by an average 31 percent a
year since 2006, when its shares started trading. That compares
with an average 19 percent increase at  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,
Europe’s largest bank by market value, and 20 percent at New
York-based JPMorgan. The lender is China’s fourth-largest by
assets, and ranks No. 14 globally.  FX Monopoly  Founded in 1912 by Sun Yat-sen, known as the father of
modern China, Bank of China held a monopoly on the nation’s
foreign-exchange dealings and overseas banking from 1949 to
1994. The lender today has the biggest  overseas operations  of
any Chinese bank, accounting for about 24 percent of its assets
at the end of June, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Xiao took the reins at Bank of China at a time when the
lender was struggling to overcome a legacy of fraud and
mismanagement. A vice president was given a suspended death
sentence in 2005 for embezzling funds and in 2003, a former
president was sentenced to 12 years in prison for taking
millions of yuan in bribes and gifts.  As chairman, Xiao set up a risk-management system that
forces loan approvals to be reviewed by a central oversight
commission, according to the bank. Previously, individual
branches approved loans without supervision from headquarters.  Overseas Success  On Xiao’s watch, Bank of China also expanded its global
reach to more than 11,000 outlets in over 35 countries,
according to its interim report. It was the only Chinese bank
included on the Financial Stability Board’s provisional list of
28 systemically important financial institutions in 2011.  Its  Hong Kong  unit was appointed by China’s central bank as
the clearing bank for yuan business in Hong Kong in 2003, the
first outside the mainland. This year, BOC was selected for the
same role in Taipei, while larger rival Industrial & Commercial
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  won the right to clear yuan transactions in
Singapore.  “Xiao has done pretty well in running the overseas
business of BOC,” said May Yan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Barclays Plc who recommends that clients buy the stock. “When
the global economy rebounds, BOC’s performance will improve.”  At home, Bank of China and its three largest rivals, which
include ICBC,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. , account for about half the outstanding loans
in the country.  Biggest Risk  As Chinese banks increasingly came to rely in recent years
on higher-yielding off-balance-sheet financing, and especially
wealth-management products, to fund their businesses, Xiao
repeatedly warned against such operations, calling shadow
banking “the biggest risk to China’s banking system.”  “Xiao is very prudent,” said UOB’s Wang. “In the past
ten years, he’d rarely made any blunt comments until very
recently, when he became outspoken about shadow banking.”  The outstanding balance of banks’ wealth management
products may have reached 13 trillion  yuan  at the end of last
year, compared with 8.5 trillion yuan the previous year,
according to  Fitch Ratings .  “China’s shadow banking sector has become a potential
source of systemic financial risk over the next few years,”
Xiao  wrote  in a China Daily commentary in October.
“Particularly worrisome is the quality and transparency of
wealth management products.”  Xiao’s relative youth and his background working in China’s
financial system will make him valuable to the new government,
said Chen Xingyu, a Shanghai-based analyst at Phillip Securities
Group. His “relatively low-key” style may also set him apart
from Guo, Chen said.  Bull Market  Since Guo became chairman of the securities watchdog in
2011, the CSRC has expanded foreign investor quotas to buy
stocks, cut trading fees and pushed companies to increase
dividends. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  entered a  bull market  on
Jan. 29 after rallying 20 percent from Dec. 3. The gauge has
dropped 8 percent since its Feb. 6 high.  Guo has also overseen a surge in corporate bond sales as
part of China’s effort to wean companies of a dependence on bank
lending to finance their operations. Sales of corporate bonds
more than doubled last year to 1.41 trillion yuan as share sales
declined 12 percent to 286 billion yuan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Xiao’s new role will also give him oversight of China’s
securities industry, whose 114 brokerages posted a combined
profit of $5.29 billion for 2012, according to the Securities
Association of China. That’s 41 percent less than  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) ’s $7.48 billion.  Xiao will probably continue with reforms, said Chen of
Phillip Securities.  “He is a young and pragmatic person,” the analyst said.
“By reading his resume, you can tell that the party has been
grooming him to take up important roles.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  