-- ThyssenKrupp’s Beitz to Blame for Decline, Krupp Nephew Says
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-03-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/thyssenkrupp-s-beitz-to-blame-for-decline-krupp-nephew-says.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  Honorary Chairman
Berthold Beitz is the main culprit for the steelmaker’s
“decades-long decline,” according to a nephew of the company’s
former owner Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach.  Beitz, the 99-year old head of the foundation that holds
25.3 percent of ThyssenKrupp shares, “has failed” to fulfill
the late Krupp’s will to keep the company intact and expand it,
Friedrich von Bohlen und Halbach said yesterday in a phone
interview.  “If anybody is responsible for the  negative development  of
the company, it’s Berthold Beitz,” von Bohlen und Halbach said.
The honorary chairman is to blame for the “decades-long decline
of the company, and in particular for its current sorry state.”  ThyssenKrupp on March 8 said that Chairman Gerhard Cromme,
whom Beitz handpicked more than 27 years ago for a key role at
the steelmaker, will step down as chairman at the end of the
month. Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  is seeking to
repair the damage from price-fixing and bribery scandals and a
botched expansion in the Americas that cost ThyssenKrupp 3.6
billion euros ($4.7 billion) in  writedowns  last fiscal year.  Hiesinger plans to “review all aspects of the relationship
between foundation and company and reorganize them if
necessary,” ThyssenKrupp spokesman Kilian Roetzer said
yesterday in an e-mail. Bohlen und Halbach, whose comments were
first reported by Focus magazine yesterday, said he had not
spoken with Hiesinger about potential changes.  Beitz agreed to part with Cromme “to protect himself,”
von Bohlen und Halbach said. Beitz wanted to show “who has got
the last say in the company,” he said.  In an  interview  with  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  yesterday, Beitz
said he will lead the foundation “as long as I’ve got a clear
head.” Representatives at the Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und
Halbach Foundation said no spokesmen were immediately available
for comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News  yesterday, outside
of normal business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  