-- Hyundai Capacity Limits to Limit U.S. Sales Expansion
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-03-17T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/hyundai-capacity-limits-to-limit-u-s-sales-expansion.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , after boosting
U.S. sales of its cars and trucks 75 percent since 2008, expects
its slowest annual growth in the market in five years as the
South Korean company bumps up against limits in plant capacity.  Deliveries of Hyundai vehicles should rise 4.4 percent to
734,000 this year, John Krafcik, chief executive officer of the
Seoul-based automaker’s U.S. sales unit, said in an interview
last week. The increase of about 31,000 units from 2012 will
result from improved efficiency at Hyundai’s Montgomery,
Alabama, factory, he said.  “All of our Korean plants are very tight, as are our plant
in Alabama” and a  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  factory in Georgia that
builds the  Santa Fe  sport-utility vehicle for Hyundai, Krafcik
said during a test drive of the redesigned SUV in San Diego.
“There are no plans to expand capacity. We have shown the last
few years that without a new plant we’ve been very capable of
finding incremental production.”  The growth spurt for Hyundai, South Korea’s largest
carmaker, began in 2009 with redesigns of the Sonata sedan,
Elantra compact car and Tucson crossover and culminates with the
Santa Fe SUV. Supplies of the latter, offered this year for the
first time in two varieties -- a smaller Sport version and
larger three-row model -- also will be tight, Krafcik said.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales rose to 703,007 vehicles last year
from 401,742 in 2008, the last year in which the company had a
sales decline.  Restrained growth will allow Hyundai to keep improving
vehicle quality and customer satisfaction, he said. “Volume
gains are really not the focus right now.”  Industrywide Growth  Industrywide sales rose 8.4 percent this year through
February, compared with a 2.3 percent gain for Hyundai.
 AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S. retailer of new cars and
trucks, expects U.S. sales to rise to the mid-15 million-unit
range in 2013, up from 14.5 million last year.  “If they are dropping market share this year in the U.S.
because of the capacity situation, that has to be very
frustrating,” said Larry Dominique, president of Santa Barbara,
California-based ALG Inc., the industry researcher that
determines vehicle residual values.  “Losing market share means someone else is getting the
sales,” said Dominique, former head of North American product
planning for  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  “It’s curious, between Hyundai
and Kia, that they are being so very cautious on capacity.”  Hyundai would like to at least boost sales in line with the
market, “but it’s going to be tough for us,” Krafcik said.  Krafcik’s forecast for slower U.S. growth is in line with
the global outlook for affiliates Hyundai and Kia. Chung Mong Koo, chairman of both carmakers, said in January that their
combined sales would rise 4.1 percent to 7.41 million vehicles.  One Advantage  Kia is building the Santa Fe Sport version at its West
Point, Georgia, plant, while the three-row model is imported
from South Korea. Both the Kia plant and Hyundai’s Alabama
factory run three daily assembly shifts to maximize production.  Hyundai’s one advantage from the tight supply is per-
vehicle profitability, Dominique said.  “For now, they can focus on selling their vehicles at
higher transaction prices,” he said. “The best they can do is
to focus on maximizing profitability until capacity increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in San Diego at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  