-- Zimbabwe Police Detain MDC Officials a Day After Voting
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-18T16:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-17/zimbabwe-police-detain-mdc-officials-a-day-after-voting.html
Zimbabwean police detained four
aides of Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  a day after the nation
held a referendum on a new constitution that was described as
peaceful by observers from the U.S. and a regional bloc.  Thabani Mpofu, director of research in Tsvangirai’s office,
and party officials Warship Dumba, Felix Manditse and Annan
Muzvidziwa were picked up by police yesterday. Beatrice Mtetwa,
a lawyer who was at the scene of the arrests, was also detained.
Tsvangirai’s staff are due to appear in court today, his party,
the Movement for Democratic Change, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Police spokeswoman Charity Charamba told reporters in
Harare, the capital, yesterday that MDC members were arrested
for “impersonating police investigators” and Mtetwa was
detained for obstructing the course of justice.  Zimbabweans are set to endorse the new constitution after
Tsvangirai and his political rival, President  Robert Mugabe ,
campaigned for a yes vote, paving the way for elections to take
place later this year. Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic
Change and Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic
Front have shared power since 2009 following a disputed election
that international observers say was marred by violence.  Mining Deposits  The political impasse has stalled economic progress in a
nation that holds the world’s biggest platinum and chrome
deposits after  South Africa  and also has reserves of coal,
diamonds and gold.  Tsvangirai said today officials detained by police haven’t
yet been charged and Mtetwa was being held even though a  High
Court  ordered her release.  “The targeting of my office is reprehensible and is meant
to harass and intimidate the nation ahead of the election, now
that we are done with the referendum,” Tsvangirai said in an e-
mailed statement. “We certainly can’t have a police force that
arrests people with impunity and then fails to charge them.”  He called on the 15-nation  Southern African Development
Community , which brokered the political agreement that led to
Zimbabwe’s coalition government, to hold an urgent summit to set
ground rules for the election.  Peaceful Vote  SADC said today voting was conducted peacefully yesterday
with no notable incidents of violence.  The observer team from the SADC Parliamentary Forum is “of
the view the referendum was a credible representation of the
will of the people,” Guduza Dlamini, head of the mission, told
reporters in Harare.  The U.S. had five observer teams monitoring voting at more
than 40 polling stations countrywide, the U.S. embassy said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. While the vote was “peaceful,
credible,” the embassy said it was concerned by reports of
interference with some voters and that accreditation of
observers was limited.  The  Zimbabwe  Electoral Commission may begin releasing
provisional results from the referendum today, spokesman
Shupikai Mashereni said in a phone interview today. About 2
million voters went to the polls out of a registered 5.9
million, according to the commission.  Presidential Limits  The new constitution restricts the president to two five-
year terms and requires a two-thirds vote by members of
parliament to approve a state of emergency. It also guarantees
Zimbabweans freedom from torture or degrading treatment and bans
detention without trial, while security forces are barred from
being members of a political party or group.  Mugabe, 89, who’s ruled the southern African nation since
independence from the U.K. 33 years ago, isn’t barred from
contesting elections as the presidential  term limits  aren’t
retroactive. Western nations and international human-rights
groups have accused Mugabe of rigging elections since 2000 and
brutalizing his opponents to cling to power.  ZANU-PF’s program of land seizures from white farmers in
2000 plunged the economy into a decade-long recession, slashing
exports of tobacco, once Zimbabwe’s biggest export, and turning
the country into an importer of its staple food, corn.  Mugabe is now targeting mining companies, forcing companies
including  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to cede 51 percent of
its unit,  Zimplats Holdings Ltd. (ZIM) , to the state and black
Zimbabweans under an indigenization law passed in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  