-- ‘Hunger Games’ Haul Sets Hollywood Searching for Heroines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-26T20:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/-hunger-games-haul-sets-hollywood-searching-for-heroines.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) ’s
$152.5 million opening-weekend haul for “The Hunger Games”
proved female action heroes can attract big audiences, and may
inspire Hollywood to make more films with female leads.  The movie, made for about $80 million, generated the third-
biggest opening weekend ever, researcher  Box Office Mojo  said.
That puts it ahead of such venerable fan-boy material as
“Spider-Man 3,” which went on to gross $336.5 million in the
U.S. and Canada, both “Iron Man” pictures and every other film
but “The Dark Knight” and the last “ Harry Potter .”  “The Hunger Games,” which set a record as the biggest
opening ever for a non-sequel, illustrates how Hollywood under-
appreciates audiences’ acceptance of female action heroes,
according to Phil Contrino, editor of researcher Boxoffice.com.  “People were hungry for something like this,” Contrino
said in an interview. “Now everyone will be looking for the
next ‘Hunger Games’ instead of every male-driven, Will Smith
action film,” he said, referring to the star of “Independence
Day” and “Men in Black.”  “The Hunger Games” may go on to capture $400 million
domestically, according to Contrino.  The movie, which stars 21-year-old Jennifer Lawrence as an
arrow-slinging killing machine, sold $59 million of tickets
outside the U.S. and Canada, and was first in almost all of its
67 markets, Vancouver-based Lions Gate said yesterday in a
statement.  Lions Gate’s shares rose 4.5 percent to $15.18 at the close
in  New York , bringing the year-to-date gain to 82 percent.  Broad Reach  The film is based on the 2008 young-adult novel with 11
million copies in print, according to its publisher,  Scholastic
Corp. (SCHL)   The story takes place in a post-apocalyptic  North America 
and revolves around children who are forced to fight to the
death on live television for the benefit of a wealthy ruling
class. The author,  Suzanne Collins , said she sought to write a
book that both sexes would want to read.  “Whenever I write a story, I hope it appeals to both boys
and girls,” Collins said in an  interview  published on
Scholastic’s website. “But maybe in its simplest form, it’s
having a female protagonist in a gladiator story, which
traditionally features a male. It’s an unexpected choice.”  In marketing the movie, Lions Gate sought to draw in a
broad audience, according to David Spitz, executive vice
president of distribution for  Lions Gate .  “This is a huge number,” Spitz said in an interview.
“You don’t get to $155 million without solid support from
everybody,” he said, referring to a preliminary estimate of
opening weekend sales.  No Romance  The company, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , didn’t
market the film as a romance, even though two male characters
are attracted to the film’s heroine, Katniss Everdeen.  A film poster, for example, features a gender-neutral image
of a burning pin worn by Everdeen. The movie’s trailer focuses
on a scene in which she steps up to replace her younger sister
in the deadly combat.  Commercials for the picture aired on programs popular with
men, such as college basketball tournaments, as well as with
young women, such as  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CW
network, Spitz said.  Female Audience  Over the first weekend, theatergoers were 61 percent female
and 56 percent over age 25, Lions Gate said a statement. That
compares with an audience for “The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn
Part 1,” from  Summit Entertainment , that was 80 percent female
and 60 percent older than 21, according to Spitz.  Spitz said he expects the distribution of male-female
viewers for “The Hunger Games” will even out as word-of-mouth
spreads that the movie isn’t just for women.  Summit, purchased in January, brought Lions Gate the final
installment of “Twilight,” an additional draw for female
audiences. The four teen-vampire movies to date have generated
more than $2.5 billion in worldwide ticket sales, according to
Box Office Mojo.  The company plans as many as three sequels to “The Hunger
Games.” The first one, “Catching Fire,” is slated for a
November 2013 release. It’s possible each installment may
generate as much as $400 million at the box office, estimates
 Matthew Harrigan , an analyst with Wunderlich Securities in
Denver.  ‘Alien’ to ‘Salt’  Hollywood has also found that female stars can reach wide
audiences in comedy. “Bridesmaids,” the raunchy romp starring
 Kristen Wiig  and Maya Rudolph, was a surprise hit for  Universal
Pictures  in May 2011, taking in $169 million in the U.S. and
 Canada .  While Wiig has said there won’t be a sequel, Universal’s
television network, NBC, has followed suit with shows such as
NBC’s “Up All Night,” co-starring Rudolph. Wiig and Rudolph
reunited for “Friends With Kids,” which has taken in $5.57
million for Lions Gate and its partner, Roadside Attractions,
since March 9.  For female action heroes, the hits have been sporadic since
Sigourney Weaver lit up the screen in the first “Alien” in
1979 -- showing how tricky it is to tune both the production and
the marketing just right.  Angelina Jolie’s “Salt,” made for an estimated $100
million, took in $118 million in the U.S. for  Sony Corp. (6758)  in
2010. “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” from Sony and  Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. (MGM-R) , generated $102.5 million on a $90 million
budget. MGM executives told investors on a conference call that
the film lost money, the  Los Angeles  Times reported.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar unit will put out its first
animated feature with a female hero in June. “Brave” is the
story of a Scottish princess who also excels at archery.  “There’s always been a lack of strong female leads,” said
Boxoffice.com’s Contrino. “Hollywood’s waking up to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  