-- ‘Mad Men’ Premiere Draws Record Viewers on Netflix Boost
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-27T00:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/-mad-men-premiere-viewership-rises-20-on-boost-from-netflix.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s season debut of
“Mad Men” was the series’ most-watched episode, aided by a
streaming deal with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  that made past seasons
available to viewers.  The two-hour premiere for season five collected 3.5 million
viewers, 20 percent more than the debut for series four, New
York-based AMC said today in an e-mailed statement, citing data
from Nielsen.  The audience grew because earlier seasons were available on
Netflix’s subscription service during a 17-month hiatus,
 Benjamin Mogil , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote today
in a report. That allowed viewers to catch up on past episodes
or be introduced to the program, increasing demand for last
night’s broadcast, he said.  The new season, which airs on the AMC cable channel, was
delayed a year because of contract talks between  Matthew Weiner ,
the show’s creator, and producer  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
After an agreement was reached last March, Lions Gate signed a
pact with Los Gatos, California-based Netflix in April to make
past seasons available online.  “The ratings strength is certainly a positive for AMC,”
Mogil wrote. Netflix availability “continues to support new
airing ratings,” he wrote.  Advertising Executives  “Mad Men,” which began five years ago, follows Don
Draper, played by Jon Hamm, and other advertising executives
working on Madison Avenue in the 1960s.  AMC Networks, also owner of the Sundance Channel, fell 0.8
percent to $44.32 at 4 p.m. in New York  trading . The company has
climbed 18 percent this year.  Season four’s first episode of “Mad Men” drew 2.92
million, Mogil said, citing data from  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) . That
season averaged 2.3 million viewers, and the finale attracted
2.4 million, he said.  Lions Gate  is making seasons one through seven of “Mad
Men” available on Netflix, where each new season is delayed by
a year. That arrangement will also help Lions Gate sell DVDs of
the show and gain more money for licensing the program to
networks outside the U.S., Mogil wrote.  AMC also has agreements with Netflix for past seasons of
the shows “The Walking Dead” and “Breaking Bad.”  Lions Gate, based in Vancouver and operated from  Santa
Monica ,  California , rose 4.5 percent to $15.18 and has gained 83
percent this  year . The company released “The Hunger Games”
over the weekend. The film beat estimates and collected $153
million in U.S. ticket sales, according to figures compiled by
 Hollywood.com Box-Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  