-- A123 Replacing Batteries That Led to Fisker Karma Shutdown
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-26T20:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/a123-replacing-defective-batteries-that-led-to-fisker-shutdown.html
A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  said it’s
replacing defective battery packs and modules it supplies to
customers, including Fisker Automotive Inc., and that the flaw
caused a Fisker Karma to shut down in a Consumer Reports test.  A123 has started building replacement modules and expects
to begin shipping them to customers this week, the company said
in a statement. Replacing the batteries and systems shipped
globally from A123’s plant in Livonia, Michigan, will cost about
$55 million and will be funded during the next several quarters,
the company estimated.  Five customers are potentially affected by the defects,
David Vieau, the company’s chief executive officer, told
reporters today in a conference call. The root cause of a
$107,000 Fisker Karma model shutting down in tests this month by
 Consumer Reports  is associated with A123’s defective batteries,
Vieau said, without naming other customers.  “While the initial rapid ramp-up of our Michigan
operations to satisfy customer demand has resulted in near-term
operational challenges, we are confident in our ability to
overcome these issues,” he said on the call.  A123 expects that the cost of replacing the battery systems
will “require us to adjust our fundraising strategy,” Vieau
said, without elaborating. The company will provide an updated
outlook during its next quarterly earnings call, he said.  A123 fell  12 percent  to $1.49 at the close in  New York , the
lowest closing price since its initial public offering in
September 2009.  Fisker Tests  Fisker’s plug-in luxury car that Consumer Reports purchased
for evaluation shut down after only 180 miles (290 kilometers),
the Yonkers, New York-based magazine said March 8.  Fisker will update its “VIP Customer Care Coverage” to
include a free battery replacement for affected Karma owners,
the Anaheim, California-based company said today in a statement.
The program also will extend warranties for customers in  North
America  by 10 months and 10,000 miles, to 60 months and 60,000
miles.  A123 is a Fisker shareholder. The carmaker in December
recalled 239 Karmas to fix a hose clamp in the A123 battery pack
at risk of leaking coolant, which it said could potentially
cause a fire.  The cause of the defects described today was faulty
calibration of one of four welding machines in the Michigan
plant that caused misalignment of a component in some cells,
Vieau said today. The flaw could cause an electrical short,
which could result in premature failure of the battery or
decrease performance and reduce battery life, he said.  ‘Effectively Contaminated’  While the rate of total cells welded by the faulty machine
is “a fraction” of the product A123 made in the  Michigan 
plant, the probability is “very high” that a module or pack
contains a defect because of the number of cells that go into
them, Vieau said.  “We feel that virtually all the product that we produce in
this facility has been effectively contaminated by this
particular defect,” he said.  A123 received a $249.1 million grant from the Energy
Department from a program started in February 2009 that supports
the construction of U.S. plants to make batteries for hybrid and
electric vehicles.  The company also has a pending application for loans under
an Energy Department program to support manufacturing expansion.
A123 estimated in its annual report filed March 12 that it may
be allowed to borrow up to $233 million from that program.  Government Assistance  A123 also has also used $8.3 million of a $10 million grant
from the state of Michigan to support the expansion of its
factories in Livonia and Romulus, Michigan, according to the
filing.  Fisker said this month it established a team of more than
50 engineers to address quality issues with the Karma. That
group traced the cause of the shutdown of the car owned by
Consumer Reports to the A123 battery pack, Fisker said in its
statement today. Both companies formed groups “to find the
actual root cause,” the carmaker said.  Fisker reduced orders of packs from A123 in the fourth
quarter of last year to balance parts inventories, the battery
maker said in a Nov. 4 statement. A123’s full-year loss widened
to $257.7 million, or $2.12 a share, last year from $152.6
million, or $1.46, in 2010, according to a March 8 statement.  The cylindrical cells that A123 makes in  China  that are
used by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and other customers are not
affected by the defect, Vieau said. A123 also supplies batteries
for  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Daimler AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  