-- Abandoning Gold Helped Dollar Gain Preeminence (Part 2)
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n   a n d   J a m e s   K w a k
-- 2012-03-26T23:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/abandoning-gold-helped-dollar-gain-preeminence-part-2-.html
The birth of the U.S. was paid for
by both a debauched paper currency and large debts that it soon
defaulted on. When  Alexander Hamilton  became Treasury secretary
in 1789, his job was not just restoring the country’s credit by
restructuring the debt and imposing new taxes; he also had to
clean up the mess that was money in the early U.S.  Hamilton proposed to base the monetary system on both gold
and silver. Gold had advantages, including greater stability, he
argued, but it would be disruptive to withdraw the large amounts
of silver that were already in use. He proposed “ten dollar and
one dollar gold pieces, one dollar and ten cent silver pieces,
and one cent and one-half cent copper pieces,” and the Mint Act
of 1792 largely followed his recommendations. As gold and silver
were both widely recognized bases for money at the time, this
was relatively uncontroversial.  This “bimetallic” standard meant that the dollar was
defined as either a specific amount of silver or a specific
amount of gold. In 1834, Congress set the ratio between the two
at 16-to-1, although the market value of gold was slightly lower
than 16 times the market value of silver. The California gold
rush of the 1840s reduced the relative price of gold further,
which meant that the U.S. was effectively on the gold standard.  Not Enough Coins  Although bank notes were convertible to specie (gold or
silver coins) on demand, banks did not generally keep enough
coins in their vaults to redeem all their notes at the same
time. In 1832, for example, the Second Bank of the  United States 
held only $7 million in specie, but $21.4 million of its notes
were in circulation, while depositors had another $22.8 million
in their accounts. Most other banks operated along similar
lines. In effect, even though the currency of the U.S. was
firmly based on gold and silver, the money supply depended on
the amount of risk that private commercial banks wanted to take.  This meant, however, that banks were susceptible to
financial panics, especially in the lightly regulated
environment of early 19th-century America. When depositors or
note holders worry about a bank’s ability to pay them in hard
money, they race to the teller’s window to get their money out
before anyone else, which can cause even a healthy bank to
collapse. Bank failures were common in early America, with major
panics in 1819, 1837, 1857, 1860 and 1861.  The U.S. went off the gold standard during the financial
chaos of the Civil War, following the examples of the U.K.,
 Germany ,  France  and many other countries. But in 1879, the
country returned to the gold peg. Because the value of most
things rises and falls with demand and supply, the real value of
the dollar fluctuated depending on economic growth (which
increases demand for money) and discoveries of gold (which
increase the supply of money). When the world economy grew
faster than gold discoveries, gold became more valuable relative
to other goods. Because the dollar was tied to gold, overall
prices fell.  Falling prices in the late 19th century made it harder for
people -- particularly farmers with mortgages -- to pay off
their debts (since the amount of the debt was fixed in nominal
terms). The gold standard and the lack of a central bank meant
there was no way to increase the  money supply  to prevent
deflation.  Proponents of “free silver,” led by William Jennings
Bryan, argued that restoring silver to equal status with gold
would expand the money supply, causing inflation and making
debts easier to repay. But Bryan lost the crucial 1896
presidential election to William McKinley, who favored “sound
money,” and in 1900 the Gold Standard Act reaffirmed the gold-
only standard.  Fixed Exchange Rates  As international trade increased in the late 19th and early
20th centuries, the gold standard also became the backbone of
the international monetary system. Since major countries fixed
the value of their currencies relative to gold, their exchange
rates were fixed relative to each other, as well. If a country’s
imports exceeded its exports, its currency would accumulate in
the hands of its trading partners, who could then redeem it for
gold -- draining the importers’ national treasuries of gold.
Losing gold would reduce the money supply, lowering domestic
prices and wages; this would reduce imports and increase exports
until the trade deficit was eliminated, stopping the gold
outflow.  In October 1929, the U.S. stock market collapsed, quickly
followed by markets around the world. A credit bubble that had
grown in the 1920s imploded rapidly, leaving households and
businesses scrambling to pay off their debts. Banks began to
fail. The  Federal Reserve , then less than two decades old, did
relatively little to stop the bleeding. The gold standard
limited its ability to expand the money supply and increase the
flow of credit. But President  Herbert Hoover  had near-religious
faith in the gold standard and saw no need to deviate from past
practice.  Initially, as the American economy contracted, gold flowed
from other countries to the U.S. To stop these outflows, central
banks raised  interest rates , effectively importing the economic
slowdown to their own countries. Monetary tightening that began
in Germany and the U.S. spread as countries engaged in
competitive deflation, creating a vicious cycle.  Central banks raced to convert their holdings of foreign
currency into gold, reducing the global money supply. High
demand for gold increased its price relative to other goods. And
since the price of gold (in dollars) was fixed, the price of
everything else (in dollars) had to fall, making deflation even
worse.  Clinging to Gold  In 1931, unable to stop gold from draining out of its
reserves, the U.K. abandoned the gold standard. In the U.S., by
contrast, Hoover and  Treasury Secretary  Andrew Mellon clung to
it. The Federal Reserve even raised interest rates in the midst
of the Depression.  Franklin D. Roosevelt  avoided making a
commitment one way or the other before taking office in 1933,
but many investors expected the U.S. to devalue the dollar
against gold. Since they expected dollars to fall in value, they
exchanged them for gold and other currencies -- reducing
American  gold reserves .  When Roosevelt took office on March 4, 1933, the U.S. was
in the grip of a financial panic. With banks facing huge demands
for cash from depositors, most states had already declared bank
holidays or severely restricted withdrawals, and the financial
system was barely working. Roosevelt immediately declared a bank
holiday beginning on March 6 and also ordered banks not to
export gold.  He quickly pushed through the Emergency Banking Act, which
allowed the Treasury Department to demand that all gold in
private hands (coin, bullion or certificates) be exchanged for a
non-gold form of currency -- a power he exercised on April 5,
effectively suspending convertibility.  As devaluation fears grew, the value of the dollar began to
fall relative to foreign currencies. So Roosevelt expanded the
prohibition on gold exports. At the time, many contracts --
including those governing some Treasury bonds -- contained gold
indexation clauses, which specified that the lender could demand
repayment in gold as a form of protection against inflation. On
June 5, Congress abrogated all such clauses, eliminating the
ability of creditors to demand gold instead of dollars. This was
arguably an act of default, since the U.S. broke an explicit
promise to its creditors -- the only default since Alexander
Hamilton restructured the debt in 1790.  Surprisingly, going off gold and abrogating gold indexation
clauses did not destroy the government’s credit. The market
reaction was almost nonexistent. The convertibility of paper
into metal had been suspended often enough under the gold
standard that the abrogation of the gold indexation clauses was
not in itself grounds for panic. Most importantly, going off the
gold standard and devaluing the dollar almost certainly helped
the American economy overcome deflationary pressures and begin
to recover from the depths of the Great Depression.  Falling Dollar  The gold standard was blamed for exacerbating the worst
economic crisis of the industrial age. In January 1934,
Roosevelt officially reset the value of the dollar against gold
at $35 per ounce -- a fall in the dollar’s value from $20.67 per
ounce, where it had been since 1834. Some of Roosevelt’s
advisers were worried about going off gold; budget director
Lewis Douglas famously remarked, “This is the end of Western
civilization.”  It wasn’t. Instead, the dollar would replace gold as the
backbone of world trade. One of the most important events in
modern economic history, the United Nations Monetary and
Financial Conference, held in  Bretton Woods ,  New Hampshire , in
July 1944, would see to that.  Rebuilding war-torn  Europe  and preventing another Great
Depression were the primary goals of American delegates -- Henry Morgenthau, the Treasury secretary under Roosevelt, and Henry
Dexter White, an academic who had joined the Treasury Department
in 1934 -- along with almost everyone else at the conference.
The central question they faced was what kind of money the world
would use for international transactions.  Ultimately, the solution was to use dollars as a global
 reserve currency , since dollars could be created by the Federal
Reserve in response to increasing demand. Countries could
accumulate and hold dollars as the basis for their money supply
rather than competing with each other for scarce gold reserves.  British economist  John Maynard Keynes , however, had a
competing vision. At the conference, he argued for, among other
things, the creation of an international currency for central
banks, known as “bancor,” which would be managed by a new
international organization. Keynes wanted nothing to do with
gold, which he famously called a “barbarous relic,” but he
also didn’t want the dollar to be the world’s reserve currency,
in part because he was wary of American monetary dominance.  Keynes and the British, however, had to give way to White
and the Americans on most points. No international monetary
system could succeed without the support of the U.S., which had
the largest gold reserves and the dollars that other countries
would need to import American goods. Other nations were
reassured by the fact that the dollar would again be convertible
into gold, which in principle gave them a way to switch out of
dollars should the U.S. abuse its control over the reserve
currency.  The dollar was built on gold but outgrew its early
foundations. Its global dominance was made possible by fiscal
prudence and monetary conservatism. How long would this
combination last?  ( Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  are authors of “13 Bankers”
and co-founders of The Baseline Scenario, a blog on economic and
public policy. Johnson is also a Bloomberg View columnist. This
is the second of three excerpts from their new  book , “White
House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why
It Matters To You,” to be published by the Knopf Doubleday
Group on April 3. The opinions expressed are their own.  Read
Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights: The editors on  health-care reform’s day in court  and
 Russia’s objections to missile defense .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
 Israel’s overconfident leaders . Ramesh Ponnuru on how
Republicans will react if the  Supreme Court upholds Obamacare .
 Edward Glaeser  on  regulation that can aid entrepreneurs .  To contact the writers of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu 
James Kwak at  jkwak@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  