-- Madoff Feeder Fund’s Liquidators Drop Ernst & Young Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-26T16:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/madoff-feeder-fund-s-liquidators-drop-ernst-young-lawsuit-1-.html
The liquidators of M-Invest Ltd., a
so-called feeder fund for  Bernard Madoff ’s bankrupt investment
firm, dropped a lawsuit accusing Ernst & Young LLP of
negligence, malpractice and breach of contract.  The liquidators said in documents filed in New York State
Supreme Court in December that they were suing the New York-
based accounting firm over audits of M-Invest’s annual financial
statements from 2003 to 2007 and seeking $900 million in
damages. Ernst & Young said the suit was without merit.  The plaintiffs discontinued the action, according to a
court document filed March 23. No reason was given. Scott M.
Berman, an attorney for the liquidators, and  Charlie Perkins , a
spokesman for Ernst & Young, declined to comment on the filing
in a telephone interview.  Union Bancaire Privee, a private Swiss bank that set up M-
Invest, a Cayman Islands corporation, to invest money with
Madoff, agreed to pay as much as $500 million in December 2010
to settle claims by  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating
Madoff’s firm.  The agreement ended claims against Union Bancaire, which
was accused of accused of profiting from Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .
Union Bancaire and M-Invest didn’t admit any liability,
according to the agreement.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in North Carolina after admitting to directing the
biggest Ponzi scheme in history. The Securities Investor
Protection Corp. has said that investors in so-called feeder
funds aren’t customers of Madoff’s firm and can’t make claims on
the estate of the bankrupt brokerage.  The case is M-Invest Ltd. v. Ernst & Young LLP,
653353/2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  