-- Afghan Civilian Deaths Raise ‘Revenge’ Risks for Troops
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-27T02:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/afghan-civilian-deaths-raise-revenge-risks-for-troops.html
Public anger over the killing of 17
Afghan civilians, allegedly by a U.S. soldier, may yet spark a
backlash against American forces, the governor of the south’s
most populous province and tribal elders say.  Anger remains intense in southern  Afghanistan  after the
March 11 incident, presenting what the top U.S. and NATO
commander for Afghanistan said yesterday is the “potential”
for revenge killings. “It is prudent for us to recognize that,
as you know, revenge is an important dimension in this
culture,” U.S. Marine General John Allen said at a Pentagon
briefing.  U.S. officers in Kandahar province sought to forestall such
attacks by offering apologies and financial compensation to the
affected families. The payments were $50,000 for each person
killed and $11,000 for each of the injured, according to Agha
Lalai Dastgiri, a village elder.  Still, ethnic Pashtuns of Afghanistan’s south may be
motivated to attack U.S. forces and their international allies
“if they feel justice is not being restored,” Kandahar
Governor Tooryalai Wesa said in an interview at his office
yesterday.  An Afghan soldier west of Kandahar, in the adjacent Helmand
province, yesterday shot dead two British troops of the U.S.-led
 International Security Assistance Force , or  ISAF , Afghan army
General Sayed Malook said in a phone interview. The attack was
the first by a member of the Afghan security forces on their
international partners since the March 11 shootings.  ‘Green on Blue’  Another NATO service member, confirmed by the Pentagon as
an American soldier, was reported killed at a checkpoint in
eastern Afghanistan by a man who was part of an allied village
force, according to the  Associated Press .  Such “green-on-blue” attacks are “a characteristic of
counter-insurgency” operations as also experienced in the past
in Iraq and  Vietnam , Allen said. NATO and Afghan officials have
put in place security measures to “reduce this tragedy to the
maximum extent possible,” he said.  The attack on village homes in Panjwai, for which Army
Staff Sergeant Robert Bales was charged last week, has escalated
tension between the U.S. and Afghan governments, and added to
election-year pressure on President  Barack Obama  for a quick
U.S. exit from the 10-year-old war with Taliban militants.  Support for the war has dropped in the U.S. Sixty-nine
percent of Americans surveyed from March 21 to 25 said the U.S.
shouldn’t be fighting in Afghanistan, according to a New York
Times/CBS News poll. That’s up from 53 percent four months ago,
according to the poll.  Bales Charged  The U.S. military charged Bales with 17 counts of murder in
farming villages around Camp Belambay, about 30 kilometers (20
miles) southwest of Kandahar city. While village residents and
Afghan officials have counted 16 dead, the U.S. charges reflect
that one of the women killed was pregnant, the New York Times
reported yesterday, citing Kandahar’s police chief.  Wesa, about 61, is a portly Afghan-Canadian agriculture
specialist, native to Kandahar. After studies in the U.S. and
 Canada , he worked as a university teacher in British Columbia
until returning to Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban.
President  Hamid Karzai  named him governor in 2008.  For two weeks, Wesa’s days have been dominated by meetings
with survivors of the Panjwai attack, angry tribal leaders, U.S.
military officers and officials of Karzai’s government. “This
violence has affected every human being,” especially in
Afghanistan’s Pashtun south, which is the core of the war zone,
Wesa said.  ‘Aerial Bombing’  “We have had other violence against innocent people --even
the aerial bombing of wedding parties -- but this attack on
these villagers was something really different and inhumane,”
he said.  The renewed tension with U.S. forces will not affect plans
for ISAF to hand over control of Kandahar city, Afghanistan’s
second-largest, to Afghan forces within three months, Wesa said.  Most of the victims at Panjwai belonged to the Alokozai
tribe, one of the region’s main Pashtun clans. “These killings
may lead some local people to begin resisting the Americans in
the same way the Taliban resist them,” and such resistance may
spread to other Alokozai areas, said Dad Muhammad, 46, a local
Alokozai elder in Panjwai.  The Alokozais dominate the populations of what in recent
years have been some of the most heavily contested regions of
Afghanistan’s south, such as Panjwai and the district of Sangin,
in Helmand province.  Seeking Reconciliation  U.S. military officers from ISAF’s southern regional
headquarters met on March 24 in Wesa’s office with relatives of
those attacked to seek reconciliation, Wesa said.  “The compensation was on behalf of America’s government
and was meant to ease the anger of these victims and encourage
them not to take any violent actions” in revenge, said the
other official, Dastgiri, an elder from one of the two villages
hit in the attack. Pashtun traditions call on male relatives to
avenge the killing of family members.  While restitution payments and formal apologies by the
Americans may ease the pressure for revenge attacks, they may
not be enough to prevent them entirely, said Dastgiri, a member
of the province’s elected governing council.  Afghans, including relatives of those killed and Karzai,
have expressed doubts at the U.S. military’s assertion that the
attacks on three homes in two villages were committed by a
single soldier without help from others.  Money ‘Not Enough’  Dastgiri said the compensation payments had not eased the
families’ insistence on a full investigation that includes the
possibility of others being prosecuted.  “The victims thanked the U.S. officials, but they told the
Americans that money is not enough, and that they want the
perpetrators to be prosecuted as soon as possible and to receive
the death penalty,” he said.  The U.S.-led coalition force in Afghanistan declined to
comment on the reported payments. When such compensation efforts
are made, “it is usually a matter of agreement that the terms
of the settlement remain confidential,” ISAF said in an e-
mailed statement March 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kandahar at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  