-- TAG to Buy BayernLB’s DKB Real-Estate Unit for $213 Million
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-03-26T16:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tag-immobilien-says-optimistic-on-bid-for-dkb-property-business.html
TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  agreed to buy DKB
Immobilien AG, a real-estate unit of  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) , for
160 million euros ($213 million) in cash to increase its number
of residential properties by more than 80 percent.  TAG will also assume about 800 million euros of debt by
purchasing DKB, spokeswoman Dominique Mann said earlier today.
The Hamburg-based buyer’s portfolio will increase by 25,000
homes to about 56,000 as a result of the deal, according to a
statement today.  BayernLB,  Germany ’s second-biggest state-owned lender, has
to sell some units to gain approval from the  European Commission 
for its bailout during the financial crisis. The lender, based
in Munich, needed 10 billion euros in fresh capital and a 4.8
billion-euro risk shield for a portfolio of asset-backed
securities from its home state of Bavaria, which now  owns  94
percent.  “TAG takes a sustainable, long-term approach to
residential property management,” Chief Executive Officer Rolf Elgeti said in a separate statement. “By taking over DKB
Immobilien AG, we have attained a structure and magnitude that
lets us do this economically.”  TAG climbed 25 cents, or 3.8 percent to 6.85 euros in
Frankfurt trading, the highest since Aug. 3. The shares have
gained 11 percent this year, raising the company’s market value
to 661 million euros.  East German Homes  DKB’s properties were valued at about 1.06 billion euros at
the end of last year with a vacancy rate of 10.9 percent, TAG
said. Almost all of them are in the former East German states of
Thuringia, Berlin and Saxony.  The acquisition will probably be completed in the next few
days, TAG said in the statement. The company will use the money
raised from a share sale last week, which generated gross
proceeds of about 127 million euros, to pay for the acquisition.  As part of its reorganization, BayernLB plans to sell its
GBW AG real estate unit, which owns about 32,000 apartments.
BayernLB owns 92 percent of the company and in February agreed
to hold exclusive talks with Bavarian municipalities about a
transaction.  The lender also plans to sell its LBS Bayern mortgage
lending unit to Bavarian savings banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 