-- Thai Finance Ministry Raises Growth Forecast, Sees Rate Rise
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-03-26T10:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/thai-finance-ministry-raises-2012-growth-forecast-to-5-6-1-.html
Thailand ’s  Finance Ministry  raised
its 2012 growth forecast and predicted  interest rates  will rise,
less than a week after Deputy Prime Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong
urged the central bank to ease monetary policy.  Gross domestic product is estimated to grow between 5
percent and 6 percent, with a midpoint forecast of 5.5 percent,
Somchai Sujjapongse, head of the fiscal policy office, told a
news conference in Bangkok today. The ministry predicted earlier
the economy would grow about 5 percent this year.  “We think the central bank may raise the key rate late
this year because we believe that inflation will accelerate in
the second half when economic growth picks up speed,” Boonchai Charassangsomboon, deputy spokesman of the fiscal policy office,
said by telephone after the briefing. “I don’t know the reason
behind the minister’s comment, but we based our assumption on
the forward-looking perspective and the current data.”  The  Bank of Thailand  kept its benchmark rate at 3 percent
last week after cutting it twice in recent months to support an
economy hurt by the worst floods in almost 70 years.
Manufacturing improved in February, Somchai said today, a sign
exports are set to recover from the disaster last year that
disrupted global supply chains and killed more than 700 people.  ‘Another Story’  “The minister may want the rate to be lower to help the
economy, but what the real rate decision will be is another
story,” said  Thanomsri Fongarunrung , an economist at  Phatra
Securities Pcl (PTSEC)  in Bangkok. “We believe the central bank will
hold the rate for quite some time. There is a chance that the
rate will be raised later this year, but that depends on the
strength of the economic recovery and also how much the oil
price will rise.”  The ministry predicts the central bank may raise its policy
interest rate to 3.25 percent later this year, Somchai said. The
latest GDP forecast is based on assumptions that Dubai crude oil
prices will average $118 per barrel and the baht 31 per dollar,
Somchai said.  In contrast, Kittiratt, who is also Thailand’s finance
minister, said March 22 he’d like to see the benchmark one-day
bond repurchase rate fall by “at least” 50 basis points from
its current level. He also said the baht should weaken to a
range of 32 to 34 a dollar to help exporters. The currency
traded at 30.78 today.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , contracted 9 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the steepest decline since 1998, and expanded 0.1
percent in 2011. Exports shrank 6 percent in January, as
factories struggled to resume production and global demand
weakened.  Imports Rising  Imports are expected to rise 23.3 percent this year on
investment, with  exports  growing 13.5 percent, Somchai said. The
ministry forecasts a trade surplus of $7.3 billion in 2012,
while the current account may post a $3.5 billion deficit, he
said.  The manufacturing index improved in February from January,
Somchai said, without disclosing figures. Thailand’s Commerce
Ministry will release official trade data tomorrow and
manufacturing data will be released on March 28.  “The economic indicators in February continue to show a
clear recovery from the flood crisis,” Somchai said. “GDP will
be positive in the first quarter and will rise steadily to reach
the highest growth in the fourth quarter because of the low base
last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  