-- Air Canada Labor Fight Spills Over Onto Fliers
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/air-canada-labor-fight-spills-over-onto-fliers-corporate-canada.html
Air Canada (AC/A) ’s customers are becoming
collateral damage in a labor standoff between the country’s
largest carrier and its biggest unions.  Even after the federal government rushed to Air  Canada ’s
aid with a back-to-work bill, passengers still faced flight
cancellations as ground-crew employees staged wildcat strikes on
March 23. That was five days after so many pilots called in sick
that the airline had to trim its schedule.  The disruptions showed how the bargaining struggle over new
union contracts is spilling into operations. Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Service said in a statement following the pre-weekend
walkout that Air Canada’s debt ratings may be cut and raised the
prospect that the labor disputes might erode bookings in the
busy summer travel season.  “The long-term viability of the company is in question,”
said George Smith, a director of employee relations at the
airline from 1982 to 1992 who now teaches labor relations at
Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. “You’re getting to a
tipping point where people will be so uncertain about what they
can expect that they may seek alternative means of travel.”  More than 80 flights were canceled during the ground-crew
members’ impromptu walkout on March 23, which coincided with the
start of spring break in  Alberta , Canada’s largest oil-producing
province. A government arbitrator ordered an end to the strike.  “We recognize that many customers are being inconvenienced
and our focus right now is on getting them to their destination
safely, and as quickly as we can,” Chief Operating Officer
Duncan Dee said in a statement.  Pilots, Aveos  Operations questions dogged Air Canada throughout last
week, as the Montreal-based airline sought  government aid  to end
what it called an illegal sickout by pilots on March 18 -- which
the union denied -- and endured the shutdown the next day of
heavy-maintenance provider Aveos Fleet Performance Inc.  Aveos was spun off from Air Canada after the airline sought
creditor protection in 2004, and unions want the carrier to take
back the 2,600 workers who lost their jobs when the repair
operator filed for insolvency on March 19. Air Canada said it
has no intention of buying Aveos or rehiring the employees.  The week was “probably the worst for Air Canada since they
filed in 2004,” said Karl Moore, a professor of business
strategy at Montreal’s  McGill University  who specializes in the
airline industry. “They are going to take a short-term hit for
this. Obviously there will be some labor problems for a while.”  Tumbling Shares  Air Canada’s  Class B shares  fell 17 percent in 2012 through
March 23, to 82 Canadian cents, trailing the S&P Toronto Stock
Exchange Index’s 4.3 percent  gain . At about C$230 million ($230
million), the airline’s market value was less than one-seventh
that of discount carrier  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  -- and less than
the C$298 million  list price  of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 777-300, Air
Canada’s largest jet.  The carrier’s 9.25 percent notes due August 2015 were
unchanged at 98 cents on the dollar on March 23. The yield was
9.96 percent.  Liquidity may deteriorate because of the labor strife and
the possibility of having to pay as much as a year’s severance
to 1,500 Aveos workers, two S&P analysts said in putting the
airline on CreditWatch with negative implications. Air Canada’s
current  S&P rating  is B-, six grades below investment level.  Operations disruptions “will likely affect the company’s
financial performance in the first half of 2012,” S&P’s
Jatinder Mall and Madhav Hari said in a statement.  Financial Squeeze  Labor’s demands for improved contracts are colliding with a
jump in  jet-fuel prices  of more than 50 percent in the past two
years. While most North American carriers have managed to return
to profit as fuel prices rebound, Air Canada has posted annual
losses  starting in 2008 .  “The problem for the unions is that they can’t roll back
the clock,” said Moore, the McGill professor. “With fuel
prices where they are now the  airline industry  is in tough
shape, and there’s not a lot of pie to share.”  Last week’s disruptions from pilot sick calls and the
wildcat walkout came even after Labor Minister Lisa Raitt moved
to block labor actions at the airline starting last year, when
contracts expired for the majority of the union workforce.  Ground workers walked out late March 22 after Air Canada
suspended three employees for sarcastically applauding Raitt as
she arrived at Toronto Pearson International Airport to board a
flight. Delays and cancellations followed the next day.  “Clearly the displeasure the workers were expressing was
directed at the government,” said Smith, the former Air Canada
executive. “Unfortunately the traveling public ends up being as
inconvenienced as if a strike or a lockout had been allowed.”  Letting a strike or lockout occur actually might be a spur
to reaching negotiated agreements, he added.  Government Measures  Raitt blocked  Air Canada’s (AC/B)  planned March 12 pilot lockout
by sending the contract dispute between the two sides to a
government-appointed arbitrator. She also barred the Machinists
union for a strike the same day by mechanics, baggage handlers
and cargo agents.  In October, Raitt thwarted another potential walkout by
referring stalemated talks with flight attendants to Canada’s
labor board. Three months earlier, striking service workers
reached a tentative agreement with Air Canada minutes after the
government introduced legislation that would have forced an end
to that job action.  The government reiterated its opposition on March 23 to any
labor action at Air Canada because of the potential impact on
the economy and disruption of the country’s transportation
system.  “It’s a big hassle,” Ayman Fayez, president of
construction company  DecoArc Inc.  in Toronto, said as he waited
for a ride home from Pearson airport after his  Hong Kong  flight
was scrubbed. “I have to be in Hong Kong tomorrow, and I’m also
worried about coming back too, whether I’ll be stranded in
 China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  