-- All Americans Lose If Health-Care Law Is Overturned
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/all-americans-lose-if-health-care-law-is-overturned.html
As much as we’d like to see the
U.S. Supreme Court allow the entire federal health-care law to
stand, it’s perfectly possible that, when it rules in a few
months, the court will toss the whole thing.  If it finds that the individual mandate, the requirement
that Americans either  have insurance  or pay a penalty, is
unconstitutional, the court may also decide the rest of the law
is so inextricably tied to it, everything must go. That would
bring the nation back to square one on health-care reform.  Opponents of the law say it would be fine to turn back the
clock and start from scratch. In fact, in our polarized
political climate, a do-over is unimaginable. What’s more, the
 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act  contains many
specific provisions that would be painful to lose.  The big elements are obvious: Without the law, insurance
companies could keep turning away people with pre-existing
conditions or charging them higher premiums. They could maintain
annual caps and restore lifetime caps on how much they spend on
care for an individual policyholder. They could stop paying the
full cost of preventive services such as mammograms, flu shots
and well-child visits. And young adults would no longer be
guaranteed coverage on their parents’ plan until age 26.  We couldn’t look forward to state insurance exchanges,
those competitive online marketplaces where,  starting in 2014 ,
people without coverage from employers should be able to buy
health insurance using federal subsidies. And, with no subsidies
and no expansion of Medicaid, we’d give up on the promise of
insuring 32 million more Americans.  Many less-often-discussed pieces of the 2,000-page law are
valuable as well. Consider the “ medical loss ratio ” -- the
requirement that for every dollar insurance companies collect in
premiums, they spend no more than 15 cents to 20 cents on
administration and profits. The rest has to go toward medical
claims. Before the law, insurance companies often spent 25
percent to 30 percent of the money on administrative costs and
profits.  Think, too, of the law’s charge to the  Food and Drug
Administration  to arrange for speedy approval of “ biosimilars ” -
- cheaper versions of expensive, complex drugs derived from
living organisms, including vaccines and gene therapies, that
are used to treat conditions from arthritis to cancer.
Biosimilars are needed to bring down the exorbitant cost of
using biologic drugs. A three-month course of the melanoma
treatment Yervoy, for example, a biologic made by Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., costs $120,000. Last month, the FDA released its
 draft guidance , suggesting that makers of biosimilars could in
some cases save the time and expense of human trials.  Without the law, other opportunities to improve care while
saving money would be lost as well. Under the Affordable Care
Act, Medicare payments to hospitals are to be reduced if too
many of their patients contract infections while they’re in the
hospital or if too many of them, after their release from care,
are quickly readmitted.  Another chunk of Medicare savings written into the law is a
gradual elimination of the extra payments to private insurance
companies for  Medicare Advantage  policies. The  Medicare Payment
Advisory Commission  estimates that, in 2011, payments to
Medicare Advantage per beneficiary were  10 percent higher  than
those for traditional Medicare. According to the  Congressional
Budget Office , ending these overpayments stands to save Medicare
about  $136 billion  over 10 years.  The law also provides for curtailing increases in other
 Medicare spending  over 10 years, so that, all things considered,
it saves the program almost $500 billion.  Finally, we would hate to give up the law’s push to improve
basic medical treatment. Over 10 years, $3 billion is set to be
spent on an independent, nonprofit organization called the
 Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute , which will support
studies assessing the benefits and drawbacks of medical
treatments and diagnostic tests. The idea is to give doctors,
hospitals and insurers the information they need to make more
informed and less wasteful decisions about the care they give.  This is only a sampling of ways in which the law is already
making progress toward mending and strengthening the health-care
system.  It’s not perfect, of course; nothing with so many facets
could be. We don’t yet know, for example, whether the law’s
incentives to move doctors and hospitals away from a fee-for-
service system to one more focused on efficiency will work. Just
helping Americans to understand what’s changing in the health-
care system is a challenge that remains unmet.  But the law takes a great many small steps in the right
direction -- toward a health-care system that provides good-
quality care at a reasonable price for the largest possible
number of people.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on  Russia’s objections to missile defense .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Israel’s overconfident leaders . Ramesh Ponnuru on
how Republicans will react if the  Supreme Court upholds
Obamacare .  Edward Glaeser  on  regulation that can aid
entrepreneurs .  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  on why the U.S.
 abandoned the gold standard .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 