-- Allen & Gledhill Ends Talks With Law Firm Allen & Overy
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-03-27T01:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/allen-gledhill-ends-talks-with-law-firm-allen-overy.html
Allen & Gledhill (816119L)  LLP,  Singapore ’s
largest law firm by number of attorneys, ended merger talks with
London-based  Allen & Overy LLP (323556L) .  “We will continue to review strategic options to enhance
our position in Singapore and  Asia ,” Allen & Gledhill Managing
Partner Lucien Wong said in a statement last night. The firm
also ended an 11-year-old joint venture with another London
firm,  Linklaters LLP (1412L) .  Allen & Overy and the Singaporean firm said in November
they were in preliminary merger talks, three months before
Singapore changed its rules to allow foreign law firms to own
stakes in local legal practices or share in the profits, a
change seen as helping such deals.  “Both parties have agreed not to proceed,”  Allen & Overy 
spokesman Campbell McIlroy said in a statement. The firm’s
Singapore office has around 60 lawyers and Allen & Overy
continues to see it as strategically significant, he said. Allen
& Gledhill declined to comment beyond their statement.  In a separate statement yesterday, Allen & Gledhill and
Linklaters said the decision to end their joint venture was
amicable.  “Both firms now wish to pursue different strategic
directions in the dynamic Southeast Asian region,” the firms
said. Allen & Gledhill and Rajah & Tann are the two largest law
firms in Singapore, with around 300 lawyers each, according to
their  websites .  Shearman, Orrick  Singapore began opening its legal industry in 2000, when it
allowed foreign firms to set up joint ventures with local ones.
Several tie-ups, including those involving New York-based
Shearman & Sterling and San Francisco-based Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe, have ended.  Allen & Overy, with 2,639 lawyers in 27 countries, was one
of six foreign firms Singapore licensed in 2008 to practice
local corporate law. The firms made commitments to double their
revenue, staffing and profits in Singapore in five years.  Allen & Gledhill advised on deals including the $5.5
billion  Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT)  initial public offering
last year. Managing Partner Wong is a board member of the
Monetary Authority of Singapore and companies including
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  