-- Rooney Lifts Manchester United Three Points Clear Atop League
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-27T00:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/manchester-united-beats-fulham-to-take-3-point-lead-in-league.html
Wayne Rooney ’s 21st goal of the
English Premier League soccer season lifted Manchester United
three points clear of Manchester City atop the standings.  Rooney converted  Jonny Evans ’s cut back in the 42nd minute
at Old Trafford last night as United beat Fulham 1-0 to make it 
nine wins and a draw in 10 league games. Ashley Young had chances 
to increase United’s lead before the visiting team was denied a 
penalty kick when Michael Carrick tripped  Danny Murphy .  “Fulham put in a massive effort,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told  Sky Sports . “We did enough to finish the game off
but didn’t do it and nearly paid the penalty.”  United, which began the match behind its cross-town rival
on goal difference at the top of the standings, has claimed 28
points from a possible 30 since losing back-to-back games at the
turn of the year. The Red Devils have 73 points with eight games
remaining as they seek a record-extending 20th English title.  City, which was held 1-1 at  Stoke City  three days ago, is
scheduled to host United on April 30 in the third-to-last round
of games. United next travels to Blackburn on April 2, two days
after City hosts Sunderland.  Rooney smashed the ball into the net from close range last
night when Evans laid it back into his path after Fulham failed
to clear Young’s cross. United has scored at least once in its
past 45 home games, one match shy of the Premier League record
set by Arsenal from 2001-03.  Fulham goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer saved Antonio Valencia’s
shot after halftime and then tipped Young’s curling effort
around the post. Schwarzer blocked two successive shots from
Young and  Ryan Giggs  followed up with a goal-bound strike that
was blocked by Brede Hangeland.  ‘Difficult Decision’  Fulham had appeals for a penalty waved away in the 89th
minute when referee Michael Oliver ruled that Carrick hadn’t
tripped Murphy over as they chased the ball into the area.  “It was a difficult decision,” Fulham manager  Martin Jol 
told Sky Sports. “If he had given the penalty he would have had
to send  Michael Carrick  off. Everyone in the stadium expected a
penalty, to be honest.”  While Ferguson said there was “no doubt” Fulham had a
claim for a penalty, the United manager added that the home team
should have been awarded a spot kick in the first half when
Stephen Kelly blocked Patrice Evra’s cross with his arm.  “Maybe the referee was thinking about that,” Ferguson
said. “Certainly Carrick caught Murphy’s heel as he’s come back.
But we deserved that because we completely dominated the game
until the last 15 minutes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  