-- Mandela Dream Fades With a Quarter of South Africans Jobless
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-03-27T15:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/mandela-dream-fades-with-one-quarter-of-south-africans-jobless.html
When  Nelson Mandela  came to power
in 1994 he reached out to  South Africa (SBK) ’s poor and to its rich by
promising jobs and a secure climate for business. Eighteen years
later, his country has a 24 percent unemployment rate and a
debate over nationalizing mines is deterring investment.  Economic growth is less than half the 7 percent level the
government says is needed to make inroads into the highest
jobless rate of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg. Stocks have
underperformed  Brazil  and Peru. The ruling African National
Congress is considering raising mine taxes and President Jacob Zuma’s government is pushing through a secrecy law that could
impede reporting on state corruption.  “They’ve got to make  South Africa  a much more attractive
place for investment,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $40
billion as executive chairman of Franklin Templeton’s  Emerging
Markets  Group, said in an interview this month in Dubai. “I’m
not only talking about foreign investment,” he said. “I’m
talking about local investment.”  A lack of opportunity for poor black South Africans, who
constitute 90 percent of the population of 50.6 million, has
fueled violent street protests and given impetus to a push by
the ANC’s youth wing for the seizing of mines, banks and land.
That, together with inadequate power supplies and a labor system
as rigid as in  France  and Sweden, is pushing investors to
consider alternatives from Australia to  Peru .  Missed Opportunity  Policy uncertainty is preventing the country with the
world’s biggest mineral reserves, as assessed by Citigroup Inc.
in 2010, from fully benefiting from demand in  China  and  India .
 South Africa (SBK)  attracted $4 billion in mining investment in the
first nine months of last year while Australia, a country that
exports many of the same minerals to China, got $34 billion.  Between 1994 and 2010 South Africa secured $46.8 billion in
foreign direct investment, according to the United Nations.
That’s an eighth of what Brazil has attracted and less than in
Turkey, Malaysia,  South Korea , Colombia and Peru. Foreign direct
investment in South Africa fell from $9 billion in 2008 to $5.4
billion in 2009 and $1.5 billion in 2010.  “The debate about nationalization, as championed by the
youth league, has been very damaging to South Africa’s image in
the eyes of the investor community,” said Prince Mashile, chief
executive officer of Johannesburg’s Forum for Public Dialogue,
an independent research institute, in an interview. “It planted
seeds of uncertainty.”  Lagging Behind  South Africa’s stock markets also have underperformed other
emerging markets. Since the end of June 1995 an index of the
biggest companies has risen fourfold when measured in dollars,
less than a third of the rate of the benchmark index in Brazil
and a fourth of the gain posted by Peru’s key index. This year
international investors are selling South African equities at
the fastest pace since 2008.  In 2008  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  halted work on a $2.7 billion
aluminum smelter in South Africa because of the power shortage
and expansion of the world’s biggest ferrochrome industry has
slowed. Last year  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  scaled back an $800
million plan to extend the world’s deepest gold mine.  Rio says it’s considering or building investments in
countries including Guinea, Mongolia and Mozambique, while
AngloGold is examining opportunities in Colombia, the Democratic
Republic of Congo and Australia.  Since May 9, 2009, when Zuma became president, South
African foreign-currency bonds have returned 37 percent, less
than the 46 percent average of emerging market dollar bonds
tracked in the JP Morgan EMBI Emerging Market Bond Indices. The
benchmark dollar bond yields 4.06 percent compared with 3.48
percent for the comparable Brazilian bond and 2.20 percent for
U.S. Treasuries.  Capital Controls  The government blames some of the lack of progress on the
economy handed to it by the apartheid state: a sanctions-hobbled
economy that had grown at an annual average of about 1.2 percent
since 1980 and was still under capital controls.  “Constructing something out of the mess we had pre-1994 is
not an easy task,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told
reporters in Cape Town on Feb. 22. “Some of the skepticism of
the state is legitimate.”  Living standards for most poor South Africans have improved
since 1994: More than 90 percent have access to clean water, up
from about 62 percent; more than three-quarters of households
are electrified, from 51 percent; and the number of people
receiving welfare grants has risen more than five-fold to almost
16 million.  Not Zimbabwe  South  Africa  has among the best infrastructure systems and
most developed financial markets in Africa, and should attract
new interest from investors as the global economy stabilizes and
risk appetite returns, said Jeremy Gardiner, a director at
Investec Asset Management, the nation’s biggest independent
money manager.  “South Africa is not going to go the way of Zimbabwe,” he
said in a March 22 interview from Cape Town. “We shoot
ourselves in the foot sometimes,” by failing to convey the
country’s true potential.  Since the first democratic elections the economy has
expanded in every quarter except for four, the country’s
 benchmark stock index  rose to a record this year and  interest
rates  are at a 30-year low. Foreign direct investment rose to
42.1 billion rand last year ($5.6 billion), according the South
African Reserve Bank.  “The country is a very different country from what it was
in 1994,” Mashile said.  Still, a malfunctioning education system excludes millions
of black youths from the mainstream economy and much of the
population lives in one of the country’s 2,700 shantytowns. The
 Gini coefficient , a measure of income inequality, is 0.68, one
of the highest in the world and more than the 0.67 at the end of
white segregationist rule.  Like France  The World Economic Forum’s 2011-2012 Global Competitiveness
Report ranked South Africa 139th out of 142 countries in terms
of the competitiveness of its hiring and firing practices, just
behind France and Sweden and ahead of Portugal. It was 138th in
flexibility in determining wages, just after Sweden, and 127th,
after Mali, in the quality of its primary education system.  “We’re right at the very, very bottom of labor flexibility
internationally,” said Andrew Levy, who heads his own labor
research company and advises multinationals. If nothing is done,
“the implications are social unrest, mass populist movements
arising, looting, violence, who knows? We’re going to lose our
position as the economic powerhouse of the continent unless
something changes.”  Profits Tax  The ruling party will debate policy changes at conferences
in June and December. While an ANC-commissioned study found
after a more than two-year debate that seizing mines would be an
“unmitigated economic disaster,” it recommended imposing a 50
percent tax on the profits of mining companies earning returns
in excess of 15 percent, levies on the sale of prospecting
rights and more taxes on companies based in offshore tax havens.  “Those are very intrusive measures,” Peter Leon, head of
Africa mining and energy projects at law firm Webber Wentzel,
said in an interview in Cape Town last month. “The government
and the ANC have a big job on their hands to assure investors
that this is a safe country to invest in.”  Since November, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings
have cut South Africa’s credit-rating outlook to negative from
stable, citing heightened political risk and concerns over
growth. The country is rated A3 by Moody’s and BBB+ by Fitch.  Eurasia Group, a New-York-based risk analysis company,
identified South Africa in a Jan. 3 report as one of the top
geopolitical areas with potential for instability in 2012
because of the “ascent of populism” within the ANC. Other
countries named were North Korea, Pakistan and Egypt.  No Turning Back  The ANC’s Youth League, whose leader,  Julius Malema , was
expelled from the party on Feb. 29 for undermining the party,
says it won’t abandon its campaign for the state seizure of
mines, no matter what the party decides.  “We are quite aware there is general concern among the
investor community” about nationalization, Enoch Godongwana,
chairman of the ANC’s economic policy committee, said in a Feb.
6 interview in Cape Town. “We are going to bed the matter down
in December. I may well say the debate is not necessary but I
can’t stop those who want to raise it from raising it.”  London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , Australia’s  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  of Zug, Switzerland, own mines in South
Africa, the world’s biggest producer of platinum, manganese and
vanadium.  Judicial Independence?  Even more damaging to the legacy of Mandela, now 93 and in
poor health, are proposed new restrictions on media freedom and
judicial independence. South Africa’s first black president had
hailed those rights as primordial when the constitution was
formulated in 1996.  On November 22, the ruling party used its majority in the
National Assembly to pass a law that proposed jail sentences of
as long as 25 years for anyone obtaining classified information,
even if its disclosure was in the public interest.  Last month, the government announced plans to review how
judgments of the Constitutional Court, the country’s highest
court, had impacted “on the transformation of society.” The
opposition Democratic Alliance said the decision placed the
court’s independence at risk. Yesterday the country’s Department
of Justice said rulings of the Supreme Court will be reviewed as
well.  “There is a tendency of those in government and some close
to it to blame the constitution for the inability of the
government to deliver,” said George Bizos, a lawyer who
defended Mandela in his 1960s treason trial. “There are
worrying signs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  