-- AOL, Genzyme, NASA, Lin, Righthaven: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-26T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/aol-genzyme-skydive-lin-righthaven-intellectual-property.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  hired  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  to find a buyer for its more than 800 patents and explore
other strategic options, three people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Private-equity firms, including Providence Equity Partners
Inc., TPG Capital and  Silver Lake (SLR) , have approached AOL about
taking the company private, yet those overtures haven’t resulted
in a deal, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the matter hasn’t been disclosed.  Evercore is trying to help the company wring value from a
patent portfolio that AOL shareholder Starboard Value LP said
may yield more than $1 billion in licensing income. AOL has
explored options as an alternative to remaining public amid
mounting subscriber losses and a slump that has sliced revenue
29 percent since the 2009 spinoff from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)   AOL’s share price has climbed 74 percent since Aug. 10,
when it fell to its lowest level since the spinoff, amid
speculation it might be sold to a private-equity firm. It has
become too expensive for the financing of a leveraged buyout,
people said.  Private equity firms are often drawn by a company’s ability
to generate cash. AOL’s appeal is diminishing as its dial-up
business dries up, the people said. Sales in that division have
plunged each of the past four quarters.  Maureen Sullivan , a spokeswoman for AOL, declined to
comment. Representatives of Evercore and the private-equity
firms declined to comment.  AOL’s portfolio includes “some of the foundation patents
for the Internet,” AOL Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong 
said at a Barclays Capital conference this month.  “It’s beachfront property in East Hampton,” he said.
“It’s basically extremely valuable.”  Armstrong said in a December interview that he was open to
going private. It “doesn’t matter” whether AOL remains public
or goes private, he said. Remaining an independent entity is the
“first desired course of action,” he said.  Genzyme Patent for Kidney Disease Drug Hectorol Ruled Valid  Genzyme Corp. (GENZ)  and  Bone Care International Inc. (BCII)  won a U.S.
judge’s ruling that their patent for the kidney disease drug
Hectorol is valid and enforceable.  U.S. District Judge Robert M. Dow affirmed the patent’s
validity in a 78-page ruling published March 22. The companies,
now part of Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) , filed suit seeking that ruling
in 2008 to prevent U.S.-based drugmakers Pentech Pharmaceuticals
Inc. and its Cobrek Pharmaceuticals Inc. unit from making a
competing generic version.  The case was tried before Dow in Chicago in October and
November 2010.  An injectable drug, Hectorol is used to treat patients with
end-stage kidney disease who are undergoing dialysis and
suffering from hyperactivity in that part of the thyroid gland
that regulates calcium and phosphorus levels.  Closely-held Pentech and Cobrek are based in the Chicago
suburb of Rolling Meadows,  Illinois . Citing their non-public
status, an employee of the company who declined identify herself
said the businesses declined to comment on Dow’s ruling.  The case is Bone Care International Inc. v. Pentech
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 08cv1083, U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  NASA To Sell Three Lots of Patents at ICAP Ocean Tomo Auction  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Goddard
Space Flight Center is selling technology covered by 12 patents
at the March 29 ICAP Ocean Tomo auction in Chicago, according to
a  NASA   statement .  The patents are related to robotics, artificial
intelligence, wireless sensor networks, industrial process
control and software development.  The action is part of NASA’s technology transfer program,
aimed at licensing NASA-developed technologies. Detailed
information about the patents can be found in the online auction
 catalog .  One of the other government entities offering  intellectual
property  at the action is Lawrence Livermore National Security
LLC, which is selling an exclusive license to a technology for
improved medical devices for angioplasty and other surgery.
Included in  that lot  is a license to six patents.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Skydive Arizona Infringement Verdict Stands, Damages Award Cut  Skydive Arizona Inc. ’s trademark-infringement judgment
against a Georgia-based competitor was affirmed by a federal
appeals court, which cut part of the damages award.  The Eloy, Arizona-based company sued Cary Quattrocchi and
his Atlanta Skydiving Center in federal court in Phoenix in
August 2005. Quattrocchi also did business as 1-800-Skyride.
Skydive  Arizona  claimed the Georgia company was infringing
Skydive Arizona’s trademarks, deliberately misleading the
public, and falsely claimed to be doing business in Arizona.  The jury agreed with Skydive Arizona’s claim and awarded
$7.6 million. The trial judge then increased that amount to
almost $10 million. Quattrocchi’s appeal argued the trial court
erred in upholding the jury’s damages award, and overreached by
increasing it.  The appeals court said that the Arizona company presented
adequate evidence of the damages it incurred, “proving that
customers were very angry with and blamed Skydive Arizona for
problems called by Skyride.”  While it was true that counsel for Skydive “asked the jury
to ‘fill in” the amount of damages it found reasonable,” this
wasn’t “an invitation for the jury to conjure the amount of
damages out of the vapor,” the appeals court said.  Quattrocchi and his Skyride had also objected to the $2.5
million in lost profit the trial court awarded Skydive. The
appeals court said Skyride “failed to assert any basis for
challenging the lost profits award based on the record as it
exists.”  The appeals court did overturn the trial court’s doubling
of the damages, saying the ruling “revealed its punitive
motivation.” While federal trademark law permits compensation,
it “has been construed to expressly forbid the award of damages
to punish an infringer,” the appeals court said.  Skydive’s case was argued in the appellate court by Sid
Leach of  Snell & Wilmer LLP (1364L)  of Phoenix. Quattrocchi’s case was
argued by  Daniel H. Bromberg  of Los Angeles- based Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP .  The case at the trial court is Skydive Arizona Inc.  v.
Quattrocchi, 2:05-cv-2656-DGC, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix). The appeals court case is Skydive Arizona
Inv. v. Quattrocchi, 10-16196, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
( San Francisco ).  Jeremy Lin’s Lawyers Seek to Stop ‘Linsanity’ Pot Offerings  Lawyers representing New York Nicks star Jeremy Lin sent
cease-and-desist letters to marijuana dispensaries that have
been selling a “Linsanity” line of product, the Huffington
Post  reported .  Some of the shops have already complied and removed the
product, Lin’s lawyer,  Pamela Deese  of  Washington ’s  Arent Fox
LLP (1377L) , told the Huffington Post.  She said their enthusiasm for the player “got ahead of
their understanding of the law,” according to the Huffington
Post.  Deese also told the Huffington Post that her firm sent
cease-and-desist letters to the 24 applicants who had tried to
register his name as a trademark with the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  and most have said they were sorry and have
withdrawn their applications.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Cendali Withdraws From Righthaven Cases, Says Legal Fees Unpaid  Stephens Media Group’s efforts to enforce copyrights to its
newspapers included hiring a high-profile IP specialist from a
Chicago firm.  The cases, which were filed by Righthaven LLC of Las Vegas,
set up to enforce Stephens copyrights, have largely come to
naught, as judges determined that Righthaven lacked sufficient
control over the copyrights to be able to enforce them.  According to a May 4 filing, Righthaven hired  Dale Cendali 
from  Kirkland & Ellis LLP (1132L)  to help litigate a case against the
Pahrump Life website on which an article from the Las Vegas
Review-Journal was posted without authorization.  Cendali may be best known for her successful representation
of Harry Potter’s U.S. publisher  Scholastic Corp. (SCHL)  in a trademark
case. She has also represented the  Associated Press  in the
copyright-infringement case involving the photo of President
 Barack Obama  used by artist Shepard Fairey.  When she was with Los Angeles-based  O’Melveny & Myers LLP (1227'L) 
she represented the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance
in a trademark suit involving the name of the late Martha
Graham. Cendali moved from O’Melveny to Chicago-based Kirkland &
Ellis in March 2009.  In two March 21 filings, Celdali sought to withdraw as
counsel in two cases. She said she had been hired solely in
connection with one issue -- whether Righthaven had standing to
sue for infringement. Righthaven’s lawyers were to handle the
rest of the case. She said that in July, she was told “that her
job was done” and that the rest of the work would be handled by
others.  She said that other than an initial retainer, she and her
firm hadn’t been paid any of the legal fees Righthaven owed.  Righthaven’s assets, including the copyrights it said it
was enforcing, were awarded to a defendant in a different
infringement suit March 5. Its Internet domain name sold at
auction to satisfy an attorney-fee judgment.  Righthaven no longer has an office, phone or e-mail address
where anyone could be asked to comment on Celdali’s filings and
the company has failed to appear in court for scheduled events.  One of the cases from which Cendali withdrew is Righthaven
v. Pahrump Life, 2:10-cv-01575-JCM-PAL, U.S. District Court,
District of Nevada (Las Vegas). The other case is Righthaven LLC
v. Democratic Underground LLC, 2:10-cv-01356-RLK-GWF, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  The case in which the intellectual property was awarded to
the defendant is Righthaven LLC v. Hoehn, 2:11-cv-00050-PMP-RJJ,
U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 