-- Map Says Rejected Migraine Drug Doesn’t Have Safety Issue
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-27T20:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/map-s-migraine-drug-inhaler-levadex-rejected-by-u-s-regulators.html
U.S. regulators didn’t reject  Map
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MAPP) ’s inhalable migraine drug because of safety
or effectiveness, and they don’t want new studies, Chief
Executive Officer Tim Nelson said today.  It was mostly about manufacturing issues, he told analysts
on a conference call. Map, based in  Mountain View ,  California ,
 fell  4.1 percent to $16.44 at the close of trading in  New York .
The shares have gained 25 percent this year.  Map’s Levadex is an inhaled form of dihydroergotamine, a
60-year-old migraine drug usually given by injection. The
Mountain View, California-based company is seeking approval for
its use in patients with fewer than 15 migraine attacks a month.
If cleared, it would be Map’s first marketed product. The FDA
asked Map to respond to issues related to a contractor’s
manufacturing plant and questions about use of the inhaler, the
company said yesterday in a statement.  The shares’ earlier drop of as much as 20 percent was an
“initial knee-jerk reaction,” said Liana Moussatos, an San
Francisco-based analyst with Wedbush Securities, in a telephone
interview. “It sounds like there are just manufacturing issues,
no clinical safety issues. That was a big fear of investors
because it’s an inhaled drug.”  Map plans to request a meeting to discuss the FDA’s
concerns, Nelson said. He declined to identify the manufacturer,
and said Map is lining up a second supplier. There were also
questions on chemistry, manufacturing and controls, some of
which have been addressed, Nelson said on the conference call.  ‘Disappointed’  “The FDA has some items they want us to give them more
information on, and we’re going to work hard to get that to
them,” Nelson said in an interview after the call. “Obviously
we’re disappointed.”  More than 36 million Americans suffer from migraines, a
collection of neurological symptoms that can include searing
headaches, dizziness, nausea, as well as sensitivity to sound
and light. Dihydroergotamine works by narrowing blood vessels in
the brain that swell during a migraine.  The present form of the drug, approved by the FDA in 1946,
is proven to be effective against severe pain as an injection.  Map signed a profit-sharing agreement with Botox maker
 Allergan Inc. (AGN)  to help sell Levadex. While Botox, a purified form
of the poison botulinum, is best known as a cosmetic therapy for
smoothing wrinkles, it was approved in October for patients with
chronic migraines. These patients suffer attacks at least 15
days a month, with pain lasting at least four hours.  The global market for migraine treatments should increase
38 percent to $4.4 billion from $3.2 billion in 2013, according
to Burlington, Massachusetts-based Decision Resources. If
approved, Levadex may be worth $1 billion a year by 2020, the
firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  