-- Apple Plans Further Investment in China as Cook Visits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T04:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/apple-plans-further-china-investment-as-cook-visits-beijing-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it plans to make
greater investment in China as Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook 
visited the world’s most populous country, where store openings
have trailed a forecast from the company two years ago.  Cook had “great meetings” with Chinese officials, Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman, said by telephone yesterday,
without identifying the people. Cook posed for photos earlier in
the day with customers at Apple’s store in the Joy City Mall in
Beijing’s Xidan shopping area.  China is Apple’s second-largest  market  after the U.S., Cook
said in October. His visit comes almost three months after
crowds threw eggs at another Apple store in Beijing’s Sanlitun
district when it didn’t open on the first day of sales for the
iPhone 4S. Demand for the iPhone in  China  was “staggering,”
and the company “didn’t bet high enough,” Cook said Jan. 24.  “Apple has done a great job with the relatively small
number of retail stores they have got here,’” David Wolf, CEO
of Wolf Group  Asia , a Beijing-based marketing strategy
consulting firm, said in an interview yesterday. “The challenge
now is to extend the successful retail model they have in the
U.S. to China.”  Since opening its first store in Sanlitun in 2008, Apple
now has two outlets in Beijing, three in  Shanghai  and one in
 Hong Kong , for a total of six. That’s fewer than the 25 stores
that then-head of retail  Ron Johnson  projected over two years on
Feb. 25, 2010. Johnson left Apple last June to become J.C.
Penney Co.’s chief executive officer.  ‘Greater Investment’  “China is very important to us and we look forward to even
greater investment and growth here,” Apple’s Wu said yesterday,
without providing further details.  Cook met yesterday with Beijing Mayor Guo Jinlong, the
Beijing Daily newspaper reported today. Guo told Cook that he
hoped Apple would “further deepen cooperation, to achieve
better development,” according to the report. Cook responded
that Apple will work with Beijing to strengthen cooperation and
expand the market, the Beijing Daily reported, without giving
details.  Officials in the mayor’s press office said they couldn’t
immediately comment on the report when contacted today.  Besides adding retail stores, other areas for investment
may include increasing Apple’s “very thin” staff in China,
Wolf said. Cook may also consider whether to own manufacturing
or research facilities in the country, he said. Foxconn
Technology Group, the world’s biggest contract manufacturer of
electronics, makes the iPhone in China for Apple.  Apple almost doubled its potential customer base for the
iPhone this month when it signed a second carrier,  China Telecom
Corp. (728) , in the world’s largest mobile-phone market.  China Unicom  China Telecom had 41.2 million subscribers on its third-
generation network who could use the iPhone to surf the Internet
for games and videos as of the end of February.  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , the nation’s first carrier to offer the
iPhone, had 45.9 million 3G users.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carrier by
customers, doesn’t offer the iPhone with a service contract, and
its homegrown 3G network is incompatible with the device. Still,
China Mobile had 15 million iPhone users on its 2G and Wi-Fi
networks, the company said this month.  “Apple wasn’t willing to negotiate with China Mobile, the
largest telecom operator in China, and really do what it needed
to localize to the market,”  Shaun Rein , managing director of
China Market Research Group in Shanghai, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “If they had really come up with a
China-first strategy, it would have done much better, far
earlier.”  Most Valuable Company  Rein said his consumer research in China indicates the
nation could support 100 Apple stores. If Apple is able to “get
China right,” it would help propel the shares to $1,000, Rein
said.  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, gained 1.8
percent to close at $606.98 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
yesterday.  The Cupertino, California-based company is also waging a
court battle for rights to the trademark for its iPad tablet
computer in China with failed Hong Kong-listed display maker
 Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  Apple has appealed a
November court ruling that its 2009 contract to buy the iPad
name in China from Proview’s Taiwan unit was invalid because the
mark was owned by Proview’s Shenzhen unit.  Proview founder Rowell Yang and Roger Xie, lawyer for the
Shenzhen unit, both said they were unaware of any plans for Cook
to meet with Proview representatives while he’s in China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  