-- Aramex May Tap Debt Market as It Seeks to Fund Acquisitions
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-26T10:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/aramex-may-tap-debt-market-as-it-seeks-funding-for-acquisitions.html
Aramex PJSC (ARMX) , which competes in the
Middle East with Deutsche Post’s DHL and United Parcel Service
Inc., may tap the debt market for the first time since 2005 as
it seeks financing for acquisitions.  “With our acquisitions last year our cash went down, but
being a company that has very little debt our debt capacity is
quite substantial,” Chief Executive Officer Fadi Ghandour said
in a phone interview yesterday. “If we do an acquisition over a
certain size we will have to tap the debt market. It will be
something between $50 million and $100 million.”  Aramex, the largest courier company in the Middle East, has
been expanding into Asia,  Africa  and  Europe  through acquisitions
and partnerships. The company said March 14 it signed a
partnership agreement with CJ GLS Corp. of South Korea. That
followed a joint venture with SinoAir in  China , and acquisition
of OneWorld Courier and In-Time Couriers in Kenya, and Berco
Express in  South Africa .  Aramex is seeking more acquisitions this year with
potential targets in countries including Turkey, Nigeria, the
Ivory Coast and Thailand, Ghandour said. The company will
generate about 50 percent of its revenue from the Arab world
this year compared with 65 percent a year earlier, he said.  The courier company, which sold shares in an initial public
offering in 2005, posted a 4 percent increase in profit last
year as the popular uprising in the  Middle East  and the global
credit crisis weighed on earnings. Aramex had borrowings and
overdrafts of 41 million dirhams ($11 million) at the end of
2011, according to its  financial statement . Aramex debt was 2.2
percent of equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  First-quarter earnings will be “significantly better,”
helped by businesses in Gulf Arab nations and South Africa,
Ghandour said. Recovery in Egypt after last year’s uprising and
the return of Libyan operations will contribute, he said.  Aramex shares  have gained 3.3 percent this year after
dropping 13 percent in 2011. Nine analysts  recommend  investors
buy the shares, while one has a hold rating, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares closed 1.1 percent down in
Dubai trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  