-- Australian Executives Favor Trade Barriers for Food
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-26T23:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/australian-executives-favor-trade-barriers-for-food.html
Almost half of Australian
executives surveyed by an international  law firm  favor higher
trade barriers to protect the nation’s food supply and see
foreign investment in agriculture as a threat.  “This data indicates a protectionist streak within the
industry,” David Watson, co-head of  Baker & McKenzie LLP’s (1111L)  Food
and Agribusiness group, said in a statement today.  Baker & McKenzie, an international firm with more than
3,800 lawyers, surveyed 162 executives from 11 sectors across
 Australia  on the issue of  food security , foreign investment in
agriculture and concentration in food retailing. The results may
bolster calls by the opposition Liberal-National coalition for
tighter foreign ownership rules for agribusiness and rural land.  Australia produces enough food to feed its population of
22.8 million and exports surplus red meat, grain and oilseeds
abroad to feed between 60 million and 80 million people,
according to the  Baker & McKenzie   report .  Wheat is Australia’s largest  agricultural export  by value,
according to the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics and Sciences. The nation is set to become the second-
biggest overseas seller of the crop after the U.S. in 2011-2012,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  In January, the Australian parliament released  results of
an inquiry  into the acquisition of rural and agricultural land
by foreign investors that affirmed the current policy.  “Australia’s foreign investment policy strikes the right
balance between attracting foreign investment into Australia to
support the economy, and ensuring that investments are not
contrary to the national interest,” the report found.  The Baker & McKenzie survey released today found 49 percent
of respondents agreed that foreign ownership of agricultural
land is a serious threat, with 26 percent disagreeing and 25
percent having no opinion.  Asset Prices  When asked if the Australian government should impose
higher barriers to favor Australian commodities, 45 percent
agreed, 36 percent disagreed and 19 percent had no opinion.  Rabobank, (RABO)  a lender to farmers, said an increase in
protectionism against foreign investment in the agribusiness
sector could hurt asset prices and reduce  food production , the
Australian Financial Review  reported  today.  The newspaper cited Thos Gieskes, chief executive of
Rabobank’s Australian and New Zealand unit, as saying the debate
about foreign investment in the sector has been “twisted,” as
protectionism would make the sector less efficient.  The Baker & McKenzie survey also found the majority of
respondents favored more government intervention in retailing to
reduce the effects of a duopoly in the sector, dominated by
grocery retailers  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  and Coles, a unit of
 Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)   “The introduction of a supermarket ombudsman, as proposed
by the Australian Food and Grocery Council, is a possible
solution,” Andrew Christopher, head of the law firm’s
competition practice, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  