-- Aussie Dollar Falls on Concern Chinese Growth Will Slow
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-27T15:28:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/australian-n-z-dollars-hold-gain-before-bernanke-speaks.html
Australia ’s dollar fell against all
of its 16 major peers amid concern China’s economic growth will
slow, reducing demand for the smaller nation’s commodities.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars were poised for
their first monthly losses this year after Chinese data showed
earnings dropped at industrial companies. The so-called Aussie
slid as much as 0.5 percent after the Wall Street Journal’s
MarketWatch.com reported Dow Chemical Co.’s Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Liveris sees signs Australia’s economy may
encounter difficulties.  “China is an important trading partner for Australia and
New Zealand,” said Kengo Suzuki, a foreign-exchange strategist
in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-
largest bank by market value. A slowdown in China “will be a
blow” to the Australian and  New Zealand  currencies.  Australia’s dollar declined 0.4 percent to $1.0489 at 11:26
a.m. in  New York . It lost 0.1 percent to 87.14 yen. The New
Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, slipped 0.2 percent to 82.13
U.S. cents, while it rose 0.1 percent to 68.21 yen.  The Aussie has lost 2.4 percent this month while the New
Zealand dollar has declined 1.6 percent.  Chinese industrial companies’ net income decreased 5.2
percent from a year earlier in the first two months of 2012, the
nation’s statistics bureau said today. That compared with a 34.3
percent gain in the same period last year.  Dependence on China  China’s statistics bureau and logistics federation are
scheduled to release their purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing on April 1. The nation is Australia’s largest
overseas market and New Zealand’s second-biggest export
destination.  Australia’s growth trajectory is unsustainable and the
country is too dependent on  China , Dow Chemical’s Liveris said
today in Sydney, according to MarketWatch.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  