-- Baidu Leads Stock Climb on Fed Prospects: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-26T21:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/baidu-leads-stock-climb-on-fed-easing-prospects-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in the U.S.
advanced for a second day, led by  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , on prospects
further easing in U.S. monetary policy will spur demand for
goods from the world’s biggest exporter.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 1.1 percent to a nine-day
high of 105.70 yesterday in New York. Baidu surged to the
strongest since Aug. 3 on a report that its online search engine
will be included in products running Apple’s iOS operating
system.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP)  rose after saying it
will increase crude output to counter refining losses, while
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  traded at the widest premium over its  Hong Kong  stock
in three weeks.  China’s economy  grew at the slowest pace in 10 quarters in
the last three months of 2011, as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
lackluster U.S. recovery subdued demand for  exports . Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that
accommodative monetary policy is still needed to spur jobs,
stoking a rally in global stocks.  “China will benefit from its exports to the U.S. as demand
in the U.S. likely increases if the expectations continue for
the Fed to highlight its accommodative steps,” said Michael A. Gayed, chief investment strategist in New York at Pension
Partners LLC, which advises on more than $150 million in assets.
“Any kind of feeling of further monetary stimulus is just more
of a reason for money to come out of bonds and into riskier
assets like equities.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose the most in two weeks,
gaining 1.1 percent to $37.31. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
jumped 1.4 percent to 1,416.51, the highest close since May
2008.  Beijing-based Baidu, owner of the biggest search engine in
China, surged 4.5 percent to a seven-month high of $150.80.  The company’s search engine will be included in the iOS
operating system used in Apple’s iPhones and iPads in China from
next month, Sina.com reported, citing people it didn’t identify.
Baidu spokesman Kaiser Kuo and Apple’s spokeswoman  Trudy Muller 
declined to comment on the report when contacted.  “It’s certainly a positive for the shares since it appears
that Baidu is going to be the default search engine for Apple
products sold in China,” said Qi Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity
LLC in  San Francisco . “I’m not surprised by Apple’s decision,
since Baidu’s search engine is the No. 1 choice for China, no
question about that.”  Guo has a buy rating on Baidu with a 12-month price target
of $200.  Boosting Production  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent to 2,350.60
yesterday, snapping a two-day slump.  The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  for Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
declined for the ninth day, the longest losing streak since July
5, 2010. The measure has gained 6.6 percent this year.  American depositary receipts of China Petroleum,  Asia ’s
largest refiner and China’s second-biggest oil producer, known
as Sinopec, gained 1.9 percent to a one-week high of $113.38 in
New York.  Sinopec plans to boost oil production in western China and
increase exploration for unconventional resources including gas
from shale formations, the company said yesterday in a statement
as fourth-quarter profit dropped 23 percent, below the mean
analyst estimate.  The Beijing-based company plans to increase crude output to
326.5 million barrels in 2012 and boost gas production to 582.6
billion cubic feet this year, according to the statement.  Cnooc Premium  Cnooc, the biggest offshore oil explorer in China, advanced
1.1 percent to $214.68 in  New York  yesterday. ADRs of Cnooc,
each representing 100 common shares in the company, traded 1.2
percent above its Hong Kong stock, the widest premium since
March 1.  Based in Beijing, Cnooc is  scheduled  to report its 2011
financial results tomorrow. Profit probably gained 26 percent
from 2010 to 1.54 yuan ($0.24) per share, according to the
average estimate of 21 analysts  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Crude oil for May delivery rose 0.1 percent to $107.03 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen
8.3 percent this year.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Chinese online discount retailer,
dropped on its second day of trading after an initial public
offering on March 23 where it raised 39 percent less than
targeted. The Guangzhou-based company sank 15 percent to $4.70
yesterday, after selling ADRs at $6.50 apiece in the IPO.  The  China  Securities Regulatory Commission plans to raise
the quota for qualified foreign institutional investors to
invest in domestic  capital markets  and will broaden the scope
for their investments, Vice Chairman Yao Gang said at a forum
hosted by Caixin media group March 25.  The plan is intended to attract more overseas funds into
the domestic markets and the CSRC also plans to lower the
threshold for Hong Kong listings and encourage financial
institutions to set up overseas branches, Yao said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  