-- Bales’s Security Clearance May Reflect Strain on Approval
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bales-s-security-clearance-may-reflect-strain-on-approval.html
U.S. Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales held a security clearance at the time he’s accused of
murdering 17 Afghan civilians, and that’s prompted officials and
analysts to ask if the war on terror has overwhelmed the
government’s procedures for granting access to its secrets.  Bales, 38, was issued and retained a mid-level secret
clearance even though he’d had financial troubles and scrapes
with the law before and after he entered the service, according
to two U.S. military officials with access to his records. Both
asked not to be named because the details haven’t been made
public. He still had his clearance at the moment he allegedly
left the gate of the combat outpost where he was stationed,
walked to nearby villages, and shot the 17 men, women, and
children.  “It’s not abnormal that Mr. Bales had a security
clearance,” said Evan Lesser, managing director of
Clearancejobs.com, a website that matches U.S. clearance holders
with prospective employers. “Military personnel in Afghanistan
and Iraq and most of the  Middle East  are probably going to have
some level of security clearance.”  About 90 percent of active-duty military personnel in
Afghanistan and Iraq have security clearances, according to
Lesser.  Sept. 11 Increase  The U.S. boosted the number of government employees and
contractors to combat the new terror threats after the September
11 attacks, said Lesser, whose website is part of New York-based
 Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX)   The increase in the number of security clearances was a
byproduct of a “vast growth of the national security
apparatus,” said Steven Aftergood, the director of the Project
on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists.  “Military and intelligence spending increased enormously
over the past decade, as did the intensity of operational
activities,” Aftergood said in an e-mail.  More than 2 million government workers, including military
personnel, held confidential or secret security clearances as of
October 2010, according to a report from the U.S. Director of
National Intelligence. The Defense Department issues more than
80 percent of all clearances, according to information posted on
clearancejobs.com.  More than 512,000 government employees and contractors were
approved for confidential or secret clearances in fiscal 2010
alone, according to the report.  Security Clearance Levels  It’s unclear when Bales received his secret clearance or
whether he held a higher-level top secret clearance for his job.
There are three levels of security clearances: confidential,
secret and top secret. The most closely held secrets are
classified top secret and also controlled on a “need to know”
basis as what’s called sensitive compartmented information.  Secret is a common, mid-level clearance, yet it may have
given Bales access to classified material that according to the
government’s definition, could cause “serious damage.”  While secret clearances have become routine, the release of
information classified as secret can still cause significant
damage if given to the wrong people, said one U.S. military
official, citing the case of Army Private First Class Bradley Manning, who’s on trial for passing State Department cables and
other secret material to the Wikileaks website.  Clearance Inflation  Sophisticated technology and increased special operations,
as well as the growth of the national security establishment
after the Sept. 11 attacks, have contributed to what one U.S.
official described as clearance inflation.  Today’s radios and weapons systems often contain classified
technology, so even low-ranking soldiers must be cleared to use
them, and enlisted personnel often get secret clearances as they
gain seniority, an Army reservist with a secret clearance said
in an interview. Almost every soldier deployed overseas has a
clearance, said the soldier, who spoke on condition he not be
named because he isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  In addition, the Obama administration has increasingly
relied on special operations forces as it withdraws more regular
combat troops from  Afghanistan . Those elite forces -- often
augmented by soldiers such as Bales -- have some more highly
classified weapons and technology than other U.S. soldiers,
Marines, sailors and Air Force personnel, according to two U.S.
officials. Both agreed to speak only on the condition of
anonymity because Bales’s case is still being investigated.  Special Forces  Because Bales was working with members of the Army’s
Special Forces in Afghanistan, he may have had access to
sophisticated equipment such as advanced night vision gear and
sensors used to detect people and improvised explosive devices,
said the two officials.  The charges against Bales in the Afghanistan shootings
don’t accuse him of misusing his clearance. John Henry Browne, a
Seattle lawyer for Bales in the Afghan case, didn’t reply to an
e-mail seeking comment.  Even so, Bales’s case highlights two important issues, said
the two U.S. officials, both of whom are familiar with the
clearance program.  The more troubling one, in light of the charge that the
killings allegedly were premeditated, is whether Bales’s
superiors in Afghanistan overlooked signs of combat stress or
other mental issues that should have prompted them to revoke his
clearance and send him to be examined at a military medical
facility, the officials said. Bales had served three combat
tours in  Iraq  before being sent to Afghanistan.  Checking Bales’s History  The other question, the two officials said, is whether
Bales’s clearance was issued without checking his answers to
questions about his financial and legal histories, or else by
ignoring difficulties that might have left him vulnerable to
bribery or blackmail.  Bales may have failed to report some of his financial and
legal troubles on his application for a clearance, the officials
familiar with the security program said. Providing false
information on such an application is a violation of both the
U.S. criminal law and the Uniform Code of Military Justice.  “There is a large number of cleared personnel,”
Aftergood, with the Federation of American Scientists, said in
an interview. “Just keeping tabs on that is an enormous task.
Every one of them not only needs to go through initial review,
but needs to go through periodic review.”  Background Check  Applicants for secret clearances undergo “a fairly
extensive background check,” Lesser of Clearancejobs.com said
in an e-mail. The clearances must be reviewed every 10 years, he
said.  The most common investigation for a secret clearance
includes a national agency check combined with a credit search
and checks with local law enforcement agencies where the
applicant has lived, worked or studied, according to Lesser. The
investigation includes inquiries to current and past employers,
schools and references and covers the preceding five years.  Bales, who was charged March 23 with 17 counts of
premeditated murder, enlisted in the Army on Nov. 8, 2001. Court
records show he was arrested in 2002 at a hotel in Tacoma,
 Washington , in an investigation of an assault on a woman. Bales
pleaded not guilty and underwent 20 hours of anger management
counseling, and the charge was dismissed.  Bales was involved in a drunken altercation with a woman
and her boyfriend in 2008 after making comments about her, a
police report and the woman involved say. He wasn’t charged in
the incident outside a bowling alley in Tacoma, Washington, near
the Joint Base Lewis-McChord where he was stationed, according
to police and court records.  $600,000 Swindle  In addition, Bales had swindled an Ohio couple of more than
$600,000 when he served as their stockbroker before he joined
the military, according to records of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, an industry group. In 2003 -- after he
enlisted -- he was ordered to pay more than $1.3 million in
damages to the couple.  Bales had other financial problems. In 2009, he and his
wife Karilyn defaulted on a mortgage on one of their two
properties in Washington state, and they recently attempted to
sell the other for less than what they owe on it. At one point,
the couple owed more than $500,000 on the two homes.  Mortgage problems aren’t necessarily a red flag for
security clearances, Lesser said. Financial considerations boil
down to whether the person’s financial troubles are due to their
own actions, such as gambling, risky business decisions and
spending sprees beyond the person’s means, Lesser said.  The military “pays close attention to debt and other
financial issues when it comes to screening applicants for
security clearance to handle sensitive information,” Lieutenant
Colonel James Gregory, a Defense Department spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “A person with big debts is more likely to accept
money in exchange for revealing secrets. So that’s why financial
things are, if not the biggest, one of the biggest reasons that
a clearance would not be granted or be revoked.”  Even so, the military takes a “whole person” approach
when granting a clearance, weighing an individual’s past and
present behavior, considering favorable as well as unfavorable
conduct, Gregory said. “The military also considers the
circumstances and recency of the conduct, as well as the
presence of rehabilitation or positive behavioral changes,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  