-- Bank Lobby’s Onslaught Shifts Debate on Volcker Rule
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bank-lobby-s-onslaught-shifts-debate-on-volcker-rule.html
The fight over the Volcker rule is
shifting in Wall Street’s favor.  After a four-month lobbying blitz led by firms including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , U.S. regulators and lawmakers are signaling they’re
receptive to delaying and revising their plan to stop banks from
making speculative trades on their own accounts.  Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and
co-author of the 2010 law mandating the ban, urged regulators
last week to simplify their first draft, while a bipartisan
group of senators proposed pushing back its effective date.  Banking executives have long seen the rule as one of the
most threatening parts of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, an
assault on a lucrative line of business that comes branded with
a name, that of ex-Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker,
garnering worldwide respect. Compliance and capital costs alone
could reach $1 billion annually, the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency has said.  To make their case in Washington, banks and trade
associations have been pressing a coordinated campaign to get
regulators from five federal agencies to scale back the draft of
the proprietary-trading rule issued in October, according to
public and internal documents and interviews. They recruited
money managers, industrial companies, municipal officials and
foreign governments to their side.  “The regulators are under a lot of pressure,” said Marcus Stanley, policy director of Americans for Financial Reform, an
advocacy coalition that filed a comment letter urging that the
draft rule be strengthened rather than watered down.  Dimon’s Nudge  Stanley, a former congressional aide, said that his side
has at most a couple of dozen people working the agencies and
Congress. Meantime, he said, hundreds of banking representatives
are enlisting their customers by warning that the rule’s fallout
will be higher costs and less-liquid markets.  In one typical encounter at a public event late last year,
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon encouraged
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  CEO Laurence D. Fink to weigh in, said two people
familiar with the conversation who like others interviewed for
this story spoke on condition of anonymity because the meetings
were private. They didn’t give further details on the event.  Some banks recommended consultants and law firms, including
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP (1147L) , to help
clients write letters arguing that the proposed language defines
proprietary trading too broadly. Partnering with trade
associations, the banks also commissioned studies, tested
messages with focus groups, distributed talking points and set
up a phone hotline for Capitol Hill staffers.  Bernanke Delay  While it will be months before the results of the onslaught
can be fully measured, the financial industry has seen
encouraging signs. That success demonstrates that four years
after Wall Street helped cause the worst economic downturn since
the Great Depression and prompted a $700 billion taxpayer
bailout, its lobby is regaining its power to blunt or deflect
efforts to rein in the banks.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke publicly
acknowledged that the measure won’t be finished by the July 21
deadline imposed by Congress. Testifying before the Senate
Banking Committee March 22, Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo noted
the issues raised by lawmakers and bankers “have led a lot of
people to think we probably need to provide some
clarification.”  ‘Work to Do’  At a House Financial Services panel on Jan. 18, agency
heads including Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  spoke of the challenge they faced writing a rule to end
risky practices without crimping the flow of capital. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a Dallas speech this month
that there was “absolutely some work to do” on the provision.  The Volcker rule will have a direct impact only on the
largest Wall Street firms with extensive trading operations. The
Government Accountability Office estimated last year that
standalone proprietary trading groups at the six biggest banks
generated $15.6 billion in revenue from 2006 to 2010.  JPMorgan spokesman Jennifer Zuccarelli,  Credit Suisse (CS) 
spokesman Jack Grone and Goldman Sachs spokesman David Wells
declined to comment.  While Volcker himself has lobbied for preserving the intent
of the rule, he hasn’t chosen to make a public fight with the
banks and has said he agrees the proposal as written is too
complex. His historic initiative to prevent a repeat of the 2008
credit crisis is likely to take effect in a diluted form.  Risky Trades  Proponents of the rule say tough restrictions are the best
way to ensure that the banks don’t use privileges like federal
deposit insurance to subsidize their own profit-making and make
risky trades of the kind that contributed to the 2008 credit
crisis.  U.S. Senator  Jeff Merkley , the Oregon Democrat who with
Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, put the rule in Dodd-
Frank, said there’s no evidence it would choke off liquidity in
the markets. “The banks are using every strategy they possibly
can” to “confuse the issue,” Merkley said.  Bartlett Naylor, who works on financial policy at the
Washington-based advocacy group Public Citizen, said his small
band of Volcker supporters is highlighting the recent  New York 
Times op-ed article by ex-Goldman Sachs derivatives salesman
Greg Smith to show the need for a strong rule. The article,
which Goldman Sachs said it disagrees with, accuses the firm of
making trades against its clients’ interests to boost profits.  ‘Same Song’  “It comes from an insider who declares something that
everyone knows or certainly has a suspicion of,” said Naylor.
“We have talked to everybody about it, and nobody we’re talking
to hasn’t already heard about it.”  Camden Fine, the president of the Independent Community
Bankers of America, said his group rejected calls from the large
banks to join the Volcker opposition. Wall Street’s arguments
that the rule would raise costs and hurt the markets are the
ones it’s used for years to oppose regulation, Fine added.  “It’s the same song, different verse,” he said. “A bunch
of these guys have just sort of forgotten the last four years.”  From the moment President Barack Obama raised the idea of
the Volcker rule two years ago, bankers opposed it, saying that
it wouldn’t cut risk and would hinder their ability to manage
clients’ money. They grew more alarmed when regulators published
the 298-page draft Oct. 11 because it seemed to ban much of what
is called market-making: buying and holding securities to
facilitate client trades when there’s no ready counterparty.  The rule would bar banks from making proprietary trades,
which means trading for their own accounts and taking sizeable
positions in stocks, bonds or derivatives that could amount to
large bets on the direction of the market. It also limits the
amount they can invest in hedge and private equity funds.  Desks Eliminated  Financial interests didn’t expect to outright kill the rule
as long as Democrats control the Senate and the White House.
Most major firms, preparing for the ban, have already shut down
the desks they used to trade for their own accounts.  Instead they set out to reshape the plan, contending that
the constraints will hurt much of the finance world, not just a
handful of large banks. They want regulators to expand the
definition of market making and narrow what is considered
proprietary, arguing that they should be allowed to maintain an
inventory of securities to facilitate client trades and help 
them raise capital by issuing debt.  Banks perceived an opening when the five agencies -- the
Fed, the OCC, SEC, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission -- asked for feedback on some 1,300
questions.  Tainted by Bailouts  Knowing that they were tainted by bailouts and vulnerable
to charges they were trying to preserve excessive profits, the
banks looked for other firms to help press the argument.  That’s what made Robert Auwaerter such a valuable ally.  Auwaerter, who manages $650 billion as head of the fixed
income group at mutual fund company Vanguard Group Inc., was in
attendance on a day in early February, shortly after the Super
Bowl, when Credit Suisse invited Democratic congressmen to its
New York office for a presentation on the Volcker rule.  Almost all Republican lawmakers already opposed Dodd-Frank.
Banks would have more sway with regulators if they could show
bipartisanship. They turned to a group of House members known as
the New Democrats for their centrist and pro-business leanings.  Credit Suisse hosted three members from the caucus --
Representatives Joe Crowley of New York, Jim Himes of
Connecticut and John Carney of Delaware -- along with Auwaerter
and officials from firms including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Western Asset Management Co.  ‘Great Dialog’  The session lasted about 90 minutes and “was a great
dialogue,” Auwaerter, who led the discussion, said in an
interview. “They were really receptive to our comments.”  Crowley pushed back at one point, telling the group that
he’d recently marched in a Lunar New Year parade in Queens with
 Thomas DiNapoli , the New York State Comptroller who oversees a
state retirement fund of about $140 billion. Why wasn’t DiNapoli
complaining about Volcker?  The asset managers told Crowley they have a closer view of
how the markets work than the pension funds that hire them. The
proposed rule, they said, would slow bond trading, making it
harder for them to execute their strategies. They predicted that
would mean lower returns for funds like DiNapoli’s, as well as
for 401(k) plans and individual investors.  Less than two weeks after the Credit Suisse visit, 26 New
Democrats signed a letter to regulators noting that “millions
of public school teachers, police officers and private employees
depend on liquid markets and low transaction costs” to retire
with “dignity and ease.”  Teachers, Firefighters  Asked about the connection between the letter and the
meeting, Crowley said in a statement that the lawmakers also
heard from “many of those on the front lines” including
teachers, firefighters, state governments and businesses who
said they could be hurt by the rule. It was clear, he said, that
“more conversations need to be had to ensure any final
regulation is done right.”  DiNapoli declined through a spokeswoman to comment.  Shortly after the Credit Suisse meeting, Auwaerter traveled
with other asset managers to Washington and gave similar
presentations at the Fed, Treasury and SEC. He said Credit
Suisse and other banks didn’t have to twist his arm.  “I am advocating positions that make sense for my
investors,” Auwaerter said. “Certainly not shilling for the
banks.”  Bankers also were keen to recruit BlackRock, the world’s
largest money manager. Besides Dimon’s talk with Fink, BlackRock
Vice Chairman Kendrick Wilson III heard from ex-colleagues at
Goldman Sachs, two other people said. A Credit Suisse delegation
went to BlackRock’s offices to make their pitch.  ‘Weaken’ the System  When BlackRock sent comments to the federal agencies last
month, it delivered just the kind of warning the banks hoped for.
The rule as written “will limit U.S. banks’ competitiveness and
ultimately weaken the very system it was designed to protect,”
BlackRock wrote in its Feb. 13 letter.  The firm, which manages about $3.5 trillion, said it
already was planning to file a Volcker letter before it heard
from any banks. “BlackRock has an active public policy effort
and will comment on issues that we feel are important to our
clients,” spokesman  Brian Beades  said.  Lawmakers and lobbyists said that another influential
critique came from  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  CEO Peter Kraus.
On Nov. 16, several months before comments were due, Kraus sent
a letter to regulators saying the rule would have a
“devastating effect” on bond markets.  ‘Some’ Success  “I do think we’ve had at least some measure of success,”
said Kraus, whose firm manages about $424 billion. “We wrote
the letter under my signature early so that we would hopefully
get people to start to take notice of it.”  Goldman Sachs officials were among representatives from
several banks that had raised the Volcker matter with their
contacts at AllianceBernstein, according to two people briefed
on the talks. Kraus, who was co-head of Goldman Sachs’
investment management division before he took the helm at
AllianceBernstein in 2008, said he decided to weigh in after
hearing from clients who were concerned about the rule. Kraus
didn’t speak directly with anyone at his old firm before writing
the letter, said another person familiar with the matter.  As they plotted strategy, the banks also made contact with
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s biggest business
lobby that has generally been a strong opponent of Dodd-Frank.
The chamber worked to develop a fix-Volcker message that would
resonate with members of Congress and the public, and then
helped assemble a coalition of almost 30 companies and
associations including  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  DuPont Co. (DD) ,  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,
 Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Boeing Co.  Focus Groups  The chamber convened focus groups of politically
sophisticated Washingtonians, whose initial reactions weren’t
encouraging. While skeptical of regulators, most participants
didn’t know exactly what “market-making” was and didn’t like
the sound of it, according to David Hirschmann, president of the
chamber’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness. They also
reacted positively to the name Volcker.  The focus groups, said Hirschmann, showed that the chamber
and its allies would need to painstakingly explain how banks
handle trades and how companies raise capital and how that
benefits Main Street. There was “no magic, silver bullet” to
describe the rule’s problems, he said.  Volcker ‘For Dummies’  Other trade groups also lobbied on Capitol Hill. The
Financial Services Forum and the  American Bankers (2919Q)  Association
circulated a 14-page presentation on the rule’s consequences to
aides on the House and Senate banking panels. Sort of a
“Volcker Rule for Dummies,” it compared Wall Street market-
making to how Amazon.com Inc. manages inventory for the
Christmas rush.  Eventually, some Senate Democrats weighed in with
regulators. Tom Carper and Chris Coons of Delaware, along with
Mark Warner of Virginia, joined three Republicans in signing a
Feb. 16 letter listing concerns over the proposal’s costs,
impact on liquidity and foreign reach. Democrats Kay Hagan of
North Carolina, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Michael Bennet of Colorado, sent their own letters, asking regulators to
take care with the market-making exemption.  Outside U.S. borders, Wall Street opened another front.
Central banks heard from firms including Credit Suisse,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DB)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Europe,  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306)  in Japan and the  Royal Bank of Canada  that
the Volcker rule threatened to reach outside U.S. jurisdiction,
while also placing their sovereign debt at a disadvantage
because U.S. Treasury bonds would be exempt from the rule.  Embassy Meeting  Economic aides from France, Germany, Canada, Japan and
other countries gathered in January at the U.K.’s Washington
embassy to discuss Volcker and coordinate a response, a person
with direct knowledge of the meeting said. By the end of
February, central bankers or regulators from each of the
countries -- and sometimes both -- formally voiced concern to
U.S. counterparts.  The proposal raises “a number of concerns that would
appear to have implications that are disproportionate in light
of the objective that the rule is trying to achieve,” Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services commissioner,
wrote in a Feb. 8 letter to regulators.  Not all of Wall Street’s targets were receptive to the
arguments.  Calpers Surprise  Several large banks asked the California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension fund, to file
comments highlighting Volcker’s negative effects, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  A Calpers portfolio manager, Louis Zahorak, attended
meetings with Vanguard’s Auwaerter and other members of the
Credit Roundtable and Fixed Income Forum at the Fed, Treasury
and SEC, where the participants pressed for changes, according
to the agencies’ posted schedules.  Yet when the $235.8 billion California fund wrote its
February letter to regulators, it backed the rule while
recognizing it would boost expenses and make securities markets
less liquid.  “We acknowledge that the systemic protections come at a
price,” Calpers wrote, adding that it was “an acceptable cost
for reducing risk in the financial system.”  Calpers spokesman  Wayne Davis  declined to comment.  Reviving Glass-Steagall  The counterweight to the Wall Street push has come mainly
from Merkley, Levin and a few public interest groups. The
senators filed a 54-page comment letter saying that the Volcker
rule “is intended to provide a 21st century version of the
Glass-Steagall Act” that separated investment and commercial
banking in the 1930s and “served our economy -- and financial
system -- so well.”  Volcker himself met with the Fed’s Tarrulo and SEC chief
Schapiro, agency documents show. In his formal comment letter,
Volcker said he was “impressed” by the agencies’ success so
far “in reaching agreement on the preliminary rule and by your
confidence that the regulation can and will be successfully
implemented.”  As staff members at the five agencies weigh the more than
17,000 public comments, the next question is whether the rule
can be completed by the end of the year.  Stephen Myrow, of ACG Analytics Inc., a Washington
investment research firm, said that at the very least the banks
have bought some time by focusing attention on the rule’s
potential drawbacks. “Now the regulators are left trying to
ascertain how real those concerns are,” Myrow said.  Naylor, of Public Citizen, said it’s no surprise that the
banking industry would work so hard to dilute a rule that
restricts an activity as profitable as proprietary trading.  “It can be the source of enormous bonuses for bankers and
therein is the argument for the fierceness of their fight,”
Naylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  