-- Abu Dhabi Sovereign Fund Invests $2 Billion in Batista’s EBX
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-26T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/batista-s-ebx-to-get-2-billion-investment-from-mubadala.html
Abu Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development
Company will invest $2 billion in Eike Batista’s EBX Group Co.
as the Brazilian billionaire seeks cash to fund expansion.  The government-owned fund will receive a 5.63 percent
economic stake in Batista’s EBX holding company and an indirect
interest in his publicly listed companies that include oil
producer  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes  and shipbuilder  OSX
Brasil SA (OSXB3) , according to a statement sent by EBX yesterday.  Batista, the world’s 10th richest man, is raising money to
develop his oil and mining business in  Brazil  and diversify from
commodities. In January he agreed to sell a 10 percent stake in
his  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  power venture to  Germany ’s EON AG for 850
million reais ($469 million) and also last month said he was in
talks with wealth funds about selling part of his AUX gold unit.  The Mubadala deal “shows that there are more people
interested and that there is international support for Eike’s
businesses,” Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund
Teorica Investimentos, said yesterday by telephone from Rio de
Janeiro. “It may open the field for new partnerships.”  Mubadala is one of three wealth funds owned by Abu Dhabi
and has stakes in companies from  General Electric Co. (GE)  to the
 Carlyle Group . Its assets were worth 169.7 billion dirhams
($46.2 billion) at the end of June last year, according to the
company’s financial statements. Mubadala, which means
“exchange” in Arabic, has interests in aerospace, industry,
energy, health care, real estate and  information technology .  Investing Globally  Abu Dhabi, capital of the  United Arab Emirates  and home to
about 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, is trying to
diversify away from oil by investing globally.  The transaction “marks our first significant direct
investment into one of the fastest growing markets and is an
important step in Mubadala’s development of strategic
opportunities in Brazil and  Latin America ,” the fund’s Chief
Executive Officer, Khaldoon Khalifa Al Mubarak, said.  Batista, 55, the son of a former  Vale SA (VALE5)  chief executive
officer, became Brazil’s wealthiest man selling shares in a
series of interlinking commodity start-ups. He’s pursuing
ventures ranging from gold and iron ore to fertilizers and
managing Ultimate Fighting Championship bouts.  The cash will “be used to reinforce the group’s already
strong  capital structure  so as to help fund new enterprises
across multiple business areas including recently announced
partnerships by EBX,” the company said in the statement. The
deal was structured through Batista’s Centennial Asset Brazilian
Equity Fund and his other offshore holding companies, it said.  Main Holdings  Batista’s main holdings are five publicly-traded companies
including OGX, OSX, iron-ore producer  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos (MMXM3) 
SA and MPX. He also controls  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , constructing what
the billionaire says will be the world’s third-largest port.  The accord with Mubadala won’t change the control,
management or day-to-day activities of those businesses, EBX
said. Batista uses the letter “X” in his company names because
he says it symbolizes the multiplication of wealth.  OGX, Batista’s most valuable holding,  dropped  2.4 percent
to close at 15.83 reais in  Sao Paulo . The stock has fallen 7.9
percent in the past three days, the worst three-day performance
since Dec. 16. MMX rose 5 percent to 9.40 reais, its biggest
gain since March 13. LLX added 0.8 percent, and MPX rose 1.4
percent.  The deal also gives Mubadala participation in Batista’s
“pipeline of future investment opportunities” in non-commodity
companies, according to the statement.  Net Worth  The stake purchase values EBX, the holding company for most
of Batista’s assets, at $35.5 billion. Batista’s net worth rose
19 percent this year through last week to $26.8 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, making him Latin
America’s second richest man after  Carlos Slim .  OGX started to produce crude in January, seven months after
its original target. The company, which posted a net loss of
482.2 million reais in 2011, is producing about 12,000 barrels a
day, Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca said March 23.  As his commodity and logistics companies leave the pre-
operational phase, Batista is diversifying into segments such as
sports and technology. EBX has entered the catering-services
market through NRX-Newrest, a joint venture with Newrest Group
Holding, and also started IMX, a partnership with IMG Worldwide
Inc. focused on sports and arena management in Brazil.  Batista is also considering investing $2.5 billion in a
plant to make electronic screens in Brazil through a joint
venture with  Foxconn Technology Group (2354) , a maker of metal casings
for Apple Inc., he said Feb. 15. In October, EBX signed an
agreement with  Egypt ’s Orascom Construction Industries for a
fertilizers venture that may require $3 billion of investment.  Coffee Market  Batista is also considering “business opportunities” in
the coffee market, EBX said Jan. 30, without providing details.  After telling Brazilian media he’d be the world’s richest
man by 2013, the Rio de Janeiro-based billionaire told Bloomberg
News earlier this month he would take first place by 2015,
echoing similar comments last year.  Slim, the world’s richest person, has currently a fortune
of $69.2 billion, according to the rankings. Batista’s five
publicly-traded companies, where he has controlling stakes
ranging from about 42 percent to 78 percent, have a combined
market value of about $39.2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  