-- Wedbush Sees No Bats Losses as Board Reviews IPO
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-27T14:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bats-loses-market-share-following-botched-offering.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , whose
board is preparing to review last week’s failed initial public
offering, should weather any retreat in  stock trading  as the IPO
debacle recedes, said Edward Wedbush, whose firm owns a stake in
the nation’s third-largest operator of equities venues.  “If it were to decline consistently, then there’s going to
be a longer period of time where they need to regain
confidence,” Wedbush, president of Wedbush Securities Inc.,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “It’s my
estimate that that will not happen, that the exchange will do
its normal percentage of business.”  Bats’s two exchanges handled 10.27 percent of U.S. volume
yesterday, down from this year’s average of 11 percent and the
fourth-lowest level of 2012,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. On
March 23, when the Lenexa, Kansas-based company failed to
complete its IPO, Bats had 9.20 percent of volume.  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer, withdrew the
IPO after a computer malfunction kept Bats from trading on its
own platform and forced a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s
biggest company by market value. Transactions in Apple and
trades for more than 1 million Bats shares were later voided. A
computer error related to IPO auctions caused the disruption,
according to Bats.  Board Nominee  Wedbush’s son, Gary Wedbush, is a nominee to the Bats
board, according to the exchange operator’s IPO prospectus. Gary
is executive vice president of capital markets at Wedbush
Securities, whose parent company Wedbush Inc. owns a Bats stake.  The board moved up a meeting to today from next week at
which they plan to review the IPO, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private.  Directors will also discuss a $100 million dividend to
owners that had been part of the deal, according to another
person with direct knowledge. Bats approved a cash dividend of
$100 million “as a return of capital” to shareholders on Feb.
22, “conditioned upon the successful completion of this
offering,” according to the Bats prospectus. Ratterman said in
a March 24 phone interview that it had not been paid. Stacie Fleming, a spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Bats captured 10.9 percent of U.S. volume a day last week,
including the March 23 decline, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Options Market  The company also runs a U.S. options market and two
European venues that together accounted  averaged  about 23
percent of trading based on value over the last five days,
according to the company’s website. It had 25.4 percent of
European stock trading yesterday. Only markets run by London
Stock Exchange Group Plc have more trading in the past five
days.  “We’re extremely pleased that market share has held up
well today, with our U.S. market in line with our five-day
average and our Europe market slightly higher than normal,”
 Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“While we realize that we must work to fully regain the trust
of the market, it is good to see customers respond as they
have.”  Underwriters including three of Bats’s owners, Morgan
Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG, priced 6.3
million shares on March 22 and the stock was ready to begin
trading a day later when one of its computers malfunctioned,
triggering events that ended with the IPO’s cancellation. While
the company reported its opening transaction for $15.25 a share
at 10:45 a.m. New York time on its website, feeds including
those sent to Bloomberg LP displayed different prices as a
result of the error related to the auction process.  Apple Trade  Compounding the confusion, a single transaction for 100
shares executed on a Bats venue briefly sent Apple, which has a
market value of $565.9 billion, down more than 9 percent,
setting off a circuit breaker that halted the stock everywhere
in the country for five minutes. The shares rebounded and the
errant trade at 10:57 a.m., along with all transactions in Bats
shares, were later voided.  “There are going to be isolated events at the different
market centers over time,” Ratterman said in a March 24
interview. “We’ve had historically very few instances where our
systems have gone down, but they have gone down in different
ways in the past like every other venue. I don’t think this is
anything new as much as it was under a bright spotlight.”  Exchange Downtime  BZX Exchange, its main market, was accessible to users
99.94 percent of the time last year, according to a regulatory
filing. BYX Exchange, its second market, was available 99.998
percent of the time, the company said. The main market processed
an average of about 29,000 order messages per second.  “You may not see a huge hit in Bats’s volume, but this
certainly impacts their ability to grow market share in the
U.S.,” Christopher Nagy, managing director for order strategy
at TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. in Omaha,  Nebraska , said in a
phone interview. “It’s not a technology issue but a capability
issue -- the capability to bring an IPO to the market. Clearly
they failed in that paradigm.”  Bats’s share of U.S. equities volume was 11.3 percent last
year, up from 10.2 percent in 2010 and 10.5 percent in 2009,
according to filings from the company.  The exchange operator should suspend its corporate listings
business, according to Issuer Advisory Group LLC’s  Patrick Healy , who advises companies seeking to go public. No companies
yet call Bats their home market. Bats would have been the first.  ETF Listings  The company could continue to bring exchange-traded funds
to market while it rebuilds its reputation “for a return to
this space at a later date,” he said yesterday in an e-mail to
clients. Healy’s company has offices in  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland ,
and  New York . Bats has nine ETFs.  “This development casts severe doubt upon Bats’s
credibility as a reliable listing venue for publicly traded
companies,” said Healy, who is on the board of the exchanges
operated by Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which compete with those
run by Bats. Healy previously praised Bats’s plans to list
companies. “It’s unlikely that any CEO would find the listing
risks to be acceptable,” he said in the e-mail.  Almost 11 percent of U.S. share volume in February occurred
on venues run by Bats, which called itself “a technology
company at our core” in the IPO prospectus. Its founder, Dave Cummings, sent an e-mail to traders on March 25 saying that
while Bats should suspend employee bonuses, the incident was no
reason to dismantle the current equities market structure.  “Friday’s trading disturbances should not erode investor
confidence in electronic trading or U.S.  capital markets ,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based money manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees more than $116 billion in
client assets, said March 25 in a phone interview. “The market
should be allowed to heal on its on and work through this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  