-- Bats CEO Blaming Code Stirs Concern on Market Complexity
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-03-26T19:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bats-ceo-blaming-code-in-ipo-stirs-concern-on-market-complexity.html
The software error that derailed
the initial public offering of  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , where
11 percent of all U.S. stock trading occurs, rattled investors
concerned about the growing complexity of financial markets.  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer, canceled the
March 23 IPO after a computer malfunction kept Bats from trading
on its own platform and forced a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s
biggest company by market value. Transactions in Apple and
trades for more than 1 million Bats shares were later canceled.  While engineers at the third-largest U.S. exchange owner
reacted in seconds to restore order, the failed debut
highlighted concerns about electronic exchanges at a time when
regulation of financial markets is increasing after the worst
crisis since the Great Depression. New venues have helped cut
the proportion of shares changing hands on the  New York  Stock
Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market in the corporations they list
to less than 26 percent from at least 80 percent in 1997.  “The electronic market operates very efficiently and it
can accommodate many more trades than a human-only market, but I
think what happened Friday shows that you still need boots on
the ground,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama , said
in a phone interview yesterday. “That it was corrected quickly
helped. But the fact that it happened at all makes people just
stand back.”  No Payday  Ratterman, 45, is facing the biggest crisis of his career
after the IPO was pulled, denying a payday for Wall Street firms
such as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Deutsche Bank AG that own
stakes in Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats, which was founded by a
high-frequency trader in 2005. The IPO was managed by three of
Bats’s owners, Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG. Banks on the IPO will lose $7.1 million in fees
because of the withdrawal, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The rapid drop to 0.02 cent from $16 in  Bats (BATS)  just as it
started changing hands on March 23 reminded investors of the so-
called “flash crash” in May 2010, a much larger breakdown.
Bats’s board, which hasn’t discussed any leadership changes,
will meet this week to consider options and it’s yet to be
determined if another IPO will be attempted, Ratterman said in a
Bloomberg television interview today.  Yet to Recover  U.S. markets have yet to recover from the subprime mortgage
crisis and financial meltdown that began in 2007. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, which has more than doubled from its bottom
three years ago, remains 12 percent below its peak. Regulators
are still putting in place checks on  Wall Street , including the
so-called Volcker rule designed to keep banks from taking risks
with depositors’ money.  The  S&P 500  rose 1.2 percent to 1,414 at 2:59 p.m. in New
York today as Bats’s share of U.S. equity trading slipped below
its one-month average. Its two exchanges handled 10.73 percent
of U.S. volume as of 2:30 p.m. New York time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Between Feb. 27 and March 22, the average
was 11.57 percent.  Bats priced 6.3 million shares on March 22 and was ready to
begin trading a day later when one of its computers
malfunctioned, triggering events that ended with the IPO’s
cancellation. While the company reported its opening transaction
for $15.25 a share at 10:45 a.m. New York time on its website,
 feeds  including those sent to Bloomberg LP displayed different
prices as a result of the error related to the auction process.
By 11:14 a.m., more than 1 million shares had traded.  Apple Circuit Breaker  Compounding the confusion, a single transaction for 100
shares executed on a Bats venue briefly sent Apple, which has a
market value of $555.7 billion, down more than 9 percent,
setting off a circuit breaker that halted the stock everywhere
in the country for five minutes. The shares rebounded and the
errant trade at 10:57 a.m., along with all transactions in Bats
shares, were later voided.  “There are going to be isolated events at the different
market centers over time,” Ratterman said in a March 24
interview. “We’ve had historically very few instances where our
systems have gone down, but they have gone down in different
ways in the past like every other venue. I don’t think this is
anything new as much as it was under a bright spotlight.”  Market Availability  BZX Exchange, its main market, was accessible to users
99.94 percent of the time last year, according to a regulatory
filing. BYX Exchange, its second market, was available 99.998
percent of the time, the company said. The main market processed
an average of about 29,000 order messages per second.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is in
discussions with Bats to determine the cause of the incident and
review the steps the company is taking to remedy the issues,
according to SEC spokesman  John Nester . To  Andrew Ross , a
partner at New York-based proprietary trader First New York
Securities LLC, technical problems that affect trading are
becoming routine.  “Situations like this happen so frequently that I almost
ignored it on Friday, which is a testament to the issue of these
technological failures,” Ross said in a phone interview
yesterday. “People who trade every day realize that these kinds
of errors happen. But it looks awful for Bats, given that
they’re an exchange that claims to have technological prowess as
a platform for high-frequency trading.”  Weighing Benefits  Daniel Hawke, an official with the SEC’s enforcement
division, said last month that the agency is examining trading
practices that gained dominance in the past decade amid the
shift to automation. Regulators are weighing the benefits of
electronic markets and exchange competition, which sped up
executions and cut commissions for individuals, against
technology concerns linked to faster trading and connections
between venues.  About  11 percent  of American share volume occurs on venues
run by Bats, which called itself “a technology company at our
core” in the IPO prospectus. Its founder, Dave Cummings, 43,
sent an e-mail to traders yesterday saying that while Bats
should suspend employee bonuses, the incident was no reason to
dismantle the equities market structure.  “This was a freak one-time event,” Cummings wrote. “The
Bats matching engine has literally matched billions of orders
without problems. However, the code to open an IPO is new. It
has been tested in the lab, but until this week not in real-
world production.”  Bats, Brokerages  Pulling the IPO hurt Bats and the brokerage and trading
firms who steered it to prominence as a way of holding down fees
when the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market
expanded by buying electronic rivals in the mid-2000s. The
company was initially built to service brokers and high-
frequency firms, which make trading decisions in milliseconds.
Those companies include  Tradebot Systems Inc. , whose chairman is
Cummings, and Getco LLC, both of which have stakes in Bats.  Almost half of the 6.3 million Class A shares that were
being offered were from the estate of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., with another 1.1 million from Getco, according to Bats’s
March 21 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bats also planned to pay a $100 million dividend to shareholders
including its 10 main financial company investors such as Bank
of America Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Instinet Inc. The failure
of the deal voided the payment.  Ratterman wrote to customers and traders in a letter dated
yesterday, explaining the technical issues, apologizing for the
breakdown and pledging to do better in future.  ‘Shouldn’t Have Failed’  “We take pride in our technology, and Friday’s failure to
perform as expected has no excuses,” Ratterman wrote. “In
addition to several months of our own internal testing, we
thoroughly tested this new auction functionality with trading
participants for many weeks prior to Friday. It shouldn’t have
failed, but it did, and the timing couldn’t have been worse.”  The malfunctions are focusing investor attention on the
structure of U.S. markets, where two decades of  government
regulation  have broken the grip of the biggest exchanges and
left trading  fragmented  over dozens of venues, including
electronic communications networks and so-called dark pools,
which unlike exchanges don’t display quotes publicly. Bats,
whose name stands for Better Alternative Trading System,
expanded in tandem with the automated firms that now dominate
the buying and selling of American equities.  Bats held a conference call with its underwriters before
the opening auction process began at 10:30 a.m. New York time on
March 23 that lasted into the afternoon. The software error
became obvious “immediately following the auction” when the
transaction didn’t appear on public feeds and quotations weren’t
processed, Ratterman said. Engineers rushed to diagnose the
problem and developers fixed the code once the error was
identified, he said.  $15.25 Price  The $15.25 level generated by the auction, even though it
was down 75 cents from the price set by underwriters the night
before, was valid because the software breakdown didn’t affect
the process of establishing it, he said. Bats planned to be the
first company to list on its exchange.  “That print, we believe, was a correct price,” said
Ratterman, who holds a bachelor’s degree in math and computer
science from Central Missouri State University and oversaw 650
people as chief technology officer at Bridge Information Systems
Inc. before joining Tradebot in 2004. “It was a little
disappointing personally, but we were more focused on the
functioning of the system.”  Ratterman, who was among the 12 employees Cummings brought
over from Tradebot when he started Bats, became CEO in 2007.  Decision to Cancel  Bats sent a notice about 10 minutes before the Apple halt
saying it was investigating “system issues.” More than three
hours after trading closed, the company said in a statement that
a computer that matches orders in companies with ticker symbols
starting with A to BFZZZ “encountered a software bug related to
IPO auctions.” The glitch made existing customer orders for
those securities unavailable for trading.  Ratterman said the decision to cancel the offering was made
by his executive team in consultation with the syndicate desks
of the underwriters. Bats also discussed withdrawing the IPO
with board members on the pricing committee. Scrapping the deal
reflected its responsibility as a self-regulatory organization
to maintain fair and orderly trading, he said.  “I don’t think you can stop the progress of moving things
toward computer trading, because that’s where it’s going and
most of the time it works really well,” Rod Smyth, the
Richmond, Virginia-based chief investment strategist of
Riverfront Investment Group, which manages $3 billion, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “But clearly we’ve seen a couple
times where computers do things that no human would do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  