-- Benchmark IPC Equity Index Climbs to Record: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-26T20:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/benchmark-ipc-equity-index-climbs-to-record-mexico-city-mover.html
Mexico ’s benchmark IPC stock index
climbed to a record as a pickup in the  U.S. economy   buoyed 
optimism in the outlook for its southern neighbor.  The gauge  rose  1.4 percent to 38,863.15 at the close of
trading in Mexico City. The IPC has rallied 23 percent since
reaching a one-year low on Aug. 8. The MSCI Emerging Markets
index is up 5.5 percent in the period.  Signs of resilience in the world’s biggest economy and
easing concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis are spurring a return
to emerging-market equities from Russia to  Brazil . The number of
Americans signing contracts to buy previously owned homes held
in February near an almost two-year high, a report showed today.
U.S. data in the past month have shown the  unemployment rate  at
the lowest level since February 2009 and manufacturing expanding
for the 31st straight month.  “All the sectors in the U.S. on which Mexico depends in a
significant way are showing strong growth,” Jorge Lagunas, who
oversees about $200 million as a money manager at Grupo
Financiero Interacciones SA, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “Mexico’s economy is advancing in the same way.”  Mexico sends about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  Construction-related companies were among the biggest
gainers on Mexico’s benchmark since the August low.  Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) ,
the largest cement maker in the Americas, surged 64 percent in
the period. Empresas Ica SAB, the country’s largest construction
company, rose 46 percent.  Mexico’s peso has climbed 9.3 percent this year through
March 23, adding to equity returns for foreign investors. The
peso is the best performer among major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg in the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  