-- Bernanke Says Accommodative Policy Needed
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-03-26T21:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bernanke-says-accommodative-policy-needed-to-lower-unemployment.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said while he’s encouraged by the unemployment rate’s
decline to 8.3 percent, continued accommodative monetary policy
will be needed to make further progress.  The drop in unemployment may reflect “a reversal of the
unusually large layoffs that occurred” in 2008 and 2009, and
this process may now be over, Bernanke said in a speech today in
Arlington, Virginia. Reducing the jobless rate further will
probably require a quicker expansion of business production and
consumer demand, which “can be supported by continued
accommodative policies,” he said.  Stocks rallied as some investors bet Bernanke’s comments
indicate further policy easing is still under consideration. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  on March 13 raised its assessment
of the economy while repeating that interest rates are likely to
stay low at least through late 2014.  “The bar is, and has been, pretty low for additional
action,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York. “The narrative is, while we have had
some improvement, it is not that great, and it’s not clear it is
going to last. Now is not the time to be thinking about taking
back any of the accommodation.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  increased 1.4 percent to
1,416.51 at 4 p.m. in New York, returning to its highest level
in almost four years. Treasury 30-year bond yields rose the most
in a week as Bernanke’s comments boosted bets inflation will
accelerate. The yield climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.34 percent.  ‘Welcome Development’  “A wide range of indicators suggests that the job market
has been improving, which is a welcome development indeed,”
Bernanke said to the National Association for Business
Economics. “Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown,
for example, by the high level of long-term unemployment and the
fact that jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis
peaks, even without adjusting for growth in the  labor force .”  Recent “better news” on the  U.S. economy  has also
included a “slight bit of encouraging news here and there in
the housing market” and strength in manufacturing, Bernanke
said in response to audience questions.  Those improvements could contribute to higher consumer
confidence and lead to a self-sustaining recovery, he said. “We
haven’t seen that in a persuasive way yet,” Bernanke said.  The Fed chairman also said the slow growth in wages was
consistent with his belief that weak demand was most responsible
for high unemployment.  Unit Labor Costs  “There is not much indication of excess pressure” on
worker salaries, he said. “Unit labor costs have been quite
subdued. Obviously, that suggests wages are not a major concern
for inflation.” Still, the Fed must be worried about commodity
prices, he said.  He said that  unemployment insurance  has a “fairly small”
impact on the jobless rate. “I would not attribute the extent
of long term unemployment or the high level to unemployment
insurance,” he said.  First-time  claims  for unemployment insurance decreased by
5,000 to 348,000 in the week ended March 17, the fewest since
February 2008. About 1.2 million jobs were created in the past
six months, the most since the same period ended May 2006, Labor
Department figures show. The  unemployment rate  held in February
at a three-year-low of 8.3 percent.  “We cannot yet be sure that the recent pace of improvement
in the labor market will be sustained,” Bernanke said, adding
he was particularly concerned about the number people out of
work for six months or longer.  Structural Reasons  While some Fed officials have argued that structural
reasons, such as a poor match between jobs and worker skills,
are to blame for an increasing part of unemployment, Bernanke
said he believes otherwise.  “While cyclical and structural forces have doubtless
contributed to the increase in long-term unemployment, the
continued weakness in aggregate demand is likely the predominant
factor,” he said.  Bernanke’s concern over unemployment has been echoed by
other Fed officials. While economic reports have improved, it is
“far too soon to conclude that we are out of the woods” and
“nothing has been decided” on more bond purchases,  New York 
Fed President William C. Dudley said March 19. Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  said March 22 that “clearly, more
accommodation would be appropriate” with unemployment too high.  Improving Economy  Some officials are more optimistic.  James Bullard ,
president of the St. Louis Fed, and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart 
said last week that the improving U.S. economy is reducing the
need for additional easing.  “As the U.S. economy continues to rebound and repair,”
additional steps “may create an overcommitment to ultra-easy
monetary policy,” Bullard said in a speech in  Hong Kong .
Lockhart said in  Washington  that “we should hold the balance
sheet where it is for the time being and watch how the economy
evolves.”  Bernanke, 58, a former economics professor at  Princeton
University , has drawn lessons from the Great Depression in
taking unconventional actions following the 2008 financial
crisis. The Fed has held  interest rates  near zero since 2008 and
purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds to spur growth after
unemployment rose to as high as 10 percent in 2009.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 3 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year, as
households spent more freely. Growth will probably slow to 2
percent this quarter, according to the median of 72 economists’
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey from March 9 to March 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  