-- BG, Eni Make East Africa Gas Finds Larger Than U.K. Reserves
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-03-26T15:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bg-s-fourth-tanzania-gas-find-paves-way-for-second-lng-unit.html
BG Group Plc (BG/)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  made new
gas discoveries in  east Africa  that may hold more than the
U.K.’s reserves, brightening prospects for the region to supply
India and  China .  Eni said today a discovery in  Mozambique  increases the
resource base there by 10 trillion cubic feet. BG Group Plc and
 Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  said they made a fourth find in Tanzania that
could hold as much as 4.4 trillion cubic feet, taking reserves
closer to levels that will justify two liquefied natural-gas
production plants. Britain had about 9 trillion cubic feet in
gas reserves at the end of 2010, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Explorers are racing to secure gas in east African waters
to provide LNG to the world’s fastest growing major economies in
Asia.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  found as much as 30 trillion
cubic feet in Mozambique last year, kicking off a bidding war
for its junior partner  Cove Energy Plc. (COV)  Eni’s total discoveries
are now even larger at more than 40 trillion cubic feet.  “East Africa is going to be a major component of the next
wave of LNG growth at the end of the decade,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “The
majors are going to throw an enormous amount of money at this.
The resources are going to keep going up, and we’re not far off
the scale of Brazil in the region.”  Ophir climbed 19 percent to a record 477.6 pence, and BG
gained 1.8 percent to 1,519 pence. Eni rose 1.7 percent in  Rome 
to 18.08 euros.  Cove Bidding War  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, last month offered 1.1 billion pounds
($1.7 billion) for Cove, which has an 8.5 percent stake in
Anadarko’s discovery. The offer trumped  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s
bid by 13 percent.  Ophir, which counts the Mittal family and New York hedge
fund Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC among its largest
investors, says it’s seeking partners to drill in other licenses
off Tanzania.  Ophir and BG’s Jodari-1 exploration well indicated gross
recoverable resources in the range of 2.5 to 4.4 trillion cubic
feet, the companies said in statements in London. That brings
results from all four of their wells drilled in Tanzania close
to 7 trillion cubic feet.  The result “has materially exceeded pre-drill estimates
and represents the largest discovery in Ophir’s history,”
Ophir’s Chief Executive Officer Nick Cooper said. The find is
“a major step closer to the second LNG train.”  Ophir and BG will now return the Metro-1 drillship to the
Mzia-1 well, which is targeting 4.6 trillion cubic feet of gas.  LNG is gas that’s chilled to a liquid for transport by
ship. Each production plant, or train, requires about 4 trillion
cubic feet in reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  