-- BMWs Languishing at Iran Dealers as Sanctions Boost Costs
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-27T09:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/bmws-languishing-at-iran-dealers-as-sanctions-boost-costs-cars.html
Mostafa Farahmand, who oversees
sales at a car dealer in Tehran, hasn’t replenished his stock of
 Porsche (PAH3) ,  BMW (BMW)  and  Mercedes-Benz (DAI)  models for months because neither
he nor his customers can pay for them.  Demand for European and Asian cars has plunged as sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and the European Union on  Iran  restrict
access to foreign currency, making the vehicles hard to come by
and raising prices beyond the means of most Iranians.  “We haven’t imported for about four months,” said
Farahmand, the sales chief at Negaheshahin Co. in the Iranian
capital, which has 35 cars on display, including Korean and
Japanese models. “With the current status of foreign currency,
it ends up being too expensive.”  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government has restricted currency
exchanges to prevent a flight of capital after sanctions were
imposed in an effort to curb the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program. This forces dealers to buy a dollar for about 18,900
rials on the open market, a 65 percent premium over the official
rate, Farahmand said. Inflation and waits of as much as three
months to clear customs heighten the risk of importing autos, he
said.  Iran has long had a culture featuring modern conveniences,
including cars. Fueled by oil revenues, the streets in Iran’s
major cities are filled with vehicles and, in Tehran, it’s not
unusual to see cars from  Europe  and  Asia . One way to judge the
impact of current sanctions is to look at the state of the car
industry in Iran -- and it’s suffering.  Car sales in Iran are expected to fall 10 percent this
year, after a flat 2011, as the economy slows, said Pierluigi Bellini, an analyst with IHS Automotive in Milan,  Italy , who
covers the  Middle East . About 1.46 million cars were sold in
Iran last year, with about 200,000 imported, according to IHS.  $151,400 Lexus  Sellers with larger operations in Iran buy cars from Gulf
dealers and smaller businesses purchase them from individuals to
import them. While there are ways around the sanctions, buying
cars from the Gulf is becoming tougher, dealers said.  Prices of imported cars have risen about 20 percent in two
months and sales dropped by a similar rate over the past year,
said Farahmand. A  Lexus (7203)  RX350 sport-utility vehicle is priced at
1.85 billion rials ($151,400), compared with 1.6 billion rials
last year, he said at his store on a bustling street corner in
Tehran. The same model starts at $39,075 in the U.S. The price
of a BMW X6 SUV climbed to 3.5 billion rials from 3.2 billion
rials earlier this month.  Two Sales a Month  The price surge comes after Iranians sold rials and bought
gold and hard currencies to protect savings. In a bid to
stabilize the rial, Iran’s central bank in January devalued its
peg against the dollar by 8.5 percent. After failing to halt the
decline, the central bank allowed trading at rates set by the
market on March 18.  “The macroeconomic situation has always been quite bad --
the inflation rate is very high and so is unemployment,” said
Bellini. “Now sanctions are becoming tighter and everything’s
slowed down.”  Masoud, a car dealer at a store in downtown Tehran that
showcases  Mercedes (DAI) , BMW and Lexus models, sells at most two cars
a month. Sales are down 25 percent from last year. Korean and
Japanese cars have also been hit by tighter foreign exchange
controls, with prices rising 30 percent to 40 percent. Tariffs
and taxes also more than double the price of imported cars, he
said, declining to give his full name on concerns of being
penalized for speaking to foreign media.  “People’s purchasing power is decreasing, and there is
stagflation,” said Masoud, referring to Iran’s slow growth and
an inflation rate that has been about 20 percent since May.
Iranians are investing in foreign currencies or assets linked to
them and not buying cars, he said.  Domestic Boost  The drop in demand for imported vehicles might boost Iran’s
own  auto industry , which would go in the direction of directives
by Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , who urged
Iranians last week to favor domestic products whenever possible
and shun imports as a way to counter the effects of sanctions.  “If we manage to boost our domestic production, a large
part of enemies’ efforts will no doubt be unsuccessful,”
Khamenei said on March 20, the start of the Iranian calendar
year. “If we lift domestic production we will solve the issues
of inflation and unemployment and our economy will be
reinforced.”  Iran produced 1.65 million cars and trucks last year, more
than twice as many as Italy, home of  Fiat SpA (F) , according to  data 
from the International Organization of Motor Vehicle
Manufacturers.  Domestic Production  Iran Khodro Co., the biggest Iranian  automaker , assembles
vehicles for other brands, including the Suzuki Grand Vitara
compact SUV and Peugeot 206 hatchback, and builds its own
models. European manufacturers  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Renault
SA (RNO)  supply spare parts to Iran Khodro and SAIPA, the country’s
second-largest producer.  Iranian carmakers are affected by the sanctions as well, as
restrictions on foreign exchange hurt their ability to finance
component purchases, IHS’s Bellini said. That’s pushing Iran
Khodro and SAIPA to develop more vehicles on their own rather
than rely on foreign technology.  Back to the War?  “They are developing more and more local cars, and they
are getting better at making cars,” said Bellini. “They might
not be comparable to Western countries and Japanese and Korean,
but they are getting better.”  A stronger domestic auto industry could further hurt the
market for imported cars in Iran, which was embroiled in an
eight-year war when  Iraq  invaded in 1980. The country faces the
possibility of another conflict as  Israel  and the U.S. haven’t
ruled out military action against Iran over its nuclear program.  “We expect less and less imports,” Masoud said. “We may
go back to a time similar to that of the war when we only sold
Iranian cars. We are worried, of course. Who isn’t worried about
their business or jobs?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  