-- BOE Says European Debt Concerns Persist as Yields Stay Elevated
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/boe-says-european-debt-concerns-persist-as-yields-stay-elevated.html
The Bank of England said investors
remain concerned about the euro-area outlook even after measures
by policy makers helped reduced some tensions in markets.  “Concerns about the indebtedness and competitiveness of
some euro-area countries persisted and remained a key influence
on financial markets,” Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  wrote in
the bank’s Quarterly Bulletin, published in London today. Still,
in the three months to March 9, “financial-market sentiment
improved considerably over this period amid a range of actions
by policy makers, both in the U.K and abroad.”  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said over the weekend
that  Spain ’s struggle with its finances could revive contagion
in  Europe  as finance ministers prepare a deal to strengthen the
region’s firewall. The Bank of England noted in the bulletin
that sovereign bond yields in some countries remain
“elevated.”  It also said that the  European Central Bank ’s three-year
loans, or Long-Term Refinancing Operation, helped ease bank
funding pressures.  Market contacts “thought that increased issuance in public
markets combined with the ECB’S LTRO had relieved much of the
funding pressure facing European banks in 2012,” the quarterly
bulletin said. “But European banks continued to face elevated
funding costs,” with senior unsecured U.K. funding costs
exceeding levels that prevailed in the first half of 2011.  Less Risk  Demand for investments “perceived to be more liquid or
carrying less credit risk” helped to keep  gilt yields  low, the
 Bank of England  said. There was “little market reaction” to
the decision by Moody’s Investors Service to change the outlook
on the U.K.’s Aaa credit rating to negative from stable.  The Bank of England also said that the stop-out spread and
cover ratio on its three- and six-month money market operations
fell in the quarter to some of the lowest to date as rates in
other markets declined and central banks’ actions boosted
liquidity in the banking system.  In a separate article, the Bank of England said rebalancing
the economy may have “important” implications for monetary
policy as it could impact inflationary pressures.  “If demand switches from consumption to investment and
exports simultaneously, leaving aggregate demand unchanged, the
impact on inflationary pressure may be limited,” said Stuart
Berry, Matthew Corder and  Richard Williams  of the central bank’s
monetary analysis division. “But if the slowdown in consumption
comes through more quickly than the boost to exports and
investment, that is likely to lead to weaker inflationary
pressure and the need for looser monetary policy than might
otherwise be the case.”  Economic Friction  Redeploying resources may also cause some friction,
according to the article. That may affect monetary policy by
temporarily hurting the productive capacity of the economy, thus
lowering the level of demand “consistent with meeting the
inflation target,” according to the article.  The bulletin also contained a chapter from a conference the
central bank hosted on so-called quantitative easing in
November. The Bank of England said while the presentations
“broadly supported” the emerging consensus that QE and other
unconventional policies helped to mitigate the impact of the
financial crisis, there was “less agreement” on the magnitude
of the effects. It also said there was no agreement on whether
there was “scope to use these policies in normal times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  