-- BOE’s Miles Says Spare Capacity Will Depress Price Pressure
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-27T07:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/boe-s-miles-says-spare-capacity-will-weigh-on-u-k-inflation.html
Bank of England  policy maker  David Miles  said spare capacity will continue to weigh on Britain’s
“very muted” domestically-generated inflation pressures.  “There is a margin of spare capacity in the U.K. economy
which has been, and will continue, depressing domestically
generated inflation pressures,” Miles said in a speech late
yesterday in Arlington, Virginia. They “are a good indication
of where the underlying inflationary forces are and it is
because they look very muted that monetary policy has been
loosened over the recent past.”  Miles and  Adam Posen  were defeated in a bid to increase
bond purchases by a further 25 billion pounds ($40 billion)
earlier this month. The majority of the nine-member Monetary
Policy Committee favored waiting to monitor the “substantial
risks” to the medium-term inflation outlook.  Miles said concerns about debt monetization and its
inflation implications, while understandable, are “misplaced.”
Fostering economic growth without fueling inflation pressures is
the best way of cutting government debt, he said.  “The best way that monetary policy can help improve the
fiscal positions in the current environment is also by trying to
create the conditions for non-inflationary growth,” Miles said.
“In a situation with slack in the economy -- such as exists in
the U.K. and the U.S. and across much of  Europe  -- there is no
inconsistency between the monetary policy to keep inflation low
and one that helps stimulate demand and growth.”  Stimulus Exit  The pound slipped 0.1 percent against the dollar and was
trading at $1.5951 as of 8:33 a.m. in London. It was at 83.60
pence per euro, little changed from yesterday.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  and policy makers Ben Broadbent and Paul Fisher are due to speak at a committee
hearing at Parliament’s House of Lords at 3:30 p.m. today.
Posen, who voted with Miles for more stimulus this month, is due
to make a speech in London at 6 p.m., while Bank of  England 
Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  is speaking at a conference in
Cambridge, England.  Miles said the Bank of England’s decision on the timing of
reversing its asset purchases will depend on the outlook for
inflation.  The “exit point” from quantitative easing and the time
when the Bank of England’s balance sheet will begin to shrink,
is “not fixed,” he said. “It will be determined, as all
monetary policy decisions are, by how the outlook for inflation
in the medium term evolves.”  Gilt Defense  Miles also defended the central bank’s decision to buy
gilts rather than corporate bonds as part of its stimulus
program, saying it’s “consistent with that stated objective”
of boosting demand.  “The MPC can encourage the flow of credit to the real
economy by purchasing  government bonds ” and “a significant
part of the fall in spreads on sterling corporate bonds is
specifically linked the Bank of England’s purchases of gilts,”
he said.  He also said that when policy tightening begins, it’s
“likely” it will done first with  interest-rate increases . He
said central banks, including the  European Central Bank  and the
 Federal Reserve  face a “tricky task” in deciding how long to
keep policy at an “exceptionally expansionary setting.”  “The challenge here is not because of any practical
difficulties in unwinding asset purchases,” he said. “It is
the much more fundamental and timeless one of assessing the
outlook for the economy and judging the appropriate monetary
stance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  