-- Brazil’s Economy Slowing Less Than Expected on Strong Demand
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-03-26T13:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/brazil-analysts-cut-growth-estimate-first-time-in-11-weeks-1-.html
Brazil ’s economy  slowed  less than
analysts expected in January as demand for goods and services
helped offset a contraction in industrial production.  Brazil’s seasonally-adjusted economic activity index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.13 percent in January,
the central bank said today. Analysts expected a 0.5 percent
decline, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Near record low  unemployment  and rising wages are
preventing Latin America’s biggest economy from a sharper
slowdown even as manufacturers pare output amid a currency rally
that is fueling imports. Robust domestic demand may reignite
 inflation  forcing the central bank to reverse course and resume
interest rate increases early next year, said Marcelo Salomon,
co-head of  Latin America  economics at Barclays PLC.  “Economic growth may surprise on the upside in the first
quarter,” Salomon said in a phone interview from  New York .
“This means inflation pressures may resurface earlier than
expected.”  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
July 2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 9.04 percent at 10:10 a.m. local time.  Even as  retail sales  rose 2.6 percent from December, the
biggest increase since February 2010, industrial output fell 2.1
percent, the biggest drop since December 2008.  Economic Paradox  “The Brazilian economy is experiencing a paradox -- weak
growth and full employment,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist
at Votorantim CTVM Ltda., said in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “What we are seeing is a problem in industry, not a weak
economy.”  A separate report today showed that economists expect
slower growth this year, and faster inflation.  The world’s sixth-largest economy will expand 3.23 percent
this year, down from a 3.3 percent forecast in the previous six
weeks, according to the median forecast in a March 23 central
bank survey of about 100 economists. The last time analysts cut
their forecast was Jan. 13.  Consumer prices in Brazil will rise 5.41 percent over the
next 12 months, up from 5.37 percent in the previous week’s
survey. Prices will rise 5.28 percent in 2012 and 5.5 percent
next year, more than the central bank’s 4.5 percent target, the
survey showed.  Annual inflation slowed to 5.61 percent through mid-March,
from 5.98 percent in mid-February, the national statistic agency
said last week.  Policy makers cut the  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by 75 basis points to
9.75 percent on March 7 in an effort to revive growth that
slowed to 2.7 percent last year from 7.5 percent in 2010.
Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said last week that
slower global growth will help policy makers achieve their goal
of bringing inflation back to target by year’s end.  Economists expect the central bank to cut its benchmark
rate to 9 percent this year and to raise it again next year to
10 percent, the survey showed. The forecast was unchanged from
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  