-- U.K. Asks China to Probe Death of Citizen in Bo’s Chongqing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-26T07:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/britain-asks-china-to-probe-death-of-citizen-in-bo-s-chongqing.html
The U.K. asked  China  to investigate
the November death of a British citizen in Chongqing, the
southern city that was run by Politburo member Bo Xilai until
his ouster earlier this month.  Britain’s embassy in Beijing asked China’s government
earlier this year for a probe of Neil Heywood’s death after
first being told he died from drinking too much alcohol,  John
Gallagher , a spokesman for the embassy, said today by phone. He
said that “sometime after the death there were rumors and
suspicions, and we were told of these suspicions, and once those
rumors became more numerous,” the inquiry was requested.  News of the request comes amid speculation over the
Communist Party’s reasons for removing Bo from his post in
Chongqing, one of the largest Chinese metropolitan regions. The
party is seeking to engineer a stable succession of national
leadership as Premier  Wen Jiabao  and President  Hu Jintao  are
scheduled to retire in the coming year.  “Right now the drama is just getting started,” said Huang
Jing, a professor focusing on Chinese politics at Singapore
National University. He said the allegations surrounding Bo may
be part of a bigger leadership split within the Communist Party
as it starts the power handover.  Bo was ousted a day after Premier Wen Jiabao warned of the
dangers of returning to the chaos of the Cultural Revolution in
the 1960s. That contrasted with Bo’s campaign to revive songs
and slogans from China’s Maoist past.  Poisoning Claim  Wang Lijun, the former Chongqing police chief, brought
evidence to Bo suggesting that Heywood was poisoned, the Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday. Wang later spent a night at a
U.S. consulate and is now subject of a government investigation.  Heywood had business links with Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai, the
Journal reported, citing people familiar with the case it didn’t
identify. The newspaper said Heywood apparently didn’t drink
alcohol.  Bo, 62, remains a member of the Politburo and was until
recently considered a candidate for inclusion in the Politburo
Standing Committee, the group that exercises supreme power in
China. Bo was removed as Chongqing Communist Party secretary on
March 15.  Gallagher didn’t specify whether the U.K. request was made
before or after Wang’s Feb. 6-7 stay at the U.S. consulate in
Chengdu. He said China agreed to look into the case.  Britain’s Chongqing consulate was informed of Heywood’s
death in November, and provided consular services for his family,
Gallagher said.  Asked for comment at a briefing today, Chinese Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said he was not aware of the
situation surrounding Heywood.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  