-- Cameron Publishes Names of Conservative Donors He Dined With
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-26T16:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/cameron-pledges-to-publish-register-of-dinners-with-tory-donors.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
published details of  Conservative Party  donors who dined at his
private apartment, seeking to defuse allegations that cash
brought privileged access to the head of government.  “None of these dinners were fundraising dinners, none of
these dinners were paid for by the taxpayer,” Cameron said in a
speech in  London  today. “From now on the Conservative Party
will publish, every quarter, details of any dinners attended by
any major donors.”  Shortly after Cameron spoke, his office published the
details of the participants in dinners in February and November
last year and in January 2012, as well as a post-election event
in July 2010 and meals at his country residence, Chequers. Those 
attending included fundraiser Andrew Feldman, appointed as a 
House of Lords lawmaker in November 2010, financier David Rowland,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  and 
 Arbuthnot Banking Group Plc (ARBB)  CEO Henry Angest.  The party’s co-treasurer, Peter Cruddas, resigned yesterday
after the Sunday Times newspaper published secretly filmed
comments in which he appeared to offer access to Cameron in
exchange for 250,000 pounds ($397,000). The prime minister said
yesterday the party would investigate the incident.  Cameron repeated an offer to other parties to set a cap on
donations at 50,000 pounds to curb the perception of corruption.
Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude told the House of Commons
today that “party funding needs to be reformed” and cross-
party talks on changing the system will begin shortly.  ‘Significant Donors’  “In the two years I’ve been prime minister, there have
been three occasions on which significant donors have come to
dinner in my flat” in Downing Street as well as the dinner at
his official residence after the May 2010 election at which
major donors were present, Cameron said.  Speaking to Sunday Times reporters posing as wealth-fund
executives, Cruddas said large donors had previously been
invited to private dinners with Cameron and his wife Samantha in
the Downing Street apartment. He said “things will open up”
for anybody willing to make a large donation, adding, “it will
be awesome for your business.”  Maude said this morning high-value donors could expect to
be invited to dinners with Cameron, though not in his apartment.
“There’s nothing remotely improper about that, or new, and all
parties do that,” he told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show.
“What’s being alleged here is that you can buy influence, you
can buy policy, and that is simply not the case.”  ‘Proper Party Inquiry’  “What happened is completely unacceptable, it shouldn’t
have happened,” Cameron said yesterday at an event in
Buckinghamshire,  England . “It’s quite right that Peter Cruddas
has resigned. I’ll make sure there’s a proper party inquiry to
make sure this doesn’t happen again.”  Responding to Maude’s announcement in the Commons,
opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said that “we’re
happy to have proper talks about funding, but it’s ridiculous
for the government to use them as a smokescreen.”  Cameron had “something to hide,” he said, arguing that an
internal probe would produce “an inquiry into the Conservative
Party, by the Conservative Party, for the Conservative Party.”
He called on the  Electoral Commission  to investigate.  Miliband linked the donors’ presence in Downing Street with
last week’s budget, in which Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced the top income-tax rate would fall next year
to 45 percent from 50 percent.  “Eighteen million pounds from 12 donors,” Miliband said.
“I bet they did all right in the budget.”  Cash for Honors  British lawmakers recommended capping donations after a
2006 police investigation into accusations that then Prime
Minister  Tony Blair ’s  Labour Party  sold seats in the House of
Lords for financial support. In 2010, Cameron said he was
“disgusted” by a secretly filmed television report claiming to
show former Labour ministers discussing how they could use their
experience and contacts in government to lobby on behalf of
companies.  The Conservative Party made “well over” 5 million pounds
selling private dinners with Cameron to the party’s biggest
donors, in which they can pick up “key bits of information” by
asking him questions, the Sunday Times cited Cruddas as saying.  He said that “premier league” donors prepared to give
250,000 pounds a year could lobby Cameron directly and their
views would be “fed in” to the Downing Street policy unit.
There was no point in “scratching around” with donations of
10,000 pounds, he said.  In his resignation statement, Cruddas, founder of CMC
Markets Plc, described his comments as “bluster” and said
there was “no question” of donors gaining undue access to
senior figures.  “Clearly there is no question of donors being able to
influence policy or gain undue access to politicians,” Cruddas
said. “It was categorically not the case that I could offer, or
that  David Cameron  would consider, any access as a result of a
donation.”  Cruddas will be replaced as the party’s co-treasurer by
 Stanley Fink , the Conservatives said in the e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  