-- Campers Wait at High Court for Seat at Health-Care Arguments
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-03-26T19:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/campers-wait-at-u-s-high-court-for-seat-at-health-care-hearing.html
At 3:26 a.m., almost seven hours
before the U.S.  Supreme Court  was to take up President Barack Obama’s health-care law, Saray Noda got a wake-up call: The
court’s lawn sprinklers turned on.  Noda, 23, a law student at American University in
Washington, had camped out to get a seat in the courtroom. She
was about 40th in the line of roughly 100 people hoping for the
chance to see arguments over the constitutionality of the 2010
health-care law.  “If I don’t get in, I’m going to be the most disappointed
person here,” she said.  Today’s was the first of three days of arguments over a law
designed to extend insurance to about 32 million people and
revamp an industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S.
economy . The six hours of scheduled debate are the most on a
case in 44 years.  The line included professionals paid to hold spots for
others, along with those who said they wanted to see history
unfold. Some wore tailored suits; others were clad in jeans.  The court was holding at least 60 seats open for the
general public for each day of the argument, Supreme Court
spokeswoman  Kathy Arberg  said last week. The court also reserved
35 seats for people who will be able to see about five minutes
of the argument before making way for other viewers.  Carnival Atmosphere  Outside the court this morning, across the street from the
U.S. Capitol, remnants of a weekend campout were strewn on the
sidewalk: blankets, food containers and plastic bottles.  By 9:30 a.m., the scene outside the court had turned from
groggy-eyed line sitters to a carnival atmosphere complete with
a New Orleans-style brass band, marching protesters, cries of
“socialist” and “We love Obamacare!”  The early round of line-waiters moved inside the court. A
new queue formed for the second day’s arguments. That line
stretched around the corner.  In front of the court steps, chanting supporters of the law
were shoulder-to-shoulder with two men holding an American flag
and another with the “Don’t Tread on Me” rattlesnake symbol of
the  Tea Party . Americans for Prosperity, a Tea Party-affiliated
group, plans a rally tomorrow afternoon at 1 p.m. in opposition
to the law.  Nodding off  Noda arrived yesterday around 6 p.m. without food or
blankets. Her roommates dropped off supplies to help her through
the night. She managed to mostly dodge the court’s sprinklers
and stay dry.  The effort paid off -- she saw the whole argument from
inside the chamber. “When the chime in the courtroom went off
and everybody stood up, we all knew we were experiencing one of
the most important oral arguments of the next 25 to 50 years,”
she said of the hearing’s start.  At least, most people experienced it -- a handful had paid
the price from a sleepless night outside, Noda said in a
telephone interview after the hearing. Sleepy eyes and a nodding
head earned a tap on the shoulder from the court officers.  “I was so tired it was hard to keep my eyes from closing.
It’s one of the downsides of camping out in front of the
court,” said Noda, who said she kept herself from an accidental
nap.  Lauri Lineweaver, a nurse in the intensive care unit at
Presbyterian Healthcare Services in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico ,
said that the first day’s session was “a little more
lighthearted than I expected it to be.”  Probing Questions  The justices probed each lawyers’ arguments, said
Lineweaver, 35, a supporter of the legislation. “They were very
assertive in making attorneys not only for the government but
also the plaintiffs’ attorneys really, really explain what they
were asking for,” she said.  The justices questioned the government’s assertion of the
law resulting in a tax or something similar to a levy, which
would call into question whether it was in the court’s
jurisdiction to review the case, said Tim Sandefur, a
Sacramento, California-based attorney for the Pacific Legal
Foundation, which favors limited government. Sandefur said he
filed 10 briefs for opponents of the health-care law as the case
has made its way through the court system.  The government argued that it “doesn’t have to be a tax to
be something that the court can’t review,” he said. “The court
seems pretty skeptical of that.”  $50 an Hour  Others waited in line for a paycheck, or at least a meal,
and never went in. Xavier James, 34, and his wife Crystal
Crowell-James, 31, got in line at midnight for a company that
charged $50 an hour to hold places for two Boston attorneys.
Normally, the  Washington  couple stands in line outside Senate
hearings for $30 an hour. They declined to name the company they
worked for or the names of the Boston attorneys.  Paul Schenck, 53, put his twin 20-year-old daughters into
service helping hold his spot near the front of the line.
Schenck, of Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , was there representing the
Roman Catholic church. “As a clergyman, uninsured access is a
very important concern,” he said.  He opposed the law because of provisions on coverage of
contraceptives, though, calling it a “poison pill.” He was
there to see what he could glean from the arguments. “I hope to
get a sense of the justices’ minds,” he said.  Moot Court  Quang Trinh, 37, from Sydney, was in Washington to judge an
international moot court competition. He is hoping to see the
Supreme Court arguments on his day off, so he showed up this
morning and got in the back of the line.  “For years, I’ve been hearing about the intense challenge
of fronting up to the bench,” Trinh said. “I’m interested in
seeing how a very good advocate does in front of the Supreme
Court.”  The mood in line was friendly, even among those on opposite
sides of the debate. Some strongly support the law and think it
didn’t go far enough, while others call it an overreach of
government authority that should be repealed.  Attorneys admitted to practice law before the Supreme Court
had their own line, which was shorter and had less camping
equipment.  Sandefur, 35, began standing in the line for lawyers at
1:49 a.m. to witness a case that sparked “a widespread
discussion of the Constitution that I’ve never seen before.”  The case’s implications go beyond health care to how much
control the federal government should have over its citizens,
Sandefur said. The health-care coverage rule may set a precedent
in which “the government could force people to buy a car from
government-owned General Motors,” he said.  Constitutional Discussion  Ilya Shapiro, a senior fellow in constitutional studies at
the Washington-based  Cato Institute , which advocates for limited
government, said he had two interns stand in line for him
beginning at 10 p.m. yesterday in exchange for a lunch.  Shapiro, 34, said he and his family migrated from the
 Soviet Union  to  Canada . He said Canada’s national health-care
system has less technology, forcing residents to come to the
U.S. for treatment. He said he didn’t want the same thing to
happen in the U.S.  Shapiro said he didn’t want to miss the arguments.  “This is the  Super Bowl ,” said Shapiro, who wore a black
tie decorated with red images of the scales of justice. “It’s
the most significant case about the relationship between the
government and the governed.”  Tom Brennan, 54, of Rochester,  New York , and David Morse,
26, of Houston, camped out over the weekend and got to know each
other.  Brennan said he wants a government-run health-care system
and hopes that the law gets upheld.  Government Mandate  Morse, who previously worked for Republican presidential
candidate  Ron Paul , a Texas congressman, said he doesn’t like
the idea that he would violate the law if he fails to obtain
insurance.  “If you’re sitting in your own home, doing nothing, you’re
fine, the government can’t touch you,” Morse said. “But if
this is upheld and you don’t have health care, you’re violating
the law.”  Morse, a student who said he just got out of the U.S. Navy,
brought a black necktie, though he couldn’t figure out how to
tie it. Before the sun came up today, Brennan helped.  The two looked out for each other’s belongings so they can
take bathroom breaks and stretch their legs.  “Everyone’s really cooperative,” Morse said. “People
watch my stuff.”  From under a blanket a few feet away, a voice called out,
“Hey, man, people are trying to sleep out here!”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  