-- Canada Opposition Head Mulcair Wants New Democrat Changes
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/canada-opposition-head-mulcair-wants-new-democrat-changes.html
Canada’s main opposition  New
Democratic Party  will change its policies to broaden its appeal,
new head  Thomas Mulcair  pledged after winning the  party’s 
leadership.  Mulcair, 57, who was a Quebec cabinet minister with Premier
Jean Charest’s Liberal government before running federally for
the NDP in 2007, said at his first press conference as leader
his challenge will be to convince Canadian voters the party can
be trusted to govern the country.  “One of the elements we’re going to have to work on is to
make sure that people realize that the NDP is formed by a team
of women and men capable of providing good, competent, solid
public administration,” Mulcair told reporters yesterday one
day after winning the NDP’s leadership race at a convention in
Toronto. “Sometimes people have hesitated on that account.”  The leadership race was forced by the death in August of
 Jack Layton , who led the party to the best election result in
its 50-year history largely due to a breakthrough in Quebec,
where they won 59 of the province’s 75 districts.  The NDP -- which historically has had close ties to
organized labor and represents Canada in London-based  Socialist
International , a worldwide organization of social democratic and
socialist parties -- had never fared better than third place
before last year’s election.  Mulcair sought to take credit for the NDP’s Quebec gains,
pledging during the  campaign  to broaden the party’s support
beyond its “traditional” base. Brian Topp, a union leader who
finished second in the leadership race with 43 percent of the
vote to Mulcair’s 57 percent, had said that meant Mulcair would
bring the party to the “center” to make it more like the
Liberals.  Bring the Center Closer  Mulcair, the party’s only lawmaker from Quebec until last
year’s election, countered that his objective is to bring the
“center” closer to the NDP, reaching out to voters who have in
the past voted Liberal.  “We adapt,” he told reporters. “That’s what political
parties do.”  Canada ’s dollar fell in the last two weeks of last year’s
election campaign as the NDP rose in the polls, raising the
prospect it may have ended up as part of a coalition government
with the Liberals. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s  Conservative
Party  won a majority in the vote.  The NDP platform contained C$68.9 billion ($69 billion) of
campaign promises over four years, compared with the
Conservatives’ C$6.6 billion of promises over five years.  Mulcair has called for an end to subsidies for the
country’s oil industry, which he claims has helped to fuel gains
in the dollar and led to  job losses  in manufacturing. He uses
terms such as “laissez-faire” to label Harper’s government and
called for a financial transactions tax.  Less Restrictive  Still, Mulcair has advocated environmental policies that
are less restrictive on the country’s energy sector than the NDP
has in the past.  In the 2008 federal election, the party called for a
moratorium on development of  Alberta ’s  oil sands . Last year,
they promised to discourage “bulk exports” of raw oil-sands
bitumen and encourage the upgrading and refining of  crude oil 
within Canada. Such a policy would have hurt the prospects of
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern Gateway pipeline, which would
carry oil-sands bitumen to the British Columbia coast for export
to  Asia .  Mulcair says he wants to introduce a “cap-and-trade”
system that would put a price on carbon that companies emit.  “You won’t hear me talking about putting an end to the
development of the oil sands,” he said yesterday.  Building Support  Mulcair’s election “reflects the concern of the NDP with
maintaining support in Quebec and building on it,” said Kathy Brock, a political science professor at Queen’s University in
Kingston, Ontario. It also suggests “a lot of people who are
interested in seeing the NDP adapt and move ahead.”  Mulcair said he wants the party to stop using language such
as socialism.  “I remain one of those who continues to believe that we
have to refresh our approach and what we say to Canadians,”
Mulcair said yesterday. “We have to use a language that is
addressed not only to our supporters but can attract people who
share our vision but who sometimes think the terms we use are
not really that helpful.”  “He’s a former provincial Liberal, the center for him is
not a scary place,” said  Nik Nanos , an Ottawa-based pollster.
“The challenge is that for the New Democratic core they view
the Liberals and the Conservatives both as enemies to certain
degrees.”  That may be hard for the NDP, which has always prided
itself on taking principled positions, Nanos said.  ‘Unwieldy Coalition’  “If he is able to achieve his goal of attracting more
Liberals, the NDP is going to be an unwieldy coalition to run
because there is going to be a lot of very passionate,
conflicting interests within the popular front,” he said.  Mulcair, the second oldest of 10 children, was born in
Ottawa and raised in Laval,  Quebec , just north of  Montreal . He
holds a law degree from that city’s  McGill University . He was in
provincial politics between 1994 and 2007, serving as
environment minister in Charest’s cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  