-- Canadian Dollar Climbs Against U.S. Counterpart on Risk Appetite
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-26T21:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/canadian-dollar-climbs-against-u-s-counterpart-on-risk-appetite.html
Canada’s dollar advanced against
its U.S. counterpart for a second day after comments from the
leaders of Germany and the  Federal Reserve  stoked demand for
higher-yielding assets, such as stocks and commodities.  The currency rose against a majority of its most-traded
peers on speculation the nation’s exports may benefit from
growth in the U.S., as economists predicted a report this week
will show orders for American durable goods rose in February. It
appreciated the most against the  U.S. dollar  in more than two
weeks as crude oil, Canada’s largest export, topped $107 barrel
in New York.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke “was back to his old ways
with a dovish tone that has given the market a risk lift, and we
found the Canadian dollar had a good day,” said  Steve Butler ,
director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit. “His comments definitely gave the
market that extra push into strong risk mode.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose 0.7 percent to 99.06 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, its biggest gain since
March 8. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0095.  Government bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark two-
year security rising one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 1.25 percent. The spread between Canadian and U.S. two-year
debt widened to about 91 basis points, with the American
benchmark yielding 0.34 percent.  The loonie rose after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said  Germany 
may back plans for the temporary and permanent euro-area rescue
funds to run at the same time.  Run in Parallel  “We could imagine that the program that has already been
agreed with 200 billion” euros ($266 billion) could run in
parallel with the permanent European Stability Mechanism, which
comes into force in July, Merkel told reporters in Berlin today.  Canada’s currency extended gains after Bernanke said
accommodative monetary policy is still needed to reduce U.S.
unemployment, increasing speculation of further monetary
stimulus.  “Last time we heard Bernanke, he seemed more neutral,”
Butler said. “There are still a lot of people who think
quantitative easing is a possibility and his comments will have
the doves chirping about that.”  The loonie’s 1.6 percent gain is the second-best
performance over the past month among 10 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The
pound and the greenback, with gains of 1.7 percent and 0.7
percent are the index’s first- and third-best.  ‘Rate-Hike Expectations’  “We’re sure to see some interest develop in the Canadian
dollar throughout the week,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada (NA)  in Toronto, wrote in
a note to clients today, citing tomorrow’s Ontario budget and
the March 29 federal budget. “A more constrictive budget than
expected could see rate-hike expectations get pushed out
further.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4 percent. Crude oil
for May delivery added 0.2 percent at $107.11 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  after dropping as low as $106.19
before the Bernanke speech. Prices are up 8.4 percent this year.  The correlation between the loonie and crude futures has
been increasing, with the correlation coefficient at 0.47 today,
up from 0.30 last month. A correlation coefficient of 1 means
the measures move in lockstep. The currency’s correlation with
the S&P 500 was 0.77 today, compared with 0.61 for copper and
0.46 for the U.S.-Canada two-year yield spread, 30-day
correlation data show.  “The Canadian dollar is one of the oil currencies, very
tightly tied to developments in  oil prices ,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, by phone
from London. “The fact the oil is still elevated and the  U.S.
economy  is leading the rest of the world, I think that should
benefit Canada because of the close trading links with the
U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  