-- Canada Budget to Include Energy Review Changes, Oliver Says
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-03-27T13:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/canada-budget-will-include-energy-review-changes-oliver-says.html
Canada ’s Conservative government
will announce new measures this week to streamline environmental
approvals for resource projects to fuel investments, Natural
Resource Minister Joe Oliver said.  Oliver, in a speech yesterday in Toronto, said the
government plans steps to focus assessments on major projects,
reduce duplication and expedite reviews. The measures will be
announced in Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s March 29 fiscal
plan, he said.  “We need to untangle our outdated and complex web of rules
and regulations for environmental assessments,” Oliver said,
according to a prepared copy of the speech provided to
reporters. “We need to attract capital to develop our natural
resources and build up our infrastructure.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has vowed to speed the
regulatory review process for projects such as pipelines, as the
country seeks to build oil-exporting capacity after President
 Barack Obama  in January denied  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  a permit for
its Keystone XL pipeline to the U.S.  Speaking to a parliamentary committee today, Oliver said
the changes will be announced in Flaherty’s budget before being
presented to the House of Commons in a bill at a later date.  “There will be a high-level discussion” of the review
process in the fiscal plan and then “there will be a detailed
explanation when the legislation is brought forward,” Oliver
said.  ‘National Priority’  Harper has said diversifying Canada’s energy exports is a
“national priority” as it will reduce reliance on the U.S. and
help Canadian producers generate higher prices by easing a glut
of oil in storage facilities around Cushing,  Oklahoma . Canada
sits on the world’s third-largest pool of oil reserves and
Harper last month led a delegation of more than 40 business
executives and five ministers to deepen energy links with  China .  Oliver also said the government would try to ensure
environmental assessments have “defined timelines that are
enforceable” and that “provide adequate time for consultation
and for scientific review.”  “The system should not take years and years” to complete
a review, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  