-- Cars Sent to U.S. Rise Aiding Wilhelmsen: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-30T08:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/cars-sent-to-u-s-rise-most-since-06-aiding-wilhelmsen-freight.html
(Corrects estimate of cost of shipping a car to the U.S.
from  Asia  in 19th paragraph of story published March 27.)  The fastest growth in U.S. demand
for imported cars since 2006 is boosting rates for the vessels
delivering them, spurring analysts to predict a 68 percent gain
in profit for Wilh. Wilhelmsen ASA, the largest fleet operator.  Americans will buy 3.07 million imported light vehicles in
2012, 7.8 percent more than in 2011 and the biggest advance in
six years, according to data compiled by  Kevin Tynan , an
automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries. Global sales growth
of 10 percent will boost daily shipping rates by 13 percent to a
four-year high of $17,000, estimates RS Platou Markets AS, an
investment bank in Oslo. Shares of Wilhelmsen will rise 29
percent to 48.90 kroner ($8.59) in 12 months, the average of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  An accelerating U.S. economy is boosting demand for car
carriers at a time when global shipments are already expanding
faster than the fleet. The global cargo forecast from Platou is
more than twice this year’s 4.3 percent fleet growth seen by
London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker. That
contrasts with most other types of vessels, where gains in
capacity are outstripping additional shipments.  “As the market continues a more pronounced recovery in
2012, that’s additional volume that hasn’t been there for
several years,” said  Jeff Schuster , the senior vice president
of forecasting at LMC Automotive, a Troy, Michigan-based
research company producing seven-year outlooks for global
vehicle sales. “The car-carrier business is going to benefit
along with this market recovery.”  Dry-Bulk Shipping  U.S. demand for imported cars won’t come at the expense of
domestic models, according to Bloomberg Industries. Growth in
car purchases will reach 8 percent, bringing total American
sales to 13.5 million units, its estimates show.  Shares of Lysaker, Norway-based Wilhelmsen jumped 33
percent to 38 kroner in Oslo trading this year. That  compares 
with a 26 percent advance in the six-member Bloomberg Tanker
Index of oil-shipping companies and a 22 percent gain in the
Bloomberg Pure Play Dry Bulk Shipping Index of 14 firms hauling
coal,  iron ore  and grain. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities appreciated 12 percent and Treasuries lost 1.4 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Wilhelmsen will report  net income  of $240 million for this
year, compared with $143 million in 2011, the median of 10
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Ten of 11 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg recommend buying shares of the company,
which operates 133 ships, equal to 22 percent of the global
fleet, according to data on its website.  Mitsui O.S.K.  Nippon Yusen K.K., based in  Tokyo , operates 115 car
carriers, according to data on its website. It may not benefit
as much as Wilhelmsen because they represent 3.5 percent of its
 total capacity . Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., based in Tokyo, has 74
of the ships, out of a fleet of 515 vessels, according to
Clarkson.  The trend for Japanese carmakers to produce more vehicles
in the markets where they are sold may curb profit for car
carriers. North American plants produce almost 70 percent of the
cars that  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Japan’s biggest automaker, sells
in the U.S., from 55 percent in 2008, according to the company.
Honda Motor Corp., Japan’s third-largest carmaker, produced 74
percent of its vehicles outside the Asian nation last year, from
73 percent in 2010, company data show.  U.S. production rose 12 percent to 8.65 million light
vehicles last year, after jumping 36 percent in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries from the International
Organization of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers.  European Commission  Slowing economic growth is already damping sales in some
regions. The 17-nation euro economy may shrink 0.3 percent this
year, the European Commission said Feb. 23. A manufacturing
gauge in the area fell to 47.7 in March, signaling contraction,
 Markit Economics  reported March 22. Sales of cars in Western
 Europe  declined 11 percent in February from a year earlier, LMC
Automotive estimates.  World trade in goods and services will expand 3.8 percent
this year, compared with 6.9 percent in 2011 and almost 13
percent in 2010, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in
January. About 90 percent of world trade goes by sea, the Round
Table of International Shipping Associations estimates. Growth
in the U.S. and  emerging markets  may be enough to compensate for
a contraction in Europe.  China , the world’s biggest car market, will have an annual
growth target of 7.5 percent, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a
state-of-the-nation speech on March 5. While that’s the lowest
since 2004, it’s still more than twice the 3.3 percent global
growth predicted by the IMF. Emerging markets will gain 5.4
percent in 2012, the Washington-based group forecasts.  Emerging Markets  While Clarkson expects seaborne trade in oil to expand for
a third year and record iron-ore and coal cargoes, rates for the
ships carrying the commodities slumped because of a capacity
glut. The supertanker fleet expanded 22 percent since the end of
2006 and the number of ore-carrying Capesizes rose 81 percent,
data from Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay show. The car-
carrier fleet advanced 33 percent.  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of the cost of hauling bulk
commodities, fell 42 percent in the past 12 months, data from
the  Baltic Exchange  in  London  show. Rates for very large crude
carriers, each holding 2 million barrels of oil, are 82 percent
below the peak reached in 2007, Clarkson data show.  Shipments from  Japan , the largest car exporter, to the
world’s biggest economy rose 24 percent to 129,587 units in
January from a year earlier, according to the latest data from
the Japanese Automobile Manufacturers Association.  Latin America 
bought 7.3 percent more and  Africa  18 percent more. The U.S.
accounted for 15 percent of global seaborne trade in cars last
year, Platou estimates.  Logistics Operations  Car carriers hired by Toyota are being fully used again
after disruptions from April to October last year caused by the
earthquake and tsunami, said Joe David, the Torrance,
California-based national manager of international logistics
operations at Toyota Motor Sales USA Inc.  U.S. sales of imported cars in February were the highest
for all but one month since July 2008, according to industry
data compiled by Bloomberg. The exception was August 2009, the
last month of the so-called cash for clunkers program, which
offered rebates to people who traded in old cars for new and
more fuel-efficient vehicles.  Imports are also rising as Japanese carmakers replenish
U.S. inventories, depleted after supply was disrupted by last
year’s earthquake. Shipping a car to the U.S. from Japan costs
more than $500, according to Tian Tollefsen, an Oslo-based
analyst at SEB Enskilda, an investment bank.  Financial Officer  Toyota, based in Toyota City, Japan, had enough vehicles in
reserve last week to cover about 43 days of U.S. demand,
compared with 53 days in January 2011, according to data from
the company.  Honda (7267) , located in Tokyo, had enough for 49 days,
from 64 days a year ago, Automotive News data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Japanese carmakers had to halt  production  for
almost two months after a magnitude-9 temblor and subsequent
tsunami struck the country March 11, 2011.  “With the pick-up in volumes we have seen utilization
increase,” said Benedicte Agerup, the chief financial officer
of Wilhelmsen, which carried about 5 million vehicles last year.
“When investors look at shipping, they have a few favorites,
and car carriers are among the top notch.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  