-- Chelsea Plans Bids for Ronaldo, Higuain, Telegraph Says: Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-26T09:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/chelsea-plans-bids-for-ronaldo-higuain-telegraph-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Chelsea’s Ronaldo Bid  Chelsea’s billionaire owner Roman Abramovich is considering
a 100 million-pound ($158 million) double bid for Real Madrid’s
Cristiano Ronaldo and Gonzalo Higuain, the  Telegraph  reported.  An offer for the duo is among a number of options being
considered by the west London club for next season and an
alternative is a 70 million-euro move ($92 million) for Napoli
attackers Edinson Cavani and Ezequiel Lavezzi, the newspaper
said.  Chelsea is looking to refashion its forward line with
 Didier Drogba ,  Salomon Kalou  and Florent Malouda, and possibly
 Daniel Sturridge , all set to leave in the summer, the newspaper
added.  Real paid a world record 80 million pounds to take Ronaldo
to  Spain  from  Manchester United  in 2009.  Rio Deal  Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand is to get a new
contract,  the Sun  reported.  The 33-year-old’s new terms will be reduced from his
current 120,000 pounds per week and include bonuses for playing,
the newspaper said.  The England national team player’s appearances have been
limited in recent seasons because of injuries.  Muamba Visit  Fabrice Muamba’s Bolton teammates will visit the midfielder
in the hospital before replaying the F.A. Cup match with
Tottenham that was abandoned when the player collapsed, the
 Daily Mirror  reported.  It took medical workers 78 minutes to get Muamba’s heart to
function again following his collapse in the 41st minute of the
March 17 game at White Hart Lane.  Muamba watched highlights of his team’s victory over
Blackburn this weekend and manager Owen Coyle is happy for the
players to visit him at the London Chest Hospital before the
Tottenham game tomorrow, the newspaper said.  Jol’s Plan  Fulham coach  Martin Jol  is preparing to replace some of his
team’s biggest stars with younger replacements, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  Moussa Dembele,  Clint Dempsey  and Brede Hangeland have all
attracted interest from rival teams and Jol believes he can find
cheaper alternatives to replace anyone who leaves Craven
Cottage, the newspaper said.  “I can’t, of course, have 16 players all worth 20 million
pounds, but I always try and create our own situation,” the
Mirror quoted Jol saying.  “There is a lot of interest in my players and that is why
I must use my experience to find younger players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the London sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  