-- Cheney Transplant at 71 Highlights Threat to Young Patients
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-03-26T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/cheney-transplant-at-71-shows-trend-threatening-younger-patients.html
Medical advances have made it
increasingly common for older Americans such as  Dick Cheney  to
receive heart transplants, extending their lives. The shift may
make it more difficult for younger patients as aging  Baby
Boomers  compete for available organs, top cardiologists say.  The former vice president received a new heart at the age
of 71 on March 24 after being on the list for more than 20
months. Last year, 2,322 heart transplants were performed,
including 332 among people older than 65, or about 15 percent,
said Joel Newman, a spokesman for the  United Network for Organ
Sharing , or UNOS, which matches patients to organs.  Doctors are getting more skilled in doing transplants and
keeping patients alive with devices that assist failing hearts.
The trend may create conflicts as a growing pool of older
patients with  heart failure , who are otherwise in good shape,
compete for the scarce number of donor hearts that become
available each year, said Sharon Hunt, a transplant cardiologist
at  Stanford University  in  Palo Alto , California.  “If more and more of the older population is on the list,
they’re going to crowd out the younger people,” Hunt said in an
interview yesterday at the  American College of Cardiology 
meeting in  Chicago . “It’s going to be a huge problem, a tough
societal issue that is going to get tougher.”  There are 3,163 people on the waiting list for a heart,
including 517 who are 65 or older, UNOS’s Newman said in a
telephone interview.  “While many transplant programs often begin to reconsider
whether someone beyond 70 should be listed, there certainly are
programs that do,” he said. “Some do quite a number of them.”  Survival Rates  The one-year survival rate for patients 50 to 64 years old
is 87.8 percent, higher than the 84.3 percent seen in older
patients, according to data from UNOS, which oversees transplant
activity in the U.S. At five years, 72.7 percent of the middle-
aged patients are alive, compared with 65.4 percent of those 65
and older.  A new heart starts with a committee at the hospital, which
decides whether to place a patient on the transplant list after
taking into account a variety of factors including need,
projected  life expectancy  after a transplant, and the ability to
take the necessary medicines. There is no explicit age limit,
and hospitals vary in terms of how aggressive they are about
putting older people on this list.  UNOS Evaluation  UNOS, based in Richmond, Virginia, uses a computer model to
evaluate blood type, body size, tissue type, severity of illness
and time on the waiting list to determine which patient is
offered a donor organ.  Some 70-year-olds “have no other major illness and could
live forever if they had heart transplants, while there are 45-
year-olds who have so many other illnesses that even if you
replace their heart their longevity is going to be limited,”
said Gregory Fontana, chairman of cardiothoracic surgery at
Lenox Hill Hospital in  New York .  The ages have crept upward as doctors have become more
confident about performing the transplants on older people, he
said in a telephone interview. Twenty years ago “it was
controversial to do someone over 60,” Fontana said. “Nowadays
someone who is 62 is a young candidate for transplant.”  Doctors at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los Angeles ,
where Fontana worked for years, once did a transplant on a 77-
year-old, he said. Over time “there has been a general
acceptance” of performing more dramatic heart surgery on older
and older patients, he said.  There’s no indication Cheney got special treatment, said
heart doctors interviewed at the cardiology meeting.  Average Waiting Time  Cheney’s 20-month wait “would be about an average waiting
time” for someone of his size and blood type, said Mary Norine
Walsh, Medical Director of Heart Failure and Cardiac
Transplantation at  St. Vincent Heart Center  of  Indiana . “It
doesn’t sound to me like he jumped the queue.”  Cheney may have received an older heart that would not have
been considered for a younger person on the transplant list, she
said. The former vice president could also have been the only
match for a donated heart, which needs to be implanted within a
few hours.  Cheney received his new heart at  Inova Fairfax Hospital  in
 Falls Church ,  Virginia . Hospital spokesman Tony Raker declined
to comment.  There were 31 patients on the list for a heart transplant
at Inova Fairfax as of June 30, with a median waiting time of
nine months, according to the U.S. Scientific Registry of
Transplant Recipients. Eleven received donor hearts at the
hospital in 2010, the latest data available, with a 90 percent
one year survival rate. None were older than 65.  Waiting Process  “The current process of waiting for a heart, being listed
for a heart, and how donor organs are handled is the most
transparent, clearest process that is really hard to corrupt,”
said Mariell Jessup, medical director of the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s heart and vascular center.  “What we say in our circle is that it’s not the age, it’s
the mileage,” she said in a telephone interview. “Issues other
than age determine how well a patient will do. A 70-year-old
that has a heart transplant can expect an excellent probability
to live five or 10 years or longer with a superb quality of
life, as long as they don’t have other medical problems.”  Cheney, vice president under  George W. Bush , has had five
heart attacks and received a pump known as a left ventricular
assist device two years ago to help keep him alive.  The strategy, keeping a heart-failure patient alive using
such a device leading up to a transplant, is “mainstream
treatment of advanced heart failure in 2012,” said Randy
Starling, head of heart failure and cardiac transplant medicine
at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio . “This is a common scenario
that’s playing out every day at transplant centers across around
the country.”  ‘Frailer and Frailer’  Arthur L. Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at
the University of Pennsylvania, questioned whether age should
have been an issue for Cheney.  “Knowing that he’s had operations on his legs, seeing him
become frailer and frailer, it’s fair to wonder did he get a
heart ahead of someone else who may have benefitted,” said
Caplan, who has advocated for giving preference to younger
people needing transplants, in a telephone interview.  “The ethicists will get into this case,” said Eric Topol,
a cardiologist and director of the Scripps Translational Science
Institute in  La Jolla ,  California , via Twitter. While doing a
heart transplant in someone over age 70 is not necessarily
wrong, it can be controversial, he said.  “The ethical issues are not that he had a transplant, but
who didn’t?” Topol wrote. “Details awaited ….”  Others say using age as a determiner rather than a
patient’s health profile may lead to discrimination complaints.  “I’m not sure we have the right to age discriminate,”
said Alfred Bove, a cardiologist at Temple University Hospital
in Philadelphia, in an interview.  “If we can offer Cheney 10 years of life, and we think
the heart is limiting his life expectancy, we don’t feel we have
the right to refuse him because of his age.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  