-- Chile Peso Gains as German Confidence and Bernanke Buoy Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-03-26T13:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/chile-peso-gains-as-german-confidence-and-bernanke-buoy-copper.html
Chile ’s peso strengthened for the
first time in seven trading days as copper rose on signs of
faster growth in  Germany  and the U.S., two of the world’s four
largest economies.  The currency gained 0.6 percent to 486.19 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 9:58 a.m. in Santiago from 489.05 on March 23. Copper,
which accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports, climbed as
much as 1.4 percent in  New York .  German business confidence reached an eight-month high and
Chancellor Angela Merkel said she may back plans for two
European rescue funds to run concurrently. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that while he’s encouraged by the
declining U.S. unemployment rate, monetary policy needs to
remain accommodative.  “Bernanke spoke and the market liked it, commodities are
up, yields in  Europe  and the U.S. are down,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago.
“It’s a beautiful morning, the world is positive and we should
see selling of dollars today. The question is whether the peso
can go back through 486.5, which was a strong resistance level
in previous sessions.”  The Munich-based Ifo institute’s business climate index
increased to 109.8 from a revised 109.7 in February.  Reports
this week may show manufacturers in the U.S. received more
orders for durable goods and consumer purchases climbed the most
in five months. A gauge of leading U.S. economic indicators
increased the most in 11 months, according to figures last week.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had
a net short position of $5.4 billion on March 22, little changed
from March 21, according to central bank data. The long pesos
position of local investors versus banks grew to $17 billion,
the highest since July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  