-- China’s License System Works Against Foreign Firms, Survey Finds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-26T00:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/china-s-license-system-works-against-foreign-firms-survey-finds.html
China ’s system of awarding business
licenses increasingly favors domestic companies, belying
government promises of a level playing field, a survey of
 American Chamber of Commerce in China  members shows.  The annual business climate survey, released today, found
that 34 percent of 175 members surveyed said foreign businesses
cannot be awarded the same licenses as Chinese companies, an
increase from 29 percent responding that way in a 2011 survey.
The percentage of members saying Chinese and foreign companies
were treated equally fell to 22 percent from 29 percent a year
ago, according to the survey by the Beijing-based group.  For foreign banks and insurance companies aiming to expand
in the world’s second-biggest economy, longer waiting periods
for licenses or restrictions on how many they can receive mean
that domestic companies often have time to develop similar
skills and products, while international rivals are tangled up
in red tape, said Lester Ross, an Amcham governor and managing
partner of  WilmerHale LLP (1221L)  in Beijing.  “Banks in particular have been concerned about delays in
approval of products,” Ross said in a March 23 interview.
“There is a lengthy approval process during which they feel
that their first-comer advantage is wiped out.”  The licensing system slows expansion for 68 percent of
Amcham members responding to the survey, and 51 percent said the
rules put them at a disadvantage to domestic competitors.  New Branches, Products  Forty percent of respondents said obtaining licenses to
open new branches, retail outlets or product lines was
critically important to their business in China, with another 47
percent saying it was important.  The survey found 76 percent of 305 members responding
expected sales to rise this year, compared with 85 percent last
year. Companies said management-level personnel shortages were a
top concern, with 43 percent of respondents listing this
compared to 30 percent last year. The biggest risk facing
members was a slowing Chinese economy, with 46 percent of
respondents citing this reason, up from 31 percent in 2011.  China, which became a member of the  World Trade
Organization  in 2001, says it strives to treat foreign and
domestic companies equally.  “Most companies from foreign countries have made profits
in China,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters
March 23. “And in the future China will continue to improve its
laws and regulations on foreign trade, enhance intellectual
property rights protection and treat all companies as equals in
terms of government procurement and products of independent
innovation and provide a good business environment for companies
both foreign and domestic.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  