-- China to Ban Public Purchases of ‘High-End’ Alcohol
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T07:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/china-to-ban-public-purchases-of-high-end-alcohol-cigarettes.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao   pledged
to ban the use of public funds to buy cigarettes and “high-
end” alcohol, warning that corruption may endanger the ruling
Communist Party’s survival.  Wen, at a State Council meeting yesterday, also said state-
owned enterprises and agencies must “strictly control” funds
used to renovate “luxury” office buildings or buy artwork,
according to a  statement  on the government’s website.  “Corruption is the biggest danger facing the ruling
party,” Wen said, according to the statement. “If not dealt
with properly, the problem may change the nature of, or
terminate, the political regime.”  Wen, who didn’t give specific cases or identify any
officials, earlier this month said  China  must continue
overhauling its political system or risk a return to the chaos
of the Cultural Revolution, when mobs of Red Guards persecuted
millions, including party cadres.  Consumption by government officials using public funds has
helped push up the prices of products such as  China Kweichow
Moutai Distillery Co. (600519) ’s 106-proof liquor. Moutai, the sorghum-
based liquor that Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai used to toast
visiting U.S. President  Richard Nixon  in 1972, sometimes sells
for twice the maximum retail price set by the company.  A half-liter bottle of Flying Moutai, the company’s best-
selling brand, costs 1,980 yuan ($314), according to the Sam’s
Club online shopping  website .  Shares Fall  Moutai fell  6.4 percent  in Shanghai trading, the biggest
drop in two months. Rival Wuliangye Yibin Co. declined  6.5
percent (000858)  in Shenzhen, also the biggest drop since January.
China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index fell  0.2 percent .  The number of protests in China, including strikes and
demonstrations, rose to at least 180,000 in 2010, double the
number four years earlier, according to Sun Liping, a sociology
professor at  Tsinghua University .  Wen, due to step down next March after his second five-year
term, said yesterday that government agencies must publish
detailed information about spending related to car purchases and
use, and overseas travel.  State-owned enterprises and financial institutions
shouldn’t sponsor events unrelated to their businesses, he said.
The government will also step up supervision of officials whose
spouses or children have emigrated abroad, Wen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  