-- China Plans to Add Medicines to Basic Drugs List This Year
-- B y   D a r y l   L o o
-- 2012-03-26T09:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/china-plans-to-add-medicines-to-basic-drugs-list-this-year-1-.html
China will push to reduce the cost
of health care this year by adding medicines to its list of
drugs subsidized by the government and making it easier for
private enterprises including foreign ones to open hospitals.  The government will increase spending on health care with a
goal of raising average  life expectancy  for Chinese citizens to
74.5 years by the end of 2015, according to a plan issued by the
State Council and posted to the website of the  Ministry of
Finance . That’s six months longer than the 74 year average for
Chinese men and women that the  World Health Organization 
reported at the end of 2009.  Demand for medicines and doctors has increased as China’s
population ages and becomes more urban, with the State Council
saying in the plan that there are “worsening contradictions”
between the supply and need for health care. The country intends
to expand its list of subsidized basic drugs this year to 800
from 307 to counter the cost of treating diseases such as
cancer, Health Minister Chen Zhu said last month.  The health-care plan, which covers the five years through
2015, also sets a goal of reducing  China ’s infant mortality rate
to below 12 per 1,000 births and the rate of deaths among
pregnant women to less than 22 out of every 100,000. In 2011,
China’s infant mortality rate was 12.1 out of 1,000 and its
maternal mortality was 26.1 out of 100,000, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported, citing the health minister Chen.  Subsidized Drugs  China in 2009 introduced the  current roster  of 307 basic
drugs that are subsidized and purchased in bulk by provincial
governments. That essential drugs list may be enlarged this year
to include 500 western products and as many as 300 traditional
Chinese medicines, Health Minister Chen said last month.  The adjusted list “will increase types of drugs used to
treat chronic diseases and children’s illnesses, and cut down on
seldom-used drugs,” according to the State Council, adding
provinces can add more drugs to their lists “at reasonably
controlled” levels.  China will also enhance its system for buying those drugs
by “insisting on centralized online procurement at provincial
levels”, and focusing on “reducing artificially high drug
prices while avoiding cut-throat competition and maintaining
quality and supply,” the State Council said.  Foreign and local drugmakers have objected to the expansion
of the government’s tendering system for basic drugs that was
first tested in Anhui province and which encourages suppliers to
compete on price and quality for state contracts.  Price Competition  “Health-care reform is basically about tendering to
compete on prices, and I feel this is irresponsible to the  drug
industry ,”  Guo Guangchang , chairman and co-founder of  Fosun
International Ltd. (656) , which controls one of China’s biggest
drugmakers,  Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Co. (600196) , told reporters in
Beijing on March 9.  To reduce the strain on public hospitals, China will also
encourage more investments “by businesses, commercial insurers,
charities and foundations” to set up private hospitals and
clinics, with a goal of having non-government owned hospitals
account for 20 percent of hospital beds and services by 2015.  The government will improve private hospitals’ operating
environment, taxation, and medical reimbursement systems, and
“offer priority support for social capital to set up non-profit
hospitals,” according to the State Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  