-- China’s Hu Tells Obama Large Yuan Rise Won’t Fix U.S.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-26T16:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/china-s-hu-tells-obama-large-yuan-rise-won-t-fix-u-s-.html
Chinese President Hu Jintao told
U.S. President  Barack Obama  that even a “large” appreciation
of the yuan won’t solve the U.S. economy’s problems, and called
instead for the U.S. to end limits on high-tech exports.  Hu, when meeting Obama in Seoul yesterday, reiterated
China’s view that the yuan doesn’t cause the U.S. trade deficit
and unemployment, according to a statement on the Foreign
Ministry Website. The yuan’s effective  exchange rate  has gained
30 percent since the link to the dollar ended in 2005, he said.  China plans to “let the market play a greater role,
improve the flexibility of the yuan exchange rate, and maintain
a basic stability of the rate at reasonable and balanced
levels,” Hu said.  China  had its largest trade deficit since at least 1989
last month as  Europe ’s debt crisis damped exports. Premier Wen
Jiabao has pledged to allow greater two-way movement in the
yuan’s exchange rate.  Yi Gang, a deputy governor of the Chinese central bank,
said March 25 at a forum hosted by the Caixin media group that
the yuan’s appreciation will ease as China deepens changes to
the exchange-rate mechanism, according to a transcript of his
speech posted on the Caixin’s website.  Hu called on the U.S. to “take practical steps” to ease
limits on exports of high-technology products to China to
promote  trade balance , according to the ministry’s statement.
According to the statement, Obama said the U.S. is taking
efforts to resolve the export-limit issue and he welcomes
Chinese companies’ investment infrastructure and industries.  Hu expressed “worry” about  North Korea ’s satellite launch
and the situation in the Korean Peninsula, according to the
statement. He said he hopes that the U.S. and North Korea will
continue talks, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  