-- Christie Economist Once Backed Tax Boost Governor Opposes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-26T18:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/christie-economist-once-backed-tax-boost-governor-opposes.html
Four months before he joined
Governor  Chris Christie ’s administration as New Jersey’s chief
economist,  Charles Steindel  recommended a tax surcharge on the
state’s wealthiest residents, a view his current boss opposes.  “Temporarily raising income taxes on high-income
households during a downturn” would have the advantage of
placing “a larger burden on households that are less liquidity-
constrained,” Steindel, then a senior vice president for the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York , wrote with economists Richard Deitz and Andrew Haughwout in a July 2010 report.  Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, has twice vetoed
measures sponsored by Democrats that would have raised income
taxes on residents earning $1 million or more. He has said any
increase would halt the state’s economic recovery, and that the
10 percent income-tax cut he proposed in January is the key to
bringing jobs back to  New Jersey .  Steindel, who was hired by Christie’s administration in
November 2010, released a  study  from the New Jersey treasury
department in October 2011 which said that increasing income
taxes on wealthy residents drives them out of the state.  “You don’t have that evolution in one year,” Senate
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Sarlo , a Wood-Ridge Democrat,
said in a telephone interview today. “It’s a complete role
reversal.”  ‘No Conflict Whatsoever’  Steindel, 60, is a resident of Glen Ridge who holds a
doctorate in economics from the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology . In his current position, he advises top-level state
officials on economic conditions and predicts trends that shape
budget policy.  Reached by telephone at his Trenton office, Steindel
declined to comment and referred questions to  Andrew Pratt , a
spokesman for Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff.  Kevin Roberts ,
a Christie spokesman, also referred questions about Steindel’s
reports to the treasury department. Sidamon-Eristoff will appear
before lawmakers tomorrow for the first time since Christie’s
February budget address.  “There is no conflict whatsoever between Steindel’s now-
dated report that discussed states generically, and Governor
Christie’s choice to balance budgets without raising taxes in
the one of the most overtaxed states in the union,” Pratt said
in an e-mail. “Dr. Steindel understands that taxes must be
tailored to the needs of the state in which they are imposed.”  Budget Holes  The Fed branch’s July 2010 study, “The Recession’s Impact
on the State Budgets of  New York  and New Jersey,” proposed
options including a so-called millionaire’s tax for helping
those states avoid budget deficits. Other suggestions included
raising sales taxes, creating rainy day funds and drafting plans
for spending cuts and tax increases in advance of slumps.  “All of these possible solutions pose challenges of their
own,” the authors wrote. A temporary tax increase on high-
income households should be lifted once the economy begins to
improve, the report said.  Steindel’s October 2011  study  for the New Jersey treasury
concluded that a 2004 tax increase on income exceeding $500,000
led to losses of 20,000 taxpayers and $2.5 billion in annual
income. “Over time migration effects could offset a meaningful
share of the revenue boost,” according to the report.  That study was based on flawed reasoning to justify
Christie’s agenda, Senator Richard Codey, a Democrat from
Roseland, said in a telephone interview today.  ‘University of Christie’  “I would assume he had to take a special course at the
University of Christie to reorient his economic thinking,”
Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck who serves on
the budget committee, said of Steindel. “I really hope that
Christie hears from the people closest to him about the downside
of some of the policies he adopts, and that he doesn’t force
them into his way of thinking.”  New Jersey led the U.S. in combined state and local tax
burden in 2009, according to the Washington-based  Tax
Foundation . The state last enacted a levy on the wealthy under
former Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat defeated by Christie in
November 2009.  Corzine authorized a one-year increase on residents
reporting annual income of more than $400,000. That levy expired
in December 2009, and Democrats didn’t reauthorize it after
Christie urged lawmakers to use restraint during the lame-duck
session before he took office, Weinberg said.  Steindel’s earlier report recommending a millionaire’s tax
bolsters Democrats’ case for it, said Weinberg, who was
Corzine’s running mate. Her party controls both houses of the
Legislature.  Budget Proposal  Christie’s $32.1 billion budget, the biggest in five years,
counts on revenue increasing 7.3 percent, the most since before
the recession began in December 2007. The plan is structurally
unbalanced because it is built on “optimistic” growth
projections,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 24 report.  For the first eight months of fiscal 2012, which ends June
30,  revenue  was 1.7 percent below projections, or 4.3 percent
higher than the same period of 2011, Sidamon-Eristoff said on
March 7.  U.S. state tax collections have risen for the past two
years, easing pressure on governments struggling to erase budget
deficits left in the wake of the 18-month recession. Revenue
rose 3.5 percent during the last three months of 2011, the
slowest pace in 18 months, the Census Bureau said March 22.  “States should probably not expect dramatic growth in
revenues over the next year or two,”  Robert Ward , who follows
states for the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in
 Albany , New York, said last week in a telephone interview.  Back on Track  Christie, who is midway through his first term, froze $2.2
billion in spending to close a midyear deficit in 2010, and then
cut $10 billion in projected new spending for schools, pensions
and towns. He said a 10 percent tax cut for all New Jersey
residents is possible now that the state’s “fiscal house is in
order.”  “Mr. Christie doesn’t tolerate differing opinions too
well,” said Codey, who was acting governor for more than a year
after the 2004 resignation of former Governor James McGreevey.
“Sometimes loyalty asks too much.”  Senate Democrats have proposed giving residents earning as
much as $250,000 a 10 percent property-tax credit on their
income-tax returns. Assembly Democrats want a 20 percent
property-tax credit for middle-class families and an increase
for those making $1 million or more.  Tax on Wealthy  The Assembly Democrats’ millionaire’s tax would increase
the rate to 10.75 percent from 8.97 percent beginning next
fiscal year. That surcharge would affect about 16,000 out of 2.6
million filers and raise $800 million, they said.  Christie has said that he and Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  are “pretty close” on a tax-cut plan, and has
dismissed the Assembly Democrats’ proposal as “dead.”
Democrats have said Christie’s plan favors the wealthy.  Democrats may push to get the millionaire’s tax on the
ballot in 2013, when Christie faces re-election. Assemblyman
Reed Gusciora and Senator Shirley Turner, Trenton-area
Democrats, have introduced legislation that would ask voters
whether to raise the top income tax rate to 10.75 percent on
earnings above $1 million.  New Jersey voters’ support for a millionaire’s tax reached
a record high, 64 percent to 28 percent, in a Nov. 17  poll  by
 Quinnipiac University (78104MF) , the most recent survey on the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  