-- Akbank Falls on Citigroup Selling Stake: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-26T15:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/citigroup-selling-akbank-stake-may-pressure-shares.html
Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,  Turkey ’s second-biggest
listed bank by market value, dropped the most in more than a
month after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said it will sell more than half its
stake in the company.  Akbank dropped as much as 5.2 percent to 6.88 liras, the
biggest fall since Oct. 20. The shares declined 3.3 percent to
7.02 liras at the close in Istanbul, the most since Feb. 23,
valuing the company at 28.1 billion liras ($15.7 billion) The
 banking index  rose 1.4 percent to 121,540.24.  Citigroup is cutting its ownership in Akbank as it sheds
assets around the world, including  India  and  China , to meet
 capital requirements . The New York-based bank will reduce its
shareholding in Akbank to less than 10 percent subject to market
conditions and approvals, it said March 23.  Haci Omer Sabanci
Holding AS (SAHOL)  of Turkey sold the stake to Citigroup in 2007 for
$3.1 billion.  “Sabanci has the first right to purchase the shares
Citigroup sells as part of an agreement,” Tera Brokers in
Istanbul said in an e-mailed report to clients today. “Should
Citigroup sell the shares on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange (OZDBJ) ,
Akbank’s stock performance would be significantly pressured.”  Of 32 analysts  covering Akbank , two rate it “buy,” 14 are
“neutral” and 16 say “sell,” according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average price estimate is 6.65 liras per share,
3.4 percent below the current share price.  Akbank jumped 21 percent in the year to March 23, exceeding
gains of 20 percent for the main  ISE National 100 (XU100)  index and
matching the banking gauge’s 21 percent rise.  Sale ‘Discounts’  Sabanci, Turkey’s second-biggest group of companies, owns
49 percent of Akbank. The remaining 31 percent is traded on the
exchange. Sabanci probably won’t buy any shares of Akbank from
Citigroup at the current market price, mirroring similar deals
recently, Isik Okte, strategist at  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “They will look to position themselves where they will pay
much less,” Okte said. “There is always a discount to these
sales and Sabanci will not touch Citi’s stake unless the price
is very favorable.”  Citigroup sold its 9.9 percent stake in  Housing Development
Finance Corp. (HDFC) , India’ largest mortgage lender, last month for
$1.95 billion, a reduction of 6.2 percent to the stock price. It
sold a 2.71 percent shareholding in  Shanghai Pudong Development
Bank (600000)  last week for $668 million, or about 10 percent less than
its share price at the time.  Citigroup is selling shares in Akbank for “technical
reasons” related to Basel III banking rules, Akbank told the
exchange after the markets closed on March 23. The decision
won’t affect Akbank’s financial strength, management or growth
strategy, Akbank said in the filing to the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange .  Investment Funds  The Turkish banking regulator, which must approve any share
sale, said today it opposes investment funds and short-term
investors holding stakes in banks of more than 10 percent of
their equity, Bloomberg HT television reported.  An impairment charge of $700 million is expected in the
first quarter from cutting the investment in Akbank because of
currency losses and marking down the current carrying value of
the stake to market prices, Citigroup said on March 23.  A lower contribution from Akbank was one reason for the 2
percent drop in revenue for Citigroup’s European regional
banking unit last year, the firm said in an annual filing last
month.  Akbank reported a profit of 551 million liras in the fourth
quarter, a 20 percent decline from a year earlier and lagging
the 635.8 million-liras estimate in a Bloomberg survey, due to a
fall in interest income and losses from trading. Akbank is
expected to perform better in the first quarter,  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  analyst Ates Buldur said by e-mail from Istanbul today.  Sabanci gained 0.5 percent to 7.62 liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  