-- Coeure Says ECB Can Withdraw Liquidity Measures ‘When Needed’
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/coeure-says-ecb-can-withdraw-liquidity-measures-when-needed-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said liquidity measures aimed at
averting a credit-crunch in the euro area should cease when
economic and market conditions permit.  “All the tools necessary for large-scale liquidity
withdrawal are already in place or will be readily available
when needed,” Coeure said, according to comments prepared for a
speech in  Tokyo  today. “Monetary policy accommodation for
prolonged periods of time might fuel excessive risk-taking,
leverage and asset price bubbles.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB has extended more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year loans since December, as the
effects of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis threatened to cause a
credit crunch. Concerns over inflation and risks accruing on the
central bank’s balance sheet have prompted policy makers
including  Germany ’s Jens Weidmann to urge that the measures be
wound down as soon as is practicable.  “We have also given banks the option of reversing the
long-term repurchase operation in advance, after one year, if
the conditions that had warranted the long maturity of central
bank credit are no longer in place,” Coeure said.  “In crisis times, as markets ceased to transmit price
signals, our tools had to change,” Coeure said. “All non-
standard measures have been temporary and tailored to the
special features of the euro area. Our tools have changed but
our strategy has not -- it is in fact supporting a gradual
process of normalization.”  Coeure added the euro area’s new fiscal compact and “six-
pack” initiatives, aimed at anchoring budgetary rules in
national law and strengthening surveillance, should be
“promptly ratified.”  In addition to shoring-up budgetary rules, Coeure said
programs aimed at fostering economic growth “will be welcome,
insofar as they address the long-term growth potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  