-- Cold Snap Threatens N.Y. Apples Tonight After Record Warmth
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-26T18:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/cold-snap-threatens-n-y-apples-tonight-after-record-warmth-1-.html
An unseasonably warm winter and
early spring has exposed  New York ’s iconic McIntosh apples to a
potential crop-killing freeze as temperatures across the state
are expected to plunge tonight.  Apple and apricot trees, berry bushes and grape vines have
emerged from winter dormancy about three weeks ahead of usual,
according to  Jim Allen , president of the  New York Apple
Association  in Fishers. That leaves buds on fruit in New York
and other northeastern states vulnerable to temperatures that
are forecast to drop to as low as 20 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 7
Celsius) tonight.  New York has produced an average of 30 million bushels of
apples (42 pounds per bushel) a year since 2007, and is the
largest grower of McIntosh apples in the U.S. The 2011 crop was
worth $270 million to growers, Allen said.  “The apple industry is holding their breath,” David
Wolfe, a plant and soil scientist at  Cornell University  in
Ithaca, said in an e-mail. “They’re expecting some damage
tonight. The question is how much.”  The  National Weather Service  is forecasting overnight lows
of 21 in Syracuse, 27 in Rochester and 20 in Ithaca. Potential
damage to crops depends on how low temperatures fall and the
duration of the cold, Allen said.  ‘We’re Very Scared’  “We’re very scared,” Allen said in an interview. “We’re
in a very risky situation.”  The conditions in New York follow the fourth-warmest U.S.
winter on record, according to the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration . Unseasonable warmth extended into
spring when there were 400 record high temperatures set around
the U.S. on March 14, according to NOAA.  Syracuse reached 80 on March 18, 32 degrees above normal
and the highest since record-keeping began in 1950, according to
Christopher Vaccaro, a spokesman for NOAA. Binghamton has had
seven consecutive days of record highs ending March 23, the
longest such string since 1953.  Brad Rippey, a meteorologist with the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , said the crops in New York and other northern
states may escape serious damage because their blossoming is not
far enough along to allow for maximum exposure to the cold.  “If we can get through this one  night  with temperatures in
the high 20s and low 30s, we should by OK,” he said. “If the
same thing happens in two weeks, it will be a big story.”  The recent weather in the Eastern U.S. is similar to the
early months of 2007, when a freeze caused $2.2 billion in
damage to crops outside citrus-growing states, where most early-
year losses occur, he said.  Plants Fooled  “A lot of plants have been fooled by this March warmth,”
Rippey said. “Data certainly seems to indicate we’ve entered a
pattern in the last few decades of more extreme weather.”  Many New York growers plant trees near lakes that typically
freeze during the winter, according to Paul Baker, executive
director of the  New York State Berry Growers Association . The
ice keeps air temperatures cooler into the spring, delaying the
time when trees and bushes bud.  This year there wasn’t enough ice on lakes Ontario or
Champlain “to make a drink,” Baker said.  “The longer you can delay, the less probability there is
of frost,” Baker said in an interview. “I’ve been in
agriculture all my life. I don’t remember anything equal to
being this extreme.”  Saying Prayers  Growers have few tools to deal with cold snaps like the one
expected tonight, Allen said. Some large commercial growers use
fans or helicopters to circulate air around trees and crops to
keep temperatures from reaching dangerous levels. Many others
will simply “say a prayer,” Allen said.  The damage from a freeze won’t be known until about 36
hours afterward, Baker said. At that time, if the core of
exposed buds has turned from green to black, the bud won’t
blossom, he said.  The value of U.S. apple production in 2010, the most recent
year available, was $2.22 billion, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Corn, the most valuable U.S. crop,
was worth $66.7 billion that year and $76.5 billion in 2011.  The price of  fresh fruits and vegetables , one of the more
volatile components of food inflation because of weather
vulnerability and smaller crop sizes, fell 2.4 percent last
month to the lowest since November 2010, according to the
government.  “Right now I’m looking out my office window and it’s
bright sunshine,” Baker said from Sanborn, New York, about 10
miles east of Niagara Falls. “We need it to cloud up so that
any radiant heat is kind of trapped. A clear night can be very,
very cold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  