-- Contract Research Files Bankruptcy With Plan to Sell Assets
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-26T12:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/contract-research-files-bankruptcy-with-plan-to-sell-assets-1-.html
Contract Research Solutions Inc. (0194010D) ,
the pharmaceutical clinical-trial provider also known as Cetero
Research, sought  bankruptcy protection  with a plan to sell its
assets to lenders after an investigation by federal regulators.  The company, based in Cary,  North Carolina , had assets of
about $205 million and debt of about $248 million as of Feb. 29,
according to Chapter 11 papers filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  Cetero agreed to sell its assets to lenders in exchange for
secured debt and the assumption of liabilities, Chief Financial
Officer Michael Murren said in court papers. The company will
obtain a $15 million credit line to help finance the
restructuring, he said.  The company faces “considerable costs” from re-testing
ordered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration following an
investigation into allegations that some data recorded by
company chemists may have been inaccurate, Murren said.  Affiliates that also filed bankruptcy petitions include
Allied Research Holdings Inc., Allied Research International,  BA
Research Co. (IRCP) , Gateway Medical Research Inc., and PRACS Institute
Ltd.  Under the sale agreement, bidding procedures must be
approved by April 12, followed by an auction between April 30
and May 5. The sale must be approved by May 10.  Cetero’s operations are in North Dakota, Florida, Missouri,
 Texas  and Ontario.  The case is In re Contract Research Solutions Inc., 12-
bk-11004, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  