-- Court Opens Health-Care Debate With Law That May Derail Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-26T15:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/court-opens-health-care-debate-with-law-that-might-derail-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court opened today
its historic review of President Barack Obama’s health-care law,
three days of arguments that might result in the president’s
premier legislative achievement being found unconstitutional in
the middle of his re-election campaign.  The court will determine the fate of a measure designed to
extend insurance to about 32 million people and revamp an
industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy .  The six hours of planned debate that began this morning is
the most on a case in 44 years. The core dispute -- the law’s
upcoming mandate that uninsured people purchase coverage --comes
on the second day.  First, the justices today hear arguments on a seemingly
arcane question: Does the penalty for failing to get insurance
amount to a tax?  “There is at least some doubt about it,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  told attorney Robert Long, who argued that the court
should not decide the case. “I find it hard to think this is
clear.”  A 145-year-old law, the Anti-Injunction Act, says courts
can’t rule on the legality of federal taxes until they are
imposed. For the no-insurance penalty in the 2010 health care
law, which takes effect in stages, that comes in 2015. The
justices may decide it’s too soon to rule on the health law’s
constitutionality.  1867 Law  It’s “the sleeper issue of the health-care case,” said
Adam Winkler, a constitutional law professor at the  University
of California  at Los Angeles School of Law. “The great
constitutional controversy over Obamacare could end with a
whimper rather than a bang.”  The 90-minute debate on the 1867 law will serve as a
prelude for the court’s arguments tomorrow over the marquee
issue: whether the Constitution lets government require
Americans to either get insurance or pay the penalty.  The mandate is a primary tool the government uses to expand
insurance coverage. The question for the court is whether it
falls within the scope of Congress’ constitutional authority to
regulate interstate commerce.  On the third day of arguments, the justices will hear
debate about what should happen to the rest of the law if the
insurance requirement is voided. The court also will take up
whether the law, by expanding the Medicaid program,
unconstitutionally coerces the states into spending more on
health care for the poor.  Political Decision Expected  The case marks the first time the high court has considered
striking down a president’s signature legislative achievement in
the midst of his re-election campaign. Republican candidates,
including former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, are
campaigning against the measure, saying it should be repealed.  A Bloomberg National Poll earlier this month found that
three-quarters of Americans say the  Supreme Court  will be
influenced by politics when it rules, probably in June, less
than five months before the presidential election.  The sentiment crosses party lines and is especially held by
independents, 80 percent of whom said the court will not base
its ruling solely on legal merits. More Republicans than
Democrats, by 74 percent to 67 percent, said politics will play
a role.  Debate began outside the court before the lawyers inside.  In front of the court steps, supporters of the law stood
beside two men holding an American flag and another with the
“Don’t Tread on Me” rattlesnake symbol of the  Tea Party .  ‘Super Bowl’  “This is the  Super Bowl ,” said Ilya Shapiro, a senior
fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington, which advocates for
limited government. Shapiro, who wore a black tie decorated with
red images of the scales of justice, said it was “the most
significant case about the relationship between the government
and the governed.”  Americans “don’t want to go re-fight this battle,” Senior
Obama adviser  David Plouffe  said yesterday that on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program.  Both the Obama administration and the law’s
challengers -- 26 states and  National Federation of Independent
Business , an advocacy group -- say the Anti-Injunction Act
doesn’t apply.  The justices may not be convinced. They took the unusual
step of appointing an outside lawyer, Long of Covington &
Burling LLP, to argue before them that the Anti-Injunction Act
strips the court of the ability to consider the insurance
mandate now. Long had 40 of the 90 minutes of argument today.  Jurisdictional Issue  “Courts take jurisdictional issues very seriously,”
Winkler said. “Procedure is often more important than
substance.”  The court won’t immediately decide whether the Anti-
Injunction Act applies and will continue to hear the arguments
on other issues.  The law stems from President  Abraham Lincoln ’s 1862
approval of the nation’s first income tax to raise money to pay
for the Civil War.  Americans filed lawsuits in federal courts challenging the
government’s right to tax them. Courts started preventing taxes
from being collected while the litigation was considered,
according to the journal Health Affairs. Congress responded with
the Anti-Injunction Act.  Income taxes were later repealed, and then reimposed.  The act took on a prominent role in the health-care fight
in September when a federal appeals court in Richmond,  Virginia ,
said the measure required rejection of two challenges to the
health law, known as the Affordable Care Act.  Appeals Courts Differ  The appeals court said judges couldn’t address attacks on
the insurance requirement until a penalty had been assessed.
Another appellate judge on a different court later reached a
similar conclusion. Four appeals courts have ruled on the
health-care law so far.  The high court hasn’t directly considered the Anti-
Injunction Act since 1974, when it ruled that  Bob Jones 
University had to wait to challenge the  Internal Revenue
Service ’s revocation of the South Carolina college’s tax-exempt
status. The IRS took that step because Bob Jones refused to
admit blacks. None of today’s justices were on the court then.  The Anti-Injunction Act is frequently invoked by the U.S.
government when Americans challenge laws that involve payments
to the government, said Alan Morrison, a professor at George
 Washington  University Law School in Washington. Morrison filed a
brief urging the Supreme Court to apply the Anti-Injunction Act
and throw out the health-care challenge.  Penalty or Tax?  At issue in the health-care case are both detailed
questions over the Anti-Injunction Act’s language and broader
issues about the proper moment for courts to get involved in
constitutional cases. The 1867 law says “no suit for the
purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax
shall be maintained in any court by any person.”  The Obama administration and the challengers to the law
contend that the penalties in the Affordable Care Act don’t
qualify as a “tax” for purposes of the Anti-Injunction Act.
U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli points to Congress’
decision to use the term “penalty,” rather than “tax” in the
health-care law.  “The precise labels Congress chooses are highly
relevant,” Verrilli argued in court papers.  The government makes that argument even as it contends in a
different aspect of the case that Congress had power to enact
the insurance requirement through its constitutional authority
to impose taxes. Verrilli contends the analysis for that
constitutional issue is different, focusing on the practical
operation of the disputed provision rather than its wording.  ‘Broadly Construed’ Meaning  The administration’s position is further complicated by its
own change of position on the issue. The government at an early
stage in the litigation argued that the Anti-Injunction Act
barred challenges to the health-care law.  Long, the lawyer appointed by the Supreme Court, points to
a provision in the health-care care law that says the penalties
“shall be assessed and collected in the same manner” as a tax.
And he says past Supreme Court cases support his position.  “The court has broadly construed the term ‘tax’ in
applying the Anti-Injunction Act,” Long argued in court papers.  The states and business group also contend the law
shouldn’t apply because their real target is the insurance
requirement, not the penalties for noncompliance.  In addition, the states say they aren’t bound by the Anti-
Injunction Act because they aren’t a “person.” The states say
that’s a sensible reading because, unlike individual taxpayers,
they won’t ever have an opportunity to press a refund suit.  Avoiding Questions  In the background are fundamental questions about the role
of the courts. Long points to a longstanding Supreme Court
practice of avoiding constitutional questions when possible.  Morrison says that principle makes particular sense given
the prominence of health care as a campaign issue this year.  “If the Republicans win, and one of the things they’re
campaigning on is to get rid of the individual mandate, we may
never see anyone being subjected to it because the law may be
changed,” Morrison said.  Even so, the justices may find it difficult use the Anti-
Injunction Act to throw out the case, said attorneyShapiro of
the  Cato Institute .  The Anti-Injunction Act is “meant to facilitate the
government’s collection of taxes and the operation of the
government,” he said. “The government here is saying, ‘This
doesn’t apply. We don’t need this.’”  The court, he said “is likely to defer” to the
government’s view.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  