-- Court Rejects Wisconsin Bid to Ban Transgender Inmate Treatments
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-26T14:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/court-rejects-wisconsin-bid-to-ban-transgender-inmate-treatments.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
consider reinstating a Wisconsin law that banned hormone
treatments or sex-change surgeries for transgender prison
inmates.  The justices today rejected the state’s appeal of a ruling
that the 2006 Wisconsin law, by withholding treatments that
prison doctors deem medically necessary, violated the Eighth
Amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishments.  Three Wisconsin inmates who are male-to-female transsexuals
filed suit after prison doctors, who had diagnosed them as
having gender identity disorder, stopped providing hormone
treatments because of the law.  “Refusing to provide effective treatment for a serious
medical condition serves no valid penological purpose and
amounts to torture,” the Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals ruled. “Just as the legislature cannot outlaw all
effective cancer treatments for prison inmates, it cannot outlaw
the only effective treatment for a serious condition” such as
gender identity disorder.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen, in the state’s
high court appeal, said gender identity disorder is a
“psychological condition” and the legislature was within its
authority to say treatment should be limited to “psychotherapy,
antipsychotics and antidepressants.”  The Eighth Amendment “does not prohibit prison officials,
prison medical personnel and, most certainly, a state
legislature, from denying a small, controversial subset of the
wide variety of treatment available for a particular
diagnosis,” the state said in its appeal.  Medically Necessary  Lawyers for the inmates said doctors in the Wisconsin
prison system were the ones who diagnosed the inmates and
prescribed the hormone treatments as medically necessary.  “There was no evidence controverting the testimony of
numerous witnesses that, for some people” with severe gender
identity disorder, “psychotherapy or psychotropic medication
alone” is “simply not effective,” lawyers for the  American
Civil Liberties Union  and the Lambda Legal Defense and Education
Fund said, representing the inmates.  The appeals court ruling cited evidence presented at trial
that for some people hormone treatment is the most effective way
to prevent severe anxiety, depression, attempted suicides or
self-mutilation. The court said “severe complications,”
including high  blood pressure  and neurological problems, may
arise when patients are taken off hormone treatments.  While the case centered on hormone treatments, the
Wisconsin law that was found unconstitutional also prohibits the
use of state funds for sex-change surgery.  The case is Smith v. Fields, 11-561.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  