-- Court Opens Health-Care Clash With Law That May End Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-26T20:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/court-opens-health-care-clash-with-law-that-may-end-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court opened its
historic hearings on President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul with several justices suggesting they’ll brush aside an
argument that they can’t rule until the law takes full effect.  Justices including  Stephen Breyer  and Ruth Bader Ginsburg
today suggested they didn’t view an 1867 law as barring them
from ruling immediately on the law’s requirement that Americans
either get insurance or pay a penalty. The 1867 law blocks suits
over taxes that haven’t been imposed, and Ginsburg questioned
whether health-care penalties would be taxes.  “This is not a revenue-raising measure,” Ginsburg said.
“If it’s successful, nobody will pay the penalty and there will
be no revenue to raise.”  The questions hint that the high court for the first time
will rule on a president’s signature legislative achievement in
the middle of his re-election campaign. The law would extend
coverage to 32 million people and transform a $2.6 trillion
industry.  The justices heard arguments for 90 minutes before a packed
courtroom of about 500 people, including dozens of spectators in
adjacent hallways that offer obstructed views.  Those attending
included Attorney General Eric Holder, Secretary of Health and
Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and Senator  Jeff Sessions , an
Alabama Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Law’s Challengers  The health law is being challenged by 26 states and the
National Federation of Independent Business, an advocacy group.
The court probably will rule by late June, months before the
November presidential election.  The six hours of planned debate is the most on a case in 44
years. The justices tomorrow will consider the main issue:
whether the government had power to enact the health-care law
under its constitutional authority to regulate interstate
commerce.  Even as today’s session began, the line for the following
day’s argument stretched around the street corner. Outside the
court, demonstrators shouted dueling slogans, with opponents of
the law crying, “socialist,” and supporters yelling, “We love
Obamacare!”  Santorum Appears  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum  appeared
and attacked  Mitt Romney , saying his rival for the nomination is
“the worst person” to debate the health care law with Obama.
Republican presidential candidates -- including Romney, who
signed a similar health-insurance mandate while he was governor
of  Massachusetts  -- are campaigning against the law.  The four justices appointed by Democrats all aimed
skeptical questions today at Robert Long, a lawyer the court
appointed to argue that the Anti-Injunction Act made the case
premature.  Breyer said he had a “problem” with Long’s argument. The
justice said the health-care lawsuits didn’t prevent the
 Internal Revenue Service  from collecting taxes -- something he
said was the primary goal of the Anti-Injunction Act.  “An advance attack on this does not interfere with the
collection of revenues,” he said.  Later, Breyer said Congress “did not use the word ‘tax,’”
in enacting the health-care law.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said that on at least seven
occasions the court had found a way around the Anti-Injunction
Act. “Isn’t the fairer statement that Congress has accepted
that, in the extraordinary case, we will hear the case?” she
asked.  Long’s Response  Long pointed to a provision in the health-care law that
says the penalties “shall be assessed and collected in the same
manner” as a tax. He said that opponents shouldn’t be allowed
to go to court until the first penalties are imposed in 2015.  “The Anti-Injunction Act imposes a pay-first, litigate-
later rule that is central to federal tax assessment and
collection,” Long argued.  The Supreme Court appointed Long to make the argument
because the Obama administration and the law’s challengers say
the Anti-Injunction Act isn’t an obstacle to a  Supreme Court 
ruling on the law.  Long’s contentions drew little traction. No justice
suggested the act should apply. The justices’ questions
indicated any differences among them will turn on the legal
reasoning, rather than the conclusion that they can proceed to
consider the substance of the health-care law.  Justices ‘Seem Skeptical’  “Most of the justices seem skeptical that the mandate and
penalty are a tax,” said  Randy Barnett , a lawyer representing
the National Federation of Independent Business, in an e-mail
statement. “They seem ready, willing and able to reach the
merit of the commerce clause claim.”  One issue for the justices is whether the law strips
federal courts of any power to hear tax challenges -- so that
even the federal government couldn’t agree to let a lawsuit go
forward. Chief Justice  John Roberts  said the Supreme Court had
“gone back and forth” on that issue.  Ginsburg offered a way around that issue, asking U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who argued for the Obama
administration, whether the court could avoid deciding the
question by simply concluding the Anti-Injunction Act didn’t
apply. Verrilli said that is “exactly our position.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Managed Health Care
Index of 12 insurance companies closed 2.8 percent higher amid
broader gains in stocks today after comments from Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke .  Tomorrow’s Issues  Today’s session at times slid into a discussion of issues
the court will take up tomorrow. Justice  Samuel Alito  suggested
the Obama administration’s position on the Anti-Injunction Act
was inconsistent with its contention that Congress could enact
the law through its constitutional power to impose taxes.  “Today you are arguing that the penalty is not a tax,”
Alito said. “Tomorrow, you are going to be back, and you will
be arguing that the penalty is a tax.”  On the third day of debate, the court will hear arguments
on what would happen to the rest of the law if the insurance
requirement is struck down, and whether the law’s expansion of
Medicaid unconstitutionally coerces the states into spending
more on health care for the poor.  Young Adults  The health-care law, being phased in over several years,
imposes new taxes on the highest wage earners, calls for fees on
health-care companies and provides hundreds of billions in
Medicare savings. Already in effect are provisions closing a gap
in prescription-drug coverage, allowing 2.5 million young adults
to stay on their parents’ insurance until age 26, and providing
free mammograms, colonoscopies and flu shots.  Obama and Democrats in Congress enacted the law over
Republican opposition that helped fuel the rise of the Tea Party
movement. Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican who wants to repeal the law, said March 23 that what
his party calls “Obamacare” is a metaphor “for all of the
excess of this administration.”  One of the four federal appeals courts to have ruled on the
health-care law said the Anti-Injunction Act required dismissal
of legal challenges.  The 1867 law says “no suit for the purpose of restraining
the assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained in
any court by any person.” It stems from President  Abraham Lincoln ’s 1862 approval of the nation’s first income tax to
raise money to pay for the Civil War.  Americans filed lawsuits in federal courts challenging the
government’s right to tax them. Congress responded with the law
that requires Americans to pay their tax bills before suing the
government.  The health-care cases are  National Federation of
Independent Business  v. Sebelius, 11-393;  Department of Health 
and Human Services v.  Florida , 11-398; and Florida v. Department
of Health and Human Services, 11-400.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  