-- Credit Swaps Fall as Bernanke Says Accommodative Policy Needed
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-26T21:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/credit-swaps-fall-as-bernanke-says-accommodative-policy-needed.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk snapped two days of increases as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comment that accommodative policy is
still needed encouraged investors, and on speculation of an
increase in  Europe ’s bailout fund.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell 2.5 basis points to a mid-price of 89 basis points at 5:07
p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The measure dropped as Bernanke said monetary easing will
be required to help bring down the  unemployment rate , which is
at a three-year low. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , citing
“fragility” in Spain and  Portugal , gave her first indication
she is prepared to allow increased funding to contain the
European sovereign-debt crisis, which has been threatening to
infect the global financial system.  “Bernanke’s comments will help maintain the calm that
existed in the markets during the past several months,”  Michael Kraft , senior portfolio manager at Vanderbilt Avenue Asset
Management LLC, wrote in an e-mail. “The Fed wants to help
build investor confidence by displaying vigilance with respect
to keeping rates low.”  The jobless rate is still “elevated” even as the economic
outlook has improved, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in
its March 13 statement. The central bank has said it will keep
 borrowing rates  near zero through late 2014.  Low Rates Risk  “There still remains the risk that rates remain too low
for too long, but Bernanke has at least clarified his rationale,
which the market seems to be buying for now,” Marc Pinto, head
of corporate bond strategy at New York-based Susquehanna
International Group, wrote in an e-mail. “He appears ready to
use the tools available to him until that jobs number is
normalized.”  Markit rolled out a new version of the CDX index, Series
18, last week after Series 17 reached a more than one-year low
of 84.7 basis points on March 19. New versions of the index,
which banks,  hedge funds  and other investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, are created
in September and March. Companies are replaced if they no longer
have appropriate credit grades, aren’t among the most actively
traded borrowers or fail to meet other criteria.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  