-- Credit Suisse VIX Note Decline Highlights Investor Risk
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-03-26T15:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/credit-suisse-vix-note-decline-highlights-investor-risk.html
The plunge of an exchange-traded
note backed by Credit Suisse Group AG highlights the growing
risks for investors in some of Wall Street’s most complex
exchange-traded products.  The  VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN (TVIX) , which seeks
to provide twice the daily return of the VIX volatility index,
fell 30 percent on March 23 after Credit Suisse said it would
begin issuing new shares. The Zurich-based bank stopped creating
shares a month ago, unhinging the fund’s price from the index
and leading to a premium over the indicative value that peaked
at 89 percent on March 21 before plunging to about 7 percent two
days later.  “This is a wake-up call,” Samuel Lee, an analyst with
research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said in a telephone interview.
“People don’t take seriously the options that issuers have”
that can cause ETNs to suddenly stop behaving as they are
intended.  Exchange-traded products, or ETPs, have grown into a $1.7
trillion global industry, attracting more than half of all U.S.
fund deposits in the five years through Dec. 31, as investors
sought an easier way to track indexes with lower fees than
active funds. The funds have come under scrutiny over whether
they might represent a broader risk to financial markets, and
whether investors understand how those funds work that use
derivatives to produce returns.  Using Derivatives  Most ETPs in the U.S. are exchange-traded funds, which
track an index by holding the underlying securities. These
include the biggest ETF, the $102 billion SPDR S&P 500 ETF
Trust, which seeks to replicate the performance of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 stock index.  ETFs issue shares that trade on an exchange like stocks,
and can create new shares or redeem existing ones. Exchange-
traded notes, or ETNs, like the one backed by  Credit Suisse (CSGN) , by
contrast, issue unsecured securities that promise to deliver the
return of an index. The issuer, often a bank, typically uses
derivatives linked to the index to cover their obligation to
shareholders. If the issuer cannot repay the notes, investors
lose their money. Issuers may also decide to stop creating or
redeeming shares, unhinging the ETN from the security or index
it was designed to track.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest ETF provider, has urged
regulators to enforce clearer labeling rules and risk disclosure
requirements to help investors differentiate between products
that are often lumped together under the ETF name.  Fink’s Call  Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief executive officer of
the New York-based firm, in October compared the development of
increasingly complex exchange-traded products to the evolution
of mortgage-backed securities that ultimately helped cripple
financial markets in 2008.  “Examples like this support what we’re trying to do around
regulatory reform and the education of investors about exchange-
traded products,” Jennifer Grancio, head of U.S. distribution
for BlackRock’s iShares unit, said in a telephone interview,
referring to the Credit Suisse  ETN. (GAZ)  “All exchange-traded
products are not created equal.”  Investors, who bought the ETN to profit from rising
volatility, lost about $340 million when it dropped more than 50
percent over two days. The plunge began even before Credit
Suisse announced on the evening of March 22 that it would resume
issuing shares.  The initial drop reflected short selling amid speculation
new shares would come into the market after the ETN climbed to
record premiums, said Chris Hempstead, director of ETF execution
service at WallachBeth Capital LLC in New York. Less
sophisticated investors who didn’t anticipate the move were left
with the losses.  ‘No Obligation’  In a short sale, an investor borrows a fund or security,
then sells it, betting the price will fall and the security can
be repurchased later at a lower price.  When Credit Suisse stopped issuing TVIX shares temporarily
in February, it cited “internal limits on the size of the
ETN.” The product’s prospectus tells investors the issuer is
“under no obligation to issue additional ETNs to increase the
supply.”  Jack Grone, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in New York,
declined to comment.  Issuers stop adding shares, Morningstar’s Lee said, when
they reach a limit on their derivative positions imposed
internally or by an exchange or regulator. At that point, the
issuer is no longer assured of delivering the targeted return
without incurring a loss.  ’Fantasy World’  “The industry as a group makes the argument that they are
only dealing with sophisticated investors who read prospectuses
and understand the risks,” Lee said of ETN providers. “This is
sort of a fantasy world.”  Steven Cohen , 47, a packaging consultant in Denver, bought
2,000 TVIX shares in two batches on the morning of March 22,
predicting a rise in the VIX, which went up that day 2.9
percent. Instead of seeing the TVIX’s share price jump about 5.8
percent, as Cohen expected, it dropped 29 percent.  By the time Cohen sold all his shares on Friday, he’d lost
$6,490 on an initial investment of $24,640.  “It should have been up and I would have been out of it,”
Cohen said in a telephone interview, “They changed the rules
without letting anyone know. How do you just continue offering
the ETN in the market like nothing ever happened?”  Under Scrutiny  Cohen, who said he has traded in and out of the note more
than 10 times since September, said he filed a formal complaint
with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ETPs have come under scrutiny over several issues since
2009. The SEC examined whether they contributed to equity-market
volatility in 2010 and the 8.6 percent intraday plunge in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index on May 6, 2010, known as the
“flash crash.” The  International Monetary Fund  said last year
that European ETFs that generate returns through derivatives,
so-called “synthetic” ETFs, add a layer of complexity and risk
to financial markets.  Max Breier, a senior equity derivatives trader at BMO
Capital Markets Corp. in  New York , said he believed regulators
would re-examine ETNs in the wake of last week’s incident.  “It highlights that it’s kind of a dangerous instrument,”
Breier said. “As long as there’s this creation - halt to
creation game being played, it becomes an extra factor that you
have to look out for when you’re getting involved in this
product.”  Gas ETN  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  In addition to representing an unsecured debt, TVIX
presented complexities because it tracked an index that many
investors may not understand. It also added leverage to amplify
the moves of the underlying index. The Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority warned in 2009 that such products might not
be a good fit for long-term investors.  “I don’t want to say we need to have strict regulations,
saying that only qualified or sophisticated investors like  hedge
funds  can get into them, but there’s got to be something,”
Colby Wright, assistant professor of finance at Central Michigan
University, said in a telephone interview. “Retail investors
are going to get their clocks cleaned if we keep letting them do
this stuff.”  TVIX is not unique in having suspended share creations.
U.S. Natural Gas Fund temporarily stopped adding new shares in
2009 because of limits on energy speculation.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
iPath Dow Jones-UBS Natural Gas Total Return Sub-Index ETN also
stopped issuing new shares in 2009. It currently trades at a
premium of 86 percent, highest among 208 U.S. ETNs, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  BlackRock, as part of a distribution agreement with
Barclays, is paid to help sell the ETN. Grancio said the firm
only promotes the product to institutional investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  