-- CT Scan Can Weed Out Heart Attack Threat Quicker, Study Says
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-03-26T17:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ct-scan-can-weed-out-heart-attack-threat-quicker-study-says.html
A computer imaging scan can tell
doctors which patients with heart attack symptoms are fine and
can be sent home from the emergency room, avoiding extra stays
for evaluation, according to a study.  Most patients who visit a hospital with classic signs of
heart attack are given a battery of tests and admitted for
observation, only to be discharged a day later. A coronary
computed tomographic angiography, or CT scan, can weed out the
patients who aren’t at risk, avoiding stays, according to the
study released today in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  The scan “appears to allow the safe, expedited discharge
from the emergency department of many patients who would
otherwise be admitted,” the researchers wrote.  The use of such scans has been criticized by some as too
costly as well as potentially dangerous. The U.S. government has
reduced reimbursement by $6 billion since 2007 in its health
programs to quash rising costs and incentives to prescribe
unnecessary tests.  Patients who arrive at the emergency room with chest pains
usually undergo a variety of tests, some that cost more than a
CT scan, said  Harold Litt , an author of the study and associate
professor of radiology at the  University of Pennsylvania .  While the average  cost  of chest CT angiographies is $5,400,
a  stress test  traditionally done for heart pain costs $3,800 and
patients with cardiac distress are usually kept at least an
extra day for observation. The average price of a one-day stay
was $1,920 in 2010, according to Marie Watteau, a spokeswoman
for the Washington-based  American Hospital Association .  Competitive Cost  “In terms of direct costs, a CT scan is fairly
competitive,” Litt said by telephone “If you can get out of
the emergency department faster, if you don’t have to be
admitted to the hospital -- those things will decrease costs.”  Heart disease  is the leading cause of death in the U.S.,
and more than 1 million Americans have a heart attack every
year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control.  The research segmented two groups of patients, 908 who
received CT scans, and 462 treated traditionally. The patients
in the CT scan group were kept at the hospital for a median of
six hours fewer than the other group and had a higher discharge
rate. None of the patients died or suffered a heart attack
within 30 days following the scan, the study found.  Discharging patients not in danger of having a heart attack
quicker lets hospitals turn their attention to patients in need,
Litt said. The savings from that as well as avoiding other types
of scans or tests would be significant, he said.  The amount of radiation patients receive is also
comparable, if not less than competing scans, Litt said.  “Yes, there is a radiation dose, but it’s been
dramatically decreased over the past couple of years,” he said.  The study was sponsored by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
Department of Health and the American College of Radiology
Imaging Network Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  