-- Cuomo Said to Reach $13.1 Billion Deal to Fund MTA Projects
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-26T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/cuomo-said-to-reach-13-1-billion-deal-to-fund-mta-capital-plan.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and
legislative leaders agreed to fully fund the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority ’s five-year capital budget, allowing
projects such as the Second Avenue subway to proceed as planned,
said a person with direct knowledge of the deal.  The agreement, reached last night, provides $13.1 billion
for the final three years of the MTA’s 2010-2014 construction
program, which will help the agency complete some of the largest
projects in the history of New York, said the person, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity because a deal hasn’t been
formally announced. The state had originally funded only $9.1
billion for the first two years of the plan.  “The MTA is grateful for Governor Cuomo’s leadership and
commitment in recognizing the critical importance of funding
mass transit,” MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota said in a statement e-
mailed today. “With this funding, the MTA will continue to
enhance our riders’ experience by investing in the future of our
transportation network.”  The borrowing limit for the MTA, the biggest U.S. transit
agency, will increase to $41 billion from $34 billion as part of
the agreement, according to a bill printed yesterday that will
be voted on as soon as Wednesday.  That, along with $770 million in direct state funding, will
help the MTA continue work on  Manhattan ’s Second Avenue subway,
the Eastside Access project for the Long Island Rail Road, the
Fulton Street Transit Center and the extension of the subway to
the far west side, the person said. The funding also will go
toward new subway and rail cars, energy-efficient “green”
buses, station rehabilitation, enhanced communications and
signals, and new rail yards.  Federal Funding  The plan includes a $2.2 billion loan request to the
federal  Rail Road Rehabilitation & Improvement  program, the
person said. Additional federal funding unlocked by the state’s
$770 million commitment will compose the remainder of the
increase, the person said.  Cuomo proposed fully funding the MTA’s capital plan as part
of his $132.5 billion budget in January. This month, the
Republican-controlled Senate approved a budget resolution that
cut the $770 million in direct state funding, and denied the $7
billion increase in the authority’s debt cap.  Scott Reif , a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment on the deal.  The agreement is part of negotiations over Cuomo’s budget.
An agreement on the entire spending plan, which would raise
education funding by 4 percent, is expected as early as today.  The MTA operates Metro-North commuter rail; the Long Island
Rail Road;  New York City ’s subway and bus systems; and some city
bridges and tunnels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  