-- HD Supply Seeks to Refinance Term Loan, ABL Credit Facilities
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-26T17:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/hd-supply-seeks-to-refinance-term-loan-abl-credit-facilities.html
HD Supply Inc., the industrial
distribution company partly owned by Carlyle Group LP, Bain
Capital LLC and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC, is seeking to
refinance both its asset-based  credit line  and senior secured
 term loan  facility.  In addition to the refinancing the company is marketing a
private offering of first-lien notes due 2019 and second-lien
notes that mature in 2020, Atlanta-based HD Supply said today in
a statement.  Proceeds from a new covenant-lite term loan B, along with
drawings under a new $1.5 billion asset-based revolving line of
credit and the new debt, will be used to refinance the company’s
12 percent senior notes due in 2014, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. HD
Supply issued $2.5 billion of the notes in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Barclays
Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Wells Fargo & Co . and UBS AG are arranging the term loan
portion and will host a lender meeting tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. in
New York, the person said.  GE Capital Markets, the lending unit of General Electric
Co., is arranging the ABL piece and will host a lender call
tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. in New York to begin marketing the debt,
the person said.  Quiana Pinckney, a spokeswoman for HD Supply, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Carlyle, Bain and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice acquired HD
Supply for $8.5 billion in August 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan it can’t. An asset-based
financing is secured by the borrower’s inventory and accounts
receivables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 Mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  