-- DayByDay Beats RBS, Goldman in AQ Ranking
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/daybyday-beats-rbs-goldman-in-aq-ranking.html
Day By Day, a Paris-based research
company with 80 clients, gave the best trading recommendations
on European equities over the past three years, trumping  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to a
report by AQ Research.  The study by London-based AQ measured which firms gave the
most accurate forecast on stock movements.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Credit Suisse took second and third
place, respectively, while Goldman Sachs took the eighth spot in
the rankings, which were released today.  Valerie Gastaldy, a technical strategist and partner at Day
By Day who studies charts of trading patterns to predict price
changes, decides which stocks and industries to favor. A team of
five analysts assist her. She said that cutting losses early is
a central part of her strategy.  “If a stock loses 15 percent, for example, I stop my
buy,” Gastaldy said in an interview. “I’ll say ‘wait a minute,
I was wrong,’ and that makes an enormous difference. Last March,
I had a buy on banks and by May, I didn’t have a single one even
though fundamental analysts still had a lot.”  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  fell 5.3 percent from the start
of March 2011 to the beginning of May, before tumbling a further
43 percent though Nov. 23 amid concern the euro-region debt
crisis was spreading from  Greece  to the larger economies of
Italy and  Spain , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Best Advice’  AQ said it scored the success of each trading
recommendation and compiled an average over the past three
years. Research houses that gave absolute recommendations were
measured on the basis of a share-price change, while companies
that gave relative suggestions were graded on the price movement
compared with an underlying index.  “It’s a view of who gave the best advice over a tough time
in the equity research world,” William Russell-Smith, managing
director at AQ Research, said in an interview. “The result is
based on having the highest scores and being the most
consistent.”  Gastaldy, 47, was born in  Monaco  and earned an MBA from the
Essec business school in a suburb of Paris. She said she learned
technical analysis about 25 years ago while working as a market
maker at Meeschaert-Rousselle.  Her manager agreed to give a technical analysis course for
executives at Dauphine University, and wanted someone to split
the hours with him. Gastaldy studied the technique to teach the
classes and found that it worked better than fundamental
analysis, where investors look at metrics such as price-to-
earnings ratios.  Futures Products  She later managed futures products for private clients at
Tuffier Ravier Py. After taking nine years off to raise her
three children, she joined Day By Day in 2000.  Gastaldy said she has a “top down” strategy, looking
first at the market, then the industries and finally at specific
stocks. She analyzes the economic cycle using data from the
Tempe, Arizona-based  Institute for Supply Management  and studies
market sentiment by looking at how prices evolve versus implied
volatility. Once she determines how enthusiastic investors are
about taking on risk, she decides which industries to favor and
which to avoid.  “When aversion to risk is about fear of a hard landing in
 China , like today, then it’s best to be cautious about
automakers or basic-materials stocks,” she said.  Specific Shares  For the selection of specific shares, Gastaldy buys stocks
with the highest  relative strength  within their industry, and
sells those with the lowest score on this measure. Relative
strength gauges a stock price compared with the average of other
shares in the industry group.  Although her equity picks sometimes can mirror those of
fundamental analysts, she said her views often deviate in the
cases of stocks that face takeover speculation, such as  Hermes
International SCA. (RMS)   In December, Hermes’s family owners created a new holding
company after LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, the world’s
largest maker of  luxury goods , built up a 22 percent stake. The
new  capital structure  should limit speculation of a takeover,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc analysts. Gastaldy started a buy
recommendation on Hermes earlier this month.  “Fundamental analysts say it’s too expensive so won’t buy
it,” she said. “But I look at the relative strength and if the
momentum is favorable, I’ll buy it.”  Gastaldy also recommends buying banks and has a buy rating
on Paris-based Societe Generale SA, Barclays Plc and Banco
Santander SA.  “I will try to play financials longer than usual, so for a
few months,” she said. “I hope I can do it. If the market
tells me I’m wrong though, I won’t push it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  