-- Decision on Border Attack Adds to U.S.-Pakistan Tensions
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-26T00:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/decision-on-border-attack-adds-to-u-s-pakistan-tensions.html
The U.S. military’s decision not to
discipline any service members for a Nov. 25 air attack that
killed 24 Pakistani soldiers comes at an important moment in the
troubled relationship between the two nations.  While the attack has dogged relations for four months, the
U.S. and  Pakistan  also are debating larger matters: the future
of Central Intelligence Agency drone strikes on al-Qaeda and
other targets in Pakistan, reopening Pakistani supply routes for
NATO troops in Afghanistan, and Pakistan’s position on
negotiations between the U.S.-backed government of Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  and the Taliban.  President  Barack Obama  and Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  are scheduled to meet tomorrow on the sidelines of a
nuclear security summit meeting in  Seoul ,  South Korea , the first
high-level meeting of officials of the two countries since the
Nov. 25 incident.  Pakistani President Asif Zardari yesterday met with  Marc Grossman , the U.S. special representative for Afghanistan and
Pakistan in Dushanbe, Tajikistan and demanded “greater
transparency” in relations between the two countries and an end
to the CIA drone strikes, the  Press Trust of India  reported.  Although no charges were expected in the border case
because U.S. officials have said the Pakistanis fired first and
the clash then arose from confusion and miscommunication,
Pakistan’s military has issued a report placing full blame for
the border clash on the U.S. forces and demanded an American
apology.  Parliamentary Debate  A Pakistani parliamentary commission on national security
reinforced the demand last week as the legislature’s upper and
lower houses began a debate on the future of Pakistan’s
relationship with the U.S.  The issues include whether to permit the drone strikes in
Pakistan that have been a major element of the U.S. campaign
against Islamic militants and whether to reopen the border
crossings through which passed 40 percent of the supplies for
U.S.-led NATO forces in  Afghanistan .  The Taliban yesterday threatened to attack Pakistani
lawmakers and their families if they support reopening the
border crossings, which were closed after the attack on the
Pakistani border post, the  Associated Press  reported.  Protest rallies led by religious parties have drawn tens of
thousands of demonstrators in Lahore, Karachi, Islamabad and
other cities, each time pressing the Pakistani government not to
back down. The rallies have been led by an alliance called the
Difa-e-Pakistan (Pakistan Defense) Council.  Added Tension  Further compounding the political issues, news of the U.S.
decision against disciplinary action in the border attack, first
reported by the New York Times and confirmed by two U.S.
officials, came a day after American military officials in
neighboring Afghanistan paid hundreds of thousands of dollars as
a gesture of restitution to families of 17 Afghans allegedly
killed by a U.S. soldier in a March 11 rampage.  The compensation payments, reported by Afghan officials in
Kandahar province, where the attacks occurred, are the latest of
several conciliatory American gestures in Afghanistan over
missteps by its forces there.  Obama apologized to Afghan President Karzai for that
violence, as he did for a February incident in which American
troops angered Afghans by throwing copies of the Koran, the
Islamic scripture, into rubbish heaps to be burned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  