-- Derivatives Shift, High-Frequency Abuse, Salary Typo: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/derivatives-shift-high-frequency-abuse-salary-typo-compliance.html
Commodity brokers, facing a loss of
business from a shift of derivatives trading onto exchanges, are
seeking a reprieve under European proposals letting them
maintain control of less transparent niche markets.  Energy derivatives that don’t trade continuously, such as
swaps and options in Dated Brent crude and carbon permits,
should be treated differently than other asset classes such as
equities, Alex McDonald, chief executive of the  London Energy
Brokers’ Association , said in an interview last month. Rules
being considered by European lawmakers will help determine which
contracts are traded through Organized Trading Facilities, or
OTFs, where brokers wouldn’t need to disclose bids and offers.  The global credit freeze and record oil prices of 2008
prompted regulators around the world to shift more trade onto
exchanges such as ICE Futures  Europe  in  London  and Nord Pool ASA
in Oslo, increasing transparency. The rules for OTFs would allow
brokers including  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG)  to retain trades that might
have moved to the more-regulated markets. The exchanges oppose
this, saying they’ll be shut out of the $2.6 trillion non-
exchange commodity derivatives business.  As the rules stand, derivatives contracts, including those
for energy, will be divided across three categories and traded
on different platforms depending on how active, or liquid they
are, according to proposed amendments to the EU’s Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID.  Contracts may also be traded through two other types of
venue: exchanges and so-called multilateral trading facilities,
or MTFs, where pre-trade disclosure is required.  EU legislators have yet to detail the rules.  For more, click here, and click here.  Compliance Policy  Traders May Face Nordic-Style EU Fees for Canceled Orders  High-frequency traders and other investors may face
punitive fees when they create market volatility by placing
excessive numbers of canceled orders under European Union plans
to clamp down on market abuse.  The possible fees would be modeled on a standard introduced
last year on  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  exchanges in Nordic
countries, said Arlene McCarthy, a member of the  European
Parliament , who’s seeking to add the measure to a draft law by
EU Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier .  McCarthy, who’s in charge of preparing parliament’s
negotiating position on Barnier’s market-abuse proposals, said
in an interview that abuses should be curbed by using a fee
structure.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May 2010, during
which the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly lost almost 1,000
points. While such trades didn’t trigger the plunge, they did
intensify the resulting “liquidity crisis,” the  International
Organization of Securities Commissions  said in  a report  last
year.  Strategies used by high-frequency traders can lead to a
“very high” number of canceled orders, IOSCO said. Such high
cancellation rates have been linked with possible “abusive and
manipulative practices,” including so-called layering, in which
traders place large orders they have no intention of allowing to
go through.  McCarthy’s proposal is that traders face fees if they
exceed a pre-agreed ratio of canceled orders against
transactions completed.  For more, click here.  U.K. Banks Must Test Retail Structured Products for Fairness  Firms must stress-test structured financial products to
make sure they are fair before selling them to retail customers,
the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said.  Banks should probe their structured products for design
flaws and compare returns for customers against other investment
types, Britain’s financial watchdog said in a  report  on its
website March 23. Products should be designed “that meet the
target audience’s needs, rather than merely contributing towards
the firm’s bottom line.”  The FSA has increased pressure on banks to be transparent
in their dealings with retail customers.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined
7.7 million pounds ($12.2 million) in January last year for
failing to disclose risks in two funds it sold to thousands of
retirees.  Structured products are fixed-term investments that have a
return rate derived from a separate measure, such as a financial
index or basket of shares.  Compliance Action  ECB Amends Rule on Bank Bonds Guaranteed by Program States  The  European Central Bank  said euro-area national central
banks are no longer obliged to accept as collateral bank bonds
guaranteed by  member states  receiving aid from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Banks in the three bailed-out countries -- Greece, Portugal
and Ireland -- that have difficulty pledging adequate collateral
for ECB loans can use bonds they have issued as long as they are
guaranteed by their governments. While the ECB’s decision, taken
on March 21 and activated March 23, means other euro-area
central banks don’t have to accept those bonds as collateral,
the banks typically seek the loans via their own central banks.  The ECB has loosened its collateral criteria and loaned
banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years
to fight off a credit crunch, prompting Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann to write a letter to ECB President Mario Draghi
warning about the risks the central bank is taking. Weidmann has
also called on policy makers to start planning for the eventual
withdrawal of the emergency lending measures.  In the amendment published March 23, the ECB said central
banks are also not obliged to accept bank bonds guaranteed by a
member state “whose credit assessment does not comply with the
Eurosystem’s benchmark for establishing its minimum requirement
for high credit standards.”  Courts/Tribunals  JPMorgan Sued by Currency Trader Over $3 Million Decimal Point  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is being sued by a trader who says he
accepted a contract from the investment bank because a
typographical error made him believe he would be paid 10 times
what was actually offered.  Kai Herbert, a Switzerland-based currency trader, is suing
JPMorgan for about 580,000 pounds ($920,000), his lawyers said
at a trial in London last week. The original contract said
Herbert’s annual pay would be 24 million rand ($3.1 million).
JPMorgan blamed the mistake on a typographical error and said
the figure should have been 2.4 million rand, according to court
documents.  Herbert resigned from  UBS AG (UBSN)  in June 2010 following the
offer from JPMorgan to relocate to Johannesburg. Herbert didn’t
report for work after discovering the discrepancy and JPMorgan
rescinded the employment offer in December 2010.  He has been unemployed since, other than eight months at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  where he was fired in a round of layoffs
in November. Banks globally have cut about 196,000 jobs since
the start of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank said Herbert could have mitigated his lost
earnings by taking the position at the New York-based bank.  Banker salaries are the focus of several cases in London
courts a case involving  Commerzbank AG (CBK) .  Kate Haywood , a spokeswoman at JPMorgan declined to
comment. Herbert’s lawyer, Dale Langley, declined to comment as
did JPMorgan lawyer Stefan Martin.  The case is Herbert v. JPMorgan, High Court of Justice
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ11X02595.  Ex-Citigroup ‘Ponzi’ Banker’s Lifetime  Hong Kong  Ban Overturned  Former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  employee Ramesh Sadhwani, accused of
running a  Ponzi scheme  while at the bank, had a lifetime ban
from Hong Kong’s securities industry overturned on judicial
review.  Alan Wright, a chairman of the city’s Securities and
Futures Appeal Tribunal and a High Court judge, substituted a
10-year ban on Sadhwani, according to a  ruling  posted on the
Website of the appeals body March 22.  Hong Kong’s  Securities and Futures Commission  sought the
lifetime ban after Sadhwani was terminated by Citigroup in 2009
for misrepresenting guaranteed returns on investments and
breaching internal bank policies, according to the ruling.  A 10-year ban is “appropriate,” Wright wrote.  Interviews/Speeches  Chilton Says CFTC May Act on Futures Rules by Summer  Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, talked about the investigation into bankrupt
commodities broker  MF Global Inc. (MF)  and prospects for regulations
that would place tighter restrictions on firms’ use of investor
funds.  Chilton spoke with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  CFTC Deputy Economist Moser Leaving for American University  Jim Moser, the deputy chief economist at the U.S.  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission , this month will leave the agency,
which is in charge of writing new rules for the global swaps
market under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Moser, who analyzed Dodd-Frank rules restricting
speculation in oil and other commodities, as well as the costs
and benefits of regulations, will join  American University  in
 Washington  to direct the master’s in finance program, he said in
a telephone interview March 23.  Moser, who was acting chief economist in 2010, was
previously a research officer at the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Chicago  and a senior director at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, according to  the CFTC .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 