-- Deutsche Bank to Pay $32.5 Million to Settle Mortgage Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-26T16:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/deutsche-bank-to-pay-32-5-million-to-settle-mortgage-suit-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest
lender, agreed to pay $32.5 million to settle claims in U.S.
litigation that it lied about the quality of home loans
underlying securities it sold.  The investors that sued, including the Massachusetts
Bricklayers and Masons Trust Funds, filed a motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement in federal court in
 Central Islip , New York, today.  “The proposed settlement will provide a substantial
monetary benefit to the settlement class,” lawyers for the
plaintiffs wrote in the filing. U.S. District Judge Leonard D. Wexler must approve the deal.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that, once burst, helped push the
U.S. into the biggest recession since the 1930s. The market for
mortgage-backed securities peaked at $2.3 trillion in 2007.
Investors have filed class-action, or group, lawsuits against at
least 16 private issuers of securities backed by mortgages.  The banks have argued the housing collapse, rather than any
misrepresentation on their part, caused investor losses.  “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, said
in a telephone interview.  Other Settlements  The Deutsche Bank settlement amount is less than two
previously announced agreements in cases brought by investors
against banks.  Bank of American Corp. reached a $315 million settlement
with a group of investors who sued its Merrill Lynch unit
claiming they were misled about mortgage-backed securities,
according to a December court filing.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to settle litigation against it
for $125 million two weeks before a scheduled class-
certification hearing in July. That case concerned $27.3 billion
of certificates sold by the San Francisco-based bank.  In 2006, the plaintiffs bought from Deutsche Bank so-called
pass-through certificates that gave them the right to the
payments on the underlying home loans. The offering documents
contained misstatements about loan underwriting standards,
property appraisals, loan-to-value ratios and credit ratings on
the certificates, according to the complaint.  At the same time Deutsche Bank was selling the securities,
it was profiting from credit-default swaps by wagering that
loans like those underlying the certificates would decline in
value, the investors said.  ‘Principal Losses’  More than 49 percent of the loans underlying one
certificate series were delinquent or foreclosed on, the
investors said. The tranche the Massachusetts Bricklayers and
Masons Trust Funds, the lead plaintiff, bought “has already
realized cumulative principal losses,” according to the
complaint.  A sale when the suit was filed in 2008 would have netted
between 70 and 80 cents on the dollar, according to the
investors.  “The certificates are no longer marketable at prices
anywhere near the price paid,” according to the complaint.  The case is Massachusetts Bricklayers and Masons Trust
Funds v. Deutsche Alt-A Securities Inc., 08-cv-3178, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  