-- Deutsche Bank No. 1 in Europe as Leverage Hits Valuation
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-27T17:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/deutsche-bank-no-1-in-europe-as-leverage-hits-market-valuation.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , adding assets as
other lenders trim their balance sheets, leapfrogged France’s
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  to reclaim the title of  Europe ’s largest bank.  Assets at the Frankfurt-based company rose 14 percent to
2.16 trillion euros ($2.88 trillion) in 2011, making it the
largest publicly traded bank in Europe for the first time in
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann, who has called
proposals to limit bank size “misguided,” will leave behind a
balance sheet about 40 percent larger than in 2006, and more
than 80 percent as big as  Germany ’s economy, when he steps down
in May. The firm is the second-most leveraged and third-least
capitalized of Europe’s 10 largest banks, even after Ackermann
boosted reserves and trimmed dependence on borrowed money.  “Deutsche Bank has been pretty decidedly opposed to
reducing its balance sheet,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps
manage about $15 billion at Landesbank Berlin Investment. “It’s
understandable: The higher your leverage, the higher the returns
when times are good. They want to cut as little as possible to
keep doing as much business as possible.”  The higher leverage also makes Deutsche Bank’s earnings
more volatile and dependent on market swings. When debt markets
rallied in 2009, the bank posted a return on average equity of
14.6 percent. The following year, as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis roiled investors, that measure of profitability fell to
5.5 percent. It stood at 8.2 percent last year.  Price to Book  Shares (DBK)  trade at a price-to-book ratio of 0.65, implying
that investors don’t believe the bank’s assets are worth as much
as the company says. Deutsche Bank’s ratio is the seventh lowest
among the  50 global banks  with the closest market value, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s no doubt that leverage and lack of capital are
impacting Deutsche Bank’s valuation,” said  Christopher Wheeler ,
a London-based banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA, who has an
underperform rating on the stock.  Still, through yesterday shares had gained 37 percent since
Dec. 21, when the  European Central Bank  made its first round of
three-year loans to stave off a credit crunch, compared with a
20 percent gain on the Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index . Deutsche Bank fell 0.8 percent to 38.65 euros in
Frankfurt trading today.  Size Risk  The bank is able to maintain less capital than peers and
borrow more to enhance returns because clients believe the
German government would never let it fail, Roehmeyer said. That
may be reflected in the company’s share-price performance and
cost of funding, he said. Insuring against default on Deutsche
Bank’s debt with credit-default swaps is less expensive than it
is for any of the 10 biggest banks except  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fitch Ratings in December cited Germany’s ability and
propensity to support the bank as a reason for giving it a
“stable outlook.”  Ackermann, 64, has criticized proposals to shrink banks or
split them up, saying risk isn’t related to size and that global
banks are important to international trade and economic growth.  “It is not size as such that is the problem but the
interconnectedness of banks,” Ackermann wrote in the Financial
Times in July 2009, citing the collapse of New York-based Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and German property lender Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG, which he said weren’t big.  Market Value  Size can help firms win market share as clients will work
with banks able to offer a broader array of services, said
Andrew Lim, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
 London . Still, Lim cut his rating on Deutsche Bank to sell from
neutral on Feb. 8 on concern that a lower level of capital would
force the bank to forgo some trades, reducing profitability.  “You can be big, but you have to have the capital backing
you up,” Lim said in an interview.  Those doubts may help explain why Deutsche Bank’s market
value, at 36 billion euros, lags European competitors such as
HSBC, Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , BNP Paribas, Switzerland’s  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   Deutsche Bank has expanded in tandem with Germany’s
economy, which grew in four of the last five years, posting its
only decline in 2009 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bank’s loan book, which
includes credit to companies and consumers, increased in each of
those years save 2009, when it shrunk 3.7 percent, according to
presentations published on the company’s website.  Increasing Assets  The bank increased assets even as the financial crisis that
began in 2007 and accelerated in 2008 forced governments to
rescue banks at taxpayer expense. While the firm navigated the
credit crunch and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis with smaller
losses than many competitors and no direct state aid, its size
worries some policy makers.  “The truth of the matter is we haven’t solved the too-big-
to-fail challenge in this country,” Ralph Brinkhaus, a member
of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union
who sits on the finance committee, said in an interview. “And
that problem becomes all the more a matter of concern the bigger
the bank is -- and in the case of Deutsche Bank, is becoming.”  Deutsche Bank’s balance sheet has been buoyed by
acquisitions and its derivatives book, one of the biggest in
Europe, which increases in value during periods of market
volatility. The jump comes as banks across Europe have pledged
to cut at least 950 billion euros of assets over the next two
years to meet tougher capital standards, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  BNP Shrinking  BNP Paribas, the largest bank in Europe in 2010 after
snapping up Fortis assets, shrank its balance sheet by 1.7
percent last year to 1.97 trillion euros, the lowest since 2007,
as the Paris-based lender reduced U.S. dollar-funding needs.
HSBC, the biggest bank in Europe by market value, was the second
biggest by assets at the end of last year, after the London-
based company’s balance sheet expanded 4 percent, and BNP
Paribas was third.  Since the end of 2009, Deutsche Bank has increased its
assets 44 percent, while the nine other largest European banks
on average posted a 5 percent rise.  European and U.S. banks use different accounting standards,
making comparisons difficult. One variance: U.S. lenders net out
derivatives positions, while most European banks don’t.  Deutsche Bank, which had 2.16 trillion euros of assets at
the end of 2011 under international financial reporting
standards, or IFRS, had total adjusted assets after netting
derivatives of 1.27 trillion euros, up about 5 percent from the
previous year.  Bigger Balance Sheet  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank, based in  New
York , reported assets of $2.27 trillion, or 1.7 trillion euros,
up 7 percent in 2011, under generally accepted accounting
principles used in the U.S. Assets at Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp.  were $2.13 trillion, or 1.6 trillion
euros, down 6 percent.  BNP’s  size  after netting derivatives would be about 965
billion euros, according to the company.  Deutsche Bank’s bigger balance sheet is partly the result
of acquisitions aimed at lowering the company’s dependence on
investment banking. In the last three years, it bought German
consumer lender Deutsche Postbank AG, adding about 200 billion
euros in assets, wealth manager Sal. Oppenheim Group and part of
ABN Amro Holding NV. The bank’s goal is to raise pretax earnings
from consumer lending, money management and transaction banking
to 50 percent of the total from 29 percent in 2009. Deutsche
Bank said last month it’s in talks to sell part of its asset-
management business to Guggenheim Partners LLC.  Potential Damage  Net income last year rose 79 percent to 4.13 billion euros
as gains at the retail unit and asset and wealth-management
businesses helped offset a decline in investment banking. Still,
Deutsche Bank scrapped its forecast for operating pretax profit
of 10 billion euros for 2011 in October, citing a slowdown in
client business amid the sovereign-debt crisis.  As the bank’s assets have grown, so has the potential
damage from the firm’s collapse on counterparties, companies,
retail clients and German taxpayers, said Konrad Becker, a
Munich-based analyst at Merck Finck & Co.  “If a jumbo jet crashes, the damage is larger than a
propeller plane, even if size doesn’t necessarily determine the
likelihood of an accident,” Becker said. “More problems can
arise from a bigger balance sheet, and there’s a risk of a shift
from quality to quantity.”  With Ackermann’s departure, the challenge of balancing size
and capital strength will fall to co-CEOs Anshu Jain, 49, who
now runs the corporate and investment bank, and Juergen Fitschen, 63, head of the bank’s German business. Deutsche Bank
announced this month that Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger and
Chief Operating Officer Hermann-Josef Lamberti will leave May
31. Stuart Lewis, who will become chief risk officer, Stephan Leithner and Henry Ritchotte will join the management board.  Capital Rules  Banking consolidation “sadly” will be “one of the many
potential unintended consequences of regulation,” Jain said in
a Bloomberg Television interview on Jan. 26. When asked about
the systemic risks posed by bigger banks, Jain said that “you
have the tradeoffs of too-big-to-fail on the one side and the
benefits of diversification on the other.”  The global financial system has a “worse problem” now
than before the U.S. subprime crisis because banks have actually
gotten bigger through acquisitions, Nouriel Roubini, the New
York University professor who predicted the 2008 financial
crisis, said in Davos on Jan. 27.  Even Bigger  “They’ve become even bigger-to-fail,” Roubini said. “Now
we’re saying we’ve reformed the system; we have living wills; we
have insolvency regimes, and we’re going to be able to break up
these monsters or close them down when there is the next crisis.
Nobody really believes that, this is something that’s not going
to happen.”  Lehman’s bankruptcy, which led to more than $2 trillion in
losses and taxpayer bailouts worldwide, spurred regulators to
introduce stricter capital rules for financial firms.  Deutsche Bank increased its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a
measure of financial strength that takes into account risk-
weightings assigned to various assets, to 10.8 percent by the
end of 2011 from 7 percent at the end of 2008.  Risk-Weightings  Risk-weighted assets at Deutsche Bank will rise to 499
billion euros at the beginning of 2013 from 381 billion euros at
the end of 2011 as new rules from the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, known as Basel III, increase the value of the
assets by 105 billion euros, according to a simulation included
in a Feb. 2 company  presentation .  The amount would be higher if it excluded mitigation plans,
which Deutsche Bank hasn’t broken down. The firm previously
reduced risk-weighted assets by selling securitized products,
allowing assets to expire and engaging in hedging.  The new rules assign higher risk-weightings to force banks
to increase the amount of capital they hold against assets and
boost their ability to withstand shocks in financial markets.  Deutsche Bank’s ratio of common equity to risk-weighted
assets using Basel III standards would be 7.4 percent by the end
of this year compared with 9.9 percent at Morgan Stanley, 9.7
percent at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and 8.5 percent at Citigroup
Inc., JPMorgan analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan
estimated in a Jan. 24 note.  Banks worldwide will be required to hold common equity of
at least 7 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019 when the
rules take effect, and firms deemed systemically important, such
as Deutsche Bank, will need more.  Leverage Ratio  Deutsche Bank is focusing on reining in assets weighted
according to risk instead of its total balance sheet to boost
capital levels, said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets.  Total assets exceeded Tier 1 capital by 44 times as of Dec.
31, making the German lender the second-most leveraged among the
10 biggest European banks, behind France’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  at
46 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deutsche Bank’s leverage is down from 68 times at the end
of 2007, when the U.S. subprime crisis was claiming its first
casualties.  The bank says its leverage ratio, as calculated under an
in-house “target definition” that makes it more comparable to
U.S. peers, is 21, higher than JPMorgan’s, which is about 15.  “Leverage alone is not a good risk measure as it ignores
balance-sheet composition,” said Christian Streckert, a
spokesman for Deutsche Bank. “For example, our growth in cash
and liquid assets improved the bank’s risk position and at the
same time resulted in an increased leverage.”  Counterparty Risk  Deutsche Bank in the fourth quarter also cut its trading
risk at the corporate and investment-banking unit to the lowest
since at least 2003, according to company filings on average
value at risk, or VaR, a measure of how much it could lose in
trading in one day.  The bank will increase its VaR because the fourth-quarter
level isn’t sustainable, Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause 
said in February.  The German lender has one of the biggest derivatives books
in Europe because it’s the largest trader of fixed income,
currencies and commodities, Kepler’s Becker said. The notional
value of those contracts increased last year because of higher
market volatility and the appreciation of the dollar against the
euro, he said.  “The larger your derivatives book, the more counterparty
and price risks you have,” Kepler’s Becker said. “Deutsche
Bank managed risk extremely well under Banziger. The question is
whether it will work as well under the new risk chief.”  ‘Can Go Wrong’  Derivatives are a type of security whose price is dependent
upon or derived from underlying assets such as stocks, bonds,
commodities and currencies. The contracts between two or more
parties are often used to hedge risk.  “Derivatives used properly can reduce risk, but things can
go wrong, especially if there’s too much concentration in your
book,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, a London-based analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Corp. who has a hold rating on the bank’s
shares. “From an analytical perspective, my primary focus is
rarely total size, but it does attract regulatory and media
attention.”  Global regulators have tried to address issues of too-big-
to-fail with measures that go beyond Basel rules.  Beyond Basel  The Financial Stability Board, a body set up by the Group
of 20 nations that includes regulators and central bankers, in
November published a provisional list of 29 systemically
important lenders that must hold additional capital. Deutsche
Bank and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  may get the second-highest surcharge of 2
percentage points, while banks including JPMorgan and BNP
Paribas may face the top charge of 2.5 percentage points,
according to a copy of a second list obtained by Bloomberg News.  Germany has introduced a law aimed at helping the
government restructure lenders and avoid bailouts. Beginning in
2011, the Federal Agency for Financial Market Stabilization
began to oversee a restructuring fund and collect a bank levy
that will enable it to reorganize lenders and protect
systemically relevant parts of struggling firms.  Germany’s governing coalition of Christian Democrats and
Free Democrats is considering copying the U.K. by introducing a
legal separation of lenders’ investment-banking and consumer
arms, and the Finance Ministry is drawing up a feasibility
study, lawmakers have said.  ‘A Juggernaut’  “We have introduced multilevel checks and balances
globally as well as in Germany that show we’ve learned from the
crisis,” Bjoern Saenger, a Free Democrat member of the finance
committee, said in an interview. “Clearly Deutsche Bank has
become a juggernaut, and it makes good political sense to be
aware of that development. But I don’t see a problem. Most in
Germany would say having a global player is a good thing.”  Germany and France led efforts in 2009 to weaken capital
regulations proposed by the Basel committee for lenders
worldwide. The group softened its original proposals for how
much capital banks will be required to have in proportion to
assets weighted according to their perceived risk, while the
plan to limit banks’ gross assets in comparison to capital is
still under review.  That contrasts with Switzerland and Sweden, which are
requiring lenders to boost capital beyond Basel requirements and
sell securities that become equity in times of market turmoil.  UBS Losses  The danger of balance-sheet expansion came to light during
the last credit crisis. Before global credit markets froze in
2007, UBS added assets to boost earnings and shareholder
returns. Profit at the Zurich-based bank doubled between 1999
and 2006 as its balance sheet more than doubled.  Once the crisis hit, the bank found itself with losses and
writedowns of more than $57 billion from securities such as
super-senior tranches of collateralized debt obligations, which
often had top ratings and were perceived to be risk-free. The
near collapse of the firm, which was rescued by the Swiss
government, illustrated how high leverage can translate into
greater risk and unforeseen losses.  A more recent example of assets once seen as almost risk-
free turning sour is sovereign debt. Long-term Greek  government
bonds  were rated A-, six levels below the top rating by Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, until December 2009. Moody’s
Investors Service kept an equivalent rating until June 2010.  The Greek government this month carried out the biggest
sovereign-debt restructuring in history after banks, insurers
and other investors backed a plan to forgive more than half of
the 206 billion euros in debt held by private investors.  Systemically Important  Deutsche Bank cut its net exposure to the sovereign debt of
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain to 3.67 billion euros
at the end of last year from 12.1 billion euros in 2010, helped
by hedging, writedowns and maturing bonds. The lender has been
praised by investors and analysts for holding fewer U.S.
subprime mortgages and less sovereign debt than many peers.  At the end of 2010, Deutsche Bank was ranked the world’s
most systemically important financial institution by  Japan ’s
Financial Services Agency and central bank, based on estimates
about the impact a failure would have on the global financial
system, according to Mainichi newspaper.  “On the one hand, it made us proud, but on the other hand,
of course, we’re aware of the responsibility,” Ackermann said
at an earnings press conference in February 2011 when asked
about being deemed the world’s most systemically important bank.  By the end of May, the Swiss native will no longer carry
that weight on his shoulders. After the shareholders meeting,
he’ll pass the baton to Jain and Fitschen.  The co-CEOs may sleep comfortably, knowing they’ve got
German taxpayers behind them, Merck Finck’s Becker said.  “No government in this world would let a bank with
comparable significance to Deutsche Bank go bust,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  