-- Developers Gain on Citigroup Election Report: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-26T08:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/developers-gain-on-citigroup-election-report-hong-kong-mover.html
Hong Kong developers , led by New
World Development Co., rose in  Hong Kong  trading after Citigroup
Inc. said Chief Executive Elect Leung Chun-ying will probably
continue the current administration’s housing policy.  New World, led by billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, rose 3.8
percent to HK$9.26 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong.  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1) , the builder controlled by Li Ka-shing, Hong
Kong’s richest man, advanced 2.4 percent, while  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , the city’s biggest developer, climbed 2 percent.  Leung, a former property surveyor, yesterday won the
election to be Hong Kong’s next chief executive, after getting
about 60 percent of the vote from a 1,193-member panel of the
city’s billionaires, academics and professionals. Leung, who has
pledged to bridge the  income gap  and bring down housing prices,
didn’t originally have the backing of the mainstream business
community with Li and most of the city’s other billionaires
choosing to nominate his rival for the position.  “We reiterate our views that general property prices will
not fall substantially on the simple theme of Leung taking
office,” Adrienne Lui, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Citigroup,
wrote in a report dated today. “His detailed proposed land and
housing policies do not differ significantly from what the
current administration is pursuing.”  Hong Kong’s home prices have risen more than 70 percent
between early 2009 and the middle of last year, drawing protests
that housing has become unaffordable for the general public.
Transactions and prices began slowing down after  mortgage rates 
increased and the government stepped up measures to curb the
real estate market.  Hang Lung  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, gained 1.7 percent, the most since Feb. 28.  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , whose chairman Ronnie Chan has
been one of the most vocal supporters of Leung since he
announced his candidacy last year, rose 0.7 percent. Sino Land
Co., the developer controlled by Singapore billionaire Robert Ng,
advanced 4 percent.  Henry Cheng, New World’s chairman and the son of Cheng Yu-
tung, yesterday told reporters he voted for Leung, after having
nominated Henry Tang, Leung’s main rival in the election, in
February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  