-- Dollar Trades Near Lowest This Month Versus Euro on Fed
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-03-27T06:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/dollar-trades-near-lowest-this-month-versus-euro-on-fed.html
The dollar traded 0.1 percent from
its lowest this month against the euro amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will maintain easy monetary policy to sustain
growth in the world’s biggest economy.  The greenback, which has weakened against 15 of 16 major
peers this year, remained lower as comments by Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday added to signs the central
bank will embark on a third round of quantitative easing, or
QE3. The Chinese yuan, South  Korean won  and Philippine peso rose
as Asian stocks extended a global rally. Demand for the euro was
supported amid prospects European finance ministers will agree
to bolster the region’s debt-crisis firewall this week.  “The  U.S. dollar  is going to find it difficult to rally,”
said Andrew Salter, a strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  Bernanke’s comments “were taken to
mean the chances of QE3 were more likely,” Salter said.  The dollar traded at $1.3353 per euro at 7:18 a.m. in
 London , little changed from yesterday, when it touched $1.3368,
the weakest since Feb. 29. The greenback has declined 2.9
percent this year against the common currency.  The yen was at 82.86 per dollar from 82.82 yesterday, when
it slid 0.6 percent. The euro was unchanged at 110.65 yen, after
gaining 1.3 percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 1.9 percent
following a 1.2 percent advance in the MSCI World Index
yesterday.  Euro Resistance  UBS AG said the euro may rise to $1.3489, the highest since
Dec. 2, after it crossed above a resistance level yesterday.  Europe’s common currency broke the “the $1.3294 to $1.3303
resistance range to activate the stop on our recent short
recommendation,”  Richard Adcock , a currency and fixed-income
technical strategist at UBS in London, wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  A resistance level is an area on a chart where analysts
anticipate orders to sell a currency will be grouped and a
support level is an area where they anticipate buy orders will
be clustered.  Bernanke is scheduled to give a lecture today at George
Washington University. Yesterday in a  speech  in Arlington,
 Virginia , he said that “further significant improvements in the
 unemployment rate  will likely require a more-rapid expansion of
production and demand from consumers and businesses, a process
that can be supported by continued accommodative policies.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011. The U.S.
central bank has held its target interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Yuan Gains  The yuan snapped a two-day decline after  China ’s central
bank set a record high fixing for the third day as Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  told U.S. President  Barack Obama  the country
will allow a more flexible  exchange rate . China plans to “let
the market play a greater role” and increase flexibility of the
yuan, Hu told Obama in a meeting in  Seoul  yesterday, according
to a statement on the foreign ministry website.  “Hu’s remarks and the fixing give signals that the yuan
will continue its appreciation path, although that could be a
bit bumpy on the uncertain global economic outlook,” said
Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co.  The yuan gained 0.11 percent to 6.3070 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The
People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s reference rate at 6.2840
per dollar today, the strongest level since the nation ended a
dollar peg in July 2005 and 0.48 percent higher than yesterday’s
closing price of 6.3140. The currency is allowed to move as much
as 0.5 percent on either side of the fixing.  Korean Won  South Korea ’s won strengthened for the first time in six
days as the nation’s consumer confidence rose to the highest in
four months. The Philippine peso climbed the most in two weeks
on speculation funds sent home by citizens based abroad will
rise to meet payments for school fees.  The won climbed 0.7 percent to 1,134.20 and the Philippine
currency gained 0.3 percent to 42.929.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies fell to 10.02 percent, from as high as 10.18
yesterday, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7) . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits.  The yen has depreciated 11 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar was fallen
2.9 percent, the second-biggest drop. The euro has gained 0.4
percent, while the New Zealand dollar’s 3.4 percent jump is the
biggest advance.  Bailout Funds  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that her
country may back plans for  Europe ’s temporary and permanent
rescue funds to run in parallel. Finance ministers will meet in
Copenhagen this week to discuss the prospect of combining the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility and its
permanent successor from July, the European Stability Mechanism.  “It’s certainly a positive for the euro if they manage to
expand the bailout mechanism in Europe,” said ANZ’s Salter, who
expects the currency to rise to $1.37 by year-end. “The risk
discount that has been priced into the euro as a result of the
potential for some serious deterioration in sovereign funding
would be removed if that bailout package is in place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  