-- Leaders Target Loose Nuclear Material, Draft Communiqué Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-03-26T08:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/leaders-target-loose-nuclear-material-draft-communique-says.html
World leaders may pledge tighter
controls over nuclear materials to keep them out of the hands of
terrorists, according to the draft of a communique to be
released at the end of their two-day meeting in  Seoul .  Securing vulnerable nuclear material before the next
 Nuclear Security Summit  in 2014 is the top priority, according
to a copy of the six-page working document obtained by Bloomberg
News. The draft, completed at a March 23 meeting of nuclear
advisers attending the meetings in the South Korean capital,
will be subject to debate at the gathering that ends tomorrow.  “One of the virtues of the nuclear security summit process
is that all countries can agree that it is worthwhile to prevent
nuclear terrorism, even if they cannot agree on proliferation,
disarmament, and nuclear energy issues,” Matthew Bunn, a
Harvard University professor and former adviser to President
 Bill Clinton , wrote today in an e-mailed response to questions.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Russia’s Dmitry Medvedev
are among more than 40 leaders attending the meeting to stave
off terrorist acquisition of nuclear material. The legacy of the
Soviet Union’s breakup, inadequate atomic stockpile controls and
the proliferation of nuclear-fuel technology mean the world has
lost precise count of atomic material. At least 2 million
kilograms (4.4 million pounds) of weapons-grade nuclear material
is stockpiled, according to the Princeton, New Jersey-based
International Panel on Fissile Materials.  Draft Changes  Some nations wanted the summit to “affirm that full and
effective implementation” of nuclear treaties “has a vital
role in promoting international peace and security,” according
to a previous draft of the statement written Feb. 21 and also
obtained by Bloomberg News.  North Korea  dropped out of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty in 2003 while  Iran  has been accused of violating its
statutes by seeking an atomic-weapons capability. Other nations
like  India ,  Israel  and  Pakistan  aren’t members of the treaty.  “The summit participants include countries who want the
nuclear weapon states to commit to rapid nuclear disarmament and
states with nuclear weapons that absolutely oppose going to zero
any time soon,” Bunn said.  The U.S. has a “unique responsibililty” and “moral
obligation” when it comes to atomic weapons, President Barack
Obama said today in a speech at Hankuk University of Foreign
Studies in Seoul. “I say this as President of the only nation
ever to use nuclear weapons.”  Fukushima Meltdowns  The U.S. will seek talks with  Russia  to reduce strategic
and tactical weapons and warheads in reserve, Obama said, adding
that the U.S. has “more nuclear weapons than we need.”  Leaders at the summit will say that the March 2011
Fukushima Dai-Ichi meltdowns show that “sustained efforts” are
needed to improve safety and security, according to the draft.
They will also move to stop using high-enriched uranium to
produce medical isotopes used in cancer treatments by next year,
the document says.  Countries should enact legislation binding themselves to
international conventions on nuclear terrorism and nuclear-
material protection, according to the draft. While the  U.S.
Senate  has approved both conventions, the  House of
Representatives  hasn’t passed implementing legislation bringing
the conventions into law.  “We’re at the beginning of a much different nuclear era,”
Kenneth Luongo, President of the Partnership for Global Security
and a former arms-control adviser at the  Department of Energy ,
said in an interview in Seoul. “Nuclear power will begin
growing in much more dangerous neighborhoods as the world
population grows and energy demands increase.”  Dirty Bombs  The communiqué will also highlight the need to contain
lower-level radioactive materials needed for so-called “dirty
bombs,” support the creation of a nuclear-forensics database
and encourage countries to share more police data on smuggling,
according to the draft.  Leaders will issue the meeting’s final communiqué at 4:30
p.m. local time in Seoul tomorrow, summit spokesman Hahn Choong
Hee said today at a press briefing. Leader’s won’t issue a
separate work plan on the steps needed to contain nuclear
material like they did in 2010, he said.  European leaders are being kept away from the summit
because of political complications and budget conflicts, Hahn
said. UK Prime Minister  David Cameron , French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel aren’t attending the
two-day meeting.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , whose country will host
the next summit in 2014, had to cancel his appearance because of
budget negotiations, according to Hahn.  The absence of high-level leaders is “unfortunate,” Bunn
said. “A key point of the summit process is to raise these
issues to a level where decisions can be made that cut across
agency boundaries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Seoul at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  