-- Eating Chocolate Regularly May Make You Leaner, Survey Suggests
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-03-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/eating-chocolate-regularly-may-make-you-leaner-survey-suggests.html
A survey of about 1,000 Americans 
that suggests eating chocolate may help people get leaner 
deserves to be followed up with more study, according to a
California-based researcher.  The survey found that those who ate chocolate about five
times a week had a body mass index one point lower than those
who didn’t indulge, Beatrice Golomb, at the  University of 
 California ,  San Diego ,  wrote  in a letter published in the
Archives of  Internal Medicine .  For someone who weighs 120 pounds and is 5 feet tall, one
BMI point translates to about 5 pounds, Golomb said in a
telephone interview. The report, the first to tie chocolate
consumption to lower  body mass index , doesn’t say how much or
what type of chocolate was eaten, nor does it control for diet
and exercise, opening the way for more research.  While not definitive, the survey “does pose a very
interesting question that researchers can jump on,” said Nancy
Copperman, director of Public Health Initiatives at  North Shore-
LIJ Health System  in Great Neck,  New York , who wasn’t involved
with the survey. “Lowering of BMI wasn’t related to how much
they ate but frequency.”  The survey results suggest researchers looking at diet
should consider the types, rather than number, of calories
people are eating as foods such as cinnamon and chocolate are
found to provide possible health benefits, said Golomb, an
associate professor of family and preventive medicine at the
university’s School of Medicine.  “Chocolate has already shown favorable associations to
heart disease, all-cause mortality,  blood pressure  and even
cavities,” she said “If you’re eating a couple of squares of
chocolate a number of times a week, it’s probably just fine.
Typically chocolate is consumed as a sweet and should have
adverse applications for body mass index. In fact, it’s the
converse,” according to the survey.  1,000 Surveyed  The researcher surveyed more than 1,000 men and women who
didn’t have any known  heart disease  or diabetes. Of those, 972
had their BMI calculated and 975 filled out a food frequency
questionnaire. The relationship between chocolate and body mass
index was true, even though those who ate chocolate actually
consumed more calories, Golomb’s letter said.  Golomb said a study where some people eat chocolate and
some don’t that controls for diet and exercise is needed to
shore up the suggested link.  Based on previous research, Copperman said about 1 ounce of
dark chocolate, the equivalent of one McLean, Virginia-based
Mars Inc.’s Dove dark chocolate square, is fine to consume each
day. People can also sprinkle cocoa powder on foods like oatmeal
or fruit to get benefits of chocolate without the fat, she said.  The survey was funded by the U.S. National Institutes of
Health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  