-- Tebow Press Event Means $2 Million in Free Exposure for Toyota
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-26T19:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tebow-press-event-means-2-million-in-free-exposure-for-toyota.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  may reap more
than $2 million in media exposure from having its name and logo
on the banner behind newly acquired New York Jets quarterback
 Tim Tebow , whose introductory press conference this afternoon
was covered live by most of the local television stations.  Tebow, acquired from the  Denver Broncos  two days ago, spoke
for 33 minutes at the team’s headquarters in Florham Park, New
Jersey, during a press conference that drew more than 200
reporters.  “If you’re Toyota you’re very happy,” said Eric Wright,
president and executive director Joyce Julius & Associates, an
Ann Arbor, Michigan-based sponsorship evaluation company. “The
final number could be well north of a couple of million when
it’s done.”  Besides the local television stations, snippets of the
press conference will be shown nationally by networks such as
ESPN and CNN, Wright said.  Toyota spokeswoman Carly Schaffner declined to comment when
reached by telephone.  Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker, counts Jets starting
quarterback Mark Sanchez and Giants quarterback Eli Manning
among its endorsers.  Toyota is a Jets’ sponsor. The  Toyota Coaches Club  includes
a deck that’s located five yards behind the team’s bench.  Denver Starter  Tebow, 24, took over as Denver’s starter last season with
the Broncos at 1-4. They finished 8-8, including a six-game
winning streak, and made the playoffs, where the Broncos beat
the Pittsburgh Steelers on an 80-yard touchdown pass from Tebow
to  Demaryius Thomas  on the first offensive play of overtime.  Jets executives have said Tebow will begin the season as
the backup to Sanchez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  