-- Tebow Will Work to Start While Accepting Jets’ Backup Role
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-26T17:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tebow-says-he-will-compete-for-jets-starting-quarterback-job.html
Tim Tebow  says he will compete each
day to become the  New York Jets ’ starting quarterback, and
that’s what every football player would do.  Tebow, meeting the media for the first time in a press
conference at the team’s practice complex in  Florham Park ,  New
Jersey , said he understands that he is the backup to  Mark Sanchez , although that doesn’t mean he won’t try to earn the
first-team position.  “I think for everybody who puts on a uniform, you want to
go out there and play,” Tebow said in a televised news
conference. “Every day in practice I am going to go out there,
and I am going to compete.”  The Jets acquired Tebow and a seventh-round draft pick on
March 21 from the  Denver Broncos  for fourth- and sixth-round
selections. The move took place a day after  Peyton Manning 
joined the Broncos, ending a two-week frenzy by several teams to
sign the four-time National Football League Most Valuable
Player, who was an Indianapolis Colt the last 14 seasons.  Sanchez signed a five-year, $58 million contract extension
this month with more than $20 million guaranteed in the first
two years, according to the New York Post, which cited a person
it didn’t identify. Tebow said he has known Sanchez for a few
years, and the two get along well.  “I think Mark is very secure as a football player and as a
person in who he is,” Tebow said. “We’ll be able to encourage
one another and be stronger together than we would be apart.”  In the Wildcat  Tebow will operate the Jets’ wildcat package, a formation
that uses run-or-pass options to try to confuse defenses, and
could play other positions, Jets coach  Rex Ryan  told reporters
yesterday at league meetings in  Palm Beach , Florida, according
to the  New York Daily News .  “Let’s not just look at him as a quarterback,” Ryan said.
“I look at him as a football player.”  Tebow today agreed that he’s a football player above
anything else, though his “dream” is to be a quarterback.  “That’s what I want to be and that’s what I believe I am,
is a quarterback,” Tebow said. “However I can help the team,
however I can make a difference, however they can use me, I’ll
be open to it.”  Winning With Broncos  The Broncos were 1-4 last season when Tebow became the
team’s starter. After splitting the next two games, Denver won
six straight, including a stretch of four in a row where they
rallied from fourth-quarter deficits. The Broncos made the
playoffs at 8-8, winning their first postseason game in six
years, a 29-23 overtime victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers
that ended on an 80-yard touchdown pass from Tebow to  Demaryius
Thomas .  Tebow’s late-game heroics helped him increase an already
large fan base that followed him from his days at the University
of  Florida , where he won two national titles and a Heisman
Trophy as college football’s top player in 2007. He entered the
NFL two seasons ago as the 25th overall draft pick.  The 24-year-old’s success became one of the dominant
storylines in the NFL last season, spawning a phenomenon known
as “Tebowmania” even with questions about his 46.5 pass-
completion percentage and reliance on running as most teams
built around strong-armed quarterbacks. A devout Christian with
a devoted religious following, he kneeled to pray after winning
games, which became a fad that is known as “Tebowing” and was
mimicked worldwide in photos that circulated on social media
websites.  ‘Pretty Cool’  “I’m pretty sure I’m not the first athlete that has gotten
on a knee and prayed,” Tebow said. “Somehow it’s known as
Tebowing and I’m not sure why. If people are talking about
prayer or talking about my faith, I think it’s pretty cool.”  Among those that welcomed Tebow to  New York  City was the
American Bible Society, which has been running a brief video on
a 10-foot-by-15-foot screen outside its midtown Manhattan
headquarters.  “Quarterback who never quits, meet the city that never
sleeps,” the message flashes. “Welcome Tebow.”  Tebow completed 126 of his 271 pass attempts last season
for 1,729 yards, 12 touchdowns and six interceptions. He also
rushed for 660 yards and six scores.  Tebow was named America’s favorite pro athlete in an ESPN
poll this year and his jersey was the second-best seller from
April 2011 to March 2012 behind the  Green Bay Packers ’  Aaron Rodgers . It was fifth-most popular jersey the previous year,
when he started three games.  No Publicity Stunt  Tebow said he didn’t see the trade for him as a publicity
stunt, as critics including Jets Super-Bowl winning quarterback
 Joe Namath  have said.  “I just think it had more to do with some coaches
believing in me,” he said.  New York went 8-8 last season and missed the playoffs,
after which players complained of a divided locker room. Former
Jets running back  LaDainian Tomlinson , an 11-year NFL veteran,
said in a Jan. 18 interview with Showtime’s “Inside the NFL”
program that the drama was bad as he’s seen in his career, and
that Sanchez was pampered by coaches because he had no
competition.  Asked about anonymous criticism from Jets’ teammates about
holding a news conference for a backup quarterback, Tebow said
it wasn’t his idea and that his actions would speak louder than
his words.  “It’s my job to come in here and try to earn guys ‘
respect by how I work,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 