-- Tebow in New York Before His Jersey as NFL Changes to Nike
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-26T17:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tebow-reaches-new-york-before-his-jersey-as-nfl-changes-to-nike.html
Shawn Scantlebury pumped his fists
and bellowed “Welcome to  New York City ” as he bought one of
the first pieces of Tim Tebow merchandise available in Jets’
green.  “Having this guy might change the whole Jets era,”
Scantlebury, a 39-year-old fan from  Brooklyn , said while holding
up his $24.99 T-shirt. “We want a  Super Bowl .”  It was one of 200 shirts that arrived at  Modell’s Sporting
Goods  in mid-town Manhattan the day after the Jets traded for
the 24-year-old quarterback on March 21. Tebow, a Christian who
kneels to pray on the field after wins, spoke today at a press
conference at the team’s training center in  Florham Park ,  New
Jersey , about his faith and his excitement to be wearing a Jets
No. 15 jersey this season.  Jets fans might have trouble buying replicas of his game
shirt for themselves before the  National Football League ’s draft
next month. The delay comes as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  replaces  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s
Reebok as the league’s official apparel outfitter, a transition
that has left many retailers without enough supply to match the
sudden demand.  Modell’s had no adult jerseys, just T-shirts and children’s
jerseys. New York stores in the chain sold 1,000 units the first
hour they were open March 23, said Mitch Modell, president and
chief executive officer.  Pre-orders for Nike jerseys will begin on April 15 and
they’ll be available in stores on April 26, the first day of the
draft, according to Leo Kane, the NFL’s senior vice president of
consumer products.  Building Demand  “It’s OK to get everybody excited about the draft, if that
means we have a couple of weeks in April where it’s not there,”
Kane said in a telephone interview. “It’s fun to build up the
demand.”  The league’s official outfitter keeps blank jerseys of
every color on hand to be prepared for trades or players who
quickly gain popularity.  Reebok  discontinued production because
its agreement was ending.  When  Peyton Manning  signed with the Broncos last week,
there weren’t enough orange blanks to print his new No. 18
jersey, largely because Tebow went from backup to starter and
led Denver to its first playoff victory in six seasons.  Dan Sarro, a spokesman for Reebok, said last week in an e-
mail that the company had to adjust its buying strategy to
reflect the end of the deal and still has a majority of its NFL
items in stock.  For Manning, the NFL is selling white jerseys made by its
own Pro Line label until the Nike jerseys are available, Kane
said.  Limited Online Sales  Because there were Jets green blanks available, the
league’s online shop is now selling Reebok jerseys with Tebow’s
name and number.  “It’s a limited amount,” Kane said. “We’ll definitely be
faced with a decision of if we want to put Pro Line jerseys in
or not.”  The Jets have no Tebow jerseys available on their own
website, only T-shirts. Spokesman  Bruce Speight  didn’t return a
voice message seeking comment on the team’s plans for Tebow
merchandise over the next few weeks.  A spokesman for Nike, the world’s biggest sporting-goods
maker, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
transition to being the NFL’s apparel outfitter.  Financial terms of the league’s five-year apparel contract
with Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike weren’t disclosed when it was
announced in 2010. Advertising Age, citing executives close to
the NFL, said the agreement is worth about $35 million a year.
Nike’s revenue through the fiscal third quarter, which ended
Feb. 29, was $17.6 billion.  No. 2 Seller  Tebow, who won the Heisman Trophy as college football’s
best player in 2007, had the NFL’s second best-selling jersey
from April 2011 through February of this year, trailing only
 Aaron Rodgers  of the  Green Bay Packers , according to the league.
Manning’s jersey ranked in the league’s top 10 each year from
2005-2010, before dropping to 18th last season, which he missed
following neck-fusion surgery in September.  Tebow will begin his third NFL season as backup to Jets
starter  Mark Sanchez , according to team general manager Mike Tannenbaum. Tebow’s popularity -- he was named America’s
favorite pro athlete in an  ESPN poll  this year -- will drive his
jersey sales even if he’s not always on the field.  In anticipation of Tebow’s arrival, the American Bible
Society has been running a brief welcome video for Tebow on a
10-foot-by-15-foot screen outside its midtown  Manhattan 
headquarters.  “Quarterback who never quits, meet the city that never
sleeps,” the message flashes. “Welcome Tebow.”  Bible and Sports  Geof Morin, a spokesman for the 196-year-old society, which
distributes the Bible and offers religious study resources, said
it’s probably the first time the organization has been asked to
comment on a sports-related story.  “We’re excited that Tim is seated where we are
headquartered,” Morin said in a telephone interview, adding
that he’s interested to see how Tebow focuses his faith in the
biggest U.S. city. “How will he play that out in a highly
multicultural, multi-religious, multi-ethnic, multi-everything
kind of conversation?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ,
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  