-- ECB Suspending Long-Term Loans, Asmussen Tells Helsingin Sanomat
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-03-26T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ecb-suspending-long-term-loans-asmussen-tells-helsingin-sanomat.html
The  European Central Bank  won’t
provide more long-term loans until it has studied how the funds
are distributed into the economy, council member  Joerg Asmussen 
told newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat .  “We need to see how this liquidity feeds through over the
next few months,” Asmussen said, according to a transcript of
an interview with the Finnish newspaper on March 24 and
published today.  The ECB has offered European lenders more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years since December. The bank’s
two long-term refinancing operations have brought down yields on
peripheral debt and helped calm markets. That doesn’t mean more
such funds are forthcoming, Asmussen said.  “Nobody should expect that we will do a third LTRO based
on the fact that we have already done two LTROs,” he said. “We
never pre-commit on our actions.”  The non-standard measures employed by the Frankfurt-based
central bank to counter the crisis, including buying peripheral
euro members’ sovereign bonds and lending funds for three years,
are temporary and have served to prevent a credit crunch in the
17-nation single-currency area, according to Asmussen.  Euro-Zone Inflation  The extra liquidity in the financial system hasn’t caused a
jump in the inflation rate, he said. Euro-area consumer prices
increased for the third month in February, rising 2.7 percent,
the same as in January.  “We monitor this very carefully,” Asmussen said.
“Inflation expectations across the  euro zone  are firmly
anchored. Owing to rises in energy prices and indirect taxes,
inflation is likely to stay above 2 percent in 2012, with upside
risks prevailing. In the medium-term we expect price
developments to remain in line with  price stability .”  The ECB’s objective is to safeguard price stability,
defined as inflation near and under 2 percent. Its steps have
eased pressure on the markets, allowing banks to keep lending to
businesses and households and keeping credit flowing.  “Our non-standard measures are there in order to ensure a
good functioning of the policy transmission mechanism,”
Asmussen said. The time isn’t right for withdrawing that
support, he said, signaling that even amid the crisis, policy
makers must begin to consider mapping out how to arrive at a
more-standard policy.  “In our view, it is too early to decide on the exit from
non-standard measures,” Asmussen said. Even so, “we have to
start to think about how to prepare the exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  