-- Hedge-Fund Chief Plans Sparkling Wine in U.K. Vineyard
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/hedge-fund-chief-plans-sparkling-wine-in-biggest-u-k-vineyard.html
Mark Driver, who worked for banks
in  London  and  Hong Kong  before helping found a hedge fund,
yesterday began planting vines on the coast of England where he
aims to produce sparkling wine to match  France ’s finest.  Rathfinny , on the South Downs, will grow Chardonnay, Pinot
Noir, Pinot Meunier and Riesling grapes in chalky soil similar
to that of the Champagne region. The plan is to expand to about
400 acres (162 hectares) by 2020, making it the U.K.’s largest.  “Why sit in front of a computer screen for the rest of
your life watching prices go up and down when watching grapes
grow is so much less stressful?” Driver said yesterday in an
interview at Rathfinny, where the sound is of seagulls and you
need to walk up a hill to get a signal on your BlackBerry.  Driver worked at Fidelity before joining County NatWest in
Hong Kong. His also worked at Crosby Securities,  Merrill Lynch &
Co. (BAC)  and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. He was a founding partner
in Horseman Capital Management, which he said had $6 billion
under management at its peak. Horseman’s total assets under
management were more than $774 million as of Feb. 29 this year,
according to the company’s  website .  He paid about 3.5 million pounds ($5.6 million) for the
land at Rathfinny in 2010. The farm covers a total of 600 acres,
not all of which are suitable for planting. He may make small
quantities of wine next year, with the first sparklers scheduled
to be distributed in 2016 or 2017.  Investment Plan  “I’ve always loved wine but this is a commercial
operation, not a vanity project,” Driver said. He declined to
disclose his total investment, saying only that he expected the
business to become profitable on a cash-flow basis in 2017 and
that he hoped to start repaying some of the investment in 2020.  The main markets are likely to be the U.K.,  North America 
and  Asia , Driver said. (He will produce also a small quantity of
still wines.) He said he expects to harvest between 20 and 50
metric tons of grapes next year, depending on the weather, a ton
equating to about 1,000 bottles. Longer term, the goal is to
make almost 1 million bottles a year.  Driver, 47, said he expects the sparkling wine to retail
for between 25 pounds and 28 pounds a bottle.  (Demand for English sparkling wine is growing, according to
Mark Cesareo, manager of the Gilbert Scott restaurant, where he
was formerly sommelier. Cesareo said that combined sales by the
glass exceeded those of the house champagne and that he had
contacted Driver to express an interest in trying Rathfinny’s
wines.  Sparkling Future  “The future for  England  lies in sparkling wines: That’s
where the exciting stuff is coming,” Cesareo said. “ Nyetimber 
has produced good-quality wines for some time and that
consistency is important.”)  The vineyard lies on the same band of chalk that forms the
Paris Basin, which stretches across the Champagne region. Global
warming has significantly improved English wines, Driver said.  Denbies Wine Estate , set in 265 acres, is currently home to
the largest single vineyard in the U.K. (Wine is produced in
 Wales  as well as England.) Sales of U.K. wine by value in 2011
jumped 45 percent from a year earlier to 26 million pounds,
according to Nielsen market research.  The winemaker at Rathfinny is Jonathan Medard, a Frenchman
from Epernay who trained at Chateau Mouton Rothschild, Champagne
Louis Roederer, Moet & Chandon and Champagne Boizel. He moved to
Rathfinny from  California , where he was vice president of
winemaking for  Conway Family Wines .  Cameron Roucher, the vineyard manager, is a New Zealander
who previously managed the  Two Gates Vineyard  in Hawkes Bay,
where he was a member of the  Dolbel Estate  team.  Information:  http://www.rathfinnyestate.com/   (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 