-- Edwards Sapien Safely Replaces Aortic Valves at Two Years
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-26T20:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/edwards-sapien-safely-fixes-aortic-valves-at-two-years-in-study.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien
device replaces damaged aortic  heart valves  as well as surgery,
without cracking open the chest or triggering higher rates of
stroke or death after two years, a company-funded study found.  Edwards has U.S. clearance to sell the valve for patients
who don’t qualify for surgery and have no treatment options. The
latest results, presented at the  American College of Cardiology 
conference in  Chicago , may broaden its use in the U.S., where a
potential $2.5 billion market awaits, said  Jason Mills , an
analyst with Canaccord Adams Inc. in  San Francisco .  In the study, the number of patients who died was almost
identical regardless of whether they were treated with
traditional surgery or Sapien, which is threaded into the heart
via the femoral artery or a tiny slit in the chest. The stroke
risk, twice as high in the Sapien group one month after
treatment, was less common in the ensuing months and ultimately
not significantly higher than with surgery.  “We have established that it is equivalent to surgery in
these high-risk patients,” said Susheel Kodali, an
interventional cardiologist at  Columbia University Medical
Center  in New York and the study’s lead researcher. “One of the
big worries was stroke. This doesn’t put it to rest, but it
alleviates a lot of concern. There has been no signal of any
sign of valve failure, so that’s reassuring.”  Shares Rise  Edwards gained 6 percent to $75.55 at the close of New York
trading, its biggest one-day increase in two months. The shares
have fallen 15 percent in the past 12 months.  The study was simultaneously published in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . Edwards, based in  Irvine ,  California ,
started U.S. studies on the device in 2007, the same year it won
European approval.  After two years, 33.9 percent of patients treated with the
Sapien valve died, compared with 35 percent of those getting
open-heart surgery.  Strokes developed in 7.7 percent of Sapien patients
compared with 4.9 percent of those getting surgery. Major
vascular complications, including aortic dissection, the need
for a transfusion or the development of dangerous blood clots
were significantly more common among Sapien patients, while
major bleeding was more frequent after surgery.  Encouraging Result  “Overall it was a very encouraging result as it showed
that the use of transcatheter valves was comparable to open
surgery in these patients at two years,” said Raj Denhoy, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York , in an interview. “It
was particularly encouraging to see that the rate of strokes did
not increase in the second year as this has been an area of
concern with these devices.”  About 200,000 Americans suffer from  narrowing  and
stiffening of the aortic valve, the three-flapped spigot between
the heart’s main pumping chamber and the  artery  that carries
oxygen-rich blood to the body. Without treatment, half of
patients die within a few years of developing symptoms.  Patients treated with Sapien were more likely to develop
leakage around the valve called paravalvular regurgitation, and
those people were twice as likely to die, the study found.  “We were comparable to surgery done by the best surgeons
in the world,” Kodali said in an interview. “There aren’t
going to be significant improvements in surgery. This was an
early stage experience with the transcatheter valve. As we get
more experience, better screen patients and develop newer
devices, we’re going to improve outcomes.”  Bolster Chances  The findings bolster Edwards’ chances of getting U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval for the device, wrote  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Well Fargo in New York. He predicted
approval later this year and estimated sales of $187 million for
2012.  The lack of formal coverage from the U.S. government
insurance program for the elderly limits its use, he wrote in a
note to investors.  “Reimbursement issues are still holding back Sapien
procedures in the U.S. because many centers and physicians are
not being paid for procedures,” he wrote. “The final National
Coverage Decision which should be issued in early May should
help resolve most of the facility reimbursement issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  