-- Emerging Stocks Gain as Bernanke Bolsters Global Outlook
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-26T21:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/emerging-stocks-fall-to-eight-week-low-on-profit-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks gained as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said accommodative
monetary policy is still needed to increase job growth, fueling
prospects extra cash on the market will boost emerging-market
assets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.2 percent to
1,044.31 at the close in  New York , led by consumer staples
companies and energy producers.  Marfrig Alimentos SA (MRFG3) , Latin
America’s second-largest beef producer, jumped the most in two
weeks, leading Brazil’s benchmark  Bovespa index  to its largest
gain since March 13.  OAO Surgutneftegas (SNGS)  had the biggest advance
since March 11 in Moscow.  Continued accommodative monetary policy is probably needed
to push the U.S. jobless rate lower, Bernanke said in a speech
today.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said Germany may back plans for
the temporary and permanent euro-area rescue funds to run in
parallel. German business confidence rose to an eight-month high
in March, suggesting Europe’s largest economy will return to
growth after manufacturing output contracted this month.  The expansion of central bank balance sheets and liquidity
among developed countries “is going to continue to be a bullish
factor for global markets, including emerging markets,”  Nick Chamie , head of emerging markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, said by phone. Merkel’s comments are “a bullish factor
for global markets as well, insofar as that helps to reduce
default risk perceptions in the euro zone.”  Valuation  Emerging-market stocks have advanced 14 percent in 2012,
poised for their best start to a year since 1992, when the
benchmark  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  jumped 20 percent in the
first  quarter .  Developed-nation shares  have gained 12 percent.
At 13.2 times estimated earnings, they remain more expensive
than emerging-market equities, which trade for 10.7 times
estimated earnings.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
jumped 1.8 percent to $43.66. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, slid 1 percent to
24.85.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 1.3 percent, ending a four-day slide,
after a report showed the country’s economy contracted 0.13
percent in January, less than economists had forecast. Marfrig
advanced 5.2 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , known as
Petrobras, gained 2.2 percent.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock index climbed 1.4 percent to a
record as a pickup in the  U.S. economy  buoyed optimism in the
outlook for its southern neighbor.  Surgutneftegas, Akbank  Surgutneftegas added 3.9 percent while Russia’s Micex Index
jumped 1.6 percent.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , Turkey’s second-biggest listed bank by market
value, had its biggest drop since Feb. 23, slumping 3.3 percent,
after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said it will cut its stake in the lender to
less than 10 percent from 20 percent. The sale is for
“technical reasons” related to Basel III banking rules, Akbank
said on March 23.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  dropped 1.8 percent as the
rupee weakened to a 10-week low.  India’s government needs to take tough decisions in coming
months and tap additional funds to bridge a  budget deficit ,
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., tumbled 4.8 percent in  Hong
Kong  after the company said first-quarter net income may plunge
by as much as 95 percent.  China Shanshui Cement Group (691)  slumped 12
percent after reporting profit that missed estimates.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in Hong Kong slid 0.6 percent, its ninth consecutive
decline and the longest losing streak since July 2010.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  slid 1.4 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  retreated 0.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 333 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  