-- Enel’s Renewables Unit Taps Emerging Markets as Recession Bites
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-26T10:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/enel-s-renewables-unit-taps-emerging-markets-as-recession-bites.html
Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , the renewable
energy unit of Italy’s biggest utility, is targeting  Morocco ,
South Africa and  Turkey  as the recession hurts power demand in
its home market.  “They all have something in common: a promising abundance
of renewable-energy potential, a lot of wind, sunshine and in
the case of Turkey, geothermal and hydropower,” Chief Executive
Officer Francesco Starace said in a telephone interview from
Rome. “On top of that, they have huge electricity demand.”  Enel Green has earmarked global spending of 6.1 billion
euros ($8 billion) through 2016 to add 4.5 gigawatts of
installed capacity. As demand wanes in Italy and  Spain , its
biggest markets, the Rome-based  company  is looking to emerging
markets to help achieve that goal.  “We’re basically redirecting investment,” Starace said
“We are moving growth to areas where there is demand.”  Enel Green plans to add 100 megawatts of wind energy in
Morocco by 2016 and 140 megawatts of solar power in  South
Africa . It may seek joint-venture partners or even acquisitions,
the CEO said.  The company is waiting to hear back on its bid to take part
in a solar tender in South Africa and is also looking “very
carefully” at a Moroccan plan to harness 2,000 megawatts of
power from the sun’s rays, he said.  ‘Logical Trend’  Enel Green is seeking new markets to offset slumping demand
in  Europe , where Germany, Spain and Italy cut subsidies to cap
booming installations, helping depress prices for panels by 50
percent last year.  The subsidy cuts were a “logical trend” as equipment
costs fell, the CEO said.  While less than 22 percent of its revenue is linked to
incentives for clean energy, the company plans to improve
revenue streams from existing plants, Starace said.  “In this type of environment, having a lot of capacity is
really not so important,” he said. “Much more important is
defending the revenues of the capacity we have.”  The imbalance between supply and demand for solar power may
be resolved by grid parity, the point at which the cost of
alternative energy becomes equal to or less than purchasing
electricity from the grid, he said.  Grid Parity  “Italy,  Southern California ,  Japan  and Spain are quite
close to that,” though nations such as  Mexico , which must get
35 percent of its energy by 2024 from clean sources including
hydro plants and nuclear reactors, may reach it faster than
expected, according to Starace.  Enel Green plans to add about 460 megawatts of wind
capacity in  Brazil , 340 megawatts in  Chile  and 350 megawatts in
Mexico by 2016.  The unit plans to build more so-called hybrid plants that
combine different clean power technologies, Starace said. It’s
already developing a  geothermal and solar  plant in Nevada. The
combination of technology boosts electricity generation and
maximizes use of the plant’s grid connection, according to the
CEO.  The company intends to develop plants using geothermal and
biomass in  Italy  in future years, Starace said.  “We have a goal, which like all goals might be a bit
ambitious. In the medium-term renewable energy sources should be
as dispatchable and reliable as fossil fuels,” he said.  The company is also set to complete the construction of a
manufacturing plant for photovoltaic panels  in Sicily  by the end
of 2012. This year’s output has already been sold, Starace said,
“so the technology seems to be finding its way to the market,
even in a very congested solar PV market.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  