-- EPA Said to Be Close to Limiting U.S. Greenhouse-Gases
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-27T14:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/epa-said-to-be-close-to-tightening-u-s-greenhouse-gas-limits.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
plans to announce today the first limits to cut U.S. greenhouse
gases from  power plants , according to people familiar with the
matter.  The rules from President Barack Obama’s administration
would set emissions for all power plants at the level
established for a natural-gas plant, or about half what is
released from a coal-burning facility. Any new coal plants would
need expensive carbon-capture equipment, according to the
people, who declined to be identified before an announcement.  The proposed nationwide standards would be the first by the
EPA for carbon-dioxide from power plants, the largest source of
those emissions in the U.S. Environmental groups such as the
 Sierra Club  are pressing the Obama administration to issue tight
standards to head off an increase in global warming that they
warn could be catastrophic.  “It will make it nearly impossible to build a new coal
plant,”  Michael Brune , executive director of the Sierra Club,
said in an interview. “The market has been moving in this
direction already” so the rule “captures the end of an era.”  While the initial impact would be minimal because utilities
are not building coal plants as natural gas prices fall to 10-
year lows, adopting the EPA proposal would fuel industry
complaints in coal-dependent states such as Ohio and
 Pennsylvania . The rule would only apply to new plants, and may
exempt plants that already have a permit to be built.  Coal Versus Gas  Betsaida Alcantara, an EPA spokeswoman, didn’t return
telephone, e-mail and text messages seeking comment. The EPA has
missed a court deadline for issuing the proposal, which would
then be open for comment and finalized late this year.  The average U.S. coal plant emits 2,249 pounds of carbon
dioxide for each megawatt hour of power produced, compared with
1,135 pounds for a natural-gas plant, according to the EPA.
Newer  combined-cycle  natural-gas plants, in which the heat
exhaust of a first gas-fueled turbine drives a second generator,
are more efficient.  Because of falling natural- gas prices , the share of coal in
electricity generation dropped below 40 percent by the end of
2011, the first time it had been that low since 1978, according
to the U.S. Energy Information Agency in Washington.  “This is another, in a series of new regulations, written
by EPA to prevent the U.S. from taking advantage of our vast
coal resources that are responsible for providing affordable
electricity for America’s families and businesses,”  Steve
Miller , president of the American Coalition for Clean Coal
Electricity in Washington, which represents coal producers and
coal-dependent power producers, said in a statement. The group
blamed EPA rules for the closure of 140 power-generating units
in recent years.  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the industrial revolution
have led to a warming of the earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, threatening to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S.  Global Change Research Program .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  