-- Merkel Says Germany May Let Rescue Funds Run in Parallel
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-26T12:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/merkel-says-germany-may-let-rescue-funds-run-in-parallel.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave her
first indication that she is prepared to allow an increase in
the debt-crisis firewall, saying that  Germany  could let the
temporary and permanent rescue funds run in parallel.  Merkel cited “fragility” in Spain and Portugal as she
revealed Germany’s position on addressing the future financial
backstop. Agreement among euro-area governments this week
“could be the basis” for the  International Monetary Fund  to
channel more resources to help fight the turmoil, she said.  Germany holds to its stance that the permanent rescue fund
should be capped at 500 billion euros ($663 billion), she told
reporters in Berlin today. “But in order for us to have the
full 500 billion at our disposal, we could imagine that we let
the programs that have already been disbursed run in parallel.”  Merkel’s comments prepare the ground for Germany to drop
its opposition to proposals to expand the 17-nation region’s
financial backstop at a meeting of euro-area finance ministers
in Copenhagen on March 30. Merkel said that senior members of
her  Christian Democratic Union  agreed on the position today.  The euro and stocks rose on Merkel’s comments. The single
currency rose 0.4 percent to $1.3323 as of 2:46 p.m. in Berlin,
while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.8 percent.  Merkel’s reference to Iberian economic troubles adds weight
to warnings by  Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  that Spain
could reignite the debt crisis.  “It doesn’t take much to recreate risks of contagion,”
Monti said during the weekend at a conference in Cernobbio,
Italy. Days after his Cabinet approved a bill to overhaul
Italy’s labor laws, Monti praised Spain’s efforts to loosen work
regulations while advising it to focus on cutting the national
budget. Spain “hasn’t paid enough attention to its public
accounts,” he said.  ECB Loans  The euro crisis has eased after the  European Central Bank 
last month boosted liquidity through three-year loans to banks,
while European Union leaders this month sealed a second Greek
bailout package. Italian and German confidence indexes rose
today as Spanish and Italian bonds gained.  Even so, Merkel responded to a question about the firewall
today by citing bond yields in Spain and  Portugal  that have in
recent weeks shown “great sensitivity and fragility.” That
means “the situation is not yet normal,” she said.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said yesterday that he was confident ministers will
resolve their differences on providing more bailout funding for
the euro. Officials “will take a convincing decision on the
reinforcement of the firewalls,” Rehn told reporters in
Saariselkae,  Finland .  Rescue Funds  Euro-area leaders have established the permanent 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism, which is scheduled to
take over from the European Financial Stability Facility and 
begin operations in July. Under current rules, unused EFSF funds 
would be passed on to the ESM, though disbursement could not 
exceed the half-trillion limit.  Policy makers are discussing how to add to the funds, for
example by allowing the EFSF and ESM to work concurrently to
make more money available. Maintaining the used sums from the
temporary fund while allowing the ESM to operate at capacity
would bring a total crisis backstop to 692 billion euros.  Under existing plans, the temporary fund “will run out in
the middle of next year, just as planned,” Merkel said. “But
200 billion have already been handed out there, and we could
imagine that these 200 billion run in parallel to the ESM until
the program countries have paid it back. That will take a few
years and then the ESM will stand alone again.”  Spain Shift  The focus by policy makers and investors has shifted over
recent weeks from  Greece  to  Spain , where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to reduce the country’s budget deficit in
the face of a looming recession.  Rajoy faces his first general strike on March 29 as unions
protest against changes to employment laws making it cheaper to
fire workers and cut wages. Three months after coming to power,
he is due to present the 2012 budget on March 30, which is
designed to cut the deficit.  Rajoy meanwhile failed to win an outright majority in
elections yesterday in Spain’s most populous region, Andalusia.
While his  People’s Party  took more seats in the legislature than
any other, it fell short of the 55 needed. The region has been
controlled by the Socialists since Spain’s return to democracy
in 1978.  The conundrum for European leaders was underscored on March
22, when a report showed that euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted more than economists forecast.
The drop in March on declining domestic demand added to signs
that the region’s economy is sliding into recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  