-- Tesla Rises to Highest Since IPO After Analyst Boosts Rating
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-03-26T21:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tesla-rises-as-much-as-12-to-highest-price-since-ipo.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric car
company led by entrepreneur Elon Musk, closed at its highest
price since its June 2010 initial public offering after
Wunderlich Securities Inc. upgraded the company.  Tesla gained 9.7 percent to $37.40 at the close in New
York, after earlier reaching $38.09. Theodore O’Neil, an analyst
with Wunderlich in New York, boosted his target price to $49 in
addition to changing his rating.  “This is a company that is under a lot of attention
because it’s involved with this nascent industry,” said Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a provider of auto-
industry analysis in West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “It doesn’t
take much to move the stock one way or the other.”  Tesla, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , is three months away
from beginning shipments of its second battery-powered model,
the Model S sedan. Sales of the last $109,000 Roadster sports
cars, the company’s first model, are ending this year and Tesla
in February unveiled the all-electric Model X sport-utility
vehicle that goes on sale in late 2013.  Tesla’s surge contrasted with a 12 percent plunge for
lithium-ion battery maker  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  The Waltham,
Massachusetts-based company said today it’s replacing defective
battery packs and modules it supplies to customers, including
Fisker Automotive Inc., and that the flaw caused a Fisker Karma
to shut down in a Consumer Reports test.  A123 fell to $1.49 at the close in  New York , the lowest
closing price since its initial public offering in September
2009.  ‘Everything Is Magnified’  Both Tesla and A123 are in “a segment of the industry
where everything is magnified,” Baum said. “This is certainly
a material issue for A123 and they are going to have to deal
with it from an outside funding standpoint.”  Separately, Tesla said today in a U.S. regulatory filing
that H.E. Ahmed Saif Al Darmaki resigned from its board, a
position he’s held since September 2009. There’s no plan to name
a replacement for Al Darmaki, and the company will operate with
a seven-member board, led by Musk, Ricardo Reyes, a Tesla
spokesman, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Koenig at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net  