-- EU Carbon Erases Losses as Trading Surges at End of Session
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-26T17:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/eu-carbon-erases-losses-as-trading-surges-at-end-of-session.html
European Union carbon permits
closed little changed, after trading surged at the end of the
day and prices erased earlier losses.  Permits for December fell 0.4 percent to close at 6.99
euros ($9.32) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London . The December contract earlier today declined as much as
5.7 percent to the lowest in more than two months. EU allowance
prices have plunged 61 percent in the past year on concern that
supply would overwhelm demand.  Trading in the benchmark December contract rose to 1.4
million tons in the final 30 minutes of the session. That’s
almost double the 777,000 tons traded in the half an hour from
12.30 p.m., the next busiest slot of the day. U.K. natural gas
for the six months through September, the summer contract, rose
1.6 percent after opening lower than yesterday’s close. Carbon
sometimes tracks gas because utilities need about half as many
permits when burning the fuel as for coal.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  today cut its growth forecast for 2011 EU
carbon market emissions to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent as
economic production in countries that share the euro rose 0.7
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with the same period in
2010, according to  official EU data .  “We estimate that emissions stagnated or at best rose
slightly last year,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed
research note dated March 23. A main reason for the slow rise is
mild weather, which led to a “sharp decrease in energy
production in the fourth quarter.” Full-year energy production
dropped 4.9 percent, Weinberg said, citing Eurostat data.  Oversupply  Phase three of the EU carbon program, the eight years
through 2020, will probably be oversupplied by 1.17 billion tons
of allowances once the full use of United Nations offset credits
is taken into account,  Trevor Sikorski , a Barclays Capital
analyst in London, said today in an e-mailed research note.  That’s more than half of annual emissions, which were at
about 1.94 billion tons last year, he said.  Sikorski raised his forecast for prices in the second half
of this year by 14 percent, or 1 euro, to 8 euros a ton, because
falling coal prices have encouraged use of that fuel by power
utilities.  “The market has weathered the first-quarter storm of
supply remarkably well, with utility buy side coming online
stronger and helping to push open interest in EU allowance
contracts,” Sikorski said in the note. “Buoyed by the better
buy side, we expect prices to keep trading in the 7-euros-to-9
euros-a-ton range for the coming quarters.”  United Nations  Certified Emission Reduction credits for
December fell 0.3 percent to 3.79 euros a ton on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  