-- EU Ratings Rotation Plan Said to Face Possible Rejection
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-26T17:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/eu-ratings-rotation-plan-said-to-face-possible-rejection-1-.html
European Union finance ministers
may scrap  plans  to force companies to rotate the credit-ratings
companies they use on concerns that the measure may harm
investor confidence and increase market volatility.  Denmark , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
will seek an agreement by ministers this week on whether to
delete the proposal, according to two people familiar with the
matter who couldn’t be cited by name because the talks are
private.  Michel Barnier , the region’s financial services chief,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the industry amid concerns that some
ratings decisions were unjustified and exacerbated the region’s
fiscal crisis. While Barnier said rotation would boost
competition and solve potential conflicts of interest facing
credit-ratings companies, regulators have warned that the
requirement may worsen the quality of ratings in the short term.  The U.K., Germany and  Spain  are among more than 10 EU
nations in favor of removing the requirement from the law and
possibly discussing it again when rivals to the so-called big
three of Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
 Standard & Poor’s  may have increased their market share and
resources, according to one of the people.  Under Barnier’s plan, companies would be expected to change
the company that they pay to rate their credit every three
years. The time limit could be extended to six years if a
business hires more than one ratings company.  Copenhagen Meeting  Finance ministers will discuss the measure at an informal
meeting in Copenhagen on March 30-31, the people said. They will
also consider what regulation should be applied to credit-rating
companies based outside the 27-nation EU.  A potential problem with Barnier’s plan is that very
few ratings firms have the know-how to rate complex debt
instruments, such as some structured products, said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for European
Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research institute.  When national regulators have imposed similar rules on
audit companies the large firms have simply “carved up the
market,” Lannoo said in an interview.  Parliamentary Approval  The draft law needs approval by national governments and by
lawmakers in the European Parliament before it can take effect.  Preben Aamann, spokesman for Denmark’s EU presidency, said
he expected the draft law on credit-ratings companies to be
discussed at the finance ministers’ meeting. He declined to
comment further. Chantal Hughes, spokeswoman for Barnier,
declined to comment.  A spokesman for S&P in  London  declined to comment and  Fitch
Ratings  in London declined to immediately comment. A spokesman
for Moody’s in London couldn’t be immediately reached for
comment.  Ministers at this week’s meetings will also discuss
proposals being worked on by Barnier for winding down failing
banks, said one of the people. Measures suggested by Barnier
include writing down senior unsecured creditors of crisis-hit
lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  