-- European Stocks Rally After Germany Data; EasyJet Climbs
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-26T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/european-stock-futures-littlee-changed-before-ifo-reportt.html
European stocks  advanced for a
second day after German business confidence unexpectedly climbed
and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said continued
accommodative monetary policy is still needed.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  jumped 7.5 percent after the discount airline
revised its earnings outlook.  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE)  rallied 7
percent after a well appraisal in Norway.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  gained
6.6 percent after reporting Kenya’s first oil discovery. Spanish
banks and construction companies fell.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1 percent to 268.21 at
the close in London. The gauge has advanced 9.7 percent so far
this quarter, on track for the best quarterly advance since
September 2009, boosted by the European Central Bank’s 1
trillion euro ($1.3 trillion) loan to the region’s lenders.  Today’s data “shows welcome signs of resilience in the
Germany economy, which comes as reassuring news following the
disappointing PMI survey released last week,” said  Marco Valli ,
chief eurozone economist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “If  Germany 
holds up well, chances that economic activity will stabilize in
the rest of the eurozone increase.”  Germany’s Ifo institute reported its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 109.8 from
a revised 109.7 last month. Economists had forecast it to remain
unchanged at the initial February reading of 109.6.  European stocks last week tumbled the most this year,
sending the Stoxx 600 down 2.5 percent, as manufacturing data
from China to the U.S. and Europe raised concern about the
strength of the global economic recovery.  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of 18 western-
European markets. Germany’s DAX rallied 1.2 percent, France’s
CAC 40 climbed 0.7 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.8
percent while Spain’s IBEX 35 Index fell 0.7 percent.  U.S. Monetary Policy  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that while
he’s encouraged by the  unemployment rate ’s decline to 8.3
percent, continued accommodative monetary policy will be needed
to make further progress.  The decline in unemployment may reflect “a reversal of the
unusually large layoffs that occurred during late 2008 and over
2009,” Bernanke said in a speech today in Arlington, Virginia.
“To the extent that this reversal has been completed, further
significant improvements in the unemployment rate will likely
require a more-rapid expansion of production and demand from
consumers and businesses, a process that can be supported by
continued accommodative policies.”  Debt Firewall  Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave her first indication that she
is prepared to allow an increase in the debt-crisis firewall,
saying that Germany could let the temporary and permanent rescue
funds run in parallel.  Merkel cited “fragility” in Spain and Portugal as she
revealed Germany’s position on addressing the future financial
backstop. Agreement among euro-area governments this week
“could be the basis” for the  International Monetary Fund  to
channel more resources to help fight the turmoil, she told
reporters in Berlin today.  EasyJet rallied 7.5 percent to 495.80 pence after Europe’s
second-biggest airline forecast a first-half pretax loss of 110
million to 120 million pounds. The company had predicted a loss
of 140 million to 160 million pounds.  Separately, the airline’s chief executive officer, Carolyn McCall, told Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung that the
company will grow faster than the European air transport market.  EasyJet’s growth will come “with a profit,” the newspaper
quoted McCall as saying. “We are looking now for profitable
growth and don’t only want to gain market share.”  Larger Irish rival  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  advanced 2.6
percent to 4.43 euros, while Deutsche Lufthansa AG gained 1.6
percent to 10.47 euros.  Lundin Gains  Lundin Petroleum  rallied 7 percent to 150.60 kronor after a
well appraisal confirmed a previous find at its Johan Sverdrup
Well off the coast of Norway.  Tullow Oil increased 6.6 percent to 1,570 pence after the
U.K. explorer reported Kenya’s first oil discovery.  Tullow found 20 meters of oil in the Ngamia-1 exploration
well with Canadian partner Africa Oil Corp. The well, in Block
10BB of the Turkana County, has been drilled to about a third of
its target depth.  Technip SA (TEC)  jumped 4.1 percent to 88.44 euros after Europe’s
second-largest oil-services provider won its biggest U.K. North
Sea contract, worth 600 million euros, from a  BP Plc (BP/)  led group.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc gained 4.4 percent to 260.80
pence after the Scottish  money manager  said funds under
management increased 6 percent to 184.4 billion pounds ($293
billion) in the first two months of this year as clients added
money to its equities funds.  Spanish Banks  Banco Sabadell SA led Spanish lenders lower, falling 4
percent to 2.15 euros.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
Spain’s biggest bank, retreated 1.4 percent to 6.15 euros.  Italy’s Prime Minister,  Mario Monti , warned that Spain
could reignite the European debt crisis as euro-area ministers
this week prepare a deal to strengthen the region’s financial
firewall.  Monti highlighted Spain’s struggle to control its finances
ahead of a finance ministers meeting in Copenhagen starting on
March 30, where officials will seek agreement to raise a 500
billion-euro ceiling on bailout funding.  Spanish construction-related companies also declined in
Madrid trading. Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA
dropped 4 percent to 20.27 euros and  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) 
retreated 2.3 percent to 2.47 euros.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  lost 1.5 percent to 3.47 euros after the
Financial Times reported the Italian defense company will this
week unveil “heavy losses” for 2011 of about 2.3 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  