-- Ex-Congressman Jefferson’s Foreign Bribes Convictions Upheld
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-26T20:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ex-congressman-jefferson-s-conviction-upheld-by-u-s-court-1-.html
William Jefferson, the former U.S.
congressman serving a 13-year prison sentence for using his
office to solicit bribes, lost a bid to have his conviction
thrown out by a federal appeals court.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond,  Virginia , today
upheld 10 of the 11 charges for which a jury convicted
Jefferson, a Louisiana Democrat, in 2009. The court dismissed
one wire-fraud charge, ruling that the federal court in Virginia
was not an appropriate place to charge Jefferson for a phone
call from  Africa  to  Kentucky .  “Representative Jefferson could have been -- and perhaps
yet could be -- prosecuted on Count 10 in the district in
Kentucky where his phone call was received,” the three-judge
panel said.  Jefferson, 65, was convicted of accepting hundreds of
thousands of dollars in bribes and unlawfully seeking millions
more, mainly by promoting business deals in Africa. Prosecutors
claimed he was involved in 11 separate bribery schemes from
August 2000 to August 2005 and that he and his family stood to
gain more than half a billion dollars.  Jefferson’s lawyer, Robert Trout of Trout Cacheris PLLC in
 Washington , declined to comment on today’s ruling.  “We’re pleased the Fourth Circuit saw this case for what
it was -- illicit and repugnant conduct by a Congressman who
repeatedly sold his office to enrich himself and his family,”
U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said in an e-mailed statement.  Jefferson, who lost his bid for a 10th term in the House of
Representatives in 2008 after he was indicted, was videotaped in
July 2005 accepting $100,000 in a leather briefcase at a hotel
in Arlington, Virginia. About $90,000 of the marked bills were
later recovered from boxes of Pillsbury pie crusts and Boca
meatless burgers in a freezer at the congressman’s Washington
residence.  The case is U.S. v. Jefferson, 09-05130, U.S. Court of
Appeals,  Fourth Circuit  (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  