-- Mexichem to Target Shale Gas Should Mexico Relax Monopoly
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-03-26T16:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/mexichem-to-target-shale-gas-should-mexico-relax-mopoly.html
Mexichem SAB (MEXCHEM*) , the chemicals maker
that has bought more than 15 companies since 2007, will seek to
develop  Mexico ’s first shale-gas projects if the country sells
licenses that would bypass a monopoly on fossil fuels.  “There are a lot of petrochemical areas with growth
opportunities for us, and where we have no presence yet -- shale
gas for example,” Antonio del Valle Ruiz, Mexichem’s chairman
emeritus, said in a March 23 interview after participating in a
Bloomberg CEO Roundtable in Mexico City. Mexico would need to
offer shale-gas projects as mining permits to bypass the
government’s petroleum monopoly without changing the law, he
said.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-run oil producer known as
Pemex, “notoriously” lacks the budget to boost deep-water
drilling and develop shale-gas deposits, Energy Minister Jordy
Herrera said this month. Mexico, the third-largest oil supplier
to the U.S., has as much as 460 trillion cubic feet of natural
gas trapped in shale-rock formations,  Carlos Morales , head of
exploration and production at Pemex, said last year.  Shale-gas projects may lure investments of $10 billion a
year, Herrera said.  The main hurdle for development of Mexico’s shale-gas
industry is government bureaucracy and slowness to go ahead with
plans to auction licenses, Del Valle said.  “There’s a problem with the country’s bureaucracy for the
petrochemical sector that drags, and keeps dragging the
projects,” he said. “We need to change the government’s
philosophy, not the laws.”  Mexichem is facing regulatory delays to start a joint
venture with Pemex after the companies announced a $556 million
venture to produce vinyl chloride on June 28.  The joint venture may start operations in the third
quarter,  Del Valle  said.  Mexichem rose 1.3 percent to 47.89 pesos at 10:48 a.m. in
Mexico City. Before today, it gained 7.7 percent this year, more
than the 3.4 percent increase in the benchmark IPC index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  