-- Mexico’s Peso Rises for a Second Day on U.S. Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-03-26T14:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/mexico-s-peso-rises-for-a-second-day-on-u-s-growth-outlook.html
Mexico’s peso strengthened, heading
for its second consecutive day of gains, on speculation an
improving U.S. growth outlook will buoy  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy.  The peso rose 0.6 percent to 12.6688 per  U.S. dollar  at
8:02 a.m. in Mexico City, from 12.7474 on March 23. The increase
added to a 0.5 percent advance the currency posted on March 23,
sending it to consecutive daily gains for the first time since
the period ended March 9. It’s up 10 percent this year, the most
among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that a
decline in the  unemployment rate  in the U.S., the destination
for 80 percent of Mexican exports, may reflect “a reversal of
the unusually large layoffs that occurred during late 2008 and
over 2009.” Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said last
week that  Mexico ’s economy is likely to expand at the top end of
the 3 percent to 4 percent target range.  “We open this week with better risk sentiment,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a local markets strategist at RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“The underlying trends in the U.S. growth data are the same
where we continue to see improving growth, though however still
trend growth.”  With Mexican economic expansion staying close to last
year’s 3.9 percent, inflation will remain subdued as the bank’s
monetary policy helps stabilize inflationary expectations,
Carstens said in an interview before participating in a
Bloomberg CEO roundtable discussion in Mexico City on March 23.
“Based on information we have today, probably a rate of growth
closer to 4 percent would be foreseeable,” he said.  Mexican economic data has been “actually quite good” and
the peso should continue to benefit from any improvement in the
U.S., as a so-called high-beta currency, Cattan-Naslausky said.  The yield on Mexico’s peso bonds due in 2024 was little
changed at 6.51 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 0.05 centavo to 130.07 centavos per
peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  