-- MF Global’s Corzine May be Liable if Customer Risk Known
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-26T01:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/mf-global-s-corzine-may-be-liable-if-customer-risk-known.html
Jon S. Corzine, MF Global Holding
Ltd.’s former chief executive officer, may face potential legal
liability if investigators show he knew customer money might be
used when he ordered $200 million transferred to a U.K. account
as his brokerage neared collapse, former prosecutors said.  The ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman gave “direct
instructions” to move money from a U.S. account to meet an 
overdraft with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  just days before MF Global’s 
bankruptcy, according to a memo by congressional investigators. 
Such accounts may have contained assets belonging to both 
customers and MF Global.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and federal regulators are
investigating the firm’s Oct. 31 collapse. Corzine, a Democrat
from  New Jersey  who served in the  U.S. Senate  and as governor,
told Congress last year he never directed customer funds be used
improperly. Though showing he deliberately used customer money
would be the key to a criminal case, former prosecutors said
Corzine, who hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing, could be
deemed liable in civil cases for misuse of customer money simply
for ordering the hole in JPMorgan’s account plugged, if it
turns out customer funds were used.  “It’s not whether he specified,” John Moscow, a former
chief prosecutor in the office of  Manhattan  District Attorney
Robert Morgenthau, said yesterday in an interview. “The
economics of the situation were he was out of money. The bottom
line is, he was taking a risk with somebody else’s money.”  In a casino, said Moscow, now with Baker Hostetler LLP in
New York, “if I put your money on the table, I’ve committed
larceny as soon as I expose it to risk.”  Hearing This Week  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t return a call
or e-mail after normal business hours seeking comment on the
probe. A congressional hearing on the issue is set for this week.  MF Global and its brokerage sought  Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection  in New York after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of
some of  Europe ’s most indebted nations prompted regulator
concerns and a credit-rating downgrade. Corzine, 65, quit MF
Global Nov. 4. The bankruptcy trustee overseeing the liquidation
of the company’s brokerage subsidiary has estimated a $1.6
billion shortfall between customer claims and assets available.  Edith O’Brien, a treasurer for New York-based MF Global,
said in an e-mail quoted in the Congressional memo that the $200
million transfer was “Per JC’s direct instructions,” according
to a copy of the memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  The e-mail, dated Oct. 28, was sent three days before the
company collapsed, according to the document. The account may
have contained both client and company funds, the memo states.  Internal E-Mail  O’Brien’s internal e-mail was sent as MF Global found
intraday credit lines limited by New York-based JPMorgan, the
firm’s clearing bank as well as one of its custodian banks for
segregated customer funds, according to the memo.  Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk officer, called Corzine
to seek assurances that the funds belonged to MF Global and not
customers. JPMorgan drafted a letter to be signed by O’Brien to
ensure that MF Global was complying with rules requiring
customers’ collateral to be segregated. The letter wasn’t
returned to JPMorgan, according to the memo. JPMorgan was given 
verbal assurance that the transfer followed the rules, according 
to a person familiar with the transaction.  The assurance was given by O’Brien or someone in her 
office, said the person, who declined to be identified because 
the communications were private.  Reid Weingarten , O’Brien’s 
lawyer, didn’t respond to calls or an e-mail seeking comment 
after normal business hours.  Firm's Collapse  The congressional memo was prepared for a March 28 House 
Financial Services subcommittee hearing on the firm’s collapse. 
O’Brien is scheduled to testify, having been subpoenaed.  Steven Goldberg, a spokesman for Corzine, said in a
statement yesterday it was Corzine's ``understanding that on 
the evening of Oct. 27, MF Global had substantial hundreds of 
millions of dollars in cash and free collateral available.''   Goldberg said last week that the former MF Global chief 
“never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds and never 
intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds.”  The Congressional memo’s account of the e-mail exchanges
involving O’Brien aligns with what  Terrence Duffy , executive
chairman at  CME Group Inc. (CME) , told lawmakers during a December
hearing. Auditors at CME, which had authority to oversee MF
Global, learned from an employee of the brokerage that Corzine
knew about the loans involving a European affiliate, Duffy told
committee members.  Michael Clark, a former federal prosecutor who has handled
financial fraud cases, said the government may be able to show
“that Corzine and the staffers knew at that time the request
was made that it necessarily meant they’d have to pull funds
without authorization from other customer accounts.”  Vulnerable to Litigation  Clark, now with the law firm Duane Morris LLP in Houston,
said the actions of Corzine’s employees may make him vulnerable
to litigation.  “The law recognizes that a principal can be liable for the
actions of his agents under such circumstances,” he said.  Proving intent to abuse customer money “can be shown by
direct evidence, such as documented instructions or staffers’
testimony, or by circumstantial evidence of intent showing he
was willfully blind in that he chose to ignore what otherwise
would have been obvious to him under the circumstances,” Clark
said.  If Corzine asked employees to take funds temporarily from
client accounts, the lawyer said, “the liability is more direct
since that violates fiduciary and other legal duties owed to
customers and the government.”  Transfer of Funds  Gerald Shargel, a criminal defense lawyer in  New York ,
agreed with Clark, saying if Corzine is found to have directed
the transfer of funds, a case for fraud could be brought based
on a manager’s breach of fiduciary duty to clients.  Even if Corzine didn’t specify to O’Brien that she use
client funds, but demanded that “needed” funds be transferred
to JPMorgan while knowing there wasn’t enough company funds to
make up the amount, the government may have a strong case,
Shargel said.  If Corzine knew there wasn’t enough money to complete 
a transfer without dipping into client funds, there would be
circumstantial evidence that could make a stronger case than
testimony from O’Brien saying she was told specifically to take
client funds, he said.  “When you have a web of circumstantial evidence, it’s
stronger than a direct-evidence case: it doesn’t depend on
memory, opportunity, bias, or hostility from an employee, who
might be trying to get out from their own problems,’’ Shargel
said.  Evade Restrictions  There may also be liability if money was moved to another
country to evade restrictions in the U.S. on such use of
customer money, said Moscow.  In addition, securities laws may have been violated if
Corzine failed to disclose to customers that the transfer abroad
would affect their title to the funds, he said. That would apply
even if the fine print in the customer contract specified that
funds might be transferred to an affiliate, Moscow said.  In addition to federal probes, Corzine and other former MF
Global executives face a group-investor lawsuit over whether
they broke rules governing customer protection. The threshold
for success in such civil litigation is far lower than the
standard needed in a criminal prosecution.  The lawsuit, led by the Virginia Retirement System, alleged
that Corzine made misleading statements that inflated the prices
of MF Global securities. Separately, commodities customers are
competing to lead another group lawsuit against Corzine.  Scheduled to Appear  At the hearing in  Washington  this week, O’Brien is
scheduled to appear along with Christine Serwinski and Laurie Ferber, two other MF Global executives named by Corzine as being
involved in the transaction, according to the Congressional memo.  Henri Steenkamp, the firm’s chief financial officer, is
also scheduled to testify, as are representatives from JPMorgan
and the  Financial Accounting Standards Board  who haven’t yet
been identified.  Representative  Spencer Bachus , the chairman of the
Financial Services Committee, said last week in a statement that
the investigations subcommittee will try “to learn whether the
liquidity crunch at MF Global led someone to improperly use
customer funds to meet the firm’s need for cash.’’  The five-page Congressional memo, which was drafted by
committee staff and circulated to lawmakers on March 23, lays
out a final week when the firm faced ratings downgrades,
increasing margin calls and cuts to intraday credit lines.  Showed the Shortfall  By the evening of Oct. 30, O’Brien provided Serwinski, the
chief financial officer for MF Global Inc., with a document that
showed the shortfall in customer segregated funds was the result
of three different transactions, according to the memo.  Those transactions -- intraday loans between MF Global’s
futures commission merchant and its broker dealer, the funding
of outgoing client funds and a $175 million transfer to MF
Global’s London office -- totaled $909 million, according to the
memo.  Corzine, in testimony before the House panel in December,
said he didn’t order any improper transfer of customer funds. He
also testified that he never intended a misuse of customer funds
at MF Global, and that he doesn’t know where client funds went.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  Final Day  Yesterday, the New York Times reported Corzine was told 
during the brokerage firm's final day of business that a 
transfer of $175 million to JPMorgan came from the firm's own 
money, rather than from a customer account, according to an 
internal e-mail sent by an executive in MF Global's Chicago 
office. The transfer, the e-mail said, was a "House Wire," 
meaning that it came from the firm's own money, the newspaper
reported. The Times said the transfer followed an earlier
asset move that sent $200 million of customer money into the 
account, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Goldberg, Corzine's spokesman, said the ex-CEO didn’t 
specify which funds should be used to replenish the JPMorgan 
account.  “He never directed Ms. O’Brien or anyone else regarding
which account should be used to cure the overdrafts, and he
never directed that customer funds should be used for that
purpose,” Goldberg said. “Nor was he informed that customer
funds had been used for that purpose.”  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York; The parent’s bankruptcy case is MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 