-- MF Global’s Counsel Resisted Giving Assurances on Transfers
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-26T23:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/mf-global-s-ferber-says-jpmorgan-sought-assurance-on-transfers.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  General
Counsel Laurie Ferber twice resisted providing assurances to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  that the broker was complying with rules to
segregate customers’ collateral, saying language in a draft
provided by the bank was too broad.  Ferber said JPMorgan was “specifically interested in two
transfers” that occurred the morning of Oct. 28. The first was
a $200 million transfer from a segregated customer funds account
at MF Global Inc., the firm’s brokerage, to a “house” account,
followed by a second transfer of $175 million from the house
account to a London subsidiary’s account at JPMorgan.  “Although I had no reason to believe that any non-
compliant transfers from segregated accounts had occurred or
would occur, I did not think that any individual officer or
employee should be asked to issue such a broad certificate,”
Ferber said in testimony prepared for a March 28 House Financial
Services subcommittee hearing. Any employee making such an
assurance, she said, would have had to personally handle all the
transfers or been able to review all the transactions within the
available timeframe.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican who
leads the Financial Services investigations subcommittee, will
hold a third hearing on the bankruptcy that left a customer
funds shortfall estimated at $1.6 billion.  Treasurer to Testify  Among those set to testify this week is Edith O’Brien, an
 MF Global (MFGLQ)  executive based in Chicago and identified by former
Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine as having knowledge of
transfers of funds from customer accounts.  Ferber’s testimony addresses transfers that have come under
question in the wake of a Financial Services panel staff memo
circulated to lawmakers last week.  “On the afternoon of Friday, October 28, MF Global
transferred $200 million from a segregated customer account at
JPMC to cover a $175 million overdraft in one of MF Global’s
JPMC accounts in  London ,” the five-page staff memo says. “Ms.
O’Brien wrote in an e-mail that the transfer was ‘Per JC’s [ Jon
Corzine ’s] direct instructions’.”  Barry Zubrow, JPMorgan’s chief risk officer, called Corzine
to seek assurances that the funds belonged to MF Global and not
customers. JPMorgan drafted a letter to be signed by O’Brien to
ensure that MF Global was complying with the rules, the memo
said.  In her testimony, Ferber said she spoke to officials at the
bank on Oct. 28 and requested they narrow the language.  Letter Unsigned  “I then spoke to the person in Chicago whom JPMorgan
identified in the certificate and was given the understanding
that she would sign the certificate if it were limited to the
two transactions the bank had expressed interest in,” Ferber
said.  Ferber does not identify the individual in  Chicago . Ferber
conferred a second time with JPMorgan, which complied with the
request and provided a new draft the next day with narrower
language. Ferber said she turned the revised draft over to a
colleague and was not involved in discussions after that point.  The letter to JPMorgan was never signed, according to the
House memo.  MF Global and its brokerage sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy on
Oct. 31 after a $6.3 billion bet on the bonds of some of
 Europe ’s most indebted nations prompted regulator concerns and a
credit rating downgrade. Corzine quit MF Global Nov. 4.  A spokesman for Corzine, Steven Goldberg, said last week
that the former MF Global chief “never gave any instruction to
misuse customer funds and never intended anyone at MF Global to
misuse customer funds.”  ‘Never Intended’  Corzine, in testimony before the House panel in
December,said he didn’t order any improper transfer of customer
funds. He also testified that he never intended a misuse of
customer funds at MF Global, and that he doesn’t know where
client funds went.  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  O’Brien is scheduled to appear before lawmakers with
Christine Serwinski, another MF Global executive, and Henri Steenkamp, the firm’s chief financial officer.  Steenkamp, in his testimony, said he had “limited
knowledge” of the movement of segregated customer funds in the
final days before the firm’s failure. Steenkamp said he
understood that lawmakers would have questions this week about
the missing funds.  “I share many of these questions and I am personally
extremely frustrated and distressed that they remain outstanding
and the client funds have not been paid in full,” Steenkamp
said in his prepared remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  