-- Plosser Sees No Need for More Stimulus as Economy Recovers
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-03-26T11:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/fed-s-plosser-sees-no-need-at-moment-for-additional-stimulus.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said he doesn’t currently see any need
for additional monetary stimulus as the economy recovers.  “The economy’s doing better, we’re gaining some
traction,” Plosser said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Paris today. “We’re not entirely out of the
woods. But I’ve got some cautious optimism. If the economy
evolves as I think it will, barring some extraordinary events, I
don’t think there’ll be any need for further accommodation or
further QE.”  Plosser said on Feb. 29 that he believes the  U.S. economy 
will improve this year and that the Fed, which has committed to
keeping its key rate near zero through 2014, may need to raise
borrowing costs “sooner than people expect.” Economic growth
accelerated to 3 percent in the fourth quarter and the
 unemployment rate  fell last month to an almost three-year low of
8.3 percent.  Under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , the Fed has purchased $2.3
trillion of Treasuries and mortgage debt in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2.  Fed’s Exit  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  this year, said while those policies may have been
appropriate at the time, they will need to be unwound. The
timing of the Fed’s exit “remains to be seen,” he said.  “We can say it was what we had to do at the time and it
was appropriate, but we have to recognize that it is straying
into a territory that traditionally monetary policy has not
been,” Plosser said. “It still may be the best policy, but it
does have consequences that we need to be aware of.”  Asked if the Fed should keep accommodative policies in
place to counter a withdrawal of fiscal stimulus at the end of
the year, something Bernanke has called the “fiscal cliff,”
Plosser said: “I don’t think it’s necessarily the right way for
us to think about more accommodation just because of what the
fiscal authorities are doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Michael McKee in Paris at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  