-- Fed More Effective With Inflation, Funds Rate Goals
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/fed-more-effective-with-inflation-funds-rate-goals-survey-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
spell out the optimal rate at which prices should increase in
the U.S. and the possible trajectory of its benchmark interest
rate will make policy more effective, a survey showed.  Almost seven of every 10 members polled by the  National
Association for Business Economics  said the central bank’s plan
to keep inflation rising at around 2 percent over the long term
will improve the effectiveness of monetary policy. Six of 10
said releasing projections for changes in the so-called federal
funds rate will also help.  Conversely, respondents were almost evenly split on whether
the federal government was doing too much, too little or just
enough to boost the economy, reflecting the lack of consensus
among voters heading into a presidential election. When asked
about specific policies, like extending the payroll tax cut or
the credit on business investment, a majority supported the
measures.  “There were fairly high marks for the Fed,”  Jay Bryson ,
senior global economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , who helped compile the data, said in
an interview. “There is much more consensus on the
effectiveness or appropriateness of monetary policy at present
than there is consensus on fiscal policy.”  Gone Too Far  While applauding the Fed’s efforts to make its intentions
more transparent, most economists said the central bank’s pledge
to keep  interest rates  low through late 2014 had gone too far.
Just 6 percent of those polled said the rate should be kept low
for that long or beyond. Twenty-six percent said the pledge
should extend through mid or late 2012, 29 percent favored mid
or late 2013, and 3 percent said through mid 2014. The remaining
36 percent said the Fed should provide no guidance.  On current fiscal policy, 35 percent said it was too
stimulative, 34 percent said it was just about right and 31
percent deemed it too restrictive of growth.  There was more agreement about the future, with 53 percent
saying the government should cut back, while 31 percent said it
should do more.  The results show that more people are in favor of
government doing all it can in the short run to keep the world’s
largest economy going, while making longer-term decisions to
trim the  budget deficit , said Bryson.  “People are in favor of temporary sorts of things,”
Bryson said. “They are saying, ‘We shouldn’t reduce those
things right now. However I would prefer policy to be tighter in
the longer run.’”  The business economists’ survey took place from Feb. 15 to
March 6 and reflected the responses of 259 members. The National
Association for Business Economics, founded in 1959, is the
professional organization for people who use economics in their
work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  