-- Fire Up America’s Jobs Factory With Aid for Startups
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-03-26T23:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/fire-up-america-s-jobs-factory-with-aid-for-startups.html
Politicians, even those who vilify
corporate America, inevitably laud small businesses.  They are right to appreciate the enormous role that
entrepreneurship plays in the  U.S. economy , but it’s not clear
how much public policy can do to conjure up entrepreneurs.  Last week, with broad support, the Senate passed an amended
version of the  Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act  (or the JOBS
Act). Because the bill had already been passed by the House on
March 8, and is supported by the White House, it seems bound to
become law.  The act attempts to make startup financing easier to obtain
by reducing financial regulations on smaller companies. Although
this approach carries  risks  -- light regulation makes fraud much
easier -- I still support the bill, at least with the Senate’s
extra safeguards. Still, we shouldn’t kid ourselves that this
will be a magic bullet; American entrepreneurship needs new
ideas more than new financing mechanisms.  In every year since 1989, new companies have created more
net jobs than the economy as a whole, which means that older
companies are, on average, destroying  more jobs  than they
create. In 2009, the latest year for which we have data, new
businesses created 2.33 million jobs, while older businesses
destroyed, on net, more than 7 million jobs. The share of
Americans working in startups has fallen to 2 percent in 2009
from 3.8 percent in 1979.  Historical View  The history of America’s local economies illustrates the
dangers of relying solely on large, established companies. Fifty
years ago, the economist Benjamin Chinitz noted that  New York 
appeared  more resilient  than Pittsburgh, which he credited to
the entrepreneurship inculcated by New York’s garment industry.  Chinitz noted that “the average establishment in the
apparel industry, for example, has one-sixth as many employees
as the average establishment in primary metals.” Since big
companies produce middle managers more than entrepreneurs, he
said, “You do not breed as many entrepreneurs per capita in
families allied with steel as you do in families allied with
apparel.”  Chinitz’s claim has been supported by many studies that
have identified  strong links  between initial measures of
entrepreneurship, such as average establishment size and the
share of employment in startups, and regional economic success,
typically measured by employment growth. Our measures of local
entrepreneurship are pretty mediocre, which makes their robust
correlation with economic growth all the more remarkable. The
next figure sorts American metropolitan areas by average
establishment size as of 1977 and shows subsequent employment
growth across areas.  The correlation is quite robust even with controls for
other local attributes, like education. If we look within
metropolitan areas, we also find that sectors that have smaller
establishments and more employment in  startups grow  more
quickly. My recent work with economist William Kerr even
supports Chinitz’s view that historic concentration in resource-
intensive industries, such as steel, leads to larger companies
across all industries and less economic growth today. We find
that proximity to mines in 1900 reduces employment growth in the
long run, even if we look only outside the  Rust Belt  and focus
only on industries that have little to do with manufacturing.  Although I share the enthusiasm for entrepreneurship
evinced by the authors of the JOBS Act, I am less optimistic
about the ability of the government to make the U.S. more
entrepreneurial by playing venture capitalist or by reducing
financial regulations. My colleague Joshua Lerner, one of the
giants of entrepreneurship research, has written an excellent
book, titled “ Boulevard of Broken Dreams ,” which describes the
vast number of failed public efforts to boost entrepreneurship.  Train Smart People  My own mantra is that the best way to encourage local
entrepreneurship is to attract and train smart people and then
get out of their way. In that vein, I continue to believe that
the U.S. can best lay the foundation for long-term
entrepreneurship by improving education, so that more Americans
acquire the knowledge needed for technological innovation.  An even easier way to engender entrepreneurship is to
import it from abroad. The  Kauffman Foundation , which is
“devoted to entrepreneurship,” notes that, “Immigrants found
companies here at greater rates than native-born Americans do,
and are disproportionately successful in starting successful
high-tech firms.” Kauffman advocates the expansion of visas for
foreign entrepreneurs and more green cards to enable foreign
students who study science to work in the U.S.  Still, the JOBS Act at least represents a clear
acknowledgment that the U.S. has a dearth of entrepreneurship.
The legislation eases access to financing for startups by
eliminating financial regulations and reduces the need to
disclose information.  This approach represents a vast improvement over government
attempts to play venture capitalist. Neither elected officials
nor bureaucrats are good at picking winners, and they are prone
to choose the politically popular over the economically rational
(remember Solyndra).  Moreover, some evidence links entrepreneurship with
financial-market competition. A paper by economist Timothy Bartik more than 20 years ago found that entrepreneurship
increased when states relaxed restrictions on  branch banking . A
more recent study focusing just on entrepreneurship and
financial regulation found  similar results .  The JOBS Act is not the solution that its supporters would
wish it to be, and it carries costs as well as benefits. Even
though investors have strong incentives to investigate before
hazarding their money on some new startup, there will still be
more fraud with fewer regulations. Yet America’s need for added
entrepreneurs is sufficiently great that we should be willing to
take that risk. We should not, however, think that the JOBS Act
will solve our entrepreneurship gap, and we should continue
working on education and immigration policies that will increase
America’s stock of entrepreneurs.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on  health-care reform’s day in court  and  Russia’s
objections to missile defense .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Israel’s
overconfident leaders . Ramesh Ponnuru on how Republicans should
react if the  Supreme Court upholds Obamacare .  Simon Johnson  and
 James Kwak  on why the U.S.  abandoned the gold standard .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 