-- Fisker Sees DiCaprio Driving Away Doubt for Plug-In Karma
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-03-26T14:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/fisker-sees-dicaprio-driving-away-doubt-for-plug-in-karma.html
Fisker Automotive Inc.’s dream of a
profitable plug-in luxury-car business still entices investors,
even as the  California  startup fixes glitches in its first model
and is pulled into a political fight over a U.S. loan program.  The company wants its $103,000 Karma to compete for buyers
of high-performance luxury cars with  Porsche AG (PAH3) , Fiat SpA’s
Maserati and Volkswagen AG’s Bentley. It’s working to raise at
least $100 million in new funds to reach about $1 billion of
private money by the end of the month, two people familiar with
the matter said last week.  Fisker has gained symbolic importance beyond its size. The
company is a test of whether electric-drive luxury cars can be
sold profitably. Its first model, the Karma, has had stumbles,
including a recall and a car shutting down during testing by
 Consumer Reports  magazine. With approval for as much as $529
million in loans from the Energy Department, its future also
will be part of debates over U.S. policy.  “It’s not unusual, even for big automakers, to have some
stumbles out of the gate with a new product, particularly for
exotic” vehicles, said  Eric Noble , president of the Car Lab, an
industry consultant in Orange, California. “With this political
element, they’re going to be lucky to get through all that.”  About 630 Fisker cars have been delivered, mostly to U.S.
buyers so far, according to the company. Customers include actor
Leonardo DiCaprio and singer Justin Bieber. Walden Schmidt, the
television character played by  Ashton Kutcher  on CBS Corp.’s
“ Two and a Half Men ,” has driven a Karma on the show since
late last year.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  Fisker’s future hinges on continued investor support after
its access to U.S. loans was suspended when the company didn’t
meet a timetable for making a second plug-in model in  Delaware .
Critics include Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ,
who calls the Obama administration’s loans to startups such as
Fisker and solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, which filed for
bankruptcy last year, “crony capitalism.”  The company had drawn down $193 million in U.S. loans when
Fisker disclosed in February its access was suspended last year.
Fisker had raised $896 million in private funds as of Feb. 10,
according to a regulatory filing.  While it’s fair to question whether the government should
be lending to any company, particularly startups, Romney’s
criticism of Fisker isn’t, said Ray Lane, a board member and
managing partner for  Kleiner Perkins  Caufield & Byers, a Silicon
Valley investment firm backing the carmaker.  “The problem I have with Romney is he doesn’t check his
facts,” said Lane, who is also  chairman  of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and describes himself as a lifelong Republican who’s never voted
for a Democrat.  ‘He’s Just Wrong’  “When the debate goes to: This president is handing out
taxpayer dollars to his buddies, he’s just wrong,” Lane said.  Fisker applied for its federal loan before Lane knew the
program existed, he said in a March 24 phone interview. Lane
said he never met with anyone at the Energy Department and
doesn’t talk with President Obama. Al Gore, who was U.S. vice
president in the Bill Clinton administration and is an
investment partner at Kleiner Perkins, wasn’t involved in the
Fisker application, Lane said.  Closely held Fisker’s goal is to lure environmentally
conscious buyers seeking a rechargeable luxury car able to go as
far as 50 miles (80 kilometers) on lithium-ion battery power
before a gasoline engine engages. The Karma has had two defects
related to Waltham, Massachusetts-based  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , which
is also an investor.  Fisker recalled 329 Karmas in December to fix clamps on
battery packs made by A123. This month, Consumer Reports said a
Karma it purchased shut down during testing on the magazine’s
track in Connecticut. A123 said this morning that faulty cells
it produced in  Michigan  caused that car to break down.  CEO’s Stance  Tom LaSorda, the carmaker’s chief executive officer, said
in a March 13 statement that the car responded correctly when it
shut down after detecting an error. The company created a team
of more than 50 engineers and technicians to identify and solve
any additional defects, he said.  Next week in  New York , Anaheim, California-based Fisker is
to show the Nina, the plug-in it wants to eventually build in
Wilmington, Delaware, and to provide an update on business.  “Quality has become the number one focus and priority of
the company,” Lasorda said in a March 24 phone interview. “In
that comes putting the customer first, before anything.”  Fisker and other automakers are trying to create a market
for cars powered mainly by electricity amid tougher fuel economy
rules and concerns over carbon pollution and  oil prices .  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor Co., as well as
startups  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and  Coda Automotive Inc ., offer plug-
in vehicles.  Plug-In Demand  Even as gasoline prices rise, sales have started slowly and
demand is hard to predict.  “No one really knows,” said K. Gopal Duleep, president of
HD Systems Inc., a Washington-based consulting firm. “Market
share for plug-ins is likely to be very small, perhaps 50,000 a
year by 2015.”  Combined sales of GM’s Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid and
Nissan’s all-electric Leaf, the first two mass-market
rechargeable cars, were 17,345 last year, falling short of
annual targets for both. GM this month temporarily halted Volt
production in Michigan because of a growing supply of unsold
cars.  Demand for such autos outstripped supply last year, Phil Murtaugh, chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based Coda,
told reporters in  Los Angeles  this month after the company
delivered battery-powered sedans to its first two customers.  Karma Delays  A shortage of components caused by natural disasters in
 Japan  was one factor, he said.  “There truly is 55,000, 60,000 units of demand” for
electric cars this year, Murtaugh said. Within a decade,
rechargeable autos should account for as much as 2 percent of
U.S. sales, he said.  Shipments of the Karma, designed by company co-founder
Henrik Fisker, began in late 2011, more than a year behind an
initial goal. Engineering and design are done in California,
with Karmas built under contract in Finland by Valmet Automotive
Oy, a specialist in luxury-auto assembly.  While the Karma was selected as “Luxury Car of the Year”
by the  BBC’s Top Gear  television program last November, initial
reviews in the U.S. have been mixed. Dan Neil, automotive critic
for the Wall Street Journal, last month called it “ the world’s
most interesting car .”  Jason Harper, auto reviewer for Bloomberg News, found more
faults, including powertrain noise and vibrations and relatively
slow acceleration for a premium sports car.  “Fisker argues the Karma’s major selling point is its
blend of sportiness and green credentials,” Harper wrote in his
review last week. “I’m not convinced. Luxury consumers don’t
like compromises, and the Karma is full of them.”  Loan Program  Fisker’s choice to simultaneously develop the Nina sedan,
projected to cost half as much as Karma, while also refurbishing
the aging Wilmington plant to build it may have been too big of
a stretch.  Funding for the factory came from an Energy Department loan
in 2009 that’s part of an Obama administration effort to spur
development of energy-efficient technologies.  The program, initially proposed under the Bush
administration, has drawn congressional scrutiny since the
September 2011 bankruptcy of Solyndra. Beacon Power Corp., an
energy-storage company, and Ener1 Inc., a supplier of batteries
for electric cars, also filed for  bankruptcy protection  after
receiving Energy Department aid.  Romney, Gingrich  Romney criticizes the loans in his campaign stump speech
for usurping the private sector’s role in spurring new
industries.  “The right course for America is not to have a president
to take your money to give it to his friends, but instead to let
the free market choose those that have the greatest prospect for
success,” Romney said last month in Lansing.  Newt Gingrich , vying with Romney to be the Republican
nominee, derided GM’s plug-in as a “liberal’s” car. “Here’s
my point: You can’t put a gun rack in a Volt,” Gingrich said
while campaigning in Georgia last month, according to the New
York Times.  Criticism is to be expected, said Murtaugh of Coda.  “It’s an election year,” he said. “There’s lots of
things said in an election year that five years later nobody
remembers.”  ‘Second Wives’  Fisker’s investors include Palo Alto Investors LLC as well
as Kleiner Perkins and A123 Systems.  The Energy Department may let Fisker resume drawing on the
loan funds after “they see us deliver the monthly numbers,”
LaSorda said in a conference call last month. “We have a new
business plan and we’re getting strong support from our
financial partners.”  The company’s initial goal of specializing in premium plug-
in cars was a “solid business,” said Car Lab’s Noble. “In
terms of price, performance, package, accouterments, Karma
stacks up well against Porsche Panamera.”  The early technical glitches are fixable and may not be
fatal for the brand, he said. Wealthy customers may also be more
forgiving than mass-market drivers, Noble said.  “Let’s be honest: This is a car for plastic surgeons and
their second wives,” he said. “It’s a $110,000 car and anyone
who buys one isn’t expecting it to be a Camry. They want
something emotional.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  