-- Trayvon Martin’s Family Demands Man Be Arrested in His Shooting
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-03-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/florida-town-on-edge-as-controversy-continues-around-killing.html
A month after Trayvon Martin was
shot dead, his family and hundreds of marchers want one thing:
George Zimmerman arrested.  “He needs to be put on trial,” Tracy Martin, Trayvon’s
father, told the City Council yesterday in  Sanford (13549MF) ,  Florida .
“He needs to be given a sentence by a jury of his peers.”  Martin, an unarmed, black 17-year-old from Miami Gardens
who was out of school because of a drug-related suspension, was
shot Feb. 26 in his father’s gated community by Zimmerman, whose
mother is Hispanic and father is white. Zimmerman, a
Neighborhood Watch member suspicious because of recent
burglaries, has claimed self-defense and hasn’t been arrested.
The situation has prompted rallies across the nation and,
residents say, fractured this city of 54,000 about 20 miles (32
kilometers) north of Orlando.  Zimmerman, 28, remains in hiding because of death threats.
Acting Sanford Police Chief Darren Scott urged patience for
those who prefer a “quick and positive resolution in this
tragic event.”  “We do have a system in place, a legal system,” he said
at a press conference yesterday. “It may not be perfect, but
it’s the only one we have.”  Chanting Crowd  There was little patience in a crowd that spilled across
four Sanford blocks. It numbered about 10,000, said Lisa Mosca,
a spokeswoman for the city.  They chanted while marching nine blocks to the council
meeting at the Sanford Civic Center:  “Who do we want? Zimmerman.”  “When do we want him? Now.”  Anjial Madyun of  Orlando  said in an interview as she
marched that the case’s racial dimension has galvanized Florida
and the nation.  “Black or white, parents teach their children to respect
police,” said Madyun, 40. “But black people, black men
especially, know they have to step farther away from police.  ‘‘That’s something our parents taught us and now I teach to
my son,’’ she said. ‘‘And it’s not fair.’’  Martin’s mother, Sybrina Fulton, told the council, ‘‘My
heart is broken.’’  ‘‘I know I cannot bring my baby back,’’ she said in a
minute-long speech during which she struggled to hold back
tears. ‘‘But I’m sure going to make changes so that this does
not happen to another family.’’  Filling in Details  Details of Martin’s and Zimmerman’s pasts have emerged that
lend complexity to their characters.  Ryan Julison, a Martin family spokesman, said yesterday
that the teenager was in Sanford because he was suspended from
school last month for having a baggie that contained marijuana
residue in his book bag. The family believes the suspension had
nothing to do with the killing, he said.  In October, Martin was suspended from school after being
found with jewelry and a screwdriver that a security staffer
described as a ‘‘burglary tool,” the Miami Herald reported. He
was searched after being caught writing graffiti, the newspaper
reported.  Martin said a friend gave him the jewelry, according to the
report. He wasn’t disciplined because of the discovery, but was
suspended for graffiti, according to a Miami-Dade Schools Police
report obtained by the Herald.  A lawyer for the family, Ben Crump, told the newspaper that
Martin’s parents knew nothing of the jewelry, that he didn’t
believe the incident occurred and that in any event it is
“irrelevant.”  Deadly Errand  The teenager was walking to his father’s home after buying
Skittles candy and an iced tea from a convenience store when he
was shot.  The Orlando Sentinel, citing “authorities” whom it didn’t
name, reported yesterday that Martin had attacked Zimmerman and
slammed his head into the sidewalk. That matches the account
that Zimmerman gave police and was corroborated by eyewitnesses,
the newspaper reported.  The Reverend  Jesse Jackson , the civil rights activist, has
advocated a voter-registration drive with the aim of electing
officials who would repeal Florida’s “stand your ground” law.  Local officials said the  law , which relieves a citizen of
responsibility to retreat when he feels threatened in a public
place and gives him the right to “meet force with force,”
prevented them from making an arrest after Zimmerman killed
Martin.  Strife and Violence  Zimmerman, who is studying criminal justice, was arrested
once in 2005 on charges of battery on a police officer and
resisting arrest with violence, according to the New York Times.
Those charges were dropped.  That same year, Zimmerman was accused of pushing his ex-
fiancee during an argument, according to an Orlando Sentinel
report. In competing court petitions, the woman accused
Zimmerman of slapping her in the past, while Zimmerman claimed
that she was the aggressor in the fight, according to the
newspaper.  The U.S.  Justice Department  last week opened a civil rights
inquiry into the incident. Fourteen Democrats on the House of
Representatives Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Attorney
General Eric Holder asking that as part of it he “explore the
applicability” of the federal hate-crime statute and other
federal laws.  Today,  House Democrats  will hold an unofficial hearing on
 Capitol Hill  addressing the shooting. The forum starts at 3
p.m., Matt Morgan, a spokesman for Representative  John Conyers 
of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the House Judiciary panel, said
in an e-mail yesterday. Martin’s mother will testify, said
Julison.  “If something happens to your children, you want to know
what happened,” Fulton told the council. “As a parent you want
some answers to your questions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Sanford at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  