-- Forbidden Name in Hats, Lod Mosaic: Chicago Art
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/forbidden-name-in-hats-lod-mosaic-laura-letinsky-chicago-art.html
In 1996, road workers in Lod,
Israel, unearthed an extraordinary Roman mosaic dating back to
about 300 A.D.  A large panel is on view at the Field Museum in Chicago
after a stint at  New York ’s Metropolitan Museum of Art last
year. It will go on to the Columbus Museum of Art starting May
18 and eventually will return to Lod, where a permanent home is
being constructed.  The 14-by-23-foot panel, part of a bigger floor, probably
decorated a rich merchant’s house. It’s the best-conserved chunk
from the Lod discovery, made of more than two million tesserae,
or tiles.  It features a central square flanked by smaller rectangular
sides. The figures depicted include two ships, sea creatures and
exotic beasts from Africa and  Asia  that were sent over to battle
in amphitheaters across the  Roman Empire . There’s not a human in
sight.  The museum reveals that some 50,000 lions were killed
during arena entertainments; by comparison, only 25,000 remain
today on the African continent.  The mosaic is at 1400 S. Lake Shore Dr. through April 22.
Information: +1-312-922-9410;  http://fieldmuseum.org .  Charles James  A hundred years ago, fashion was considered such a dubious
trade that when Charles James opened his first hat-making shop
in 1926, his father wouldn’t let him use the family name in the
business.  James still became a renowned couturier whose creations,
photographed by Cecil Beaton and featured in Harper’s Bazaar,
inspired  Christian Dior .  A show at the Chicago History Museum displays his gowns,
suits, coats and hats, and explores the British designer’s
techniques, meticulous use of fabrics and a client list
featuring many socialites.  A “Please Touch” sign allows visitors to get into James’s
world. The “Clover” dress, which looks like the four-leaf
plant when viewed from above, recovers its shape after being
touched because of a heat-set plastic boning technique.  The singular dress was worn by a Mrs. Howard Linn, a social
and fashion leader.  “Charles James: Genius Deconstructed” is at 1601 N. Clark
St. through April 16. Information: +1-312-642-4600;
 http://chicagohistory.org .  Laura Letinsky  Canadian photographer Laura Letinsky plays with real
objects and reproductions in a way that distorts our
perceptions.  This new body of work in a series titled “Ill Form and
Void Full” is at the Museum of Contemporary Art  Chicago .  Quoted on a wall plate, Letinsky says: “Working with pre-
existing images, produced by the culture that also consumes
them, is a means for me to shift, complicate, implicate, and
delight in this process of making meaning.”  The prints all have gentle off-white backgrounds and it’s
hard to tell what they’re showing. I distinguished fruit (peach,
papaya and cherry pits), pieces of sliced meat (maybe turkey)
and an onion, as well as silverware and plates.  Yet while elements in each photo are realistic, some are
the actual object and others are secondhand images -- magazine
photos, for instance. The juxtaposition challenges, and the
overall composition takes on an abstract layer. In a strange way
some could be mistaken for fine drawings.  “BMO Harris Bank Chicago Works: Laura Letinsky” is at 220
E. Chicago Ave. through April 17. Information: +1-312-397-4000;
 http://www.mcachicago.org .  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 