-- Forint Gains as Hungary Seeks IMF Before Bonds: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-03-26T15:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/forint-gains-as-hungary-seeks-imf-before-bonds-budapest-mover.html
The forint gained a second day,
extending the biggest quarterly rally in more than 2 1/2 years,
as the government said it wants to wait for an international aid
deal before selling foreign-currency denominated bonds.  Hungary’s forint appreciated 0.7 percent to 291.32 per euro
by 4:42 p.m. in Budapest. The forint extended its advance so far
in 2012 to 8.1 percent, set for the strongest quarter since the
three months through June 2009.  The forint has rallied since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government said on Jan. 5 it was ready to discuss conditions for
a “quick” agreement on a  credit line  from the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union. Hungary can sell Eurobonds
at the best conditions once the government has reached an
agreement on an IMF loan, state-run news service MTI reported
today, citing the  Economy Ministry .  “It’s moderately positive news that they’re saying there
will be Eurobond issuance only after a bailout deal,” Peter Karsai, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, said by
telephone today, adding that the statement supported bets the
government is serious about the need for a bailout.  The forint added to gains after a report showed German
business confidence unexpectedly increased in March and as U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said an accommodative
monetary policy is still needed to spur growth.  The Hungarian government’s benchmark 10-year forint-
denominated bonds snapped a four-day retreat, cutting yields 10
basis points to 8.991 percent.  International Dispute  Four months after requesting the IMF aid,  Hungary  remains
in a dispute with the international lenders on legislation which
may threaten the independence of the central bank, the judiciary
and the data protection authority.  Hungary will probably sell Eurobonds before reaching an IMF
deal, Gabor Ambrus, a 4Cast strategist in  London , said in an e-
mail today.  The Eurobonds may sell “reasonably well” at
yields “which will not be consistent with debt sustainability
over the medium term,” Ambrus said.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell two basis points to 542 basis points,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices from dealers in the privately-negotiated market.  Hungary selling Eurobonds before an agreement with the IMF
would signal that the government doesn’t aim to reach a deal,
Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a research report today.  “Even if this deal was placed successfully, we would view
such an announcement as a negative, especially if it comes at a
time when the negotiations with international lenders have not
moved forward,” Diana said. “It would signal to the market
that, despite official rhetoric, the Hungarian authorities have
decided to move on and seek alternative sources of funding.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  