-- Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina Endorses Romney
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-26T17:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/former-hewlett-packard-ceo-carly-fiorina-endorses-romney.html
Carly Fiorina, a former chief
executive officer of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , endorsed Mitt Romney
for the Republican presidential nomination today, describing the
former Massachusetts governor as the candidate best able to beat
President  Barack Obama  in November.  “While I also admire his opponents, it is now clear that
Mitt Romney is the candidate most able to defeat Barack Obama in
November,” Fiorina said in a statement. “This election is too
important to lose and that’s why I urge my fellow Republicans to
join me in supporting Mitt Romney.”  Fiorina, 57, is the latest prominent Republican to throw
support behind Romney and call for an end to the nomination
battle. Also announcing support for Romney today were House
Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy, of California,  Al Cardenas ,
chairman of the American Conservative Union, and Utah Senator
Mike Lee, a favorite of anti-tax Tea Party activists.  Former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum, Romney’s main
challenger in the Republican race, is resisting the push for him
to end his candidacy. Taking note of his 22-percentage-point win
over Romney in Louisiana’s March 24 primary, Santorum said
yesterday that “even though a lot of folks are saying this race
is over, people in Louisiana said no, it’s not.”  The next primaries are held April 3 in Wisconsin, Maryland
and Washington D.C.  Fiorina in the 2008 presidential campaign served as an
adviser on business and economic issues for the Republican
nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona.  She ran in 2010 for the  U.S. Senate  in  California , losing
to incumbent Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer .  Fiorina’s endorsement comes as Romney is spending several
days raising money in California, which is scheduled to hold its
primary on June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  