-- Frontier Currencies Irresistible as Naira Yields More
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2012-03-26T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/frontier-currencies-irresistible-as-naira-yields-more.html
Foreign-exchange traders, faced
with lower volatility and record-low interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe, the U.K. and  Japan , are searching for returns as far
afield as Kazakhstan and Nigeria.  Investec Asset Management Ltd., which trades currencies of
nations from Colombia to  Uganda , said demand for assets in so-
called frontier markets increased in the past six months. The
Cambridge Strategy (Asset Management) Ltd. invested in the
Nigerian naira from December to February. Money manager Adrian
Lee & Partners will add positions in six currencies, including
Kazakhstan’s tenge and the Kenyan shilling by the end of the
second quarter.  Investors are pouring cash into countries rich in
commodities or with high growth rates after Europe’s debt crisis
prompted them to seek the safety of the dollar and the yen in
2011.  Kenya ’s shilling is up 29 percent since October from a
record low and Chile’s peso has advanced 6.2 percent against the
dollar this year. Now, traders risk central-bank action to
counter currency appreciation as nations become overwhelmed by a
market that dwarfs their economies.  “We have seen an increase in demand and interest in
frontier currencies and emerging market currencies versus the
majors,” Thanos Papasavvas, head of currency management in
 London  at Investec, which oversees about $88 billion, said in a
March 21 phone interview. “It’s not just a search for yield
that has led to the increase in demand for these currencies,
it’s also about stronger and improving fundamentals and better
valuations.”  Colombian Rally  Investec trades the currencies of Chile,  Colombia ,
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria, Pakistan,  Sri Lanka , Uganda,
Ukraine, Vietnam and Zambia, Papasavvas said.  Colombia, where mining helped the economy expand 5.9
percent last year and the benchmark interest rate is 5.25
percent, saw its peso strengthen more than 10 percent this year,
tied with Poland’s zloty for the most among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Its government said last month it will keep at least $1
billion of dividends from state-run oil producer Ecopetrol SA
abroad to avoid adding to gains in the peso. It doesn’t rule out
further steps to curb currency strength, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters in Bogota March 20.  ‘Destabilizing’ Flows  Countries from  Brazil  to  Switzerland  have already taken
steps to weaken exchange rates to protect exports and domestic
industry. Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, has sold
dollars and broadened taxes on foreign loans and bonds issued
outside the nation as part of measures to shield the real from
foreign inflows. The Swiss National Bank introduced a cap of
1.20 francs per euro in September to limit its strength.  “Short-term capital flows can be destabilizing and I
wouldn’t be surprised to see more countries fight that,” Dale Thomas, head of currency management in London at Insight
Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about $267 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview on March 19. “You can get
an asset bubble when money flows in and when money flows out it
collapses.”  Investment is being channeled into alternative markets as
profits from the largest currencies prove harder to come by.
Deutsche Bank AG’s gauge of foreign-exchange  returns , which
includes the most-actively traded currencies, slipped 0.3
percent this year after a 3.8 percent drop in 2011, the worst
performance in two decades. The currency-returns  index  had
climbed 47 percent over seven years ended Dec. 30, 2005.  Falling Volatility  The  JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7)  has tumbled to 10.14
percent from 15.46 percent in September, reducing money
managers’ ability to exploit price moves. The 3.5-cent
difference between the euro’s high this month of $1.3357 and its
low at $1.3004 is the narrowest trading band since July 2007.
The shared currency traded at $1.3228 at 11:59 a.m. in  New York 
today.  Optimism that  Europe ’s debt crisis is stabilizing after the
 European Central Bank  boosted bank liquidity with about 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) of three-year loans and private
investors forgave more than 100 billion euros of Greek debt has
boosted demand for higher-yielding assets such as stocks. The
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has climbed 8.6 percent this year.  Low rates, austerity and stimulus measures in the U.S., the
U.K., Europe and Japan -- known as the G-4 -- have strategists
forecasting little change.  The euro will fall to $1.30 by year-end, the median
estimate of more than 50 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg
shows. The yen will trade at 83 per dollar by year-end from
82.65 today and Britain’s pound will be at $1.57, from $1.5869,
separate surveys show.  Emerging-Market Volumes  Futures-trading data from CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures exchange, shows that volumes in emerging-market
currencies jumped 42 percent in 2011 from the prior year, while
those in the yen, euro and Swiss franc stagnated.  “There clearly has been more activity in the  emerging
markets  -- there are greater opportunities for investors,” said
Ed Baker, executive chairman of London-based The Cambridge
Strategy, which specializes in emerging-market currencies and
equities and has $850 million under management. “No doubt it
has been harder with the G-4 to make money,” he said in a March
20 telephone interview.  Baker said his company has profited in  Nigeria ’s naira and
the United Arab Emirates dirham, while Serbia’s dinar was the
best-performing currency in 2011 in its $65 million Apollo
strategy fund, which had gross returns of 15.9 percent on an
annualized basis since it was set up in May 2009.  Interest Rates  Federal Reserve policy makers have kept their target rate
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The Bank
of England’s key rate is at a record low 0.5 percent, Japan’s
benchmark is zero to 0.1 percent and European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi cut the key rate twice last year, to 1
percent from 1.5 percent.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top crude producer, has an interest rate
of 12 percent, 48 times that of the U.S. The naira has
appreciated 2.9 percent against the dollar this year.  “Part of the reason for the currency strengthening is the
foreign flows,” Nigeria’s central bank deputy governor Suleiman Barau said in an interview in London on March 23. “Real return
is positive because of the interest  rate , and that makes it an
attractive place to invest. Those flows are certainly welcome.”  Nigeria’s debt was 17.8 percent of gross domestic product
last year, the central bank said in March. 20. That compares
with 69.4 percent in the U.S. and 63.1 percent in the U.K.,
official statistics show. Colombia’s was 45.6 percent.  Riskier Assets  Investors are buying riskier assets as foreign-exchange
market volatility ebbs, reducing the risk that price swings will
erase profits from trades that exploit differences in  interest
rates . The JPMorgan Emerging Market Volatility  Index (JPMVXYEM)  fell to
9.81 percent on March 2, the least since August 2011.  A Citigroup Inc. model portfolio that advises selling G-4
currencies and buying a mix of developed and emerging market
currencies including the Australian dollar, the Colombian peso
and the Russian ruble, has advanced 4.1 percent, after losing
7.5 percent last year.  “This is a continuation of the trends of the last years,
and likely to continue for many years to come,” Greg Anderson,
a senior currency strategist at Citigroup in New York, said in a
March 22 telephone interview.  Trading Surge  The limited amount of money in such markets may make them
more difficult to exit in times of market stress.  Foreign-exchange trading may have risen to a record $5
trillion a day in September, according to the Bank for
International Settlements in  Basel , Switzerland. Kenya’s gross
domestic product was $31 billion in 2010, Colombia’s was $288
billion and the  Philippines ’ was $200 billion, according to
World Bank data.  “Central banks that are recipients of flows, such as the
Philippines, need to continue to be mindful of the risk on-risk
off mindset of investors,” central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said in a March 22 e-mailed response to questions.
“Currency traders are expected to look for short-term
returns.”  Kenya’s shilling reached 81.95 on March 14, the strongest
in more than a year, after the central bank began raising rates
to stabilize the currency. It fell to a record low of 106.75 on
Oct. 11, following a surge in inflation. Central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u attributed the slide to a variety of reasons,
including currency speculation. The benchmark interest rate has
risen to a record 18 percent from 11 percent since then.  ‘Further Afield’  “People are starving for yield and they are having to go
further and further afield to find it,”  Dean Popplewell , the
chief analyst in Toronto at online currency-trading firm Oanda
Corp., said in a March 20 telephone interview. “Africa is
probably our top priority. It’s a region we very much want to
get into, because there’s big demand for it from our clients,
who are looking to trade it more.”  Adrian Lee & Partners, which manages $8.5 billion from
London and Dublin, will offer its clients the Kenyan shilling
and five other new currencies -- the Egyptian pound, the Kazakh
tenge, the Romanian leu, the Tunisian dinar and the Ukrainian
hryvnia -- from June, Adrian Lee, president and chief investment
officer, said by telephone on March 21.  “After we’ve done six, we’ll try and find another four or
five, it’s a gradual process of doing more and more in the
currency space,” Lee said. “We see our clients allocating
capital to these frontier markets in their portfolios.”  Ghana Rates  Tel Aviv-based ILS Brokers Ltd. offers products based on
 Egypt ’s pound and the naira, broker Eyal Daskal said in a phone
interview on March 23. It’s also looking at expanding to  Ghana ,
where the central bank favors pushing up interest rates to lure
investors and prevent a currency-market slide.  “In the past, people would only invest in the G-10
currencies, and now investors are moving more and more into
currencies like these,” James Kwok, London-based head of
currency management at Amundi, the combined investment arm of
Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA, which has 658
billion euros under management, said in a March 22 telephone
interview. “We will gradually start to invest more and more in
these currencies, as their economies grow and they open their
capital accounts more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 