-- FTC Calls for Laws to Boost Consumer Privacy Protections
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-03-26T17:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ftc-calls-for-laws-to-boost-consumer-privacy-protection-online.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
called on Congress to enact laws to protect individuals’ online
privacy and pressed companies to speed self-regulation, stepping
up its drive to give  Internet users  more control over their
personal data.  The FTC said in a report today that privacy legislation
should include providing consumers access to the information
amassed on them by so-called data brokers. The report also said
companies should build privacy practices into every stage of
product development, give consumers simple choices about privacy
and make data practices transparent, including for mobile use.  “Americans have enthusiastically migrated more and more of
their lives online,” FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in a news
conference today in  Washington  after the report was released.
“As a result we have had to ask how can consumers continue to
enjoy the riches of a thriving online and mobile marketplace
without surrendering their privacy as the price of admission.”  The privacy framework envisioned by the agency would for
the first time impose limits on the collection and use of
consumer data to deliver targeted ads by companies including
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. Those constraints might curb the
surging online advertising market.  Online Ad Revenue  Online ad revenue swelled to $32 billion last year, up
23 percent from 2010, according to eMarketer, a New York-based
research firm. EMarketer estimated sales from online advertising
will rise to about $53 billion by 2014.  The FTC has stepped up enforcement of privacy breaches and
settled complaints in the past year against companies including
Google, Facebook and Twitter Inc. Google’s placement of so-
called tracking cookies on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari Internet browser
is under investigation by the agency, a person familiar with the
matter said March 16. Apple last month tightened its rules over
software that accesses address-book information, following a
controversy over social-networking applications such as Path,
uploading users’ contacts data without permission.  The FTC recommendations, which build on an initial report
issued in December 2010, coincides with efforts by President
Barack Obama’s administration to advance online privacy
protections. Last month, the White House released a so-called
consumer-privacy bill of rights, saying it would work with
companies and consumer groups to develop voluntary industry
codes of conduct around those principles. The administration
also called for privacy legislation, echoing proposals from
Commerce Department last year.  Codes of Conduct  Leibowitz said the FTC will participate in the efforts of
the Commerce Department, industry and consumer groups to hammer
out privacy codes of conduct. The codes, which would constitute
promises to consumers, would be enforceable by the FTC under its
powers to prevent unfair and deceptive trade practices and could
be put to use without waiting for Congress to act.  Unlike Europe, the U.S. lacks a broad, national privacy
law. Lawmakers including Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat who chairs the Senate Commerce Committee,
introduced legislation last year that would create a do-not-
track system for consumers. Those bills and other privacy
measures have so far failed to advance in Congress. The FTC
hasn’t endorsed any single piece of legislation.  The FTC strengthened its call on industry, made in the
initial report, to develop a do-not-track mechanism that would
allow consumers to opt-out of targeted advertising. Leibowitz
clarified that the mechanism needs to allow users to limit
collection of personal data, not just provide the means to
refuse targeted advertising.  Personal Data  The Digital Advertising Alliance, an association of online
advertising groups, said last month it will develop a way to
allow consumers to limit collection of personal data through
Web-browser settings. The association already lets people stop
targeted advertising by its members through icons placed on or
near ads. DAA said it expects the browser initiative to be ready
within nine months.  Leibowitz welcomed the group’s initiatives, which also
received backing from the White House last month, but said more
work needs to be done.  “Do-not-track needs to mean do-not-collect,” Leibowitz
said. “Consumers should have the ability to opt out of third-
party tracking.”  The U.S. move to develop voluntary privacy standards comes
as  Europe  moves to tighten privacy regulations for companies.  The European Union unveiled a proposed overhaul of the
region’s privacy rules in January that would give data
protection agencies in the EU’s 27 member countries authority to
sanction companies that violate proposed requirements for
handling personal information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 