-- Gasoline Advances to 10-Month High as Bernanke Backs Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-26T19:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/gasoline-rises-as-bernanke-backs-continued-economic-stimulus.html
Gasoline advanced to the highest
level in 10 months after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said accommodative monetary policy is needed for the
 unemployment rate  to continue to decline.  Futures rose as Bernanke, in a speech today in Arlington,
Virginia, said “further significant labor market improvements
will likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and
demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies.” The U.S.
 unemployment rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
February, according to Labor Department data.  “It’s clear they’re keeping the low-interest rate
policy,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut .  Gasoline for April delivery advanced 3.14 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $3.4166 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since April 29.  “We cannot yet be sure that the recent pace of improvement
in the labor market will be sustained,” Bernanke said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  upgraded its economic
outlook assessment at its March 13 meeting, while repeating that
high unemployment and subdued inflation are likely to warrant
exceptionally low  interest rates  at least through late 2014.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed has kept the federal funds rate near zero and
purchased $2.3 billion in housing and government debt during two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing to speed the U.S.
recovery from recession.  “Bernanke is saying the foot is going to be on the
accelerator, giving the market reason to believe there’s a
possibility of rates staying low for longer than expected and
leaving the door open for a possible QE3,” said Phil Flynn,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Gasoline’s gains were part of a broader rally in equities
and commodities, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining
1.2 percent at 2:59 p.m. in  New York  and the S&P’s  GSCI index  of
24 materials advancing 0.3 percent.  Gasoline, with its 27 percent surge this year, is the best
performer in the GSCI. Heating oil has increased 10 percent and
crude oil is up 8.3 percent.  Futures widened gains after a report that the number of
contracts signed to buy houses rose 14 percent from a year
earlier and held near an almost two-year high. The index of
pending home sales fell 0.5 percent to 96.5 in February after a
2 percent increase the prior month, the National Association of
Realtors said today in  Washington . January’s reading of 97 was
the highest since April 2010.  “The economy is just starting to take off, and Bernanke is
saying they will do whatever it takes to keep that momentum,
including quantitative easing,” said  James Cordier , portfolio
manager at OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida .  Conoco Bayway  Prices also rose after ConocoPhillips had an upset in a
catalytic cracker at its 238,000 barrel-a-day Bayway refinery in
Linden,  New Jersey . Linden is located along New York Harbor, the
delivery point for Nymex gasoline and heating oil futures.  “Anytime you have a cat go down in the Northeast in an
area where we’ve seen numerous refinery shutdowns, that impacts
local supply,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Along the U.S. East Coast, Sunoco Inc. and ConocoPhillips
last year idled money-losing refineries in  Pennsylvania  with a
combined capacity of 363,000 barrels a day, or 24 percent of the
region’s capacity, according to the Energy Department. Sunoco
has said it will shut its 335,000-barrel-a-day Philadelphia
refinery by July unless it can attract a buyer.  Heating oil for April delivery gained 1.87 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $3.2288 a gallon on the Nymex.  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.3
cent to $3.897 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the
nation’s biggest motoring group. Prices have surged 19 percent
this year and are 8.8 cents below 2011’s peak of $3.985, which
was reached on May 4.  Hedge funds  cut bullish gasoline bets for a second week
amid rising prices at the pump and lower demand. Money managers
reduced wagers on higher gasoline prices by 6.4 percent in the
seven days ended March 20, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitment of Traders report on March 23 showed.
Net-long positions declined to the lowest level since Jan. 31.  Retail demand this year through March 16 was 5.6 percent
below the same period in 2011, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report on March 20. That’s the biggest decline for
this time of the year in SpendingPulse records, dating back to
2004.  “We’re feeling the most sticker shock we have for a while
and we’ve already seen demand fall dramatically,” Flynn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  