-- Geely Targets to Become China’s Largest Exporter of Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-27T05:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/geely-targets-to-become-china-s-largest-exporter-of-cars.html
Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  said
it aims to become China’s largest auto exporter in two years,
overtaking  Chery Automobile Co. (CACTZ)  by focusing on expansion in
developing countries.  The Chinese carmaker plans to open factories in Belarus and
Uruguay this year, Gui Shengyue, chief executive officer of
Geely, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong
yesterday.  “I am confident we will be able to become the largest
Chinese exporter among the domestic brands in two years,” Gui
said. Developing-market sales will lay a “foundation” for
expansion into more mature economies, he said.  Geely, ranked ninth among Chinese auto exporters by 2011
shipments, would have to increase overseas sales more than
fourfold to surpass Chery’s 158,900 units based on  China 
Association of Automobile Manufacturers data. Geely,  Great Wall
Motor Co. (2333)  and Warren Buffett-backed  BYD Co. (1211)  are turning to
exports as slowing sales growth in China threatens to exacerbate
overcapacity in the world’s largest vehicle market.  “It is relatively easy for Chinese carmakers to enter
smaller  emerging markets  but these markets will not contribute
very much volume,”  Yale Zhang , managing director at
Autoforesight Shanghai Co., said in a phone interview today.
“In the longer term, they will still need to improve their
quality to target bigger developed markets or break into larger
emerging markets such as Russia and  Brazil .”  Geely declined 0.7 percent to HK$3.07 as of the midday
trading break in  Hong Kong . The stock has climbed 81 percent
this year outperforming the 14 percent gain in the benchmark
Hang Seng Index.  Slowing Domestic Growth  China’s  vehicle sales  this year will probably miss their 8
percent growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel
costs curb buying, Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of the
state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said
on March 20.  Geely, based in Hong Kong, is targeting to sell mid- to
low-end cars in overseas markets, where demand is greater than
in China, according to Lawrence Ang, executive director at the
carmaker.  Chinese factories could build 40 million vehicles a year by
2015, outstripping domestic demand of about 27 million,
according to the National Development and Reform Commission, the
top planning agency.  Geely has said it is targeting to have at least half of its
sales coming from overseas by 2015. Vehicle shipments overseas
by Geely rose to 38,000 units in 2011, according to the industry
association’s data. Chery, which has a joint-venture agreement
with  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover luxury unit, was
China’s top exporter last year.  Geely will probably win at least 10 percent of government
orders for official cars in China, Gui said. He estimates the
market to be between 300,000 to 500,000 units a year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Melody Fu in Hong Kong at 
 mfu11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  