-- German Stocks Advance After Business Confidence Climbs
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-03-26T16:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/german-stocks-advance-after-business-confidence-climbs.html
  German stocks  gained for a second
day after business confidence unexpectedly increased and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said accommodative monetary
policy is still needed to boost employment.  Software AG (SOW)  rose 2.3 percent after announcing full-year
sales that matched analyst estimates and a dividend increase.
 Linde AG (LIN)  climbed 2.8 percent as it offered concessions to
regulators reviewing its takeover bid for a unit of Air Products
& Chemicals Inc.  PNE Wind AG (PNE3)  fell 1.5 percent after stopping the
sale of its Gode II wind farm.  The benchmark DAX Index climbed 1.2 percent to 7,079.23 at
the close of trading in  Frankfurt , having earlier lost as much
as 0.4 percent. The gauge declined 2.3 percent last week as
economic data from  China  to the U.S. and  Europe  raised concern
the global economic recovery is faltering. The broader HDAX
Index also rallied 1.2 percent today.  “On the one hand, excellent German figures are pointing
towards stronger growth in Europe’s largest economy in the
months ahead,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading
at ETX Capital in  London . “But on the other hand, it seems to
be the case that the European financial crisis still has some
bite left. Not necessarily pushing markets substantially lower
like in 2011 but still having the potential of holding the
market somewhat back.”  The DAX has  jumped 20 percent this year  as  Greece  obtained
a second bailout from the euro area and U.S. economic reports
beat estimates.  Confidence Climbs  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in March, suggesting Europe’s largest economy will
return to growth even as the sovereign debt crisis curbs euro-
area demand for its exports.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased
to 109.8 from a revised 109.7 in February. Economists had
forecast it would remain unchanged at the initial February
reading of 109.6, according to the median of 44 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., Bernanke said that, while he’s encouraged by
the unemployment rate’s decline to 8.3 percent, continued
accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make further
progress.  A U.S. index of pending home purchases fell 0.5 percent to
96.5 in February after a 2 percent increase the prior month, the
National Association of Realtors said today in  Washington .
January’s reading of 97 was the highest since April 2010. The
median forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 1 percent gain.  Crisis Firewall  European finance ministers will meet in Copenhagen from
March 30 to discuss raising a 500 billion-euro ($664 billion)
ceiling on their debt-crisis bailout fund. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  gave her first indication that she is prepared to
allow an increase in the firewall today, saying that she could
let the temporary and permanent rescue funds run in parallel.  Software AG (SOW)  advanced 2.3 percent to 29.59 euros. Germany’s
second-largest software maker reported 2011 revenue of 1.1
billion euros, matching analyst estimates, and announced a
dividend of 46 cents per share, up from 43 cents in 2010.  Linde climbed 2.8 percent to 134.30 euros. The world’s
second-biggest supplier of industrial gases offered concessions
to European Union regulators in their review of its bid to buy a
European business from Air Products & Chemicals. The EU extended
until April 18 its deadline to rule on the deal, according to a
filing on its website today.  Daimler Climbs  Daimler AG (DAI)  rose 2.6 percent to 46.65 euros. BYD Co., the
Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., will this month announce the first brand of
electric vehicles through its joint venture with Daimler.  Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , the maker of KS Kolbenschmidt engine
pistons and a partner in  Germany ’s Puma battle tank, added 3.8
percent to 45.27 euros as auto-industry shares were the second-
biggest gainers among the 19 groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest tiremaker, rose
2.4 percent to 71.70 euros.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
advanced 1.6 percent to 10.47 euros as travel companies gained.  EasyJet Plc, the region’s second-largest discount carrier,
forecast a narrower six-month loss after business bookings
helped offset rising fuel costs.  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  gained 3.8 percent to 6.85 euros. The
Hamburg-based realtor agreed to buy DKB Immobilien AG, a real-
estate unit of  Bayerische Landesbank , for 160 million euros in
cash to increase its number of residential properties by more
than 80 percent.  GEA Gains  GEA Group AG (G1A)  advanced 2.4 percent to 25.80 euros after
winning a contract worth more than 70 million euros to build a
powdered milk plant in  New Zealand .  Biofrontera AG (B8F) , a German company specializing in skin
treatments, surged 19 percent to 4.22 euros as Entrepreneur
Carsten Maschmeyer purchased shares in a capital increase
announced on March 23.  PNE Wind preferred shares fell 1.5 percent to 1.76 euros.
The wind-energy company said the sale of its Gode Wind II
offshore wind farm was stopped after payment wasn’t made.  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) , Europe’s largest makeup and perfume
retailer, fell 1.6 percent to 34.37 euros. The company’s shares
were cut to sell from hold at Berenberg Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  