-- German Ifo Business Confidence Unexpectedly Increases
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-26T10:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/german-ifo-business-confidence-unexpectedly-increases.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly rose to an eight-month high in March, suggesting
 Europe ’s largest economy will return to growth even as the
sovereign debt crisis curbs euro-area demand for its exports.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today its  business
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased
to 109.8 from a revised 109.7 in February. Economists forecast
it would remain unchanged at the initial February reading of
109.6, according to the median of 44 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey .  Unemployment at a two-decade low is fueling domestic
demand, while the  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than
1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system has
helped to bolster investor sentiment. Germany’s benchmark  DAX
share index  is up 18 percent this year. Still, manufacturing
output unexpectedly contracted this month as governments and
households reduced spending across the euro region,  Germany ’s
largest export market.  Today’s report is “reassuring evidence that the German
economy will not be thrown off track again due to the recent
rise in oil prices or lingering euro-zone debt crisis risks,”
said Timo Klein, senior German economist at IHS Global Insight
in Frankfurt. “The odds that the German economy will strengthen
continually during the course of 2012 remain quite high.”  The euro initially rose after Ifo’s report before dropping
to $1.3220 at 11:45 a.m. in Frankfurt, down 0.4 percent today.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3 percent to 266.57.  Expectations Climb  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  was unchanged at
117.4, while an index measuring executives’ expectations
advanced to 102.7 from 102.4. Ifo’s retailing index jumped to
10.6 from 3.7, offsetting declines in gauges of manufacturing,
construction and wholesaling.  “The Ifo increase was driven by the retail sector, showing
that the domestic economy is shielding Germany somewhat from the
external turmoil,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at
Dekabank in Frankfurt. “That will help avert a recession.’  Germany’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in the final
quarter of 2011. While it “may still be moving sideways,”
confidence indicators suggest “a rejuvenation of the economy in
the early part of 2012” as the robust labor market boosts
household spending, the Bundesbank said last week.  In  Italy ,  consumer confidence  unexpectedly rose to an
eight-month high as Prime Minister Mario Monti overhauls the
euro area’s third-biggest economy. The confidence index
increased to 96.8 from 94.4 in February, statistics office Istat
said in Rome today.  Asia , U.S.  In Asia, Singapore’s industrial production grew less than
economists estimated in February as a slump in electronics
output persisted. Manufacturing rose 12.1 percent from a year
earlier after a revised 9.6 percent decline in January, the
 Economic Development Board  said. The median of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 16.2 percent gain.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is
scheduled to speak at a conference in Arlington,  Virginia , while
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  gives remarks at a
conference in Paris. The Chicago Fed will release its national
economic activity index for February later today.  ECB President Mario Draghi said March 8 that the outlook
for the 17-nation euro area “has improved enormously” and
there are “many signs of returning confidence.”  Greek Bailout  Greece  reached a debt-swap deal with its private creditors
earlier this month and European leaders approved a second
bailout package for the nation. Euro-region governments have
also signed up to a tighter set of budget rules.  Euro-area growth will recover to 1.1 percent next year
after a 0.1 percent contraction in 2012, ECB forecasts show. The
German economy will expand 0.8 percent this year, according to
the panel of economic experts who advise the government.  A 40 percent jump in  oil prices  over the past six months is
driving up energy costs, threatening to slow the recovery.
Slower growth in  China , the world’s second-largest economy, may
also damp German exports. German companies have turned to
faster-growing markets as austerity measures curb sales in
Europe.  “We are currently seeing demand in the European market
weaken,” Juergen Geissinger, chief executive officer at
Schaeffler AG, the world’s second-largest maker of roller
bearings, said on March 20. “Globally, however, our business is
continuing to show a positive trend.”  China Slowdown  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
luxury vehicles, said on March 13 that it plans to surpass last
year’s record profit. “We are off to a promising start,” with
car sales in the first two months of the year at an all-time
high, BMW CEO Norbert Reithofer said.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest tire maker, is
sticking to its forecast for a 5 percent revenue increase this
year even as signs mount that growth in China is slowing.  “Even if the Chinese economy only grows 7 percent, then
the car market has to grow by at least 5 percent,” CEO Elmar Degenhart said on March 21, adding that the Asian car market as
a whole will grow about 5 percent this year, offsetting declines
anticipated in Europe and  North America .  Germany and its companies “are still the euro region’s
Champions League players,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist
at ING Group in Brussels. “There will be growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  