-- Glencore Said to Hold Conference Call for Bond Investors
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-03-26T16:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/glencore-said-to-hold-conference-call-for-bond-investors-today.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
world’s largest publicly traded commodity supplier, hosted a
conference call for bond investors today, according to a banker
involved in the plans.  Barclays Capital , BNP Paribas SA, ING Groep NV and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc arranged the call, which may be followed by a
euro bond transaction, the banker said.  Moody’s Investors Service said earlier today that
Glencore’s planned acquisition of Canada’s  Viterra Inc. (VT)  is
“credit negative” for the company. Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, which has teamed with Richardson International Ltd.
and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  for the takeover, will pay C$3.5 billion ($3.5
billion) for its share of Viterra’s assets and assume debt of
about C$1 billion.  “Even with partial new additional external funding, the
proposed transaction weakens Glencore’s liquidity position as it
intends to use its existing cash resources and available credit
facilities,” Gianmarco Migliavacca, a senior analyst at
Moody’s, said in an e-mailed report. Glencore’s “aggressive
financial and acquisition policy” has been a “recurring credit
weakness,” he said.  Glencore, which is also seeking to buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in a
friendly all-share takeover, dropped 0.8 percent to 401.7 pence
at the close of  London  trading.  Standard & Poor’s today said it’s maintaining its BBB long-
term rating on Glencore on creditwatch positive.  “The creditwatch reflects our view that, despite the
acquisition of Viterra, Glencore’s risk profile will improve
after its merger with U.K. mining company Xstrata,” it said in
a statement. Glencore’s net debt may increase by $4.3 billion
through the takeover of Viterra, S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  