-- Grocers Abandon Big Is Beautiful as Tesco Leads: Retail
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/grocers-abandon-big-is-beautiful-with-tesco-leading-way-retail.html
Britons once bemoaned out-of-town
superstores for sucking the life out of local shopping streets.
Now a push by  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and rivals to open smaller convenience
branches in town centers is stirring a new round of angst.  “I rue the day Tesco came,” Alan Dean, a Liberal Democrat
councillor, said of the Tesco Express that opened in 2010 in his
southern England constituency of Stansted South. A lack of
parking at the 2,100 square foot (195 square meter) store,
across from a branch of the 93-year-old Dorringtons bakery
chain, is choking traffic, Dean said.  The Stansted outlet is one of 150  convenience stores  Tesco
opened last year as grocers abandon the “big is beautiful”
strategy.  Carrefour SA (CA) , credited with opening the world’s first
big-box superstore in 1963, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Royal Ahold
NV have all pushed into smaller spaces as consumers prefer to
shop online and closer to home.  The “soulless sheds,” which can reach 100,000 square feet
and sell tires, toys and shoes a few aisles from food, will “be
a blip in the pages of retail history,” said Dalton Philips,
chief executive officer of William Morrison Supermarkets Plc.  Cost-conscious consumers are favoring smaller, more
frequent shopping trips over larger weekly purchases, according
to Jon Wright, head of retailing research at Euromonitor
International. High fuel prices are also reducing motivation to
drive to out-of-town stores. The global convenience market rose
6.1 percent last year to $319 billion, or about 6 percent of
total grocery sales of $5.37 trillion, according to Euromonitor.  Tesco Expansion  Tesco almost doubled its  retail footprint  from 2006 to 2011
to 103.6 million square feet as it opened about 500 outlets a
year. In the same period, sales per retail square foot and
earnings before interest and taxes fell 19 percent while
inventory per square foot increased 15 percent and costs rose.  The U.K.’s largest retailer will give an update on its
building and refurbishment plans on April 18. It will continue
to focus on its online business with fewer large stores, Chief
Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said in January.  Specialist retailers with wider ranges and lower prices
have made it difficult for hypermarkets to compete in non-food,
according to  Dick Boer , chief executive officer of Ahold, the
Dutch owner of Stop & Shop groceries.  “The big boxes were hit twice,” Boer said. “The first
time was at the time the category killers entered the market,”
such as Metro AG’s MediaMarkt unit that offers bargain prices on
DVDs, televisions and laptops. “The second hit, and this was a
much harder one, was online development.”  Online Shopping  Online sales are the fastest-growing segment of the U.K.
market, with grocery revenue expected to double in the next five
years to 9.9 billion pounds ($15.8 billion), according to the
Institute of Grocery Distribution. Britons spend one-fifth of
their grocery money at convenience stores.  “People are doing their big shop online and they’re
supporting that with top-up shops at their local stores,” said
Natalie Berg, global research director at  Planet Retail . “That
kind of invalidates the whole hypermarket model.”  Wal-Mart (WMT)  is experimenting with about a dozen “Express”
small-format outlets to build a greater presence in U.S. urban
areas and to defend against dollar stores in rural areas.  UBS has estimated that Wal-Mart could add about $80 billion
in sales if it achieved a market share in 50 urban areas roughly
equal to its share in non-urban markets.  Union Opposition  Wal-Mart’s attempts to enter markets like  New York  have
been stymied due to opposition from labor unions and community
activists, as well as difficulty in obtaining real estate. Wal-
Mart operates smaller store banners outside the U.S.,
particularly in  Latin America . The performance of some of those
concepts, like  Mexico ’s Bodega Aurerra, has led Wal-Mart to
export them to other countries, including  Argentina .  “General merchandise will be clicks, not bricks,”
Morrison’s Philips told reporters March 8. “Customers get a
better range, better value and a superior shopping experience
from the comfort of their armchair rather than a cluttered
hypermarket.”  Morrison is limiting new stores to 38,000 square feet, with
50 convenience outlets planned for 2013. The Bradford, England-
based grocer is spending an additional 100 million pounds on
convenience stores and expanding non-food offerings online.  Jean-Charles Henri Naouri, CEO of  Casino Guichard-Perrachon
SA (CO) , the French owner of Franprix and Leader Price stores, said
discount or e-commerce formats will rule.  Not the Future  “We do not believe that the future of the French market is
with the large hypermarkets,” he said. “There’s more value to
be created by switching the marginal sales space to that of a
shopping center” with multiple retailers under the same roof.  At Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer,
superstores that account for about 40 percent of sales are the
least profitable format.  Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson pinned the retailer’s
future on a 1.5 billion-euro plan to revamp about half of its
500 superstores in western  Europe . After upgrading 81 stores
with wider aisles and more space for frozen food and fashion,
the project was put on hold and Olofsson is leaving.  Still Noel Prioux, Carrefour’s head of  France , said
hypermarkets remain a legitimate format, with adjustments.
Smaller hypermarkets close to urban areas will focus mainly on
food, while larger, more remote outlets will devote more space
to clothing and electronics.  “We were one of the first people in this business,”
Prioux said earlier this month. “We didn’t get things right
from the start, but I think that now, with our new organization,
we can capture this new potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  