-- Iceland Needs New Central Bank Policy Tools, Gudmundsson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-26T13:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/iceland-needs-new-central-bank-policy-tools-gudmundsson-says.html
Iceland’s central bank needs more
tools to combat inflation to be in place before the island
removes  capital controls , Governor Mar Gudmundsson said.  “The idea to have one goal, one tool, inflation target,
 interest rate  and a pure floating currency alongside the
separation of monetary policy and financial stability policy”
is “bankrupt, not only in Iceland, but the world over,” he
told the island’s parliament economy and commerce committee
today. The central bank doesn’t need new tools “now, as now
we’ve got capital controls and quite calm in regards to these
matters” but new measures “need to be implemented before the
capital controls are removed.”  The  central bank  is emerging from crisis mode as Iceland’s
economy recovers from its meltdown in 2008. The country is
trying to ease capital controls put in place in 2008 without
allowing a sell-off of the krona. Gudmundsson says the controls
are “like a drug” that the country needs to gradually get used
to living without. The currency has slipped almost 5 percent
against the euro this year, while inflation was 6.3 percent in
February, more than double the bank’s 2.5 percent target.  The government earlier this month closed a loophole in
capital controls it said had allowed short-term investors to
speculate on the krona.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August. The Washington-based fund expects Iceland’s economy to
grow faster than the average for the euro area this year.  Fitch
Ratings  in February raised the island to investment grade,
praising its “unorthodox crisis policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  