-- Michigan Panel Gives Detroit 10 Days to Reach Finance Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-03-26T22:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/michigan-panel-gives-detroit-10-days-to-reach-finance-deal-1-.html
Detroit (9845MF)  has 10 days to agree to a
financial recovery plan that would forestall the appointment of
an emergency manager by  Michigan (STOMI1)  Governor  Rick Snyder , a state
review panel decided.  Snyder said he’s close to a deal with the city that would
avoid a manager. He said he had “fruitful” discussions with
six of nine City Council members today. A final agreement is
possible by March 30, said state Treasurer Andy Dillon, who led
the review team.  “My goal is for the state to provide a supporting
resource, to be a partner in helping achieve success,” Snyder,
53, told reporters before the review team met.  Detroit, whose population fell by a quarter in the past
decade, has at least $12 billion in long-term debt. The fight to
keep it solvent has pitted the white, Republican governor
against Mayor Dave Bing, a black Democrat in a city that is 83
percent African-American.  The review team meeting in Detroit was disrupted repeatedly
by several dozen opponents of state action, who shouted “no
takeover,” and sang the civil-rights anthem “We Shall
Overcome.”  Some audience comments hurled at the review team were
racially charged. Dillon, who leads the team, is white and a
former Democratic candidate for governor.  Stressed Out  The 10-member panel declared the city --  Michigan ’s largest
and home of  General Motors Co. (GM)  -- in severe financial stress.
That gives Snyder time to negotiate with Bing on a way to give
the mayor broader power to reduce costs, and buys time to solve
the city’s fiscal crisis, which deepens daily.  Detroit’s operating deficit might balloon to $270 million
by June 30, according to a February City Council report. It will
run out of cash by the end of May, according to Dillon.  Still to be resolved is how much authority an appointed
board would have over Detroit’s finances, said Dennis Muchmore,
Snyder’s chief of staff.  “It’s all about accountability,” he said.  Bing’s office issued a statement that said “significant
progress” has been made in talks with the state.  Sick Call  An agreement may be delayed because Bing is recovering from
emergency surgery March 24, after he was hospitalized with an
inflamed intestine. He’s expected to remain in the hospital for
as long as seven days and recover fully in three weeks,
according to spokesman Robert Warfield, who said in an e-mailed
statement that Bing, 68, has resumed limited work.  An emergency manager would have authority under a 2011 law
to cut spending, sell assets and nullify union contracts. Bing
and the council rejected Snyder’s plan to control the city’s
finances with a nine-member board appointed jointly by Snyder
and the city.  City officials derided Snyder’s plan as a virtual takeover.
Snyder and Dillon are considering Bing’s counterproposal, in
which he and the council would retain financial authority with
state oversight.  Concessions by city employee unions may not be enough to
allay the crisis, said Terry Stanton, spokesman for Dillon.  Thirty unions representing about 6,000 of the 11,000
municipal employees ratified three-year agreements that include
10 percent pay cuts and reductions in pension and health-care
benefits.  Time to Unwind  That will save the city $60 million over three years, said
Ed McNeil, assistant to the president of AFSCME Council 25,
which led bargaining for the unions.  Yet to be ratified are concessions by the police and
firefighters.  Detroit  must cut spending by $360 million through June
2013, Bing has said, and he began firing 1,000 employees in
February. He told Bloomberg News last week the city has an
estimated $200 million in uncollected income taxes, which he
said the state could help collect.  Bing said he’ll try to negotiate with banks to reduce $350
million in fees the city owes to unwind interest-rate swaps
triggered by last week’s downgrade of more than $2.5 billion of
debt by Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  