-- Michigan Court Reverses Detroit Financial Crisis Review Order
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-26T16:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/michigan-court-reverses-detroit-financial-crisis-review-order.html
A  Michigan (STOMI1)  appeals court reversed a
judge’s ruling that required his approval for implementation of
any agreement between Detroit and a state financial review team
to address the city’s financial crisis.  The  Michigan  Court of Appeals also ordered Ingham County
Circuit Court Judge William Collette on March 23 “to take no
further action” in a lawsuit claiming the review team violated
Michigan’s open-meetings law by holding closed-door sessions.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  appointed the team in
December after a preliminary study found the city was in
“probable financial stress.” The group is considering whether
Detroit, Michigan’s largest city, needs an emergency manager.
The team found last week that the city was in a severe financial
emergency.  Collette ruled March 20 that the review team couldn’t
“execute and/or sign a consent agreement or its equivalent”
with the city “until further order of this court.” He had
earlier barred the team from holding closed-door sessions.
Michigan officials appealed both decisions.  Michigan law “does not authorize the court to bar future
actions by defendants in the absence of a finding of continued
violations of the Open Meetings Act,” the appeals court said in
its reversal of the March 20 ruling.  ‘No Further Action’  “Pending further order of this court, the trial court
shall take no further action in this case including, without
limitations, the holding of hearings and the scheduling or
taking of depositions,” the three-judge appellate panel said.
The court hasn’t acted on the appeal of Collette’s earlier
ruling on closed-door sessions.  Snyder, a Republican, this month proposed placing  Detroit ’s
finances under a nine-member advisory board in an attempt to
avoid appointment of an emergency manager who would have broad
powers to rein in costs. Detroit Mayor Dave Bing has rejected
Snyder’s plan and submitted a counterproposal.  Collette barred the review team from holding closed-door
sessions in response to a complaint by  Robert Davis , staff
representative of the American Federation of State, County &
Municipal Employees, which represents Michigan employees. Davis
said the group is required under Michigan law to hold meetings
open to the public.  Attorneys for the state maintain that the study group isn’t
a public body as defined under Michigan’s  Open Meetings Act .  The case is Davis v. City of Detroit Financial Review Team,
12-112-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan (Mason).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  