-- Light Beer Fights for Life as Craft Brews Invade Shelves
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-03-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/light-beer-fights-for-life-as-craft-brews-invade-shelves.html
At a beer industry summit last
month, Ed McBrien, distribution chief for MillerCoors, compared
himself to a typewriter salesman in an iPad age.  McBrien was sketching out plans to resurrect light beer, a
$50 billion market battling to stay relevant as makers of craft
beer, wine and spirits increasingly steal customers from  Molson
Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) ,  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and  Anheuser-Busch Inbev NV. (ABI)   Light beer is ceding ground as cabernet-loving  baby boomers 
and millennials weaned on exotic cocktails seek more complex
flavors in their brews. High  unemployment  among light beer
drinkers also has prompted some to drink less or switch to
cheaper brews. In a bid to return the froth to light beer, the
U.S. joint venture between Molson Coors and SABMiller last week
unveiled new advertising for a key brand, Miller Lite.  If the companies can’t revive the brand, “we’ve got big
trouble ahead of us,” said Bump Williams, whose Stratford,
Connecticut-based BWC Co. advises more than 100 beer retailers
and distributors. “Light beer has become a commodity.”  The new  Miller Lite  ads will revive the brewer’s classic
tagline, “It’s Miller Time.” Aimed at men in their 20s and
30s, the campaign will tone down outdated talk of carbs and
calories in favor of a “brewed for brotherhood” theme. The
brand will spend 50 percent more on media during the crucial
summer selling season.  “Miller Time is all about real friends getting together
over a real beer,” MillerCoors Chief Marketing Officer Andy
England said in an interview. “We’re going to articulate that
with a kind of Midwestern grit that can only come from Miller
Lite.”  American Invention  Light beer, an American invention, took hold in 1975, when
Miller Brewing Co. became the first to distribute a low-calorie
beer nationwide. Now four of the five best-selling suds in the
U.S. are light beers, including Leuven, Belgium-based Anheuser’s
Bud Light and MillerCoors’ Coors Light.  Still, as consumers turn to more exciting alternatives,
U.S. beer sales volumes have dropped for three straight years,
including a 1.5 percent decline in 2011, according to the
Beverage Information Group, a Norwalk, Connecticut-based
researcher. Coors Light -- the only Top 5 U.S. beer still
growing -- posted a 1 percent increase last year, the same as in
2010.  The shift has retailers stocking more wine and spirits.
Beer lost 2.3 share points of display space during the past five
years as spirits and wine gained, according to Nick Lake, senior
director of category management for  Heineken NV (HEIA)  in the U.S. in
Atlanta, who cited Nielsen data.  Consumer Relevance  “Our competition has convinced retailers that their
categories are providing more value and have more relevance with
the consumer,” Lake said at an industry conference hosted last
month by Beer Business Daily in  San Diego .  Miller Lite has always sought broad appeal, with early
television ads featuring athletes pitching the brew as
“Everything You always Wanted in a Beer. And Less.” New York
Yankees baseball legends  George Steinbrenner  and  Billy Martin 
later argued over whether it was better to say the beer “tastes
great” or was “less filling.”  By the mid-2000s, craft beer’s rise made it harder for
light beers to make a case for taste. They tried anyway. In
2008, Miller Lite brought back the “Great Taste, Less Filling”
idea in its advertising amid falling sales. Anheuser-Busch went
with the tagline “Drinkability,” a brewer’s term used to
describe beer that goes down easy.  Fat Tire  The following year, Miller Lite advertised itself as
“triple hops brewed for great pilsner taste,” as more
Americans discovered more heavily hopped craft beers such as New
Belgium Brewing Co.’s Fat Tire. Miller followed that up with its
“Taste Greatness” campaign. Sales didn’t recover.  Coors Light has grown while largely staying away from taste
claims, focusing instead on what it calls “Rocky Mountain Cold
refreshment.” Coors Light used special ink on cans to show when
the beer was at its optimal temperature.  The industry also has attempted to juice sales with
packaging innovations, such as wide-mouth screw top cans,
aluminum bottles and wide-mouthed vented cans. Now Anheuser is
turning to higher alcohol content with the January introduction
of  Bud Light  Platinum, featuring 6 percent alcohol, compared
with 4.2 percent for regular Bud Light.  Miller Lite will ship new cans by Labor Day that have
darker, more masculine blue graphics. Other cans will have a
perforated second opening that will have to be punched out with
a tool of the drinker’s choice, because millennial guys “like
to tinker,” England said. The opening will allow the beer to
flow more like a glass, he said.  Miller Lite focused on its buddy theme after research
revealed that sociability was high on beer drinkers’ minds.
England said the campaign will go beyond Bud Light’s more
generic “here we go” advertising, by focusing on close
friends, not just acquaintances.  “We’re going to kill it,” England said. “Obviously, I’d
like to see some immediate results, but what’s more important is
sustainable improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  