-- Indonesia Fuel-Price Rise Needed to Protect Growth, Basri Says
-- B y   G r e g   A h l s t r a n d   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/indonesia-fuel-price-rise-needed-to-protect-growth-basri-says.html
Indonesia  must raise fuel prices to
curb a subsidy bill that threatens to sap funds from pivotal
health, education and road and port building programs, an
adviser to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said.  Maintaining subsidies “would have a really bad impact” on
growth by causing the  fiscal deficit  to exceed the legal limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product, forcing cuts in more
productive spending, National Economic Committee Vice Chairman
M. Chatib Basri said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Hong Kong on March 23.  Surging  oil prices  led  China  to boost fuel costs the most
in more than two years this month and has added pressure on
nations from Indonesia to  India  to raise tariffs. A proposed 33
percent increase being debated by the Indonesian parliament may
cause  inflation  to double to 7 percent by year-end, Basri said.  “The hike is necessary because more than 90 percent of the
subsidy is enjoyed by the middle class” and thus “mistargeted,”
 Fauzi Ichsan , senior economist at Standard Chartered Plc in
Jakarta, said in an e-mail yesterday. “The bigger the gap
between domestic and global fuel prices, the more widespread
will hoarding and smuggling be, bloating the subsidy.”  Implementation won’t spur “major” unrest as the
government will compensate the poor directly, Basri said.
Protests against the proposed fuel-price increase have occurred
across Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  The administration’s plan to raise diesel and petrol prices
to 6,000 rupiah (65 U.S. cents) per liter from 4,500 rupiah is
subject to approval by lawmakers.  Inflation Risk  Inflation could reach 6.8 percent in 2012 if the increase
is implemented, Governor Darmin Nasution said March 8. Consumer
prices rose 3.56 percent last month from a year earlier.  The central bank has said it will respond to a surge in
costs if needed.  Bank Indonesia  has cut  interest rates  by one
percentage point to 5.75 percent in three moves since the start
of October 2011.  Indonesia’s rupiah has weakened about 1.5 percent against
the dollar so far this year, while the benchmark Jakarta
Composite Index of stocks has climbed 5.5 percent in the period.  Crude oil is up 32 percent in the past six months, partly
on concern international tensions with  Iran  may affect supplies.
The advance threatens to crimp  consumer spending  and company
profits, with  PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA) , the nation’s largest listed
airline, saying this month it will raise ticket prices to cope.  Indonesia should cap fuel subsidies, rather than set a
subsidized fuel cost, to enable tariffs to reflect global crude
prices better, Basri said. He gave 2,000 rupiah per liter as an
example level for the cap.  “The 10 percent richest consume about five times the fuel
compared with the 10 percent poorest,” Basri said. “We have to
change the structure from subsidizing commodities like fuel to
direct subsidies for poor people.”  The Indonesian economy expanded 6.46 percent in 2011, the
fastest pace since 1996, as investment and domestic spending
countered easing export demand on  Europe ’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Ahlstrand in Jakarta at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  