-- ING Said to Seek at Least $7 Billion for Asia Insurance Unit
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-26T15:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ing-said-to-seek-7-billion-for-asia-unit-draw-metlife-interest.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch
financial-services company, is seeking at least $7 billion for
its Asian insurance business and has drawn interest from
potential suitors including  MetLife Inc. (MET) , said people with
knowledge of the matter.  ING plans to distribute limited financial information on
the assets by mid-April, said one of the people, who declined to
be identified because the process is private.  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) ,
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) ,  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  are among other companies studying offers, the
people said.  ING is under European Union orders to divest its entire
 insurance operations  before the end of 2013 as a condition for
approval of state aid. The firm earlier scrapped plans to create
an Asian-European insurer in an initial public offering and said
it may sell the Asian business separately, given its greater
allure for buyers after European markets worsened.  “Overall the assets are attractive, which you see in terms
of investor interest,” said Thomas Stoegner, a London-based
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. “More than 10 names are
mentioned as potential bidders. That will be massively
supportive for the selling price.”  ING Shares Rise  ING’s intention is probably to sell the unit in one piece
because that is easier and more cost efficient, Stoegner said.
Macquarie has an outperform rating on the stock.  ING  shares  rose 1.8 percent to 6.74 euros in Amsterdam
trading today, increasing the company’s market value to 25.8
billion euros. That compared to a 1.1 percent gain in the 32-
member  Stoxx Insurance 600 Index (SXIP) .  AIA, Prudential Financial, MetLife, Manulife and KB
Financial have hired advisers to study bids for the ING assets,
the people said.  Assicurazioni Generali SpA,  Italy ’s biggest insurer, and
Singapore-based  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE)  have also shown
interest in the ING assets, two of the people said.  The auction of the Asian insurance unit may not include
joint ventures in countries such as China and  India , one person
said. ING wants to sell the  entire business  in one deal, though
it may consider divesting the Korean operations separately,
according to this person. KB Financial, the owner of South
Korea’s largest bank, said on March 23 that it is interested in
buying ING’s insurance operations in the country.  Valuing the Deal  An ING spokeswoman, Victorina de Boer, declined to comment
on the sale. Spokesmen for the potential bidders declined to
comment or weren’t available. The Wall Street Journal reported
on the interest from MetLife, Prudential Financial and Manulife
earlier today, citing unidentified people.  ING’s Asian insurance operations may fetch about 5.8
billion euros ($7.7 billion) in a trade sale, according to
Rabobank International analyst Cor Kluis. That would result in
cash proceeds of about 4.2 billion euros for ING after payment
of debt, the Utrecht, Netherlands-based analyst said by
telephone.  ING has invested 5 billion euros of capital in  Asia , with
Korea and Japan accounting for 1.5 billion euros each, according
to a Jan. 17 research report by JPMorgan Chase & Co., which is
advising ING together with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on the sale.  The company also plans to sell its asset management
business in Asia as early as April, and the unit may fetch $500
million to $1 billion, one person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  