-- Lira Jumps Most in Eight Weeks as Bank Support Seen Continuing
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-26T15:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/lira-jumps-most-in-eight-weeks-as-bank-support-seen-continuing.html
The lira appreciated for a fourth
day and jumped the most in almost eight weeks on bets the
central bank would continue supporting the currency to rein in
inflation.  The Turkish currency gained as much as 0.8 percent, the
most since Feb. 1, and traded 0.7 percent higher at 1.7886 per
dollar by 5:00 p.m. in Istanbul, its biggest rise since Feb. 28
on a closing basis.  Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year benchmark government
debt rose the most since March 8, adding 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, to 9.54 percent.  The Central Bank of  Turkey  halted its daily funding of
banks at the lowest 5.75 percent benchmark one-week repo rate on
March 22, forcing lenders to borrow at rates as high as 11.5
percent. The bank lent today 3 billion liras ($1.7 billion) at
an average rate of 10.91 percent and an additional 6.3 billion
liras to the country’s largest lenders at 11 percent.  “The central bank will limit moves in the lira” and “in
case of a renewed depreciation we expect further suspensions of
its regular repo auctions or even a resumption of its foreign
currency sales,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank in  Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed report to clients
today.  The overnight repo funding rate on the  interbank market ,
the rate at which lenders fund each other for overnight loans,
rose to the highest since Feb. 8 to 10.07 percent.  Inflation Focus  The central bank will do whatever necessary to reduce
inflation and it will not hurt the banking industry while doing
this, Basci said in a speech at a conference in Istanbul March
21. “The bank will resort to tightening until inflation is
reduced to the 5 percent target,” the governor said. The
central bank will restrain lending growth and may also adjust
its reserve requirements regime, he said.  Turkey’s current-account gap is the highest in the world at
10.3 percent of the gross domestic product among 60 major
economies tracked by the  International Monetary Fund . The lira
fell 18 percent last year to its record low against the dollar
in the biggest decline worldwide as the country’s deficit
widened and inflation surged to a three-year high of 10.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  