-- NAMA Raised $3.6 Billion From Property Sales, Noonan Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-03-26T11:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/ireland-s-nama-sell-eu2-7-billion-of-assets-profit-eu132-million.html
Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency, created in 2009 to cleanse the country’s banks of risky
real-estate, raised 2.7 billion euros ($3.6 billion) from
divestments through September, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
said.  NAMA booked a gain of 132 million euros on the sales,
reflecting profit on the disposal of loans and excess cash
recovered on the sale of collateral, Noonan said in  written 
answers to lawmakers’ questions dated March 22 and posted on the
Irish Parliament’s website. NAMA doesn’t record profits when it
sells properties unless the amount raised is more than the
borrower’s total loans, Noonan said.  “Proceeds from the sale of assets includes the sale of
property collateral related to loans acquired by NAMA and the
sale of acquired loans to third parties,” Noonan said.  NAMA’s sales include 800 million euros of debt related to
Maybourne Hotels Ltd., the London-based company that owns
Claridge’s and the Connaught, to David and  Frederick Barclay  in
September. One of the hotel company’s shareholders, Patrick McKillen, is suing the Barclays and their companies in a battle
for control of the group, McKillen’s lawyer Philip Marshall said
at a  London  High Court hearing on March 19.  The Dublin-based asset manager must sell 9 billion euros of
property loans and real estate to meet a 7.5 billion-euro debt-
repayment goal by the end of 2013, Chief Executive Officer
 Brendan McDonagh  said in an October interview.  Home-Price Drop  A spokesman for NAMA couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  Irish home prices fell 2.2 percent in February from
January, matching the biggest decline in almost three years, the
country’s statistics office said today. Prices fell 17.8 percent
from a year earlier.  Home prices  nationally have fallen 49
percent from their peak in 2007, with Dublin prices down 57
percent, according to the Cork-based agency.  “Excess supply in the market, credit restrictions, and,
uncertainty about the economic outlook suggest Irish  house
prices  have further to fall,” said Conall Mac Coille, chief
economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “Irish house
prices will continue to decline, eventually to a peak-to-trough
fall of 65 percent to 70 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 