-- J&J Drug Treats Lung Clots With Less Bleeding, Study Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-03-26T20:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/j-j-drug-treats-lung-clots-with-less-bleeding-study-finds.html
Johnson & Johnson’s blood thinner
Xarelto worked as well as standard treatment in preventing the
recurrence of blood clots in the lung with half the risk of
severe bleeding, a study found.  The 4,833-patient study, sponsored by J&J and partner  Bayer
AG (BAYN) , found that the new blood thinner could safely and
effectively replace a more complicated two-drug regimen used to
treat patients suffering symptoms of potentially life-
threatening blood clots in the lungs.  The finding, presented at the  American College of
Cardiology  in  Chicago  today, could add to a lucrative market for
 Xarelto , approved last year for preventing strokes in patients
with irregular heart rhythms. The drug’s use in lung and leg
clots could account for $600 million of a projected $4.2 billion
in peak worldwide sales of the medicine, according to a March 19
note from analyst Jeffrey Holford of Jefferies Group Inc.  “This is a great result,” said  Jack Ansell , chairman of
medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York, who wasn’t involved
in the study and has done consulting for  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J. “It really simplifies therapy for patients.”  Bayer  rose  less than 1 percent to 53.83 euros in  Frankfurt .
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)   gained  less than 1 percent to $65.15 at the
close of trading in New York.  U.S. Case Numbers  There are roughly 900,000 cases of such lung and leg clots
each year in the U.S., said Ansell. Clots typically start in the
legs before moving into the lungs, so the two problems are
manifestations of the same disease.  Johnson & Johnson will apply for U.S. approval in the
second quarter for treating lung clots, and for deep vein
thrombosis, or threatening clots in leg veins, the company said
in a statement. Xarelto competes in the stroke-prevention market
with Pradaxa from  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH (BING) .  “Pulmonary embolism is certainly the ultimate proof of the
pudding,” for a blood thinner, said Frank Misselwitz, head of
Bayer’s cardiovascular unit, in a telephone interview. “It’s
the litmus test. We have a large clot existing; it’s potentially
life-threatening. You’re not just preventing a clot but treating
it in the initial phase.”  Treatment Sequence  Standard treatment for clots in the lung starts patients on
the fast-acting injected drug enoxaparin. After 5 to 10 days,
patients go off that drug and continue with the pill warfarin to
prevent the condition from recurring. While effective, warfarin
is hard to use because regular blood tests are needed to ensure
people are getting an appropriate and safe dose.  In the trial, Johnson & Johnson and Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer tested whether Xarelto could replace both drugs.
Patients were randomly assigned to Xarelto or standard therapy.
Patients in the Xarelto group took the drug twice a day for the
first three weeks, and a slightly higher dose once a day after
that for as long as a year.  At the end of the trial, 2.1 percent of patients on Xarelto
had experienced new clots in the legs or lungs, including fatal
clots, versus 1.8 of those who got standard therapy. These
numbers were statistically comparable, according to the findings
that are also being published in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  Lower Severe Effects  When all meaningful bleeding episodes were counted -- the
primary safety measure in the study -- the risk of bleeding was
similar in the two regimens. Yet only 1.1 percent of patients on
Xarelto had severe hemorrhage, versus 2.2 percent of those on
standard therapy.  “We met our objectives,” Harry Buller, lead author on the
study and a vascular medicine specialist at the Academic Medical
Center in Amsterdam, said in a telephone interview. “It is as
good, it is safer and it is much easier to use.”  Pulmonary embolism “is a frightening condition to treat;
patients are often petrified and short of breath,” Paul Burton,
a former surgeon and J&J vice president, said in an interview.
If approved for lung clots, Xarelto could “become a new
standard of care.”  Pradaxa isn’t approved yet for lung clots, Reinhard Malin,
a spokesman for Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer, said by
telephone today. The drug was tested in leg and lung clot
patients in trials that haven’t yet been submitted for
regulatory approval, Malin said.  Approval Decision  Boehringer is analyzing the data now and deciding whether
to seek approval, he said. Pradaxa is approved in  Europe  for
clot prevention after hip and knee surgery as well as in Europe
and the U.S. for stroke prevention.  Bristol Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  are in final-stage
trials of blood thinner Eliquis for treating leg or lung clots,
MacKay Jimeson, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said in
an e-mail. The drug is under U.S. regulatory review for stroke
prevention in irregular heart rhythm patients.  In Europe, where Xarelto is already approved for treating
leg clots, Bayer will apply for the additional lung clot use in
the second quarter, Misselwitz said. Xarelto is also under
regulatory review in the U.S. and Europe for treating acute
coronary syndrome.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  