-- Japan Revival to Cap BOJ Stimulus as Tankan May Rebound
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-03-27T06:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/japan-revival-to-cap-boj-stimulus-as-analysts-see-tankan-rebound.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s Tankan survey
is likely to show that big manufacturers have become less
pessimistic, adding to signs of an economic revival that will
bolster the case for capping stimulus measures this year.  The  quarterly index  of sentiment will rise to minus 1, the
best reading since September, according to the median forecast
of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The gauge was at
minus 4 in December, with the negative number meaning pessimists
still outnumber optimists. The data is due April 2.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average today erased losses from last
year’s earthquake and tsunami as better economic data from the
U.S. and signs the European debt crisis is easing indicate the
world is moving nearer to sustainable growth. At the same time,
entrenched deflation in Japan means lawmakers may push for the
central bank to buy more government bonds. Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told the parliament today that yields may rise if the
BOJ is perceived as financing the government.  “Legislators are likely to keep pushing for more easing
because deflation won’t go away even if the BOJ eases further in
April,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JPMorgan
Securities in Tokyo and a former central bank official.  The yen’s slide of about 9 percent from a post World War II
high against the dollar in October is helping automakers sell
more of their vehicles overseas, while gains in  capital spending 
are also aiding a recovery. The Tankan will show that confidence
among  large service providers  rose to 5, the highest since June
2008, from 4 the previous quarter, according to analysts’ median
estimate.  Stock Gains  The Nikkei rose 2.4 percent, taking this year’s gain to 21
percent, after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
yesterday that accommodative monetary policy is still needed to
cut unemployment in the U.S.  “If purchases of  government bonds  are viewed as so-called
monetization, meaning a central bank buys debt aimed at
financing the government, bond yields could rise at some
point,” Shirakawa told lawmakers today. “This could affect the
asset balance of financial institutions, issuance yields of
government bonds and economic activities.”  He said the issue needed “careful attention.”  A gain in German business confidence reported yesterday
underscored optimism that  Europe ’s crisis is easing. In  Hong
Kong  last week,  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of  St. Louis , said that the Fed’s first interest-rate
increase since the global financial crisis may come as soon as
late 2013 after improvements in the  U.S. economy .  Outlook for Easing  In  Japan , analysts are split on whether more easing will
come next month, with policy meetings due April 9-10 and April
27. RBS Securities Japan Ltd. says the prospect is “receding,”
while Adachi says the central bank may expand asset purchases
and raise the inflation goal to a range of from 1 percent to 2
percent to affirm a commitment to fighting deflation. Consumer
prices excluding fresh food fell 0.1 percent in January.  In Japan, the central bank’s 10 trillion yen ($121 billion)
expansion of bond purchases on Feb. 14 helped to weaken the yen,
which traded at 82.85 per dollar in Tokyo as of 3:11 p.m. today
from a postwar high of 75.35 in October.  Expansion Forecast  A Bloomberg News survey indicates the Japanese economy will
expand an annualized 1.7 percent this quarter after a 0.7
percent contraction in the fourth quarter. Bank of America
Merrill Lynch has forecast that stock gains will continue,
saying in a report that the Tankan “will show how far the yen’s
recent softening has fed into improved economic sentiment.”  “The economy will be on a firm footing this quarter and
next, so there isn’t really much need for more stimulus,” said
 Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist at  Nomura Securities Co. (NCLZ)  in
Tokyo. “I don’t think there will be any formal government calls
for more stimulus unless the yen appreciates.”  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest carmaker, last month
raised its profit forecast 11 percent as sales rebounded in the
U.S. Still, President  Akio Toyoda  said last week that the
Japanese currency remains too strong, and needs to weaken to
about 95 to 100 to be at “an appropriate level.”  Tensions over the central bank’s role in spurring growth
and ending deflation were highlighted last week by lawmakers who
said that BNP Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro Kono  was a bad choice
for the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s policy board. Takeshi Miyazaki, a
lawmaker in the ruling Democratic Party of Japan and a leader of
an anti-deflation group within the party, said that the
candidate should be someone more in favor of monetary easing.
Kono wasn’t available to comment yesterday.  ‘Adverse’ Effects  In a March 24 speech, Governor Shirakawa highlighted risks
from keeping monetary policy excessively loose for too long as
central bankers seek to strengthen the global recovery from the
2008 financial crisis.  “If low  interest rates  induce investment projects that are
only profitable at such interest-rate levels, this could have an
adverse impact on productivity and growth potential of the
economy by making resource allocation inefficient,” Shirakawa
said at a Federal Reserve conference in  Washington .  Japan’s economy, the world’s third biggest, may be
benefiting from increased disaster reconstruction work and
reduced production disruptions as  Thailand  recovers from floods.
At the same time, rising oil costs, a weaker yen and nuclear
plant shutdowns are swelling energy costs, a drag on the
nation’s growth. Imports of liquefied natural gas surged 54
percent in February from a year earlier, the  finance ministry 
said in a report last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  