-- Kenya Shilling Falls as Companies Prepare Monthly Settlements
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-03-26T12:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/kenya-shilling-falls-as-companies-prepare-monthly-settlements.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened on
increased dollar demand from businesses preparing to settle
monthly obligations and investors seeking to pay for  government
securities .  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.4 percent to 83.25 and was trading 0.3 percent
weaker at 83.20 at 2:11 p.m. in Nairobi.  “The shilling is under pressure as demand for dollars
persists, with businesses seeking to settle their end-month
obligations and the payment of the treasury bills by
investors,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based
Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview today.
Kenya businesses are preparing to pay their end-month bills,
invoices and place orders for the coming month.  Last week, the central bank sold a total of 4.5 billion
shillings ($54.2 million) of 91-days and 182-days treasury
bills, with settlement expected today, the bank said on its
 website .  Tanzania’s shilling fell for a second day on increased
dollar demand. The currency of the second-biggest economy in
 East Africa  depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to 1,598 and was
trading 0.1 percent weaker at 1,592 per dollar at 1:02 p.m.  “The shilling has weakened due to increased dollar demand
by businesses; a situation likely to continue through the week
to cover their shortfalls,” Fred Siwale, a dealer with CRDB
Bank Plc, said by phone today from Dar es Salaam, the commercial
capital.  The Ugandan shilling weakened for a fourth day, the longest
losing streak in three weeks. The currency of the third-biggest
economy in East Africa depreciated as much as 1 percent to 2,515
and was trading 0.6 percent lower at 2,506 per dollar at 2:03
p.m. A close at that level will be the longest losing streak
since March 5, according to data provided by Bloomberg.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam .
Editors: Peter Branton, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  