-- Netanyahu Sees Strike on Iran’s Nukes as Worth the Risk
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/netanyahu-sees-strike-on-iran-s-nukes-as-worth-the-risk.html
A couple of years ago, Vice
President  Joe Biden , on a visit to Israel, offered Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  a piece of advice. He shared
something his father often said: “There’s no sense dying on a
small cross.”  Few American politicians would think it wise to invoke
crucifixion in a conversation with the leader of the Jewish
state (though the  Jerusalem  setting was apt), and fewer still
would get away with it. But Netanyahu, who considers Biden his
closest friend in the Obama administration, laughed. What he
didn’t do was take the advice in the way it was intended.  What Biden meant was for Netanyahu to quit offering partial
and ephemeral freezes in West Bank settlement-building, and to
try instead for a dramatic compromise with the Palestinians,
even if he had to pay a very high political price.  Instead, Netanyahu applied Biden’s aphorism to a different
issue facing his country: what to do about  Iran ’s nuclear
ambitions. Netanyahu has been warning about Iran’s nuclear
program since the 1990s; now, as prime minister, he is in a
position to do something about it. The lesson he took from Biden
is that Iran is the one issue important enough to risk
everything for.  Dangerous Overconfidence  There are a few reasons why this episode is now so
important. Last week, I wrote about some of the assumptions
Israel’s leaders are making about the potential fallout from a
strike on Iran’s nuclear sites. I visited  Tel Aviv  and Jerusalem
this month, and I was struck, in my conversations with Israeli
officials and ex-officials, by the number of best-case scenarios
they offered up. They seemed dangerously overconfident that they
could manage the aftermath of a strike, and this has led them to
contemplate what seems to me -- at this moment at least -- a
precipitous and premature attack.  I also went to  Israel  to test a notion I’ve often heard:
that Netanyahu might be engaged in an enormous bluff. I doubted
this theory (and certainly President  Barack Obama  and his
secretary of defense,  Leon Panetta , doubt it). But it seemed
worth testing, in part because Netanyahu’s campaign to focus the
world’s attention on Iran has worked so well without his having
to resort to military force.  I came away from this visit certain that Netanyahu isn’t
bluffing. I disagree with Panetta’s view that an Israeli attack
could come by June, but I do think that, if current conditions
prevail, there is a very good chance Israel will strike by the
end of the year.  Which brings me to another belief of the Israeli leadership
I heard during my visit. This one might surprise Obama’s critics
among right-wing Israel supporters (and among Republican
presidential candidates): The Israelis don’t see Obama as an
adversary. Especially after the air-clearing meeting between
Obama and Netanyahu this month at the White House, the Israeli
leadership is fairly confident Obama will side with them if they
launch an attack, and they are also fairly confident the
president is serious when he suggests that the U.S. might one
day use force to stop Iran.  But that’s almost beside the point. From the perspective of
the two men who matter most in the Israeli decision-making
process -- Netanyahu and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  -- American
promises are somewhat immaterial. Because it is imprinted on the
Israeli DNA that Jews, post-Holocaust, shouldn’t rely on the
kindness of non-Jews to bail them out of trouble. In other
words, no matter how strong Obama’s rhetoric, Israel’s leaders
will not subcontract out their defense to the U.S. or any other
party.  Question of Timing  Senior officials I met with also told me that there are no
gaps between the U.S. and Israel on intelligence issues, or in a
basic understanding of the Iranian threat. The only gap is in
timing: U.S. officials are confident they could destroy Iran’s
nuclear facilities in 2013 or 2014 if they needed to. The
Israelis seem to believe that, because of their more modest
offensive capabilities, they either strike in 2012 or don’t
strike at all.  In fact, I’ve concluded that there are only two reasons
Israel’s leaders haven’t struck already.  First, they believe that there is still some time before
Iran enters the “zone of immunity,” in which its nuclear sites
are so hardened or spread so widely that a strike would be
ineffective. And second, because Iran has not yet approached the
zone of immunity, Israeli leaders believe they can still pay
heed to Obama’s request to hold off. (Ultimately, they will make
their own decision about a strike, but they believe they should
heed the wishes of Israel’s most important ally while they can.)  When Israeli leaders conclude that  Iran (IATBXOIL)  has reached the
threshold of the zone of immunity, there’s a strong likelihood
they will act.  Which brings us back to Biden’s cross. Netanyahu is a
cautious man, who seems mainly interested in preserving his
ruling coalition. But Netanyahu’s father, Benzion Netanyahu, a
renowned scholar of the Spanish Inquisition, taught his sons
that the Jewish people are constantly threatened by extinction-
level plots, and the prime minister has internalized this
understanding of Jewish history.  Another family story may have even more salience: the
martyrdom of Netanyahu’s brother, Yonatan, during a 1976
operation to free Israeli hostages in  Uganda . Yonatan died in
the act of rescuing Jews. His brother understands that whatever
hardship he experiences by taking action against Iran, the price
he pays will not be the price his brother paid in pursuit of
what he sees as the same goal: protecting Jews.  In other words,  Iran’s nuclear program , to Netanyahu, is
Biden’s very large cross.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on  health-care reform’s day in court  and  Russia’s
objections to missile defense . Ramesh Ponnuru on how Republicans
will react if the  Supreme Court upholds Obamacare .  Edward
Glaeser  on  regulation that can aid entrepreneurs .  Simon Johnson 
and  James Kwak  on why the U.S.  abandoned the gold standard .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 