-- Citigroup Says Dutch No Longer Part of Euro-Area Core
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-03-26T13:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/netherlands-no-longer-belongs-to-euro-area-core-citigroup-says.html
The Netherlands, the fifth-largest
euro economy, shouldn’t be counted in the core of the common
currency as its borrowing costs climb, Citigroup Inc. said.  “The poor performance of the Dutch economy should make it
very difficult for the country to reduce its general government
deficit,”  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citigroup in  London , and three other economists said in a March
23 note to investors. The Netherlands is in a weaker position
than Germany,  Finland  and Luxembourg, he said.  Prime Minister  Mark Rutte ’s minority coalition must find at
least 9 billion euros ($12 billion) in budget cuts this year,
equal to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, to meet European
Union deficit rules by 2013 and protect the top credit grade
that France and Austria lost in January. The Dutch budget
shortfall is forecast at 4.6 percent of GDP in 2013, exceeding
the 3 percent EU limit for a fifth year.  “Financing conditions in the Netherlands have tightened,
creating pressure on the country’s highly leveraged households,
which is likely to lead to further contractions in  house prices 
and domestic demand,” Michels said. The Dutch economy entered
its second recession in three years during the second half of
2011 and unemployment has risen for two quarters to 6 percent.  Bond Spreads  The  risk premium  demanded by investors to own Dutch 10-year
bonds relative to Germany’s has more than doubled since January.
Dutch yields surpassed those of AAA rated Finland last month for
the first time since August. The spread between Dutch and German
yields was at 57.7 basis points, or 0.577 percentage point, as
of 3:04 p.m. in Amsterdam, from 58.3 on March 23.  “The Netherlands will lose its AAA rating if there’s a
cabinet crisis and that will cost the state and companies
billions of euros,” Bernard Wientjes, chairman of the employers
organization VNO-NCW, said in a television  interview  yesterday.
“We quickly need to take measures that strengthen the basis of
the economy.”  Rutte’s minority government risks becoming more dependent
on opposition parties after a lawmaker quit Geert Wilders’s
 Freedom Party . The ruling Liberals and Christian Democrats,
together with the Freedom Party, now have only 75 of the 150
seats in the lower chamber. While the Freedom Party backs the
Cabinet on most topics, Rutte relies on the opposition  Labor
Party  to back his European policy as Wilders opposes further
financial aid to euro countries.  AAA Rating  “While we do not expect the Netherlands to lose its AAA
rating in the near term, we expect that at least S&P will put
the rating on negative outlook and that spreads to bunds will
widen,” Michels said, referring to  Standard & Poor’s .  The Dutch Finance Ministry never comments on the country’s
rating, spokesman Niels Redeker said by telephone today.
Separately, Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager canceled his
regular Tuesday interviews with Dutch television channel RTLZ
pending the austerity negotiations between the Liberals,
 Christian Democrats  and the Freedom Party that started March 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  