-- Nigeria to Guarantee Bonds for Road, Rail, Electricity Projects
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/nigeria-to-guarantee-bonds-for-road-rail-electricity-projects.html
Nigeria ’s government plans to
guarantee bonds sold by companies involved in large-scale road,
rail and power projects in  Africa ’s most populous nation,
according to the Debt Management Office.  The framework for “issuing the sovereign guarantees is
still being fine-tuned,” Patience Oniha,  executive director  in
charge of market development at the Abuja-based DMO, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. She didn’t give details of the
companies that may benefit from the debt guarantees.  Power supply in Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer, is
less than half demand, causing regular blackouts in a nation of
more than 160 million people. President Goodluck Jonathan plans
to sell six power plants and majority stakes in 11 power-
distribution companies to end a state monopoly.  Debt guarantees will enable companies to fund projects that
“they may ordinarily have been unable to embark upon due to
inability to access large and long-term capital required,”
Oniha said. The program is “intended to be used as a means of
supporting private sector operators who are involved in projects
that have large macroeconomic benefits either alone or in
partnership with the government.”  The target for the  budget deficit  this year was increased
on Feb. 16 to 2.97 percent of gross domestic product from 2.77
percent forecast in December after Jonathan was forced to
backtrack on scrapping fuel subsidies. The government plans to
cut spending on administration, training, transportation and
other programs to keep the deficit below 3 percent, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  Government Borrowing  Sovereign guarantees will reduce the need for the
government to borrow directly from  capital markets , Oniha said.  The Finance Ministry said in its December budget plan it
will borrow 794 billion naira on the local capital market in
2012. The DMO twice postponed its monthly bond auctions this
year as borrowing costs increased. The central bank raised its
benchmark  interest rate  by 6 percentage points to a record 12
percent since September 2010.  “In view of the high interest rate environment, occasioned
by tight monetary policy stance, a moderation in government
borrowing would be positive,” Central Bank of Nigeria Governor
Lamido Sanusi said on March 20. Government debt stood at 17.8
percent of gross domestic product in 2011, while the ratio of
debt-service to government revenue was 19.1 percent, he said.  The yield on Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021
was at a record low of 5.4 percent yesterday, 80 basis points
lower since the beginning of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  