-- NLRB’s Flynn Won’t Quit, Says ‘No Wrongdoing’ on Ethics
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-26T18:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/nlrb-s-flynn-won-t-quit-says-no-wrongdoing-on-ethics.html
Republican National Labor Relations
Board member  Terence Flynn  rejected a call to quit, saying he
did nothing wrong after an agency investigator found he broke
ethics rules by sharing nonpublic information.  Flynn, while an agency lawyer, passed memorandums on board
deliberations last year to Republican Peter Schaumber, his boss
until August 2010 and now a labor adviser to Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , according to the agency’s
Inspector General. Flynn also shared information with Peter Kirsanow, another former member working for the  National
Association of Manufacturers . The AFL-CIO union group urged
Flynn to quit, citing the breaches that occurred before
President  Barack Obama  appointed Flynn in January during a
congressional recess.  “I intend to fulfill my responsibilities as a board
member,” Flynn said in a statement released by the agency. “I
am troubled by the politicization of this internal matter, in
which I have committed no wrongdoing.”  Republicans and groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
have criticized Obama’s labor board for actions they said favor
labor unions at the expense of businesses. Obama surprised
opponents on Jan. 4 when he bypassed Senate confirmation and
appointed Flynn and two others.  Flynn “knew, or should have known, that he had a duty to
maintain the confidence of the information that he received in
the performance of his official duties,” David Berry, the
board’s inspector general, said in a March 19 memorandum
covering actions prior to the appointment. He “lacked candor”
during an interview March 15, Berry said.  ‘Undermine, Discredit’  In sharing the information, Flynn helped two former board
members “who have been actively engaged in a relentless
campaign to undermine and discredit the NLRB,”  Richard Trumka ,
president of the AFL-CIO, the nation’s largest labor federation,
said today in a statement. “Even for an agency that has at
times been highly politicized, these unethical practices are
unprecedented and indefensible. Flynn should resign
immediately.”  Trumka called on Romney, who named Schaumber as a labor
adviser last year, to dismiss the aide, saying keeping the
former NLRB member involved will show “the value he places on
ethics” in government.  Flynn violated the Standards of Ethical Conduct for
Employees of the Executive Branch, according to the report.  Representative  George Miller  of  California , senior Democrat
on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, wrote to
Attorney General Eric Holder on March 23 asking the  Justice
Department  to investigate Flynn and how Schaumber and Kirsanow
used the information to benefit their clients.  ‘Private Gain’  “The Inspector General’s findings about the conversions of
sensitive government information for private gain should not go
without further scrutiny,” Miller wrote to Holder. “Such
actions threaten the integrity of the board’s most vital
operations.”  Miller, who released the watchdog’s report, stopped short
of asking Flynn to resign.  Flynn said he gave a detailed response to Berry’s office
“that for unknown reasons was not included or referenced in the
summary apparently posted” on a lawmaker’s website.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment on whether an investigation is underway.  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican who heads
the House Education and Workforce Committee, said the report
“makes serious allegations” and was “appropriately referred
to the  Department of Justice , the federal authority ultimately
responsible for determining whether legal action is necessary.”  The allegations highlight the need for a full Senate
hearing on nominees, he said.  Flynn’s nomination is pending in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  