-- Norske Skog Advances as Norway, Chile Sales Cut Debt: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-03-26T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/norske-skog-advances-as-norway-chile-sales-cut-debt-oslo-mover.html
Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG) , the
second-largest newsprint maker, climbed the most in a month in
Oslo after selling assets in Chile and Norway as it seeks to cut
debt amid excess industry capacity and growing competition.  Shares in the Lysaker, Norway-based group rose as much as
 9.1 percent , the most since Feb. 27, and closed 2.9 percent
higher at 6.12 kroner. That extends the stock’s advance to 17.7
percent since the start of the year, outperforming the  OBX
benchmark index’s  12 percent gain.  Norske Skog sold its Bio Bio newsprint mill in Chile for
$56 million to “improve Norske Skog’s cash flow and financial
position,” Chief Executive Officer Sven Ombudstvedt said today.
The company, grappling with 7.9 billion kroner ($1.4 billion) of
debt, is trying to improve its financial standing amid excess
supply in the newsprint market, competition from online media
and rising raw-material costs.  The sale follows a trend that has developed in recent
years, where “financially weak players constantly have to sell
good, cash flow-generating assets, just to satisfy their debt
holders,” Mikael Jafs, an analyst with Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA, said by phone from  Stockholm . “When challenged
companies reduce their financial risk, their share prices can
move quite violently,” said Jafs, who has an outperform
recommendation on Norske Skog.  Papermakers have closed mills and cut jobs to reduce costs
and capacity as demand weakened.  Highest Unit Costs  Sappi Ltd. (SPP) , the world’s largest producer of fine-coated
paper, shut mills in Switzerland and  South Africa  to reduce debt
that stood at $2.58 billion in 2009, while its Helsinki-based
competitors,  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  and UPM Kymmene Oyj, have also both
closed units.  M-real (MRLBV) , also based in Helsinki, has sold assets
for 2.2 billion euros ($2.9 billion) since 2006 as it trims its
paper and pulp division to focus on more profitable paperboard
operations.  Norske Skog also agreed to sell its Follum unit in  Norway 
for about 60 million kroner, it said today. Production at the
unit, which has the highest unit costs of all its mills in
Norway, will be halted at the end of the month and equipment
removed, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  