-- Obamacare is Unconstitutional? Now They Tell Us
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-03-26T16:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/obamacare-is-unconstitutional-now-they-tell-us.html
Supreme Court justices, like anyone
else, sometimes change their minds.  True, there is stare decisis, the principle that they
shouldn’t change their minds too often. Reason: If you expect
citizens and the government to obey the law, they need to know
what the law is and will be. Also, it’s only fair to treat
people in similar situations similarly.  But stare decisis is not a hard-and-fast rule. There have
been some famous changes of heart and/or mind, such as  Brown v.
Board of Education  (1954), which reversed  Plessy v. Ferguson 
(1896) and declared racial segregation unconstitutional. Then
there’s  Lawrence v. Texas  (2003), which overturned  Bowers v.
Hardwick  (1986) and invalidated laws against homosexual sodomy.
It is generally considered that in both of these cases, the
court got it right the second time.  If the court ultimately rules that President Barack Obama’s
health-care reform law is unconstitutional, it will be a
reversal even bigger than Brown and Lawrence. And there will be
no comforting consensus that the court has finally got it right.  Ever since  Wickard v. Filburn  (1942), with only a couple of
minor exceptions, the courts have upheld the use of federal
power under the  Commerce Clause , which gives the federal
government the authority to “regulate commerce.” Even the  1964
Civil Rights Act  is considered constitutional as a regulation of
commerce.  Up for Grabs  Now, maybe the court has been wrong all this time. Maybe
the federal government’s authority under the Commerce Clause is
much narrower. Maybe that authority doesn’t extend to requiring
individual citizens to have health insurance or pay a fine. But
if so, it is not only the future of Obamacare that will suddenly
be shaky. Every piece of legislation for about the last 70 years
that rested on the Commerce Clause will suddenly be up for
grabs. This includes the Civil Rights Act. It includes laws
protecting the environment and consumers.  Basically anything the government does that has ever been
justified by the Commerce Clause will be open to challenge. For
the sake of their own sanity and summer recesses, the justices
ought to proceed cautiously.  Conservatives also ought to pause and consider all the
lectures they have delivered over the past half-century about
the need for judicial restraint. Whether authorized under the
Commerce Clause or not, all of these laws -- including Obamacare
-- were enacted by the democratically elected institutions of
government. For the  Supreme Court  to call them all into question
would be a power grab far beyond anything the court has
attempted during the long era of conservative griping on this
point.  Whenever liberals argue stare decisis, conservatives
understandably get suspicious. In theory, it’s a pretty
conservative  doctrine . It says, things as they are should stay
as they are. In practice, conservatives complain, it works like
a ratchet: Liberals, when they’re in control, invent new rights,
and then conservatives, under stare decisis, are supposed to do
nothing about them when their turn comes. But the fact that
courts have been upholding legislation under the Commerce Clause
for seven decades with virtually no debate does make it seem
unlikely that the whole thing has been a giant constitutional
misunderstanding.  In 1993, the first year of the Clinton administration,
 Hillary Clinton  was assigned by her husband, Bill, to design a
health-care reform plan. The centerpiece of the plan she came up
with was an employer mandate. That is, there was a requirement
that employers provide health insurance to their employees or
pay a fine.  Ferocious Opposition  The opposition to Hillarycare from Republicans was
ferocious, just like their opposition to Obamacare more recently
-- and in the Clinton case, the opposition was successful. They
threw everything they had at her. They got a judge to rule
(later reversed) that her plan  was illegal  because it had been
partly designed in private meetings.  One argument they did not make was that Hillarycare
exceeded the government’s powers under the Commerce Clause of
the Constitution. (Search the New York Times for all of 1993 and
1994. There is just one buried and dismissive reference to the
possibility of a Commerce Clause challenge in an article about
half a dozen possible legal strategies for challenging
Hillarycare.) Is it possible that requiring people to buy their
own insurance is unconstitutional but requiring owners of
companies to buy other people’s insurance for them would have
been perfectly OK?  During the decades it took for the court to come to its
senses about segregation and sexual privacy, there were always
lots of people on both sides of the arguments. By contrast, as
Dahlia Lithwick  points out  in Slate, the notion that health-care
reform with an individual mandate might be unconstitutional was
virtually never heard of until the bill passed and the Vast
Right-Wing Conspiracy went to work. Professor  Randy Barnett , the
intellectual father of the Commerce Clause argument, didn’t
really start churning out scholarship on the subject until 2011.
During the whole debate over Obamacare, it seems, nobody noticed
that it was unconstitutional. Now every conservative politician
and pundit finds it not just unconstitutional but obviously so.  It was during the Hillarycare debate that Stuart Butler of
the conservative  Heritage Foundation   first proposed  a health-
care plan based on the individual mandate. Butler  says today :
“I’ve altered my views on many things. The individual mandate in
health care is one of them.” There’s no stare decisis at the
Heritage Foundation, apparently.  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael Kinsley  at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 