-- Obama Says Not ‘Hiding the Ball’ From Voters on Russia Talks
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-27T14:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/obama-tells-medvedev-election-means-missile-defense-must-wait.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
wasn’t “hiding the ball” from U.S. voters after microphones
recorded him asking  Russia  for patience on missile defense
negotiations until after the November election.  “I don’t think it’s any surprise that you can’t start that
a few months before a presidential and congressional election in
the United States,” Obama told reporters at a nuclear security
summit in Seoul today, adding that a planned U.S. missile-
defense system in  Europe  was one of the “primary points of
friction” between the two nations.  The exchange picked up by microphones yesterday spilled
over into the U.S. presidential campaign as Obama and  Mitt Romney , the front-runner for the Republican nomination, are
pivoting toward the election. Romney accused Obama of having a
hidden agenda for his second term, and Russian leaders weighed
in on the U.S. political debate.  Romney, who has been criticized by his Republican rivals
for shifting positions, called Obama’s words to Russian
President Dmitry Medvedev yesterday “alarming and troubling”
and said it raised questions about whether Obama was being
candid with voters.  “This is no time for our president to be pulling his
punches with the American people,” the former Massachusetts
governor said at a campaign stop in California. In an interview
with  CNN , he went on to say that Russia was “without question,
our number one geopolitical foe.”  ‘Preeminent Threat’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters in
Seoul that Russia was a partner for the U.S. on many issues.  “In a world where al-Qaeda is so clearly the preeminent
threat to the United States, it seems a little inaccurate to
make that statement about Russia,” Carney said.  Romney’s remarks drew a sharp reaction from Russian
leaders.  Medvedev said the Republican candidate’s
characterization of Russia as the enemy “smacks of Hollywood.”  Republicans in the U.S. should “use their brains and check
the clock” and move away from Cold War attitudes, Medvedev told
reporters in Seoul.  Mikhail Margelov , head of the international affairs
committee of the Russian parliament’s upper chamber, said if
Romney becomes the  Republican Party ’s candidate, he will have to
develop a more balanced foreign policy.  “Foreign policy is often held hostage to domestic
political interests during election campaigns,” Margelov said
in an interview in Seoul.  ‘Thoughtful Consultations’  Obama said the public understands that he is committed to
reducing nuclear stockpiles, which requires building trust and
cooperation. He said an election year wasn’t conducive to
“thoughtful consultations” on a difficult issue.  The microphones recorded Obama asking Medvedev to let
Russian President-elect  Vladimir Putin  know that he needed to
“give me space” to deal with objections to the U.S.’s missile-
defense plan.  “This is my last election, and after my election I have
more flexibility,” Obama said to the Russian leader.  “I understand,” Medvedev replied in English, adding that
he would “transmit this information to Vladimir.”  Earlier today, Obama appeared to joke with Medvedev about
the open-microphone incident as the two greeted each other at
the morning session of the nuclear security summit. Just as he
was about to greet the Russian leader, the U.S. president said
“wait” and smiled as he covered the microphone on the table in
front of him with his hand. Obama then walked over and shook
Medvedev’s hand, laughing.  Impact on Voters  Obama’s comment to Medvedev is likely to resonate mostly
with voters already dissatisfied with the president, reinforcing
criticism he hasn’t pursued a sufficiently muscular foreign
policy, said Dan Schnur, an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain ’s 2000 bid for the White House who isn’t affiliated with
any current campaign.  Schnur compared the comment to a Romney adviser’s statement
last week that the Republican candidate could move past
positions taken during the party primary “like an Etch A
Sketch” to reset impressions for the general election. Former
Senator  Rick Santorum , one of Romney’s rivals in the Republican
race, cited that as evidence Romney lacks core beliefs.  “If you already distrusted Obama, this gives you one more
reason to help prove your point,” Schnur, director of the  Unruh
Institute of Politics  at the University of Southern  California 
in  Los Angeles , said. “If you’re a supporter of the president,
you probably dismiss it in precisely the same way Romney’s
supporters dismiss the Etch A Sketch comment.”  Economic Record  Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster, said the issue won’t
overshadow the economy as the main issue in the election.  “People in the middle will make their assessments on his
track record on the economy and his fiscal irresponsibility”
more than comments picked up by an open microphone, Ayres said.  Economic rather than foreign-policy issues have dominated
voter concerns throughout the campaign. In a Bloomberg National
 Poll  conducted March 8-11, the most important issue mentioned by
respondents was unemployment and jobs, cited by 42 percent,
followed by the  federal deficit , cited by 21 percent, gasoline
prices and health care.  The missile-defense plan, which the U.S. has said is aimed
at thwarting an attack from a rogue nation such as  Iran , has
been a source of tension with Russia even as Obama has attempted
to reset the relationship.  Providing Space  “The  United States  is committed to implementing our
missile-defense system, which we’ve repeatedly said is not aimed
at Russia,” Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said
yesterday in a statement. “The two presidents agreed it was
best for technical experts to spend time determining their
respective positions and provide space on missile-defense
cooperation going forward.”  Putin, who won a six-year term in the Kremlin in the March
4 presidential election, last month accused the U.S. of “shying
away” from talks over its missile plan and warned that his
country will have to develop an asymmetric response to counter
the U.S. system in Europe to maintain the balance of power.  Obama and Putin are scheduled to meet face-to-face when
leaders of Group of Eight nations hold a summit at Camp David,
 Maryland , the U.S. presidential retreat, in May.  Putin is already skeptical of Obama, and the U.S.
president’s remarks -- along with attacks from his political
opponents -- will highlight the lack of trust between Moscow and
 Washington , said Dimitri Simes, president of the Center for the
National Interest, a policy group in Washington, and a former
adviser to President  Richard Nixon .  “The skeptics in Moscow and Washington will have a field
day,” Simes said. Long term “they won’t do any real damage,
but they will confirm the suspicions of each side about the
other.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Seoul  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Seoul at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  