-- Obama Urges Hu to Send Message to North Korea on Missile Launch
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/obama-says-u-s-reducing-nuclear-arms-won-t-endanger-security.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  yesterday to use his country’s
relationship with  North Korea  to send a strong message about
Pyongyang’s planned satellite launch next month, U.S. deputy
national security adviser  Ben Rhodes  said.  Obama and Hu are among more than 40 world leaders in Seoul
attending a two-day summit aimed at securing the world’s
nuclear stockpiles to keep fissile material out of the hands of
terrorists. Obama, who faces re-election later this year, is
using this trip to increase pressure on North Korea and Iran
over their nuclear programs. The U.S. president also met
yesterday with outgoing Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  The North Korean government has announced plans to put a
satellite into orbit between April 12 and 16, coinciding with
the 100th anniversary of the birth of the country’s founding
leader,  Kim Il Sung , on April 15. The U.S. sees the launch as a
test of a missile that could carry an atomic warhead.  Obama made it clear to Hu that the proposed launch is in
direct violation of existing agreements, Rhodes told reporters
at a briefing yesterday. The two leaders “agreed to coordinate
closely in responding to this potential provocation,” he said.  After Obama’s meeting with Medvedev, who will be succeeded
by President-elect  Vladimir Putin  in May, television microphones
picked up the U.S. president telling the Russian leader that he
would have greater flexibility “after my election” in November
to work on resolving Russian’s objections to a planned U.S.
missile defense shield in  Europe .  U.S. Nuclear Stockpile  The session with Medvedev followed a speech by Obama in
which he committed to further reduce America’s nuclear weapons
stockpile, saying that the U.S. had more nuclear arms than it
needed and that doing so wouldn’t compromise national security.  Obama, who spoke at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in
Seoul, said the U.S. would seek talks with Russia on steps to
reduce their arsenals of strategic and tactical nuclear weapons,
as well as the number of warheads they have in reserve.  “I firmly believe that we can ensure the security of the
 United States  and our allies, maintain a strong deterrent
against any threat and still pursue further reductions in our
nuclear arsenal,” Obama said. “We can already say with
confidence that we have more nuclear weapons than we need.”  The president said he had directed his national security
team last summer to conduct a review of the country’s nuclear
forces, recognizing that the nuclear arsenal inherited from the
 Cold War  is “poorly suited to today’s threats including nuclear
terrorism.”  U.S.-Russia Treaty  Under the terms of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty that
took effect last year, the U.S. and  Russia  would be limited to
no more than 1,550 strategic warheads. It sets a maximum of 800
land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Obama signed the treaty in April 2010 with Medvedev in
 Prague  as part of a push to bolster relations between the two
countries and reduce the spread of nuclear weapons worldwide.  A White House official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
ahead of Obama’s speech, said reducing stockpiles remains a
priority for U.S.-Russia relations and that Obama would raise it
with Putin when they meet in May.  In addition to his talks with Hu and Medvedev, Obama met
yesterday with President Nursultan Nazarbayev of  Kazakhstan .
That country inherited the world’s fourth-largest arsenal of
nuclear weapons in the collapse of the  Soviet Union  and in 1991
renounced their use and relinquished them.  Iran, North Korea  In his speech yesterday, Obama said there was still time to
solve the standoff with  Iran  over its nuclear program via
diplomatic means. “But time is short,” he said.  “Iran’s leaders must understand they too face a choice,”
Obama said. “Iran must act with the seriousness and sense of
urgency that this moment demands. Iran must meet its
obligations.”  Obama is trying to ratchet up economic pressure on Iran in
an effort to persuade it to abandon any illicit part of its
nuclear program. The U.S., Europe and  Israel  have accused Iran
of seeking the capability to build a nuclear weapon. Iran says
its program is for civilian energy and medical research.  Iran and North Korea were among the topics on the agenda
for Hu and Obama. In his speech at the university, Obama said
that while the U.S. had no hostile intent toward North Korea,
provocations by the regime in Pyongyang wouldn’t be rewarded.
“Those days are over,” he said.  During a March 25 news conference with South Korean
President Lee Myung-bak, Obama warned North Korea’s leaders that
their plan to fire a long-range rocket next month undermined
prospects for future negotiations and would make it difficult
for the U.S. to proceed with a Feb. 29 aid deal whereby 240,000
metric tons of food would be delivered to the country.  The U.S. leader, who on March 25 visited the Demilitarized
Zone on the border between the two countries divided since 1953,
said Koreans would ultimately be reunited. “The currents of
history cannot be held back forever,” he said in his speech
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Seoul  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  