-- Obama’s Slip Won’t Let Russia Veto Europe Missile Defense
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/obama-s-slip-won-t-let-russia-veto-europe-missile-defense.html
President  Barack Obama  got caught
Monday talking with the microphone left on -- again. This time,
he was telling Russia’s outgoing President  Dmitry Medvedev  that
it would be better to leave talks about NATO’s contentious
missile defense system until after U.S. elections in November,
when Obama would have “more flexibility.”  No shock or awe there. Anyone who believes electoral
politics don’t play a big role in driving foreign policy has
been leading a very secluded life. Campaign-year outrage from
Obama’s rivals over the remarks is probably inevitable, but it
would also be disingenuous because we all know better. Besides,
nuclear missile defense is a slow-burning fuse -- talks can wait
until after November without any consequence.  Yet, there was something a little worrisome in this
overheard conversation: Just how flexible does Obama plan to be
with  Russia  on the missile defense, which he redesigned once
already to take account of Russian concerns?  A quick recap is in order here. Under President  George W. Bush , the U.S. withdrew in 2002 from the Cold War Anti-Ballistic
Missile treaty that had restricted U.S. and Soviet missile
defense programs for 30 years. In 2007, the U.S. started
preparations for a missile defense system -- ostensibly against
an Iranian attack -- with its front legs in  Europe . The forward
radar for the system was to be in the Czech Republic, and Poland
would host the missiles that would shoot down any long-range
ballistic missiles Iran might let fly. Russia, however, saw the
shield as a naked Cold War power play by the U.S. and was mad as
hell.  A Diminishing Power  That anger was easy to understand.  Poland  is close to
Russia, but a long way from Iran. A powerful U.S. radar in the
Czech Republic would cover most of European Russia and the
sensitive Caucasus region, as well as Iran. Above all, the plan
was humiliating to Russia, challenging its already diminished
strategic position in the region. The Soviet Union may have
agreed in its final years to dissolve the Warsaw Pact and give
up control of its central and Eastern European satellites, but
replacing Russian tanks with U.S. missile systems in those
countries was never part of the deal.  Fast forward to Obama’s “reset” of relations with Russia.
A big piece of that policy involved a redesign of the missile
defense plan, rolled out in September 2009. The system,
rebranded as the European Phased Adaptive Approach, was made
into a North Atlantic Treaty Organization program. It was more
pragmatic than the original, because it would start small and
cheap, using existing technology to address capabilities the
Iranians might have in the immediate future. The system would
eventually graduate to new technologies and be capable of
shooting down long-range ballistic missiles by about 2020.  The early stages of the new plan don’t include Poland or
the  Czech Republic . The forward radar is now located instead in
eastern  Turkey , and the initial anti-missile batteries would be
put on ships and in  Romania . But by the fourth and final phase,
Poland would be back in the picture.  Russia remains unhappy. It wants an equal role and a
written legal guarantee from the U.S. that the missile defense
system would never be turned against Russia’s nuclear arsenal.
That’s something Congress would never agree to.  There was plenty of room 10 years ago for skepticism about
the need for an expensive,  untried  missile system to protect
U.S. bases, Europe and the U.S. from Iran. But the  Middle East 
is changing quickly. In 10 or 15 years, the region may have
several nuclear-armed militaries, including  Iran ’s, and possibly
new and unpredictable regimes in charge. We think that in its
revised form, NATO’s moving ahead on missile defense represents
reasonable insurance against low probability but catastrophic
future risks. If those risks fail to appear, the shield’s later
and most expensive phases can be dropped.  Ideas for Cooperation  It would be best to have Russia on board with the program
if that can be achieved. There are some interesting proposals
available. Dean Wilkening, a physicist at the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory, suggests building a joint U.S-Russian $500
million  radar complex  in central Russia, using U.S. technology.
This, he says, would significantly improve both Russia’s dated
early warning network and the coverage of NATO’s missile shield.
That sounds smart to us. The U.S. and NATO have also been
looking at ways to make the shield’s technology and capabilities
transparent to Russia, to avoid any destabilizing paranoia.
Those efforts should be redoubled.  Still, we suspect Russia’s objections are pretty much zero
sum and will be tough to meet without ceding the Kremlin a veto
over the system’s use, which is and should be a nonstarter.
 Vladimir Putin  used the missile system’s alleged threat to
Russia’s security to drum up votes during his recent
presidential campaign -- he’ll take office again in May. Putin
and Medvedev have threatened to build a new generation of
missiles capable of penetrating U.S. defenses, at huge expense,
if NATO’s plans are followed through. The White House should
ignore this saber-rattling.  Renewing the arms race would be a terrible outcome of a
missile shield’s construction, but it would damage mostly
Russia. The  Soviet Union  discovered the risk involved in trying
to match U.S. military  spending  from revenue that is dependent
on  fickle oil and gas prices . Putin would be unwise to repeat
that mistake.  Obama should go on talking to the Russians about missile
defense and yes, he can show some flexibility. But there is no
pre-election urgency, and the decision on whether the NATO
allies need a nuclear shield is for those countries alone to
make. Russia’s threats should not be allowed to dilute the
effectiveness of an insurance policy we might one day need.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on  health-care reform’s day in court  and  Russia’s
objections to missile defense .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Israel’s
overconfident leaders . Ramesh Ponnuru on how Republicans will
react if the  Supreme Court upholds Obamacare .  Edward Glaeser  on
 regulation that can aid entrepreneurs .  Simon Johnson  and  James
Kwak  on why the U.S.  abandoned the gold standard .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 