-- Obesity Drugs May Need Heart Risk Studies Before Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-26T13:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/obesity-drugs-may-need-heart-risk-studies-before-u-s-approval.html
Obesity treatment manufacturers may
need to study the heart risks of their medicines before U.S.
regulators weigh approval,  Food and Drug Administration  staff
said in a report today.  Three California companies are competing to bring the first
weight-loss pill to market in 13 years:  Vivus Inc. (VVUS) ,  Orexigen
Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  The FDA is set
to decide on Vivus’s drug Qnexa by April 17. Arena’s medication
faces an advisory panel on May 10.  An advisory panel will hold a hearing on the drugs in
Silver Spring,  Maryland , starting March 28. The FDA doesn’t have
to follow the panel’s recommendations. The potential approvals
come 15 years after the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug
combination had to be pulled from pharmacies when it was linked
to heart-valve abnormalities. The last obesity drug the FDA
approved was  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical in 1999.  The advisers will consider whether “obesity drugs without
a theoretic risk or signal for” cardiovascular harm “should be
required to rule out” some level of cardiovascular risk before
approval, the FDA staff said in the  report . The regulators don’t
have to follow the panel’s recommendations.  Arena gained 16 percent to $2.80 at 9:44 a.m. New York
time, after climbing as much as 20 percent in its biggest
intraday increase since March 23. Vivus rose 4.9 percent to
$22.35, while Orexigen climbed 3.6 percent to $5.07.  Arena’s application for review of its diet drug was
accepted today by European regulators, according to a statement
from the company.  $448 Million  An analysis by  Mountain View , California-based Vivus of the
risks for Qnexa was “somewhat reassuring,” though the
significance of an increase in heart rate was “uncertain,” FDA
staff said in a  report  Feb. 17. Analysts estimate that the drug,
if approved, may generate $448 million in sales in 2015.  Vivus has proposed a post-approval trial to assess Qnexa in
reducing major heart complications in obese, at-risk patients.
The trial would involve 11,300 patients and take four and a-half
years. While the pill may have increased heart rate, it had
positive effects, including lower blood pressure, on obese
people who are normally at risk of  heart disease .  The FDA requires makers of type 2 diabetes drugs to study
heart risks pre-approval even if no risk signal exists, the
agency said in the report.  Qnexa, a combination of the appetite suppressant
phentermine and the anti-seizure and migraine medication
topiramate, helped patients in clinical trials lose 10 percent
of their body weight, Vivus says on its website.  Orexigen’s Contrave  Orexigen agreed in September with the FDA to conduct a two-
year study of heart risks for the drug Contrave. The La Jolla,
California-based company halted development in June after the
agency asked for a large study. The company agreed on a trial
with less than 10,000 patients. Orexigen is partnered with
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , based in Osaka,  Japan .  Arena is studying its compound lorcaserin to assess cancer
risks. The San Diego-based company is partnered with Tokyo’s
 Eisai Co. (4523)   The FDA has previously rejected all three drugs, asking for
more data on safety risks, including the likelihood of birth
defects associated with Qnexa.  More than 78 million U.S. adults are obese, according to
the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  in Atlanta.
Obesity raises the risks of diabetes, heart attacks and stroke,
and costs the  U.S. economy  an estimated $147 billion a year in
medical expenses and lost productivity, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  