-- Oil Trades Near Three-Day High After Bernanke Speech
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-27T03:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/oil-trades-near-three-day-high-after-bernanke-speech.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in three days in  New York  on speculation fuel demand will rise
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled  interest
rates  will be kept low enough to stimulate the  U.S. economy .  Futures were little changed after rising a second day
yesterday. “Continued accommodative policies” can accelerate
the economic recovery and reduce unemployment, Bernanke said in
a speech in Arlington, Virginia. U.S. crude stockpiles probably
 rose  to a six-month high last week, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. Prices have gained this year amid concern that tension
with Iran will disrupt supplies.  “Oil is at these levels because Bernanke is going to keep
interest rates lower,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive
of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity markets newsletter in Sydney.
“There’s this premium built into the price with  Iran . The news
that’ll push oil through $110 can only be one thing” and that’s
a military strike, he said.  Oil for May delivery was at $106.89 a barrel, down 14
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 2:15 p.m. Sydney time. It gained 16 cents yesterday to
$107.03, the highest close since March 21. Prices are 8.2
percent higher this year and headed for a second straight
quarterly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement was at $125.45 a barrel, down
20 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.56.  Technical Support  Oil in New York has technical support at $103.39 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a horizontal
resistance line going back to May 31 last year, which was
surpassed on Feb. 17. It also coincides with a Fibonacci
retracement level on the weekly chart. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  U.S. crude inventories increased 2.8 million barrels,
rising for the fifth time in six weeks, according to the median
of six analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News survey before
tomorrow’s Energy Department report.  Gasoline stockpiles  fell
1.7 million barrels and distillate supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 250,000 barrels, the
survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Monetary Outlook  Bernanke said yesterday that while he’s encouraged by the
decline in the U.S. unemployment rate to 8.3 percent, continued
accommodative monetary policy will be needed to make further
progress. The  Federal Open Market Committee  on March 13 raised
its assessment of the economy while repeating that interest
rates are likely to be capped near current levels at least
through late 2014.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to an eight-
month high in March. The Munich-based Ifo institute’s  business
climate index  increased to 109.8 from a revised 109.7 in
February. Economists forecast it would remain unchanged,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Crude markets drew from the positive tone in the market
after upbeat German sentiment and comments made by Fed Chairman
Bernanke, which confirmed a low interest rate environment
favorable for risk assets,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in
Melbourne, said in a note today.  Military Risk  Odds compiled by Intrade.com that  Israel  or the U.S. will
strike Iran by the end of 2012 fell to the lowest level in
almost two weeks yesterday on speculation that sanctions aimed
at halting the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program may work. The
implied probability of action fell to 37 percent from 40 percent
a week ago. The odds were as high as 62 percent last month.  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.45 million barrels a day
last month, the lowest level since September 2002, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  is the leading
producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  