-- London Olympic Demand Hurting Euro 2012 Soccer Hospitality Sales
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-26T14:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/london-olympic-demand-hurting-euro-2012-soccer-hospitality-sales.html
The organizers of the European
Championships are struggling to sell corporate-hospitality
packages for the three-week  soccer tournament , as competition
from the London Olympics and the event’s location in Poland and
Ukraine crimps demand.  The quadrennial 16-team championship brings 1.3 billion
euros ($1.7 billion) to soccer’s regional governing body  UEFA ,
placing it behind just the World Cup and Olympics for revenue.
It’s being played in eastern  Europe  for the first time, and
starts about six weeks before the opening of the London Games.  Four years ago, the Olympics were in Beijing, “rather more
difficult to access from Europe,”  David Taylor , chief executive
officer of UEFA’s commercial arm, said in an interview. “These
things inevitably have an effect.”  The 2008 tournament in Switzerland and Austria had
hospitality sales of 150 million euros, three times more than
the 2004 event in  Portugal , Taylor said. Current projections for
June’s competition are for sales to be about 30 percent lower
than in 2008.  Tony Barnard, marketing director at Prestige Ticketing
Ltd., the London Games’ official onsite hospitality seller, said
clients have told him they are prioritizing the Olympics, the
first to be held in the U.K. capital since 1948.  “A lot of clients are saying this year we’re going to do
the big one as opposed to some of the more perennial events that
they normally do,” Barnard said in a telephone interview.
“While the Euros are normally very well attended it is a very
long hike out to Poland and Ukraine and it’s a different ball
game to being  France  and  Germany  or Switzerland and Austria.”  Reallocated   UEFA  said at its annual congress in Istanbul last week that
general attendance tickets have yet to sell out and the numbers
of those is likely to swell when unsold corporate seats and
returns from national associations are reallocated.  England ,
traditionally one of the best supported nations, has failed to
sell out its allocation.  “The bigger football nations are worse than previous
years,” Taylor said. “In some countries it may be because the
national team isn’t performing so well, there’s a lack of
enthusiasm for the national team, but I think in general there’s
an issue of the distance to go and the costs involved.”  Rene Proske, managing director of Germany-based  Proske
Sports , responsible for organizing sponsor Coca-Cola Co.’s
hospitality, said potential clients have been concerned about
facilities in Ukraine.  “It’s infrastructure in general: buses, venues, hotels,”
he said. “We have to be creative. Many clients have chosen to
have fly-in fly-out programs.”  Anti-Corruption  The company is also an authorized seller of corporate
packages. Sales are down about 30 percent from the last
tournament, Proske said.  Another factor limiting sales are new anti-corruption
measures brought in after the 2008 global financial crisis,
according to Proske.  “It’s not that easy to invite people anymore, you need to
justify that it’s not a bribe,” he said.  Taking the tournament to eastern Europe was part of a 2007
promise by UEFA President  Michel Platini  to develop the game in
all parts of the region.  “A very important decision has been made to actually go to
eastern Europe in the light of the awareness that this isn’t
going to be the most financially successful tournament of all
time,” Taylor said. “We could go elsewhere if that was our
objective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom on
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  