-- Online Poker Payment Processor Pleads Guilty to Conspiracy
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-26T21:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/online-poker-payment-processor-pleads-guilty-to-conspiracy-1-.html
Chad Elie, a Las Vegas man who
processed payments for online poker companies, pleaded guilty to
a scheme to deceive banks into processing hundreds of millions
of dollars in Internet gambling transactions.  Elie, 32, was one of one of 11 people charged last April by
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in a revised indictment against the founders of
PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and  Absolute Poker .  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. implemented the
Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act in 2006, which barred
banks from processing payments to offshore gambling websites,
the three companies worked around the ban to continue operating
in the U.S.  Elie admitted today in pleading guilty to a single count of
conspiracy that he served as a “payment processor” for the
poker companies and lied to U.S. banks about the nature of the
financial transactions they were processing.  “You are pleading guilty because you are guilty?” asked
U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is presiding over the
case.  ‘Conduct Was Wrong’  “Yes, your honor,” Elie said. “I know that my conduct
was wrong.”  The charge Elie pleaded guilty to today carries a maximum
sentence of as long as five years in prison, Kaplan said. Elie
has agreed to forfeit $500,000 he earned as a result of the
scheme, Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Goldstein said in court
today.  Under the terms of his plea agreement, Kaplan said Elie
agreed not to seek a sentence outside of the guideline range of
six to 12 months in prison. Kaplan set sentencing for Oct. 3.
Elie remains free on $250,000 bond.  The case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-CR-00336, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  