-- Oppenheimer Fund Solicitation Challenged in Investor Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-26T23:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/oppenheimer-fund-solicitation-challenged-in-investor-lawsuit-1-.html
An  Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY)  fund
was sued by a Massachusetts municipal pension plan that alleges
its investment was solicited with “materially untrue and
misleading statements.”  The Brockton Retirement Board, which manages the
southeastern Massachusetts city’s employee pension plan, today
sued Oppenheimer Global Resource Private Equity Fund I LP,
sponsor Oppenheimer Asset Management Inc., the fund’s
administrator, its general partner and two executives in federal
court in  Boston .  The Oppenheimer solicitation allegedly overstated the value
of holdings in the Global Resource Private Equity Fund,
described in a private placement memorandum as a fund of funds
intending to invest in natural resource-related companies.  “As a result of defendants’ misleading statements,
plaintiff and other members of the class have suffered
significant damages,” the pension plan said in a complaint
filed on behalf of other investors who bought into the fund
based on the same solicitations. Requiring minimum investments
of $500,000 for “Class A” units and $5 million for “Class B”
units, the fund raised $85 million from April 2008 to April
2010, according to the complaint. Total investment, it said, was
$140 million.  The Brockton plan invested $5 million, $3.2 million of
which has been drawn upon in capital calls by the fund’s general
partner, according to the complaint.  The pension plan alleges violations of federal securities
laws and seeks certification of group status for the lawsuit,
together with an award of unspecified compensatory damages.  Oppenheimer Holdings disclosed in a regulatory filing March
6 that it had received a U.S. Justice Department inquiry into
the valuation of a single portfolio holding in one of its
private equity funds and that it was cooperating with the
government.  Brian Maddox of FT Consulting, a spokesman for Oppenheimer,
said the firm hasn’t seen the complaint yet and had no comment.  The case is Brockton Retirement Board v. Oppenheimer Global
Resource Private Equity Fund I LP., 12-cv=10552, U.S. District
Court for  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  