-- Orban Punished by Investors as Hungary Balks at IMF Talks
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-27T08:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/orban-punished-by-investors-as-hungary-retreats-from-imf-talks.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is pushing back as investors and European officials renew
their drive to force him to relax his hold on power in return
for financial aid.  Pressed by a resurgent opposition party calling for Hungary
to pull out of the European Union, and looking to protect his
expansion of authority, Orban is retreating from a Jan. 6 pledge
to quickly meet EU preconditions to negotiate financial help
from the  International Monetary Fund .  Investors are punishing the premier by driving up bond
yields and pushing down the forint, busting a rally that began
with the promise of a swift bailout deal. The loan talks have
yet to begin and Orban, 48, has yet to make the necessary legal
changes to reverse the greater influence his government has
asserted over the judiciary and the central bank.  “The reason there hasn’t been a deal with the EU and the
IMF is because the political cost is deemed to be too high for
the prime minister,” Gabor Orban, who helps manage $2.5 billion
at Aegon Fund Management in Budapest and is not related to the
premier, said in a phone interview. “The government is playing
for time and is trying to avert compromising to ensure  Hungary ’s
financing.”  This month Prime Minister Orban likened the EU to Soviet
oppressors and has compared his resistance to its demands to a
“freedom fight.” A march organized by his supporters in
January drew hundreds of thousands to protest what they called
an attempt to make Hungary a colony of the EU.  EU Sanctions  For the EU, regrouping after helping euro member  Greece 
restructure its debt, Hungary is a test case for the union’s
capacity to make countries respect its democratic standards and
its fiscal rules. EU leaders on Jan. 30 backed a treaty that
speeds sanctions on high-deficit states and requires euro
countries to anchor balanced-budget rules in national law. Eight
non-euro countries, including Hungary, supported the accord.  “Hungary’s case is important because it provides a
precedent for other countries in the EU,” Simon Quijano-Evans,
a London-based economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA) , said in a phone
interview. “This is about the EU as a whole so it is very
important and everybody is watching what the Hungarian
government is saying and doing.”  Investors are showing signs of losing faith in Orban’s
ability to obtain IMF aid. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond rose to 8.96 percent today, from this year’s low
of 8.4 percent on Feb. 8. The yield reached 10.8 percent on Jan.
4, the highest ever for that security.  Falling Forint  The cost of protecting Hungarian debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps fell to 537 basis
points today from 545 on March 23, the highest in a month,
according to data provider CMA. It is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Public debt financing for this year is “more or less
ensured,”  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, said Feb. 20.  The forint may weaken to as low as 315 per euro from 294 on
March 23 in part because of the delay in Hungary’s talks with
the IMF, Nomura International Plc said on March 22. The currency
gained 0.3 percent to 290.58 as of 10:23 a.m. in Budapest.  It has fallen 1.5 percent since climbing to the strongest
level in five months on Feb. 21 after Orban’s pledge on
obtaining an IMF loan. The forint plunged 15 percent, the most
in the world, in the second half of last year as policies
including nationalizing private pension funds and forcing banks
to swallow losses on foreign-currency loans spooked investors.  Central Bank Independence  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, has
blocked the start of talks on a loan, citing a failure by Orban
to bring laws in line with the bloc’s democratic norms. The
commission objects to new laws affecting the independence of the
central bank, the judiciary and the data-protection agency and
has voiced concerns about media pluralism after Orban set up a
media regulator whose directors are all ruling-party appointees.  “Progress on a deal since the start of the year has at
best stalled and arguably shifted into reverse gear,”  Gyula Toth , a strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Vienna, said in a March
21 report.  Orban, who also served as premier from 1998 to 2002, won a
two-thirds majority in parliament in 2010 that allowed him to
unilaterally change the constitution and reduce the power of
independent institutions. The moves raised objections from the
EU, the IMF, the U.S. and the  United Nations .  Supreme Court  Ruling-party lawmakers have ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court , narrowed the jurisdiction of the  Constitutional
Court , replaced an independent fiscal council with one dominated
by the premier’s allies and chosen a party member to lead the
State Audit Office.  Hungary won’t live by the “dictates of foreigners” and
knows “the character of unsolicited comradely assistance, even
if it comes wearing a finely tailored suit and not a uniform
with shoulder patches,” Orban told a crowd in front of
parliament in Budapest on March 15, the anniversary of the
failed 1848 revolution. Orban’s spokesman,  Peter Szijjarto , has
denied that Orban referred to the EU in his speech.  Such language demonstrates a “complete lack of
understanding of democracy”, commission spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told a daily press briefing in Brussels on
March 16.  Lack of Understanding?  Commission President  Jose Barroso  thinks “Those who
compare the European Union to the USSR show a complete lack of
understanding of what democracy is, in his view, and they also
fail to understand the important contribution of all those who
have defended and fought for freedom and democracy,” she said.  The anti-EU rhetoric may be part of a short-term strategy
to persuade the union to scale back its criticism of domestic
policies and to weaken extremists, Attila Juhasz, a political
analyst at Political Capital in Budapest, said in a phone
interview.  At home, Orban is also competing with the nationalist
Jobbik party, which was tied for second place among decided
voters in December before falling back to third place in March,
according to pollster Ipsos. Jobbik had 17 percent support in
March, compared with 41 percent for Orban’s Fidesz party,
according to the  poll , which had a margin of error of 2.5
percentage points.  Protesters at a Jobbik rally on Jan. 14 burned an EU flag
during a rally outside the commission’s offices in Budapest as
the party demanded a referendum on quitting the EU.  ‘Risks to Society’  Orban’s anti-EU rhetoric in the long run is bound to lead
to an increase in radicalism “with all the risks to society
that it entails,” said Juhasz, an expert on radicalism.  “In the long run this kind of politics only strengthens
the radical mentality,” said Juhasz. As for improving the
bailout, it would be counterproductive because Orban’s
maneuvering room is now narrower. Any deal now would be on
“much more unfavorable terms,” he said.  The EU is showing no sign of backing off. The Commission on
March 7 took a formal step toward seeking a court order to
require Hungary to redraft laws on the judiciary and data
protection agency and asked for more information on planned
changes to a new central bank law.  A week later, the EU partially froze Hungary’s
infrastructure-development aid as of 2013, giving the country
until June 22 to take “effective” action to cut its  budget
deficit  and have the sanction lifted. It was the first time such
action was taken to force an EU member to meet budget targets.  Orban continues to express willingness to negotiate.
Hungary wants to avoid “unnecessary delays” in the start of
aid talks, Orban told Barroso in a March 13 letter, pointing to
already submitted amendments showing the government’s interest
in compromise.  Needs More?  “More needs to be done” to bring Hungarian laws in line
with European norms, Thorbjoern Jagland, secretary-general of
the Council of  Europe , an inter-governmental organization that
promotes democratic values, told reporters in Budapest on March
21 after meeting with Orban.  Orban’s overhaul of the courts “threatens the independence
of the judiciary” and is “problematic as concerns the right to
a fair trial,” the  Venice Commission , the  Council of Europe ’s
advisory body on constitutional matters, said on March 19.  While the Hungarian government says it wants a quick IMF
deal, an easing of funding pressure means the government is
unlikely to need to meet conditions for aid in the next three to
four months, UniCredit’s Toth said.  Hungary has sufficient forint deposits to last it until
August and enough foreign currency deposits until October and
possibly until February of next year if accounting for inflows
from the EU and the remainder of nationalized pension assets,
Toth said, citing UniCredit estimates.  “We need to see a sharp and sustained deterioration in
market conditions before the government considers giving into
IMF and EU conditionality at any stage over the coming three to
four months,” Toth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  