-- Most Chinese Stocks Advance, Led by Consumer Shares; BYD Drops
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-26T05:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/most-chinese-stocks-advance-led-by-consumer-shares-byd-drops.html
Most Chinese stocks  rose as
speculation the government will introduce measures to boost
 consumer spending  overshadowed slowing earnings growth.  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  advanced for a third day, leading gains
for consumer stocks, after Citic Securities Co. boosted its
earnings forecast for the nation’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor. Jiangxi Copper Co. added 1.6 percent on higher metal
prices. Developer China Vanke Co. declined to the lowest in a
month after Beijing News cited a housing ministry official as
saying property prices won’t rebound this year. BYD Co., the
carmaker partly owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., slid 0.7 percent after forecasting a profit slump.  “First-quarter economic growth and earnings will be poor
and the market will be disappointed,” said  Li Jun , a strategist
at Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “On the other
hand, we’ll see more pro-growth policies. That may offset some
of the downside risk of the market.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.94 points, or less than
0.1 percent, to 2,350.48 as of 1:16 p.m. local time. Almost the
same number of stocks gained as those that fell. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1 percent 2,555.09. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 0.7 percent in New York on March 23.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
15.27 today, near a five-day high. About 7.7 billion shares
changed hands in the gauge on March 23, or 14 percent lower than
the daily average this year. Stocks in the measure trade at 9.8
times estimated profit, compared with a record low of 8.9 times
on Jan. 6, weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Economic Support  The Shanghai Composite fell 2.3 percent last week, the
steepest weekly drop since the period ended Dec. 16, after
reports showed profits for state-owned companies dropped in the
first two months of this year and manufacturing may contract in
March. It has advanced 6.9 percent this year on speculation the
government will take measures to boost economic growth.  China  will expand a value-added tax reform trial that will
avoid double taxation, the Xinhua News Agency reported, citing
Xiao Jie, director of the State Administration of Taxation.  The government started replacing a turnover tax with a
value-added tax in the transport industry and some  service
industries  in Shanghai on Jan. 1, Xinhua said. Replacing the
turnover tax could boost economic growth by 0.5 percentage point
and export growth by 0.7 percentage point, create 700,000 jobs
and result in tax reductions of more than 100 billion yuan
($15.9 billion), Xiao said, according to Xinhua.  Consumer Stocks  The China Securities Regulatory Commission plans to raise
quotas for qualified foreign institutional investors to invest
in domestic  capital markets  and will broaden the scope for their
investments, Vice Chairman Yao Gang said at a forum hosted by
Caixin media group yesterday.  The plan is intended to attract more overseas funds into
the domestic markets and the CSRC also plans to lower threshold
for Hong Kong listings and encourage financial institutions to
set up overseas branches, Yao said.  Measures of consumer staples and discretionary stocks in
the CSI 300 advanced 1 percent and 0.4 percent respectively
today, the biggest gainers among the 10 industry group.  Kweichow Moutai rose 1.2 percent to 214.53 yuan, set for
the highest close since Aug. 31. Citic Securities lifted its
earnings per-share forecast for Moutai this year by 6.7 percent
to 12.06 yuan and for 2013 by 7.4 percent to 15.79 yuan, Huang
Wei and Wen Hongwei, analysts at the nation’s biggest listed
brokerage, wrote in a note dated March 23. Moutai said last week
net income increased 73 percent last year.  Earnings Concerns  Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery Joint-Stock Co. (002304)  advanced 2.5 percent
to 161.21 yuan. Hisense Electric Co., China’s biggest
manufacturer of flat-panel televisions, climbed 2.6 percent to
19.08 yuan.  “We like consumer staples which will benefit from wage
increases,”  Pu Yonghao , Hong Kong-based chief investment
strategist at UBS Wealth Management, said on Bloomberg
Television today. This year’s stocks rally is not over, and
emerging-market equities may rise again in the second half, he
said.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
gained 1.6 percent to 25.96 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals
Group Co., the second biggest, added 1.7 percent to 20.76 yuan.  Copper climbed for a second day on speculation that demand
from China and the U.S. remains robust. Three-month copper rose
as much as 0.4 percent to $8,414 a metric ton on the London
Metal Exchange.  Three hundred and seventy-five companies in the  Shanghai 
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 19 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
3.8 percent, Bloomberg  data  showed. That compared with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  BYD Drops  BYD slid 0.8 percent to 25.80 yuan after the company said
yesterday first-quarter net income may plunge 65 percent to 95
percent.  China’s property prices won’t rebound this year as central
and local governments persist with policies to curb investment
and speculation, Beijing News reported yesterday, citing Qin
Hong, director of policy research at the Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development.  There are also unsold properties, which will prevent prices
from rising, the paper said, citing Qin. The government will
“certainly” expand property taxes from the current trial
programs as a long-term measure to curb speculation, Qin was
cited as saying.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell
1.5 percent to 8 yuan.  Property Prices  New home prices fell in 27 of 70 Chinese cities last month
from a year earlier, while prices were unchanged in six others,
China’s statistics bureau said on March 18. That was the worst
performance since the government started releasing individual
data for 70 cities at the start of 2011.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $36.92
on March 23, down 4.8 percent last week.  The first initial public offering by a Chinese company in
the U.S. since August raised 39 percent less than planned as New
York-listed stocks dropped last week amid concern the world’s
second-largest economy is faltering.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd., a Chinese online discount retailer,
tumbled 15 percent on its first day of trading after its share
sale. While a 1.4 percent jump in oil boosted the Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index by 0.7 percent on March 23, the gauge of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in  New York  slid 0.3 percent in
the week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  