-- Tougher China Laws Might Have Hurt Apple in IPad Dispute
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-03-26T00:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/tougher-china-laws-might-have-hurt-apple-in-ipad-dispute.html
China is proposing improvements to
its 30-year-old trademark law that help household names from
abroad better protect their rights.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , in its dispute
over the iPad name, might be better off without the reforms.  Government proposals for tackling “the rampant problem of
trademark squatting” include doubling the maximum damages for
infringers to 1 million yuan ($158,539). Since a court already
ruled that Apple doesn’t own the iPad name in China, the company
would be on the wrong side of the sanctions, said Caroline
Berube, an intellectual property lawyer in the southern Chinese
city of  Guangzhou .  The Apple case “is another example of why multinationals
need to do their diligence and tread cautiously in China as
domestic companies have become much more savvy about protecting
and exploiting IP rights,” Steve Rizzi, a New York-based
attorney and former head of China for Foley & Lardner, said in
an e-mail.  Apple’s appeal that it, and not Hong Kong-listed display
maker  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , owns the iPad name in
China will hinge on contract law rather than trademark law, the
lawyers said. A decision from a Guangzhou court is due by the
end of May, and the new trademark law won’t be voted on until
next year’s national legislature at the earliest, said Berube,
of HJM  Asia  Law & Co.  ‘Never Knowingly’  Apple, which  won a lawsuit  against Shenzhen-based New Apple
Concept Daily Technology Co. in 2008 for using an apple in its
logo, started its legal battle with Proview in 2010, the same
year it introduced the iPad tablet. A court in Shenzhen, across
the border from Hong Kong, ruled against Apple last year, saying
the purchase agreement for the trademarks featured the wrong
Proview unit.  “As a company that generates a lot of  intellectual
property  we would never knowingly abuse someone else’s
trademarks,” Carolyn Wu, Apple’s Beijing-based spokeswoman,
said in a statement. She declined to comment on the proposed
laws and how they would have affected the iPad case.  The Cupertino, California-based company argued that at
least three employees of the Proview unit owning the trademarks
had participated in negotiations leading to the sale.  Separately, Apple has sued Proview founder Rowell Yang in
Hong Kong for conspiring with his companies to breach the sale
agreement. That case is in the pre-trial phase.  Michael Jordan ,  Britney Spears   “It seems the problems have arisen because of the drafting
of the agreement,” said David Llewelyn, a professor of law at
 Singapore Management University .  Proview obtained the trademark in China in 2001 for a
desktop terminal with touch-screen display called the Internet
Personal Access Device, or IPAD, that the company developed
starting in 1998.  “This doesn’t seem to be a case in which a Chinese company
has registered a foreign company’s trademark in China to try and
blackmail them into buying them off,” said Llewelyn, the author
of “Invisible Gold in Asia: Creating Wealth Through
Intellectual Property.”  Hall of Fame basketball player Michael Jordan and pop
singer Britney Spears have been involved in disputes regarding
the use of their names in China this year.  “In China, there is a lot of trademark hijacking, meaning
someone files a trademark similar or identical to a trademark of
another, especially something famous outside  China ,” said
Benjamin Bai, a partner of intellectual property law at  Allen &
Overy  in  Shanghai .  Widely Known in China  Jordan said Feb. 23 he had sued a southern China-based
sportswear company for the unauthorized use of his Chinese name
and his jersey number 23.  Qiaodan Sports Co. (QDTYSZ) , which received
regulatory approval in November to raise 1.06 billion yuan in an
initial public offering, said its brand was registered according
to Chinese law.  Spears failed in January to convince authorities to cancel
a trademark for the Chinese translation of “Britney,” obtained
by a Shenzhen-based for use on alarm clocks and watches,
domestic media, including the Beijing Morning Post, reported.
The Beijing court refused to hear her case, saying the singer
couldn’t show she was widely known in China in 2001, when
Shenzhen Wanfuda Trading Co. registered for the name.  Ken Hertz, a Beverly Hills-based lawyer for Spears, didn’t
comment on the dispute in China.  Sounds, Colors  There have been 8.3 million trademark applications made in
China since 1979, with a record 1.2 million filed in 2010,
according to intellectual property consultancy, Rouse. Disputes
over trademarks rose almost eight-fold from 2004 to 2010,
 Rouse ’s data shows, and punishments have included criminal
sentences.  China established specialized courts for trademark,
copyright and patent issues after joining the  World Trade
Organization  in 2002. The third planned revision of the
trademark regime comes as more than half of the companies polled
last year by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai said
intellectual property infringement hindered their business.  Proposed changes include allowing sounds and colors to be
registered, as well as trademarks that cover more than one class
of product. One proposal prohibits applicants from filing
anything that they should know, through contractual or business
relationships with the rights holder, already exists.  While the higher damages payable by infringers would be a
deterrent, the changes don’t do enough to prevent registrations
of trademarks by parties who know the name is already in use,
Berube said.  If Apple’s iPad appeal in mainland China fails, it faces
fines of three times the “volume of illegal business” in
addition to damages for trademark infringement. China is Apple’s
biggest market outside the U.S.  While not strictly dealing with trademark issues, the
Apple-Proview case has raised awareness of intellectual property
issues in China, according to May Tai, a Beijing-based disputes
lawyer with Herbert Smith LLP.  “This case certainly makes Chinese people think more about
the value of a brand,” Tai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  