-- Pending Sales of US Existing Homes at Near Two-Year High
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-26T14:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/pending-sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-hold-near-two-year-high.html
The number of Americans signing
contracts to buy previously owned homes held in February near an
almost two-year high, a sign that the real estate market may be
stabilizing.  The  index  of pending home purchases fell 0.5 percent to
96.5 after a 2 percent increase the prior month, the National
Association of Realtors said today in  Washington . January’s
reading of 97 was the highest since April 2010. The median
forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 1 percent rise.  Residential real estate is recovering even amid the threat
of more foreclosures, which are weighing on property values. A
pickup in hiring, growing incomes and  mortgage rates  near a
record low are making houses more affordable, driving demand.  “Demand is gradually improving,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva,
a U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in New York. “It’s really a
problem of oversupply in the housing market. A lot will depend
on how fast the foreclosures are being processed.”  Stocks held earlier gains after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to 1,411.31 at 10:13 a.m. in
 New York  after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
central bank needs to maintain monetary policy accommodative to
spur hiring.  Survey Results  Estimates for February pending home sales in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from a drop of 1.5 percent to an increase of 5
percent.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up about 93 percent of the housing market
last year.  Compared with a year earlier, February pending home sales
climbed 14 percent.  Three of four regions saw a decrease in pending home sales,
today’s report showed. That included a 3 percent decline in the
South and a 2.6 percent drop in the West. The Midwest climbed
6.5 percent.  Sales of previously owned houses held in February near an
almost two-year high, the real-estate agents’ group reported
last week. Purchases dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million
annual rate from a revised 4.63 million pace in January that was
faster than previously estimated and the highest since May 2010.  Start of Year  Even with the decline last month, January and February
sales of existing homes marked the strongest start to a year
since 2007.  “The spring home buying season looks bright because of an
elevated level of contract offers so far this year,”  Lawrence Yun , the association’s chief economist, said in a statement
today. “If activity is sustained near present levels, existing
home sales will see their best performance in five years.”  Home foreclosures remain a concern for builders. Filings
fell 8 percent in February, the smallest year-over-year decrease
since October 2010, as lenders began working through a backlog
of seized properties, RealtyTrac Inc. said this month.  “February’s numbers point to a gradually rising
foreclosure tide,”  Brandon Moore , RealtyTrac’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “That should result in more
states posting annual increases in the coming months.”  Fed Policy  To hold down borrowing costs like mortgage rates, Fed
policy makers last week said they will continue to swap $400
billion in short-term securities with long-term debt to lengthen
the average maturity of the central bank’s holdings, a move
dubbed Operation Twist.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today said that while he’s
encouraged by the decline in unemployment, the central bank
still needs to keep  interest rates  low to make further progress.  Recent “better news” on the economy has also included a
“slight bit of encouraging news here and there in the housing
market” and strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said in response
to audience questions following a speech in Arlington, Virginia.  New-home purchases decreased 1.6 percent in February to a
313,000 annual rate, the slowest since October, the Commerce
Department said last week. That pace is hurting some builders.  KB Home, the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, fell the most in almost nine months after it
reported a decline in orders and government data showed new-home
sales dropped in February.  “We are seeing signs that the overall housing market is
stabilizing and beginning to recover,”  Jeffrey Mezger ,
president and chief executive officer of  KB Home (KBH) , said in a
March 23 statement. “The pace of the recovery is uneven,
however. We expect that the housing market in general will
gradually strengthen as the economy continues to advance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  