-- Permira Said to Weigh Sale of Birds Eye After Approaches
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-03-26T17:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/permira-said-to-explore-sale-of-birds-eye-iglo-after-approaches.html
Permira Advisers LLP, the private
equity firm that owns  Hugo Boss , is exploring a sale of Iglo
Foods Group Ltd., the company that invented the frozen fish
finger, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  is helping the firm evaluate a
number of approaches that may lead to a sale, said the person
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
company may fetch as much as 2.9 billion euros ($3.83 billion),
according to the Sunday Telegraph, which reported the
discussions yesterday.  Permira, based in  London , is seeking to return cash to
investors as it tries to raise 6.5 billion euros for a new
buyout fund. Potential bidders for Iglo include private equity
firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which owns U.S. frozen food maker
Pinnacle Foods Finance LLC, and London-based  BC Partners  Ltd.,
which owned French frozen food maker Picard Groupe SA, two
people familiar with the situation said.  Officials at Permira, Credit Suisse and Blackstone declined
to comment. A spokesman for BC Partners couldn’t immediately
comment.  Permira bought Iglo, the owner of the Birds Eye brands,
from Unilever NV in 2006, and expanded it after purchasing the
Dutch consumer goods maker’s Findus operations in  Italy  in
October 2010.  Private equity firms get money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to spend it within
five to six years and return it with a profit after about 10
years. Investors typically wait for distributions from earlier
funds before committing again to new pools.  Permira sold part of its stake in Galaxy Entertainment last
year, and agreed to sell the animal-feed additives company
Provimi to Cargill Inc. This month, it agreed to sell its 51
percent stake in NDS Group Ltd. to Cisco Systems Inc., the
largest maker of equipment for  computer networks , in a sale that
valued the maker of software for pay-TV channels at about $5
billion.  Permira was forced to return money that investors had
pledged to its most recent fund during the credit crisis in
December 2008. That reduced the fund to 9.6 billion euros from
11.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  