-- Petrobras America Sues Over Broken Chain on Gulf Oil System
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-03-26T22:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/petrobras-america-sues-over-broken-chain-on-gulf-oil-system.html
Petrobras America Inc. (PETR4)  sued marine
chain-maker Vicinay Cadenas SA for at least $180 million over
losses allegedly caused by a broken chain that let parts of a
floating oil production system sink and drift away in the  Gulf
of Mexico  last year.  The Houston-based unit of  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil
company Petroleo Brasileiro SA accused Vicinay of hiding
“unauthorized and defective repair welds’’ in a set of marine
chains the Spanish firm designed and built to serve a floating
production system at the company’s Cascade and Chinook oil
fields in the Gulf of Mexico. The fields are about 160 miles
(257.5 kilometers) south of  New Orleans .  After less than two years’ use, at least one 171 millimeter
(6.7 inches)-diameter link on the chains broke and let part of
Petrobras’s Chinook FSHR No. 1 floating production system sink
to the sea floor. A second part floated 36 miles away before it
was recovered, according to a complaint filed March 23 in
federal court in Houston.  “Vicinay warranted that the tether chain system would have
a field life, without maintenance or replacement, of 30 years,’’
Petrobras America said in a complaint filed by its lawyer,
Ileana Blanco. “A reasonably prudent inspection of the chain by
Vicinay would have revealed, and did reveal, unauthorized and
dangerous repairs, defects and deficiencies in the chain.’’  Petrobras America, spent $180 million to recover, remove
and repair damaged parts of the floating production system,
which consists of multiple buoyant components tethered to a
storage vessel much like an oil tanker. The lawsuit seeks
additional unspecified damages for lost oil and gas production
from the Chinook field during the repair period.  An e-mailed request for comment on Petrobras’s lawsuit,
sent after regular business hours to Vicinay’s headquarters in
Bilbao,  Spain , where the tether chains were also manufactured,
wasn’t immediately answered.  Petrobras America’s insurer, a Lloyd’s of London
underwriting syndicate, is participating in the lawsuit with
Petrobras.  The case Petrobras America Inc. v. Vicinay Cadenas SA,
4:12-cv-0888, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 