-- Philippine Bonds Drop on Deficit, Inflation Outlook; Peso Drops
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-03-26T08:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/philippine-bonds-drop-on-deficit-inflation-outlook-peso-steady.html
Philippine bonds declined on
concern a widening  budget deficit  and rising inflationary
pressures will damp demand for the nation’s debt. The peso
weakened.  The shortfall in February was probably “substantially
bigger” than 16 billion pesos ($372 million), Budget Secretary
Butch Abad said on March 24. The government forecast a wider
deficit in the first half of the year as President Benigno Aquino ramps up spending on roads and bridges, he said.
Inflation will probably accelerate in February, Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  “At the back of everyone’s mind, there is anxiety on
inflation and expectations of a widening deficit,” said Jill Singian, senior manager for treasury at the  Bank of the
Philippine Islands (BPI)  in  Manila . “It will give some pressure in
the short term. There will be knee-jerk reactions.”  The yield on the 8 percent bonds due July 2031 rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.05 percent as of
4:33 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.
The peso fell 0.2 percent to 43.065 per dollar, prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell to
5.75 percent from 5.79 percent.  The Philippines will probably reduce the amount of
securities it offers at weekly auctions in the three months
starting April after raising a record amount from debt sold to
individuals last month, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said March 26.  Bond Auctions  The government auctioned 9 billion pesos each week in the
first quarter as it sought to raise 117 billion pesos to fund
its budget deficit. The Southeast Asian nation sold a record
179.8 billion pesos of 15- and 20-year retail bonds in February.
The Bureau of the Treasury will announce its second-quarter
borrowing plan this week.  “The government was able to beef up their cash position
and a plan to reduce borrowings will give more support to
bonds,” Singian said.  The Philippines reported a deficit of 15.9 billion pesos
for January, the smallest in five months. The government
forecast the shortfall to widen to 279 billion pesos this year
from 197.8 billion pesos in 2011.  Consumer prices  in the  Philippines , which imports most of
its energy needs, rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier in
February, the smallest increase since September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  