-- Plosser Says Fed Shouldn’t Use Balance Sheet as Regular Tool
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-03-26T11:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/plosser-says-fed-shouldn-t-use-balance-sheet-as-regular-tool.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the Fed shouldn’t
regularly use its balance sheet to conduct monetary policy
because such moves threaten its independence.  “Our balance sheet should not be viewed as a new
independent instrument of monetary policy in normal times,”
Plosser said in the text of a speech in Paris today. “Clear
boundaries and resisting the use of the balance sheet as a new
policy tool would also improve fiscal discipline by making it
more difficult for the fiscal authorities to resort to the
printing press as a solution to unsustainable budget policies.”  The Fed, aiming to reduce borrowing costs and spur growth,
has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two asset-purchase
programs, and is pursuing a maturity-extension program announced
in September to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries. The  central bank  has also
held its benchmark  interest rate  near zero since December 2008.  “The Fed and other central banks have undertaken other
actions that have blurred the distinction between monetary
policy and fiscal policy, such as adopting credit policies that
favor some industries or asset classes relative to others,”
Plosser said. “Establishing and maintaining clear boundaries
between monetary and fiscal policies protects the independence
of the central bank and its ability to carry out its core
mandate -- maintaining  price stability .”  Emergency Credit  The Philadelphia Fed chief cited the central bank’s
establishment of emergency credit facilities during the credit
crisis to support the commercial-paper and asset-backed
securities markets, and its purchases of mortgage-backed debt to
bolster housing as examples.  “These credit allocations have not only breached the
traditional boundaries between fiscal and monetary policy, they
have generated pointed public criticisms of the Fed,” Plosser
said.  “Such actions by a central bank can create their own form
of moral hazard, as markets and governments come to see central
banks as instruments of fiscal policy, thus undermining
incentives for fiscal discipline,” he said.  Plosser didn’t comment in the text of his speech on the
outlook for the  U.S. economy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  