-- Pope Seeks More Sway in Cuba Trip Amid Calls to Back Dissidents
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-03-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/pope-seeks-more-sway-in-cuba-trip-amid-calls-to-back-dissidents.html
Pope Benedict XVI  arrives today in
Cuba on a mission to revive faith in what pollsters call Latin
America’s  least devout  nation as it moves away from a half-
century of state economic control. Politics will dominate the
visit as much as religion.  While the Roman Catholic Church has steadily gained
influence in Cuba since Pope  John Paul  II’s 1998 visit, the
results of its campaign for greater economic, political and
spiritual freedom have been mixed. After securing the release of
dozens of political prisoners in recent years, it stood by as
President Raul Castro’s government rounded up dissidents last
week and helped evict protesters seeking refuge in a church.  The communist government is touting the 48-hour papal
visit, which begins with the celebration of Mass today in the
eastern city of Santiago de Cuba, as a sign of shared values.
Its opponents, including the U.S. State Department, are urging
the 84-year-old Benedict to speak out against the western
hemisphere’s sole dictatorship.  “It will be impossible to please all groups,” Father
Thomas Reese, the author of several books on Vatican politics
who teaches at  Georgetown University ’s Woodstock Theological
Center, said in a phone interview from Washington. “When it’s
all done, I don’t think the regime will be happy, and I don’t
think Cuban organizations will be happy.”  Even before arriving in Cuba, Benedict waded into the
debate over Cuba’s future that accelerated last year when the
government began slashing state payrolls and allowed the buying
and selling of property for the first time since the 1959
revolution.  On a March 23 flight to  Mexico , the first stop of the two-
nation Latin American tour, he said that it is “evident that
Marxist ideology as it was conceived no longer responds to
reality” and urged Cubans to patiently “find new models.”  Cuban Reaction  Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez dismissed the comments,
while saying the Cuban government respects all opinions and
looks forward to exchanging ideas with the pope. He invoked the
words of Benedict’s popular predecessor, whose 1998 visit led
 Fidel Castro  to make Christmas a holiday in the once officially
atheist nation, to criticize a U.S. trade embargo.  “Cuba has a half century of history fighting what the
venerable Pope  John Paul II  characterized as unfair and
ethically unacceptable economic measures imposed from abroad,”
Rodriguez said March 23 to a group of 100 foreign journalists
who flew into  Havana  to cover the visit. “It seems to us that
the Cuban social project is solid.”  Revolution Square  After a service to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the
discovery of a relic of Cuba’s patron saint, the Virgin of
Charity of El Cobre, the pope will travel tomorrow to Havana. In
the capital he’ll meet with the 80-year-old  Raul Castro  and on
March 28 hold an open-air Mass in Revolution Square, where Fidel
used to lead anti-American rallies.  Since John Paul’s groundbreaking visit, the church has
gained influence with Cuba’s government that’s normally reserved
for allies like Venezuela and  Brazil . Cubans have also started
returning to the pews, though only half of the nation’s 11.2
million people identify themselves as Catholics compared with 85
percent in Mexico, according to a 2011 study by the Washington-
based Pew Research Center’s Forum on Religion and Public Life.  Most of the church’s work has been behind the scenes,
bridging the gulf that separates dissidents from the government
and large segments of Cuban society, said Robert Pastor, who was
U.S. national security adviser for  Latin America  under President
 Jimmy Carter .  Pastor said that role has become more important since Fidel
started to relinquish power in 2006 to his brother, who then
began easing state control of the economy to allow Cubans to
seek self-employment as taxi drivers, janitors and other basic
professions.  Cuba’s Economy  The overhaul comes amid a decline in the price of nickel,
the country’s biggest export, and a slowdown in tourism as
 Europe ’s debt crisis dampens global economic growth. Cuba’s
gross domestic product expanded 2.5 percent last year, according
to the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean, compared with 4.3 percent  growth  for the region.  “The changes may not be fast enough for some,” Pastor,
now a professor at American University in  Washington , said in a
phone interview. “But when you realize that the regime hasn’t
essentially changed in over 50 years, you have to feel
encouraged to see even modest progress.”  Opposition Pressure  Joel Fernandez, a math teacher whose 250 Cuban pesos ($10)
salary a month isn’t enough to afford a honeymoon with his
newlywed wife, says he hopes the pope’s visit will be a catalyst
for greater freedom.  “I’m hoping the visit speeds up change,” said the 43-
year-old Fernandez at a bar in Old Havana, surrounded by
crumbling colonial-styled homes that have become one of the
island’s biggest tourist draws in the past decade. “We want him
to talk with the government.”  Pressure has been building on the Vatican to speak out
against repression by the Castro government.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said March 19
that the U.S. would like to see the pope call on the Cuban
government to release political prisoners. She said the
detention of 70 activists from the Ladies in White a week before
the pope’s arrival was “reprehensible.” About 30 members of
the group, made up of wives and relatives of jailed dissidents,
attended Mass yesterday in Havana, reiterating their request for
a one-minute audience with Benedict.  On March 13, a separate group of 13 activists occupied a
church in Havana to demand an audience with Benedict only to be
evicted two days later with the archdiocese’s support.  Politics as Spectacle  Roberto Veiga, editor of Espacio Laical, a Havana-based
magazine published by the church in Cuba, said such protests
aren’t constructive because they fail to foster dialogue with
the Castro regime.  “Many of Cuba’s dissidents have converted politics into a
spectacle,” he said in an interview at the archdiocese’s
headquarters in Havana.  Any condemnation of the Castro government is unlikely and
the church will play its “assigned role” and not alienate the
regime during the pope’s visit, said Wayne Smith, director of
the Cuba program at the Washington-based  Center for
International Policy .  “Many want Benedict to meet with dissidents, but that’s
not going to happen,” Smith, who was chief of mission at the
U.S. Interest Section in Havana from 1979 to 1982, said in a
phone interview. In contrast, a meeting with 85-year-old Fidel,
while not on the pope’s agenda, is likely, he said.  Benedict’s Legacy  While the pope’s visit is likely to rekindle religious
enthusiasm in Cuba, where the “gods of socialism have proved
insufficient,” Benedict will have a tougher time matching the
legacy left by John Paul’s visit, said Ted Henken, a professor
of Latin American studies at  Baruch College  in  New York .  For John Paul’s homily in Revolution Square, a giant
billboard of Jesus was placed next to a wrought-iron monument to
guerrilla-hero Ernesto ‘Che’ Guevara. Only a yellow stage is set
up for Benedict.  “John Paul was like rain on a desert, he came at a time
when Cubans needed to hear him,” said Henken, who specializes
in Cuban culture and history. “Pope Benedict’s message has been
one of ‘let’s move back to orthodoxy’ and warning of the threats
from modern life, which has no real relevancy in Cuba today.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Havana at  cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 