-- Private Equity Sees Pipes as Second Shale Wave: Energy
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-03-27T16:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/private-equity-sees-pipes-as-second-shale-wave-energy.html
Private-equity firms are ramping up
investment in the next phase of  North America ’s oil and natural
gas drilling boom: the estimated $40 billion in annual spending
on pipelines and processing to bring the fuels to market.  Arclight Capital Partners LLC,  EnCap Flatrock Midstream LP (0120473D) 
and Highstar Capital are among firms behind projects that would
connect and help transform fuel from thousands of shale wells
expected to be drilled this decade. Some owners, keen to quickly
sell their pipeline stakes within a few years, may see 16 to 25
percent returns, said Andrea Kramer, a managing director with
fund manager Hamilton Lane.  The interest in processing plants and so-called gathering
pipelines that connect wells is “a new phenomenon” for private
equity, said George Ball, chairman and co-chief executive
officer of Edelman Financial Group Inc., the Houston-based
company that manages $17 billion. “So far, it’s been a highly
profitable form of investment for some of the firms.”  The new investment coincides with pipeline companies
merging systems to handle more shipments, including Kinder
Morgan Inc.’s $24.4 billion pending acquisition of El Paso Corp.
and the bidding war that led to Energy Transfer Equity LP’s $5.4
billion Southern Union Co. purchase.  Private-equity firms are building pipeline systems even
before full-scale drilling begins and the recoverable oil and
gas is known, said William Lemmons, a managing partner at  San
Antonio , Texas-based EnCap Flatrock. Financiers with pipeline
expertise and more appetite for risk have stepped in where
larger investors choose to keep their money in production.  More Drilling Rigs  Estimated spending for gathering and processing may be as
much as $40 billion annually as hydraulic fracturing opens up
North American shale formations to more drilling, Lemmons said.
The number of rigs drilling for oil in the U.S. reached 1,317 on
March 16, according to Baker Hughes Inc., the most since 1987,
when the company began tracking oil and gas rigs separately.  Pipelines that connect to wells offer owners a steady
return, almost like toll roads, as long as producers need access
to the delivery systems.  Williams Partners LP agreed on March 19 to pay about $2.5
billion for Caiman Energy Midstream LLC, a gathering and
processing business in the Marcellus Shale, as well as form a
joint venture to bring infrastructure to  Ohio ’s Utica Shale.  Caiman’s parent company is backed by EnCap Flatrock and
Highstar Capital. It’s the second deal this month for EnCap
Flatrock, which agreed to sell its interest in two-year-old
Meritage Midstream, the builder of a gathering system in  Texas ’s
Eagle Ford shale, for an undisclosed sum on March 15.  Arclight’s $100 Million  Arclight, based in  Boston , paid $100 million for a 28
percent share in a gathering system in  West Virginia  and Ohio on
March 21. Two days later, a company Arclight co-owns invested an
undisclosed amount in a gathering system in the Eagle Ford.  M3 Midstream LLC, backed by private-equity firm Yorktown
Partners LLC, said March 13 it will take part in a $900 million
venture to build gathering lines and processing plants in the
Utica. A week prior, Energy & Minerals Group, a $3.3 billion
fund, announced a similar venture with MarkWest Energy Partners
LP in the area.  EnCap Flatrock and closely held M3 declined to say how much
profit they earn on their transactions. The Utica transaction is
M3’s third gathering and processing venture.  “We strive to achieve private equity-style returns,” M3
Executive Vice President George Francisco said in an interview.  M&A Activity  Private equity investors have boosted spending on pipeline
mergers and acquisitions. Private-equity firms were involved in
$4.4 billion worth of deals for oil- and gas-gathering lines and
processing plants in North America last year, a 63 percent
increase from $2.7 billion in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  As spending on exploring and drilling increases, the amount
of investment needed to transport and process the hydrocarbons
does too. Barclays Plc has estimated an 8 percent rise in North
American exploration costs to $159.7 billion this year.  That level of exploration may require $20 billion to $40
billion in pipelines and processing, said EnCap Flatrock’s
Lemmons.  “We’re certainly not going to get all of it, we’re
probably not going to get half of it,” Lemmons said. “It’s
still a very, very big number.”  Price Risk  Many pipeline operators are set up as master-limited
partnerships, a structure that focuses on paying regular
dividends, making it difficult for them to invest in new
pipelines unless they can see an immediate return. Private-
equity firms can forgo an immediate return in the search for a
bigger payoff, Lemmons said.  “The private equity guys are the storm troopers willing to
get in and put their money to work as first movers,”  Bradley Olsen , an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston, said
in an interview March 19.  Larger private-equity firms may look at pipelines as a way
to invest in energy without assuming the risk associated with
oil and gas prices, said Kramer of  Bala Cynwyd , Pennsylvania-
based Hamilton Lane, which manages $21 billion in assets and
advises investors on $125 billion.  “If the deal drivers remain consistent then it could
increase and probably would,” Kramer said. “How much of an
increase is anyone’s guess, but the funds that are investing in
these areas are multibillion-dollar funds.”  The key for private-equity firms is to get into a field
early and sign contracts with producers while there are still
few pipelines, said Lemmons, whose firm has invested $1.2
billion in eight companies since 2008. Gathering pipelines are
attractive because they take less time to plan and build than
larger interstate systems.  ‘Starter Kit’  Often, the private-equity firms are building with the
intent of selling a “starter kit” of pipes, plants and
contracts with producers that a larger pipeline operator can
then expand, said Lemmons.  Drilling in shale fields -- formations that have to be
broken apart with high-pressure injections of water, sand and
chemicals -- increases the need for gathering lines, said Jim
Dillavou, a Houston-based partner at  Deloitte & Touche LLP  who
leads the firm’s energy merger & acquisitions unit.  While some companies are curtailing gas drilling as prices
reach 10-year lows, they’ll still need pipeline gathering
systems as they drill in more profitable fields that produce oil
and gas liquids, Dillavou said.  “These shale plays typically involve drilling hundreds or
thousands of wells; they all need to be connected to a
pipeline,” Dillavou said in an interview.  Sticking With Exploration  Firms unfamiliar with the pipeline business may choose to
stick to traditional investing in exploration firms, said Greg Beard, a senior partner with Apollo Global Management LLC, a
private-equity firm that led the $7.15 billion buyout of El Paso
Corp.’s oil-and-gas exploration unit.  A report released in June by the Interstate Natural Gas
Association of America Foundation Inc. sees lower levels of
spending on infrastructure. It estimated companies will need to
invest about $63 billion during the next 25 years to build
processing plants and 16,500 miles (26,500 kilometers) of
pipelines to new wells.  “There will be a time when someone commits to building a
gathering system and either the gas isn’t there or oil and gas
prices don’t support the drilling,” Beard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  