-- Prostate Cancer Therapy Too Good to Be True Explodes Health Cost
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-03-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/prostate-cancer-therapy-too-good-to-be-true-explodes-health-cost.html
Imagine a prostate cancer therapy
that has almost no side effects. Hospitals say it exists and
they’re vying to be among the first to offer it. Too bad the
treatment may not work as well as advertised and could boost
America’s already spiraling health-care costs.  The technology uses narrowly focused  proton beams  to
deliver precisely targeted blasts of radiation. The particle
beams are delivered by 500-ton machines in facilities that cost
from $100 million to $200 million, and can require a football-
field sized building to house. A typical treatment costs about
$50,000, twice as much as traditional radiation therapy though
it is usually covered by Medicare or private insurance.  For U.S. taxpayers and employers facing spiraling health-
care costs, that’s a worry.  “Proton-beam therapy is like the death star of American
medical technology; nothing so big and complicated has ever been
confronted by the system,” said Amitabh Chandra, a health
economist at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of
Government. “It’s a metaphor for all the problems we have in
American medicine.”  Yet even though the machines are breathtakingly expensive,
hospitals and for-profit clinics are in a race to build proton-
beam facilities for their prestige, perceived benefits, and
potential revenue. One machine can generate as much as $50
million in annual revenue and new facilities are sprouting up
around the country.  ‘Nuclear Arms Race’  “It’s like a nuclear arms race now, everyone wants one,”
said  Anthony Zietman , a radiation oncologist at Boston’s
 Massachusetts General Hospital , which has had a proton-beam
accelerator since 2001.  Proponents of the technology say it can zap cancerous
tumors without damage to surrounding tissue. That’s a major
benefit for the relatively small number of people who suffer
from tumors of the spine, brain and eyes, where stray radiation
may blind or paralyze, or in children who are more sensitive to
radiation.  The therapy has even wider appeal for treating prostate
cancer, a much more common disease, since existing treatment
often causes rectal bleeding as well as impotence. More than
240,000 American men were  diagnosed  with prostate cancer in 2011,
making it the nation’s most-diagnosed tumor, according to the
 American Cancer Society . Most of those men are potential
candidates for proton-beam therapy.  “The easiest group to market to in the country is a group
of men worrying about the functioning of their penis,” said
Paul Levy, former head of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
in  Boston .  Debate Over Results  The problem is that despite the push to build proton-beam
facilities and the groundswell of enthusiasm for the treatments,
it remains unclear whether the therapy does a better job of
shrinking tumors or avoiding side effects than the far less
costly traditional therapy. Clinical trials haven’t yet provided
a clear picture proving the treatment’s worth for common tumors
such as prostate cancer.  Lower rates of impotence, for one, are unlikely from the
use of proton therapy because proton and traditional treatments
deliver high doses of radiation to the nerves to the penis,
Zietman said. So whether the pricey treatments will do a better
job managing prostate cancer while also preserving sexual
function is an open question.  Deep Into Body  Proton-beam therapy and traditional X-rays are equally
effective at killing tumor cells. The debate is over side
effects. Proton-beam therapy works by shooting intense, narrow
beams into targeted areas of the body. Protons slow down as they
travel deep in the body. Doctors can manipulate the speed of the
atomic particles, allowing them to deposit most of their
radiation as they come to a stop inside a tumor.  X-rays used in conventional radiation therapy are made up
of photon beams that zip through a patient, exposing tissues
along the way to excess radiation. While modern machines use
multiple beams sculpted to intersect and concentrate high doses
on a tumor, lower doses are spread over a much larger region.  The proton technology isn’t new, but only in recent years
has it caught on.  Loma Linda University Medical Center  in Loma
Linda,  California , built the nation’s first hospital proton-beam
accelerator in 1990, but the treatment became more viable after
the American Medical Association granted proton therapy an
insurance billing code in 2000, making reimbursement easier,
said Allan Thornton, a radiation oncologist at Hampton
University’s  proton-beam center , which opened in August 2010.
“That brought proton therapy out of the closet,” he said.  Patient Numbers  So far, 35,000 Americans have gotten proton-beam treatment
and reimbursement payments from Medicare and insurance companies
amount to only a small fraction of that paid out for traditional
radiation therapy.  In 2010, the most recent year for which figures are
available, Medicare spent $41.8 million on outpatient proton-
therapy treatments, versus $1.06 billion for standard external-
beam radiation.  The amount so far reimbursed for proton-beam therapy is
small because most of the 10 existing facilities have been open
only a short while. Another 10 facilities are slated to open
within the next few years, according to Leonard Arzt,  executive
director  of the National Association for Proton Therapy based in
Silver Spring,  Maryland . Dozens more hospitals and medical
centers have expressed an interest in developing their own
proton-beam facilities.  ‘More Expensive’  Some experts are concerned that the proliferation of these
centers will put yet another heavy burden on the health-care
system while providing unclear benefits to most patients. “It
is an example of how our health-care system is set up to become
more expensive without getting necessarily better,” said Steven
Pearson, president of the  Institute for Clinical and Economic
Review , a research institute at the Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston.  Ion Beam Applications, based in Louvain-la-Neuve,  Belgium ,
is the leading proton-beam facility manufacturer with eight
installed U.S. accelerators.  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  of  Tokyo  and  Varian
Medical Systems Inc. (VAR)  of  Palo Alto , California, are among those
companies also vying for part of the U.S. market.  The  Mayo Clinic  is spending $370 million for systems at its
campuses in  Minnesota  and  Arizona . In San Diego, Scripps Health
is working with  Advanced Particle Therapy LLC , a closely held
proton-beam developer, on a $220 million facility in the San
Diego area that is scheduled to open in 2013 and treat 2,400
patients a year. In  New York , a group of five hospitals
including  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  is working on a
$250 million plan to build one of the machines adjacent to a
planned tower on the Upper East Side.  ‘Favorably Reimbursed’  The bottom line for proton centers, said Sean Tunis, chief
executive officer of the Center for Medical Technology Policy,
and a former Medicare official, is that hospitals can afford to
build them because they are “extremely favorably reimbursed”
by Medicare and many private payers.  “The finances are favorable to put in a lot of these
centers and treat a lot of prostate cancer even though there is
no evidence prostate cancer is treated better with it,” he said.  A report on proton therapy done by the  U.S. Agency for
Healthcare Research and Quality  in 2009 suggests the benefits
aren’t clear. After studying 243 published articles on the
therapy, the group said it found only a handful that compared
proton therapy to the standard treatment, and that “no trial
reported significant differences in overall or cancer-specific
survival or in total serious adverse events.”  Some evidence even suggests that proton therapy may be
worse than traditional radiation treatments.  Side Effects  A University of  North Carolina  study of prostate cancer
patients released in February found a somewhat higher rate of
bowel side effects with the new machines, and similar rates of
impotence and other side effects. While not definitive, the
finding may indicate the protons lose precision as they
penetrate the body, said lead researcher Ronald Chen, an
oncologist at the university’s Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer
Center in  Chapel Hill , North Carolina.  “Statements about superiority are just unjustified, they
are unsupportable,” said W. Robert Lee, a radiation oncologist
and prostate cancer specialist at Duke University School of
Medicine in Durham, North Carolina. “‘The bottom line is that
it hasn’t been proved to be better.”  Proton-beam proponents aren’t fazed by those who doubt the
value of the therapy.  ‘Bogus’ Criticism  “Yes, there are critics, but the best minds in the cancer
business think otherwise,” said Hampton University president
William R. Harvey. He calls the argument that proton therapy may
burden the medical system “bogus” because it doesn’t consider
the potential cost savings from avoiding side effects.  Thornton, of Hampton’s  proton-beam center , said that an as-
yet-unpublished study he did found protons will lower rates of
rectal bleeding that can occur years after radiation for
prostate cancer. “The data is pretty clear,” he said.  In the analysis of 20 previous studies, Thornton and his
colleagues found that 7 percent to 9 percent of prostate
patients who received standard radiation experienced severe
rectal effects, compared with 0.75 percent to 1.5 percent of
proton patients who suffered such side effects.  Findings from some published studies show the treatment may
reduce the rate of severe rectal side effects to 1 percent or
less from the 2 percent to 4 percent rate seen with standard
equipment, said  Robert Foote , chairman of radiation oncology at
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.  Worth the Cost?  “The question people are really struggling with is ‘is
that worth the extra cost?’” he said. The Mayo Clinic, which is
building proton systems at its Minnesota and Arizona campuses,
won’t use proton therapy for routine prostate cases where less
expensive treatments work well, Foote said.  Once built, hospitals and treatment centers tend to keep
proton-beam facilities running night and day. The University of
 Florida ’s proton therapy institute in Jacksonville, for instance,
treats patients from 6:30 a.m. to 11 p.m., five days a week,
said Stuart Klein, its executive director. It generated $45.5
million in patient care revenue in its 2009 fiscal year,
according to a tax filing.  “Radiation oncologists have gotten themselves into a
trap,” said Zietman of Massachusetts General. “They’ve built
very expensive centers, and the only way they can recoup the
costs is to treat lots of prostate cancers. A lot of men are
going to be channeled into proton therapy, not necessarily to
their advantage, at a very great cost.”  Boomerang-Shaped Building  Hampton University is betting proton-beam technology will
live up to its promise. Loans from PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. and SunTrust Banks Inc. helped cover the $225 million cost
of the machine and surrounding building. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
managed the sale of $53.9 million in tax-exempt revenue bonds.
The center in Hampton,  Virginia , may pull in $47.5 million in
annual revenue by 2014, according to Harvey, Hampton’s president.  The facility is housed about 7 miles from the university in
a giant boomerang-shaped brick building in an office park
overlooking a small lake. The glass-walled atrium facing the
lake is filled with leather chairs and flat-screen televisions.
A long hall goes to treatment rooms.  The guts of the system are hidden behind concrete walls as
much as 16 feet thick. A cyclotron, a 200-ton gadget shaped like
a giant hockey puck, uses magnets and alternating electric
fields to accelerate ionized hydrogen gas to 93,000 miles a
second, or half the speed of light.  ‘Beam Line’  The protons are then unleashed from the gas down a pipe
called a “beam line” and steered by magnets to four treatment
rooms containing three-story tall 90-ton devices called gantries.
The gantries rotate around the patient to deliver protons from
any angle.  Technicians in a control room filled with laptops and flat-
screen televisions monitor the beam, adjusting the energy and
intensity according to patient treatment plans.  Alfred Scott visited the Hampton facility 44 times for his
proton-beam therapy in 2010. When he was diagnosed with prostate
cancer in 2009, the 76-year-old Army retiree put off
conventional radiation treatment because he feared its side
effects. Then he heard about Hampton’s new proton beam, and was
one of the first patients treated there. Scott said his cancer
is gone with “no adverse effects whatsoever.”  “Everyone who gets prostate cancer should try this,” he
said, “There is no doubt in my mind.”  No Easy Answers  That’s music to the fledgling proton-beam industry. Still,
the debate, like the broader health-care controversy, is likely
to continue.  “We all agree that there is a vast majority of cases it
should not be used on,” said William Hansen, director of global
marketing for  Ion Beam Applications. (IBAB)  Yet even if protons are
only helpful in 1 in 20 cases, “we would have to be building
these things as fast as we can.”  It’s not that simple, argues Harvard’s Chandra. “Every
time we spend $15,000 to treat a patient with an unproven
technology, we effectively decide to spend $15,000 less on our
schools, our education, or on money covering the uninsured,” he
said. “That tradeoff is something we have never confronted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  