-- Prudential More Likely to Leave U.K. After FSA Email, Oriel Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-26T10:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/prudential-more-likely-to-leave-u-k-after-fsa-email-oriel-says.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  may be more likely
to quit London after showing its frustration with the Financial
Services Authority in an e-mail leaked to a British newspaper,
according to Oriel Securities Ltd.  Barry O’Dwyer, the insurer’s U.K. deputy chief executive
officer, said regulation in its home market was often driven by
“the personal prejudices of key individuals,” in an e-mail to
staff published in the  Sunday Telegraph  yesterday. Some of the
FSA’s planned rules for insurers are “ludicrous,” he wrote.  Prudential, which gets 75 percent of its revenue from Asia
and the U.S., threatened to relocate its domicile outside the
U.K. this year, saying the European Union’s solvency rules may
hurt its international businesses. Chief Executive Officer
 Tidjane Thiam  gained support from Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Mayor  Boris Johnson , who said they would lobby regulators to
change the rules.  “This does highlight the challenges that Prudential feels
it faces from being regulated, or over-regulated, by the FSA,”
 Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel with a buy
rating on the stock, wrote in a note to clients today. “These
comments would seem to suggest high-level dissatisfaction with
the U.K. and suggest this move is more likely.”  O’Dwyer sent the “light-hearted” message as part of his
weekly correspondence with employees, Prudential, Britain’s
biggest insurer by market value, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Clearly, in this case his attempt to inject humor into
his communication was misjudged,” Prudential said. “We work
constructively and positively with government ministers and
regulators on a wide range of issues to safeguard the interests
of our seven million U.K. customers.”  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman for the FSA, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  