-- Qualcomm Challenges Broadcom’s Rein in Wi-Fi Chip Market
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-03-26T16:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/qualcomm-threat-to-broadcom-seen-with-handset-to-hot-spot-tech.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ’s leadership in the
market for Wi-Fi chips is under threat as  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  uses
technology from last year’s Atheros Communications Inc. deal to
create a competing product that connects handsets to hot spots.  Qualcomm is dueling with Broadcom to get a head start in
making chips for a new type of Wi-Fi, which enables data
downloads at three times the speed of the existing standard.  Atheros, purchased for $3.1 billion last year, gives
Qualcomm an advantage as it steps up an attack on the $2.8
billion market for Wi-Fi chips, which let phones access close-
range wireless networks in homes and coffee shops. Broadcom may
have a harder time eroding Qualcomm’s lead in the types of chips
that connect handsets to cellular networks, said Stacy Rasgon,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Qualcomm’s going to have an easier time scaling that wall
than Broadcom,” Rasgon said.  Broadcom, based in  Irvine ,  California , had 28 percent of
the market for stand-alone Wi-Fi chips in 2010, the last year
for which the figures are available, according to Gartner Inc.
Atheros had a 26 percent share. Before the acquisition, San
Diego-based Qualcomm was an also-ran in Wi-Fi.  Qualcomm has a wider lead in the $9.7 billion market for
so-called baseband chips, which connect handsets to sprawling
wireless networks. Qualcomm had 38.7 percent of the market,
compared with 6.2 percent for Broadcom, according to researcher
Forward Concepts Co.  Broadcom’s more immediate priority is staving off Qualcomm
in the new, faster flavor of Wi-Fi known as 802.11ac, which is
capable of moving data at speeds as fast as 1 gigabit per
second, or three times the speed of the existing technology.  5G Wi-Fi  To stay ahead, Broadcom plans to be the first to sell chips
that work with 802.11ac, Broadcom Executive Vice President Bob Rango said.  “I don’t see how anyone could be ahead of us,” said
Rango, whose company refers to the new technology as 5G Wi-Fi.
“When we announce something, we have samples in hand or we’re
shipping it to customers.”  Qualcomm has already demonstrated a cell-phone processor
that can handle the new Wi-Fi technology, according to Craig Barratt, president of Qualcomm’s Atheros unit.  Products that include chips from either company probably
won’t hit store shelves until next year. Still, Qualcomm has a
leg up in mobile phones, compared with Broadcom’s leadership in
such devices as modems and routers, said Mark Hung, an analyst
at Gartner.  “Just based on their announcements, it seems like Broadcom
does have a lead on the router platform, and Qualcomm has a lead
in mobile,” said Mark Hung, an analyst at Gartner. “This does
represent a serious challenge for Broadcom.”  TVs to Tablets  The number of devices using Wi-Fi will triple by 2015 to
more than 3 billion, according to Gartner. That growth is being
fueled by manufacturers weaving Wi-Fi into a widening range of
electronics, including TVs, tablets and smartphones.  Broadcom dominates the market for so-called combination
chips that help devices connect with multiple technologies,
including so-called Bluetooth. It has 70 percent share of that
market, according to Gartner, and has won combination-chip
orders from such customers as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad.  If Qualcomm can build those functions into its cellular
baseband products, the chips that turn radio signals into voice
and data, it may steal orders in the biggest single segment of
the Wi-Fi market -- mobile phones, Hung said.  Many wireless devices now use both companies’ chips for
different functions. For example, the latest version of Apple’s
iPad tablet has a Qualcomm modem for connecting to cellular
networks. It also boasts a Broadcom chip that provides the
device’s Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and other radio functions.  Broadcom’s Faster Growth  The two chipmakers have profited from the surge in mobile
Internet use, racking up more than 50 percent sales gains from
2009 to 2011 while focusing on separate parts of the wireless
chip market. Though Broadcom’s revenue has risen faster, with
growth of 65 percent since 2009 to $7.4 billion last year, that
run may be threatened by Qualcomm, a competitor that has $16.3
billion in annual sales for the last calendar year and $22
billion in  cash  and investments, more than any other company in
the semiconductor industry.  Broadcom shares have gained 31 percent this year, compared
with a 22 percent increase for Qualcomm.  The Broadcom-Qualcomm clash may accelerate with the advent
of 802.11ac, which may gain widespread adoption more quickly
than past iterations. Mobile-phone service providers, which
regarded previous generations as a threat to their ability to
charge customers hefty fees for sending and receiving data, are
now throwing their weight behind it as they seek ways to offload
traffic from overburdened networks.  Wireless Carrier ‘Lifeline’  “Wi-Fi has gone from being an apparent threat to the
services providers into a lifeline,” said Barratt.  The new Wi-Fi will shake up home networking for consumers,
Broadcom said. For the first time, in-house wireless networks
will be capable of streaming the highest quality video files to
multiple devices simultaneously. A person watching  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
movies in the living room won’t be forced to sit through a
halting stream, for instance, while someone else is using
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Skype two rooms over.  As well as being able to take advantage of a new range of
frequencies, the standard will use new innovations, including
so-called beamforming. This technology lets routers pinpoint the
location of a connected computer or tablet, and concentrate the
Wi-Fi signal in that direction only, eliminating the waste of
the current broadcast method.  Broadcom won’t cede share without a fight, Rango said.  “We’re clearly the leader in this right now,” he said.
“This market will be big for Broadcom, and we’ll continue to be
No. 1.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  