-- R.J. Reynolds Loses Bid to Fight Smoker’s Verdict in High Court
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-26T14:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/r-j-reynolds-loses-bid-to-fight-smoker-s-verdict-in-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court won’t review
a $28.3 million wrongful death verdict against  R.J. Reynolds 
Tobacco Co., declining to consider legal questions that may
affect thousands of similar cases by smokers and their families.  The court today left intact the verdict in a case filed in
the wake of a 2006  Florida  Supreme Court decision that lets
plaintiffs in cigarette-liability suits use factual findings by
a jury in an earlier case to prove their claims. Reynolds,
Altria Group Inc. and other U.S. cigarette makers claim Florida
trial judges are applying the findings too broadly, depriving
them of their right to defend themselves in court.  “The Florida state courts are engaged in serial due-
process violations that threaten the defendants with literally
billions of dollars of liability,” Reynolds said in a brief
seeking review by the U.S.  Supreme Court .  In its 2006 ruling, Florida’s highest court decertified a
statewide class action and threw out a $145 billion punitive
damage verdict against the industry. At the same time, the court
endorsed many jury findings in the case, including that the
companies were negligent, conspired to hide information about
the dangers of smoking and sold defective products.  The ruling is known as the Engle decision, after  Howard Engle , the lead plaintiff in the case filed in 1994 on behalf of
Florida smokers addicted to nicotine who developed cancer,  heart
disease  and other illnesses. Engle, a Florida pediatrician, died
in 2009.  Pensacola Jury  Reynolds, a unit of Winston Salem, North Carolina-based
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , is the second-biggest U.S. tobacco
company. It asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review a case in
which a Pensacola jury in 2009 awarded $3.3 million in
compensatory damages and $25 million in punitive damages to
Mathilde Martin, whose husband, Benny, died of  lung cancer  at
age 66 after smoking Camel and Lucky Strike cigarettes for most
of his life. An intermediate Florida appeals court upheld the
verdict and the state Supreme Court declined to hear the case.  “Mrs. Martin’s independent evidence proved her husband
died as a result of addiction to RJR’s Lucky Strikes and Camels,
her husband’s reliance on RJR’s and its co-conspirators’
extensive 50-year misinformation campaign, and RJR’s liability
for punitive damages,” her lawyers said in a brief opposing
Supreme Court review of the case.  About 8,000 post-Engle cases claiming death and injury from
smoking are pending against Reynolds,  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and
other U.S. cigarette makers in Florida state and federal courts.  State Court Trials  As of last month, plaintiffs, aided by the Engle jury
findings, had won 40 of 58 verdicts in state court trials,
according to Edward L. Sweda Jr., senior attorney for the
Tobacco Products Liability Project, which tracks the suits.
Defendants have won the first two post-Engle trials in federal
court after the cases were delayed by pretrial appeals.  Defendants have lost $375 million in post-Engle judgments,
Reynolds said in its brief. They face 75 more trials this year,
the company said.  Several groups, including the  Washington Legal Foundation 
and the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , filed briefs supporting
Reynolds’s request for review of the Martin case by the U.S.
Supreme Court.  Altria, the Richmond, Virginia-based maker of Marlboro
cigarettes, is the biggest U.S. tobacco company.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. Martin, 11-741,
U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  