-- Rand Gains on German Confidence, Europe Bailout Speculation
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-26T12:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/rand-gains-on-german-confidence-europe-bailout-speculation.html
The rand advanced, reversing an
earlier decline, after German business confidence unexpectedly
rose and on speculation the European Union will increase the
size of its bailout fund, boosting demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 0.4 percent and
traded 0.3 percent stronger at 7.6594 as of 1:13 p.m. in
Johannesburg, having been down as much as 0.4 percent. The yield
on the nation’s 77 billion rand of 13.5 percent bonds due 2015
fell for a fourth day, dropping three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 6.797 percent.  European finance ministers will meet this week to discuss
raising a 500 billion-euro ($664 billion) ceiling on the
region’s financial firewall. German business confidence
unexpectedly rose to an eight-month high in March, data showed,
while the National Association of Realtors may say today more
Americans signed contracts to buy previously owned homes last
month.  “The German IFO was better than expected; it just seems
pretty much a typical risk-on move,”  John Cairns , a currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said by
phone. “Global equities are doing well.”  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.6 percent to 267.13 at
12:08 p.m. in  London . The gauge has advanced 8.1 percent so far
this quarter, on track for the best quarterly advance since
September 2009, boosted by the  European Central Bank ’s 1
trillion euro ($1.3 trillion) loan to the region’s lenders.  The euro region is South  Africa ’s biggest trading partner,
buying 22 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data.  Technical Levels  Earlier, the rand weakened after breaking through 7.68 last
week, which represented a 38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement
level, allowing for a potential reversal back to approaching
7.86, according to Johannesburg-based Tradition Analytics.  Fibonacci analysis uses ratios, which are based on the
sequence identified by an Italian mathematician in the 13th
century, to predict support and resistance levels for prices.
Support is where buy orders may be clustered, while resistance
is where there may be sell orders.  “Whilst strong resistance has already been encountered
towards 7.7500, which has now held twice in the past two trading
sessions, there is no clear reason for why one would want to
sell dollars for rand, especially as geo-political tensions over
 Iran  are still bubbling over,”  George Glynos , an economist at
Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments
today.  Inflation Rate  The rand declined 1.6 percent last week, the most since the
period ended Feb. 10, after a report showed inflation in
Africa’s biggest economy slowed in February for the first time
in a year, prompting traders to pare bets the central bank will
raise interest rates this year. The central bank is expected to
keep interest rates unchanged at 5.5 percent on Mar. 29,
according to 12 economists polled by Bloomberg.  The consumer inflation rate fell to 6.1 percent from 6.3
percent in January, the first decline in a year, Statistics
South Africa said on its website on March 22. The median
estimate of 14 economists was 6.4 percent.  “While we, along with most of the market, expect the repo
rate to remain unchanged this week, the post-meeting statement
and media engagement should yield some insight into the bank’s
view on inflation,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “We maintain our long-held view that the MPC will not
raise rates this year.”  Three-month forward-rate agreements starting in December
shed 5 basis points to 5.85 percent. The contracts give an
indication of investors’ expectations of  interest rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  