-- Treasuries Fall as Bernanke Comments Fuel Inflation Bets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-26T21:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/treasuries-fall-as-report-shows-german-confidence-rises.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields rose
the most in a week as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said continued accommodative policy will be needed to reduce
unemployment further, boosting bets inflation will accelerate.  U.S. government notes were little changed before the
Treasury auctions $35 billion of two-year securities tomorrow,
the same amount of five-year debt on the following day and $29
billion of seven-year notes on March 29. The number of Americans
signing contracts to buy previously owned homes held near an
almost two-year high.  “One could make the argument that the chairman’s remarks
this morning could be construed as inflationary,”  Richard Bryant , senior vice president in fixed income at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed, said in a telephone interview. “The
chairman’s comments this morning make it clear he’s going to
hold his ground.”  Yields on  30-year bonds  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.34 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yields gained as
much as seven basis points, the biggest intraday advance since
March 19. The 3.125 percent securities due in February 2042 fell
20/32, or $6.25 per $1,000 face amount, to 95 30/32.  The long-bond yields reached above their 200-day moving
 average  of 3.33 percent, after declining below it on March 23
and exceeding it on March 14. Rising above or falling below a
moving average usually indicates a move in that direction may
continue.  Ten-Year Yields  Yields on 10-year notes rose two basis points to 2.25
percent. They have increased 28 basis points in March, the most
since December 2010.  Volatility eased for a fourth day. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures Treasury price swings based
on options, fell to 85.6. It reached 93.3 on March 20, the
highest level this year. The volume of Treasury trades fell to
$159 billion, the lowest since Jan. 9, according to London-based
 ICAP Plc (ICPTVOL) , the biggest broker between banks.  “Further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate 
will likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and
demand from consumers and businesses, a process that can be
supported by continued accommodative policies,” Bernanke said
in a speech in Arlington, Virginia.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds
of quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to spur
growth. It reiterated on March 13 a pledge to keep  interest
rates  at virtually zero through at least late 2014.  Fed Speakers  “If the chairman keeps on being pretty dovish, you have to
increase the possibility of additional easing action,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in New York at the primary
dealer Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in a telephone
interview. “They need to make sure that they don’t just pull
the carpet out from underneath the recovery.”  Seven central-bank officials are scheduled to make remarks
tomorrow, including New York Fed President  William Dudley ,
Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Governor  Elizabeth Duke .  “Everyone’s trying to read tea leaves,” said Russ Certo,
managing director of rates trading at Gleacher & Co. in New
York. “They’re anticipating at this juncture that you could get
friendlier commentary out of the Fed going forward.”  U.S. government securities tumbled earlier this month,
pushing 10-year yields to almost  five-month highs , after the Fed
upgraded its economic outlook on March 13, reducing bets it will
buy more debt under quantitative easing. Bonds rose last week as
data showing slower growth in  China  and Europe and an uneven
recovery in U.S. housing rekindled Treasuries’ refuge appeal.  Sluggish Growth  The Treasuries market shows the economy is unlikely to
maintain its strength without help from the U.S. central bank.
Everything from derivatives to mortgage securities indicates
that investors don’t expect a repeat of the bear markets seen in
1994 and 2009, two of the worst years ever for bonds.  Declining unemployment, rising consumer confidence and
strength in manufacturing may give way to more sluggish growth
as George W. Bush-era tax breaks end and $1 trillion of
mandatory federal budget cuts kick in. The Fed’s preferred
measure of gauging the outlook for inflation shows consumer
prices will rise at half the pace of 2008, when it accelerated
to 5.6 percent.  The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate, which
projects the pace of consumer price increases starting in 2017,
ended last week at 2.73 percent. While the measure, which the
Fed prefers to look at in determining inflation expectations and
monetary policy, is up from this year’s low of 2.37 percent on
March 5, it’s in line with the average over the past decade.  Yield Curve  The yield gap between  10- and 30-year  Treasuries, known as
the yield curve, also suggests less concern about rising
inflation. It has fallen to 109 basis points, compared with a
high this year of 120 basis points. The gap typically widens
when traders are concerned inflation will accelerate because
investors demand more compensation to lower long-term bonds.  Treasuries have lost 1.4 percent this year, dropping the
most in three months since the fourth quarter of 2010, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Five-year notes may rise, pushing yields to 0.96 percent if
they fall lower than 1.06 percent, the neckline needed to form a
head-and-shoulders pattern, according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  The potential for a bullish shift in technical patterns is
also supported by the 14-day relative-strength index, said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . The index for five-year notes advanced to 77.18 on
March 20, with levels above 70 or below 30 indicating the price
of a security may be poised to reverse direction.  Five-year yields declined less than one basis point today
to 1.08 percent.  Sovereign Debt  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney recommended investors reduce
their holdings of developed-market sovereign debt, stocks, high-
yield bonds, equities and commodities to less than that of their
benchmark index, or “underweight” the securities, amid “the
lack of policy response to the recession in  Europe  and subpar
U.S. growth,” the unit of New York-based Morgan Stanley said in
a report.  The Fed sold $8.6 billion today of Treasuries due from
February 2013 to July 2013 as part of its program to replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its holdings with longer-term
Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs further.  Treasuries remained lower today as an index of the number
of Americans signing contracts to buy  previously owned homes 
held in February slipped 0.5 percent to 96.5 after a 2 percent
increase the prior month, the National Association of Realtors
said today in  Washington . January’s reading of 97 was the
highest since April 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  