-- Treasury Said to Want Ally Sale With IPO Seen Unlikely
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-26T18:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/treasury-said-to-want-ally-sale-with-ipo-seen-unlikely.html
The U.S. Treasury Department, which
put $17.2 billion into a bailout of Ally Financial Inc., would
prefer a breakup and sale of the lender because an initial
public offering may not succeed, according to people familiar
with the matter.  Treasury officials are telling Ally executives, directors
and financial advisers that an IPO is unlikely soon because of
the company’s high cost of capital relative to other banks, the
potential bankruptcy of a mortgage unit, and its recent
performance in Federal Reserve stress tests, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  The Treasury instead is pushing for Ally to split into at
least two pieces, the people said. One part would be Ally’s
 auto-finance unit , one of the largest in the U.S., and the other
would be its online bank, which had almost $28 billion in retail
deposits at year-end. Investor Elliott Management Corp. also
recommends a sale, according to a letter sent to the board by
Elliott and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Treasury has a lot of influence here,” said Adam Steer,
an analyst at Brookfield Investment Management Inc., whose
parent Brookfield Asset Management Inc. oversees about $150
billion in assets. “If you are going to repay the government as
soon as possible and you can’t IPO it, how else would you pay
them? A sale certainly makes sense.”  U.S. Stake  Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 65, and its
board have resisted the Treasury’s call for a split, the people
said, adding that the department is reluctant to press Carpenter
too hard for a sale out of concern about appearing as a heavy-
handed owner. The Treasury owns 74 percent of Ally, the Detroit-
based former finance arm of General Motors Corp.  “We’re supportive of management and continue to work
closely with them,” the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.
 Matt Anderson , a department spokesman, declined to comment on
Treasury’s view of the IPO or the success of any potential sale.  “Every action the company has taken and contemplated has
been with the objective to fulfill our mission to support the
auto recovery and fully repay the taxpayer’s investment,”  Gina Proia , an Ally spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This is what will guide our decisions going forward.”  While no official Ally sales process has begun, the
Treasury Department’s views have been shared with Ally senior
executives, directors and a number of the financial and legal
advisers brought on to help pursue an IPO, the people said.  ResCap’s Fate  The Fed’s stress tests released March 13 found Ally had
some of the smallest capital cushions against losses among 19 of
the largest U.S. lenders.  Ally probably will put the Residential Capital mortgage
unit into bankruptcy in the next few weeks and sell some assets
in a court-supervised sale, people familiar with the matter said
last month. The firm also may lose its preferred lender status
with automaker Chrysler Group LLC, which is seeking  banks like
Wells Fargo & Co. and Santander Holdings USA Inc. to potentially
replace Ally, people with knowledge of the matter said last
month.  Credit-default swaps on Minneapolis-based ResCap fell 4
percentage points to 67 percent upfront at 12:16 p.m. in  New
York  today, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. Investors use credit-default swaps
to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness.  GM as Buyer  The Treasury has suggested Ally consider selling its
captive-finance business to GM, said two of these people, with
the rest sold to a traditional bank. GM and other companies
aren’t interested in buying any of Ally until it resolves
ResCap’s status, said another person familiar with the matter.  Jim Cain , a spokesman for Detroit-based GM, declined to
comment.  The U.S. determined that Ally, formerly known as GMAC, was
crucial to the survival of the  auto industry  during the
financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and provided multiple bailouts
in return for a 74 percent stake.  Last year, when Ally was close to a public offering, it
considered a joint bid from GM and Toronto-Dominion Bank,
 Canada ’s second-largest lender, until those discussions fizzled,
a person familiar with the matter said last month.  Ally has financed about 6.7 million GM or Chrysler vehicles
for dealers since 2009 and another 2.4 million for consumers,
Proia said. Ally has so far paid $5.4 billion to the Treasury.  Ally Executives Depart  Many of the bankers Ally brought on to prepare for an IPO
have been told an offering is unlikely, said two people familiar
with the matter. Some of Ally’s top people working on the IPO
have said they’ll leave.  Corey Pinkston, head of corporate debt and equity for Ally
since January 2009, has announced his intentions to depart,
Proia said in a separate telephone interview. Laura Hall, who
works with Pinkston, will also be leaving.  Both executives still work at the company and have no
specific departure date, Proia said.  Jeff Brown , the senior
executive vice president in charge of finance and corporate
planning, will add Pinkston’s duties to his current role.  Elliott Management, which owns 2.3 percent of Ally, is also
pressing Carpenter, the board and their advisers to explore a
sale. Its letter, and an accompanying plan, also urged Carpenter
not to put ResCap into bankruptcy, saying the process will mean
“radical value destruction,” drag out for 12 to 18 months, and
trigger billions of dollars in so-called put-back claims, where
holders of mortgage-backed securities issued by ResCap try to
force the company to buy back soured loans backing the bonds.  Elliott’s Alternative  The litigation would push up Ally’s cost of funding and
hurt its competitive position, the letter said.  The plan urges Carpenter to sell Ally Bank to another
lender and says it could fetch $13.1 billion to $16.3 billion.
The origination and loan portfolio, which provides credit and
insurance to more than 18,000 car dealers, could then be sold
for $10 billion to $12.5 billion, according to the document.  A transaction “in which ResCap is restructured out of
court and Ally is sold to a strategic financial institution is
the best option,” the letter said. “This will create
significant value for all constituents at a dramatically lower
all-in cost with considerably less uncertainty and execution
risk.”  ResCap Debt  The plan suggests Ally should instead exchange ResCap debt
for Ally debt and pay off the smaller number of put-back claims
through monthly  cash flow . A number of the put-back claims would
go away in 2013 or 2014 due to a statute of limitations on such
claims, according to the plan.  Carpenter, the Ally board and his advisers haven’t
responded to the proposal from Elliott, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  “The fact remains that addressing the risks in the
mortgage business is the key to successfully pursuing any and
all future strategies,” Proia said in the e-mailed statement.
She declined to comment on whether the company has seen the
plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  