-- U.S. Regulators to Overhaul Supervision of Leveraged Loans
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-03-26T19:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/regulators-in-u-s-plan-to-overhaul-rules-on-leveraged-loans.html
The three top U.S. banking
regulators will issue tougher guidelines for high-risk, high-
yield loans, asking today for public comment on the proposed
rules.  “While there was a pull-back in leveraged lending during
the crisis, volumes have since increased, while prudent
underwriting practices have deteriorated,” the  Federal Reserve ,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency said in a release in Washington.  Regulatory agencies have boosted their surveillance of
financial-market and bank-lending trends to avert the emergence
of asset bubbles that may lead to financial turmoil. While
guidance isn’t enforceable, it details acceptable standards and
provides examiners in routine bank exams with a rationale for
targeting leveraged loans for tougher oversight.  Debt agreements “have frequently included features that
provide relatively limited lender protection, including the
absence of meaningful maintenance covenants,” the  agencies
said .  About $47.9 billion in dollar-denominated leveraged loans
were arranged last year without financial maintenance covenants,
an increase from $7.64 billion in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News. The covenants are provisions in a
credit agreement that require the company to meet certain
financial targets, such as interest-coverage ratios.  ‘More Specific’  “They’ve decided they need to be much more specific about
what banks need to do when they get into this kind of lending
because of the riskiness regulators see,” said Brad Sabel, a
partner at Shearman & Sterling LLP in  New York .  “The real guts of this is the granular stuff on reporting
and internal controls and appraisals and what they expect to see
if you get significantly involved in this business,” said
Sabel, a former attorney for the New York Fed.  The KBW Bank Index -- which tracks shares of 24 U.S.
companies, including Bank of America Corp. and Capital One
Financial Corp. -- rose 1.2 percent to 50.11 at 2:48 p.m. in New
York.  “Many institutions have found themselves holding large
pipelines of higher-risk commitments at a time when buyer demand
for risky assets diminished significantly,” the agencies said.  High-yield, high-risk loans, or “leveraged loans,” are
used for everything from mergers and acquisitions and buyouts to
recapitalizations. The debt is ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Pension Funds  Volumes jumped to $373.1 billion last year, a 59 percent
increase from 2010 and the most since record sales of $535.2
billion in 2007, according to S&P’s Capital IQ Leveraged
Commentary and Data. Buyers of the loans include other banks,
structured credit funds,  hedge funds  and state pension funds.  The agencies said they want to focus examiners and banks on
five areas, including better oversight by boards. They want
banks to improve  information systems  and better control the
risks of loan distribution and the circumstances of a disrupted
market.  The regulators plan to require improved risk management of
leveraged loans, including requiring management to identify an
institution’s risk appetite for leveraged financing and
quarterly reporting by senior management to the board of
directors.  Today’s release updates guidance from April 2001, in which
regulators warned of “undue concentrations” and the use of
“unrealistic assumptions to determine enterprise value.”  Manage Risk  The 2001 guidance highlighted the need for “comprehensive
credit analysis processes, frequent monitoring and detailed
portfolio reports to better understand and manage the inherent
risk in these leveraged finance portfolios.”  In February 2008, the OCC also issued a comptroller’s
handbook on leveraged lending, which explained the market and
outlined risks such as “airballs,” or deals that are under-
collateralized.  Regulators have seen “tremendous growth” in the volume of
leveraged credit, participation of non-regulated investors,
limited lender protection in debt agreements and “aggressive”
capital structures and repayment prospects, their statement said
today.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in a June speech in  Tokyo 
highlighted risks in the leveraged-loan market in a speech on
potential financial imbalances. She noted narrowing spreads and
“deals that do not provide investors with the traditional
protection of maintenance covenants.”  ‘Watch Conditions’  The Fed will “continue to watch conditions in the
leveraged-loan market closely in the coming months, and we will
speak out forcefully if we perceive pressures continuing to
build,” she said.  The Fed’s low-rate policy has helped drive more cash into
high-yield assets.  The U.S. central bank  has held the benchmark
lending rate between zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008
and is pushing down long-term rates by extending the duration of
its $2.6-trillion securities portfolio.  The regulators said the “vast majority” of community
banks shouldn’t be affected because they have little exposure to
leveraged loans. Comments on the proposal must be submitted by
June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at +1-
   chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 