-- Road-Work Halt Days Away as Congress Argues Funding Bill
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-26T17:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/road-work-halt-days-away-as-congress-argues-funding-bill.html
Congress’s rhetoric ahead of the
March 31 expiration of a law funding U.S. highway and transit
projects resembles the dueling that led to last July’s impasse
shutting down the  Federal Aviation Administration  for two weeks.  About 4,000 government workers were furloughed. The agency
lost $468 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, when
airlines for 16 days pocketed a ticket tax that would have been
used for airport construction.  The consequences of a highway-program shutdown would start
with construction workers being laid off after states stop
getting U.S. reimbursements to pay them, said Pete Rahn, leader
of HNTB Holdings Ltd.’s transportation practice in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri . As many as 1.87 million jobs may be at risk, according
to a Senate fact sheet citing Transportation Department job-
calculation models. The U.S. government couldn’t collect as much
as $93 million a day in gasoline taxes, he said.  “This is by an order of magnitude bigger than the FAA
bill,” said Joshua Schank, president and chief executive
officer of the  Eno Center for Transportation  in Washington. “If
it lasts any more than a few weeks, there would be serious
damage.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, last
week urged the House to take up the bill his chamber passed
March 14. He wouldn’t discuss what would be the ninth extension
of highway legislation that expired in 2009.  Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican
rounding up votes on the other side of the Capitol, said that
stance may change by March 30.  Vote Scheduled  The House will vote on a 90-day extension today after 6:30
p.m. in Washington, according to the chamber’s daily schedule.
The bill will be taken up under rules requiring a two-thirds
majority to pass, meaning the 242 Republicans will need about 48
Democrats to advance the legislation.  Representative Nick Rahall, the  House Transportation  and
Infrastructure Committee’s senior Democrat, urged a “no” vote
in an e-mailed statement. House leaders should schedule a vote
on the Senate bill, he said.  “Allowing Republicans another 12 weeks would do nothing
but feed their dangerous addiction to serial extensions and
damaging delays, which are causing uncertainty and chaos at the
start of the construction season,” said Rahall, of  West
Virginia .  Insolvency Potential  Congress’s struggles to agree on a long-term bill have
drawn out so long that the  Highway Trust Fund , which pays for
road and mass transit construction, is almost insolvent. Its
highway account may be unable to meet its obligations as soon as
October, the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials said Jan. 31 in a report analyzing
 Congressional Budget Office  data.  The fund’s finances have declined as cars have become more
efficient and Americans drive less because of higher gasoline
prices, according to the U.S. Transportation Department.  If a shutdown forces gas-tax collections to stop, “these
funds would be gone forever,” Rahn said. “There would be no
way to make it up.”  The Senate’s two-year, $109 billion transportation plan
passed March 14 includes about $14 billion from other accounts
and general taxpayer money to shore up the trust fund. The trust
fund collected $36.9 billion from all sources in 2011, according
to the CBO.  When House leaders tried to bring a different bill to the
floor last month, majority Republicans were so divided over how
to pay for projects and whether mass transit should keep getting
gasoline-tax money that it didn’t progress to a vote.  Jobs at Stake  House Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman  John Mica ,
a Florida Republican, introduced a bill March 22 to extend
current programs through June 30.  As with the FAA bill, a lapse in the government’s authority
to collect gasoline taxes won’t necessarily lead to lower fuel
prices for consumers, Schank said.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a  California  Democrat, held several
news conferences last week calling for a vote on the approved
bill she sponsored. Among the jobs at stake if highway funding
lapses are 177,500 highway and transit positions in California,
120,300 in  Texas  and 113,300 in  New York , according to fact
sheet prepared by Senate Democrats.  The Senate bill may create another 1 million jobs by
expanding private-sector financing for projects, according to
the fact sheet.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, backed off
a pledge to act on the Senate bill if House members wouldn’t
back Mica’s five-year, $260 billion plan.  House Republicans  want
to bolster the Highway  Trust Fund  with revenue from opening up
more federal land to oil and gas production, Boehner told
reporters March 22.  ‘Path to Bankruptcy’  “The problem with the Senate bill is it doesn’t address
the issue of rising gas prices and energy,” Boehner said. “We
believe if we are going to reauthorize the highway bill,
American energy production ought to be a critical part of
this.”  Boxer, chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works,
called a 90-day extension “a path to bankruptcy.” She wouldn’t
say whether senators would support that plan.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat,
indicated that Democrats were ready for a fight.  “We want all members of the House to go on record -- do
they want to create jobs or do they want to destroy jobs?”
Pelosi told reporters. “Republicans in the House have painted
themselves into an extreme position.”  Union Pressure  The House plan would consolidate 130 U.S. highway programs
into six, Mica said March 22 in remarks to the Ripon Society, a
Republican policy group in  Washington . It will speed up the
process of approving construction projects and improve
transportation options that will take traffic off the highways,
he said.  “I don’t want to pass just a highway bill,” Mica said.
The Senate, he said, “passed just a highway bill and that’s the
wrong thing to do.”  Labor unions seeking to protect their members are trying to
pressure House Republicans. After running radio ads in Boehner’s
suburban Cincinnati district earlier in the month, the Laborers’
International Union of  North America  drove a 15-foot flatbed
truck with a  giant roll of duct tape  to the city’s Brent Spence
Bridge over the  Ohio River .  Obsolete Bridges  The prop symbolized Congress’s short-term approach to
fixing Ohio’s 6,400 structurally deficient or functionally
obsolete bridges, the union, which represents 500,000
construction workers, said in a March 21 statement.  Short-term extensions don’t allow the kind of planning
required for cities to plan construction projects, and Fresno,
California, already has a backlog of projects that can’t be put
out for bid because of the uncertainty, said Mayor Ashley Swearengin, a Republican.  “Any short-term extension would doom our chances of
getting a long-term bill this year,” Swearengin told reporters
March 23 on a U.S. Conference of Mayors conference call.  The Senate bill is S. 1813 and the House bills are H.R. 7
and H.R. 4239.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  