-- Roche Extends Illumina Bid Again Before Meeting Vote
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-03-26T14:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/roche-extends-illumina-bid-again-before-annual-meeting-vote-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  extended its $5.7
billion hostile takeover offer for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  for a second
time, setting up a showdown next month at the annual meeting of
the U.S. maker of gene-mapping tools.  Shareholders will have until 6 p.m. New York time on April
20 to tender their stock at $44.50 a share, Basel, Switzerland-
based Roche said in a statement today. The offer had been set to
expire at 6 p.m. New York time March 23. Illumina shares are
trading 13 percent above the bid, indicating stockholders expect
a higher price.  Investors at Illumina’s April 18 annual meeting will decide
whether to oust four directors and replace them with Roche
nominees, which would clear the way for talks between the two
sides. Rejection of Roche’s choices wouldn’t necessarily mean
the end of the bid. San Diego-based Illumina today dismissed the
offer as “grossly inadequate” and refused to negotiate, and
urged shareholders to re-elect board members.  “This could drag on for a long time,” Birgit Kulhoff, a
Zurich-based  fund manager  at Rahn & Bodmer Co. “Maybe at some
point in time Roche will increase the offer slightly, but
definitely in my view not above $50, and even that is not
guaranteed.”  Illumina fell less than a percent to $50.42 at 9:54 a.m.  The company sent a letter to shareholders today saying
Roche’s offer wasn’t in the shareholders’ interests.  Arbitragers’ Role  Shareholders tendered about 144,310 Illumina shares by the
March 23 deadline, Roche said. That’s equal to about 0.1 percent
of Illumina’s stock outstanding.  “Illumina’s board of directors continues to believe that
Roche’s offer is grossly inadequate, and that Illumina is
positioned to create far more value than Roche has offered,”
Illumina said in a statement today. “Our stockholders clearly
agree.”  Fewer than 10 percent of  Illumina’s shares  are held by
arbitragers, traders who speculate on mergers and acquisitions,
Daniel Brennan, a New York-based analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
wrote in a March 19 report. Illumina, in announcing the date for
the annual meeting last week, said only shareholders who owned
the stock as of March 8 would be allowed to vote. Thus, if Roche
raises the bid before the meeting, and attracts more arbitragers
to buy the shares, those holders won’t be able to vote at the
meeting, he said.  Roche Nominees  Roche announced its hostile bid Jan. 25, going directly to
shareholders after Illumina rebuffed its approaches.  Roche Chairman Franz Humer and Chief Executive Officer
Severin Schwan have shown patience in winning over acquisition
targets. They waited seven months to raise their 2007 hostile
bid for  Ventana Medical Systems Inc. (VMSI) , and seven and a half
months before they increased a 2008 offer for the 44 percent of
Genentech Inc. that Roche didn’t already own.  Illumina would add to Roche’s offering of  diagnostic
products  and potentially allow the company, the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, to better target medicines to individual
patients. The company will introduce a machine capable of
scanning a person’s complete DNA within a day by the end of this
year, the company said Jan. 10.  Besides soliciting shares directly from stockholders, Roche
nominated six candidates for election to Illumina’s board at the
annual meeting. The nominees, if chosen, would replace the four
directors Illumina has nominated for re-election, and would
expand the board by two, giving Roche a majority.  ‘Other Opportunities’  Roche has said that it will take a decade for Illumina’s
gene-sequencing business to “reach the clinic in a meaningful
way,” Kulhoff said, citing a meeting with Chief Financial
Officer Alan Hippe. “If they do not get Illumina, they still
have enough time to look at other opportunities or even develop
something themselves.”  Illumina recommended Feb. 8 that shareholders reject the
initial offer, which Chairman William Rastetter and Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said was “blatantly
opportunistic.” At the time of the initial offer, Illumina’s
stock had fallen 46 percent in the previous 12 months.  The shares plunged 32 percent on Oct. 7 after the company
said there had been an “unprecedented slowdown” in purchasing
by customers. Illumina sells sequencing equipment to research
laboratories, which have cut spending because they’re not sure
of the level of government funding they’ll receive.  Roche’s bid fails to recognize the growth potential from
the company’s 60 percent share of the next-generation genetic
sequencing market, Illumina said.  Roche rose less than 1 percent to 158 Swiss francs in
Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  