-- Romney Aide Gaffe Shows Crack in Message Discipline Plans
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-26T15:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/romney-aide-gaffe-shows-crack-in-message-discipline-plans.html
The words “Etch A Sketch” had
barely passed Mitt Romney aide  Eric Fehrnstrom ’s lips when they
began echoing through the political world through television
talk shows, twitter, e-mail, and YouTube.  “Mitt Romney’s top adviser confirmed today that Romney has
no core and will say anything to get elected,” said a March 21
e-mail sent to President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign’s
“ talkers@barackobama.com ” e-mail list.  Fehrnstrom’s suggestion in a CNN interview that campaign
policy positions taken during the Republican presidential
primary can be wiped away in a general election like a drawing
on a child’s toy was striking because his team holds twice daily
calls to script its public talking points and avoid such an
unforced error.  “In this cycle with Twitter, Facebook and a 24-hour news
cycle our goal is to arm every surrogate and grassroots activist
with the key facts and messages that they need,” said Sean Spicer, the Republican National Committee communications
director, who helps coordinate his committee’s efforts. “We’re
not trying to create parrots. We’re trying to create well-
informed activists and surrogates.”  Old as Moses  Synchronizing messages between the candidate, campaign and
outside allies isn’t new to politics. “Moses had 10 talking
points he brought down from Sinai,” said  Paul Begala , a former
Bill Clinton adviser and now a CNN commentator, who doesn’t
participate in the Obama campaign message coordinating calls.
“Trying to get folks to sing from the same hymnal is even older
than hymnals themselves.”  Still, the velocity at which information circulates today
can magnify a mistake, and both parties have installed systems
for imposing rhetorical discipline and circulating scripted
remarks to staff and outside allies who regularly appear on the
talk-show circuit.  Twice a day, Romney’s aides conduct a conference call with
surrogates and officials who have endorsed the former
Massachusetts governor to discuss communication strategy,
according to a person close to the campaign who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.  The campaign calls outside allies several times a week to
suggest lines of attack. Last week that included highlighting
rising gas prices, which they say is driving suburban voters
away from Obama and raising doubts about the president’s
leadership on the economy, the person said.  “We are constantly in communication with supporters and
pundits alike,” said Andrea Saul, Romney’s spokeswoman, who
declined to go into further detail.  ‘Scary and Revealing’  Rick Santorum ’s campaign staff holds a conference call with
surrogates, including Penny Nance of Concerned Women for
America, at least three times a week, according to  Hogan Gidley ,
communications director for the former Pennsylvania senator’s
presidential campaign.  Gidley said the campaign held two impromptu calls on March
22, the day after Fehrnstrom’s gaffe. “When a scary and
revealing issue like Etch A Sketch comes to the forefront, we
tend to jump on calls more than three times a week,” he said.
The Santorum campaign employs a Washington-based “surrogate
coordinator” who organizes the calls, Gidley said.  The prolonged primary fight gives Obama an edge in the
message war, said Jennifer Donahue, a policy fellow at the
Eisenhower Institute at Gettysburg College in  Pennsylvania ,
because “you get to start the general election early while your
competition is still snarling with primary opponents.”  RNC Counters Obama  While the primary continues, the RNC has been sending out a
“pundit prep” cheat sheet every Friday to more than a thousand
surrogates who are regular television talk show guests, press
secretaries and state party leaders. It also holds a half-hour
conference call with as many as 200 people on the first Tuesday
of every month. The call is led by a Republican polling expert
and Ari Fleischer, a former spokesman for President  George W. Bush ’s White House, said Kirsten Kukowski, an RNC spokeswoman.  The March 9 two-page “Pundit Prep” from the RNC listed
five bullet points, including dismissing a 17-minute Obama
campaign biography narrated by  Tom Hanks  and directed by Davis Guggenheim, an Oscar winner, as “Obamawood” and a page of
economic statistics such as the  national deficit  in March
compared with when Obama took office.  Ever since paper and the telephone were invented, “people
have coordinated, and in politics coordination is even more
important than many other endeavors,” said Fleischer. Once the
nominee is chosen, his campaign will take over the coordination.  “This is where campaigns indeed do go through a
transformation from a primary campaign to the general, and
structurally speaking lots of things change,” he said.  Pundit Preparation  After months of coordinating with the  Democratic National
Committee , the Obama re-election campaign took over the pundit-
preparation program last week. Every Wednesday between now and
Nov. 6, the campaign will take Democratic television talk show
regulars, most of whom are unaffiliated with the campaign,
through their talking points, according to two people on the
call.  Stephanie Cutter , the campaign’s deputy manager, and  Ben LaBolt , the campaign spokesman, led the March 21 call, according
to three people invited to the calls. LaBolt and Melanie Roussell, a Democratic National Committee spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Talking Points  In their March 21 “talking points,” the campaign
instructed its allies to tie House Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan ’s budget proposal to Romney’s plan. The missive reads:
“Key Point: The Ryan budget plan is the same as  Mitt Romney ’s:
bad for the middle class.” The March 22 memo repeated the
theme, saying: “Both Romney’s and Ryan’s budget plans turn
Medicare into a voucher program, increase  health care costs  to
seniors by thousands of dollars, and give massive tax cuts to
the wealthiest.”  The calls appear to be working. On March 22, Karen Finney,
an MSNBC analyst and former DNC communications chief, discussed
the Ryan budget in a television appearance during which, she
said, it “ends Medicare as we know it.”  On the same day, Maria Cardona, a Democratic strategist,
said on CNN that when Romney was governor he supported fuel-
efficiency standards and a gas tax. On the fourth page of the
campaign’s March 22 talking points: “As governor, Romney
increased a tax on gas by 400 percent.”  Cardona is invited on the Obama communications strategy
phone calls, according to a person on the call. Cardona declined
to comment. Finney said she’s also invited to the calls and
receives the Obama campaign’s daily talking points. She said she
uses them along with “a number of resources, including
information” from the White House to prepare for her television
appearances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  