-- Russia-Sized Mistakes Driving Corn Prices to Limit: Commodities
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-03-27T17:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/russia-sized-mistakes-driving-corn-prices-to-limit-commodities.html
The gap between traders’ estimates
of U.S. corn reserves, the world’s second-biggest, and official
figures have reached the size of  Russia ’s annual consumption,
increasing price swings at a time of near-record food costs.  Analysts and traders missed numbers reported by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  by 225 million bushels (5.7 million
tons) on average in the past seven quarters, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s twice as much as in the previous
five years and about equal to 12 months of Russian demand. The
USDA releases its next quarterly inventory report March 30.  Futures fluctuated by the maximum allowed on the Chicago
Board of Trade after six of the past seven quarterly reports,
with an average swing of 5.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Stockpiles (UGRSCNTO)  are getting harder to predict as growers build
more silos on their land rather than sending it to commercial
grain elevators, making it more difficult to measure.  “Analysts’ errors have swung from too low to too high with
increasing amplitude,” said William Tierney, the chief
economist for Chicago-based research company AgResource Co. and
a former USDA analyst. “The industry has to do a better job.”  Stockpiles probably totaled 6.16 billion bushels as of
March 1, 5.6 percent lower than a year earlier, according to the
average of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg last week. The 6.5
percent plunge in the average U.S. cash price after the Jan. 12
report erased $3.73 billion from the value of stockpiles, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Societe Generale  Corn futures have dropped 5.7 percent from a six-month high
of $6.7575 a bushel on March 19, erasing this year’s gain. The
grain last traded at $6.37 and  Societe Generale  said in a March
19 report that prices may reach $7 in the second quarter.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
rose 9.2 percent since the end of December as the MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities gained 12 percent. Treasuries
lost 1.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. Food
costs tracked by the  United Nations  rose for a second month in
February and are within 9.5 percent of the record reached a year
ago.  U.S. farmers, the world’s biggest agricultural exporters,
reported record cash income of $108.7 billion last year,
according to the USDA. They used some of that to build more
storage, taking on-farm capacity to 12.78 billion bushels as of
Dec. 1, the most since 1989, government data show. The 11
percent expansion since 2006 compares with a 15 percent advance
in commercial storage to 10.11 billion bushels.  Pricing Power  Adding grain bins gives growers more control over when they
sell crops, and that pricing power is increasing after global
output fell short of demand in eight of the past 12 years, said
 Dale Durchholz , the senior market analyst at AgriVisor LLC in
Bloomington, Illinois.  Unusually wet and cold weather reduced the quality and
weight of the crop in 2009, he said. Hot and dry weather in the
past two years reduced yields while increasing the weight, he
said. Farmers get paid for a 56-pound bushel of corn. The
quarterly grain stocks estimates are based on surveys of
producers and commercial grain companies.  “Estimating on-farm inventories is a problem because of
the differences in the quality of the crops the past three
years,” Durchholz said. “When the government asked farmers how
much grain they have in storage, they don’t know the correct
answer because of the variable weight of the crop.”  Renewable Energy  The estimates also may be skewed by the variability of
ethanol production. The government said March 9 that about 5
billion  bushels  will go to make fuel this year, second only to
last year’s record. That’s based on the assumption that every
bushel produces 2.7 gallons of fuel, said Jerry Norton, the
chair of the grain estimates committee for the USDA World
Agricultural Outlook Board.  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc. (GPRE) , based in Omaha and the
fourth-largest U.S. producer, says it can produce 2.8 gallons
per bushel. That difference extended across the industry might
mean 150 million to 200 million fewer bushels of corn consumed
annually by ethanol refiners, Norton said.  “We just don’t have good information on the conversion
rates,” he said from  Washington . “We don’t know how many
gallons of ethanol are produced from a bushel of corn. Our
estimate could be high.”  Most analysts derive their forecasts by analyzing USDA data
on exports and the Department of Energy’s estimates of ethanol
production, according to those surveyed by Bloomberg. They also
take into account seasonal demand patterns for starch and other
corn-based food products and base their estimates of feed use on
the size of domestic livestock herds and poultry flocks.  Distillers Grains  Demand for corn from livestock producers may have dropped
12 percent in the three months ended Feb. 29, in part because
they used more dried distillers grains, a byproduct of ethanol
production, according to Randy Mittelstaedt, the director of
research at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago . He was the
most accurate analyst in Bloomberg’s survey before the USDA’s
March 2011 report.  The USDA has “been met by a fair amount of skepticism in
the market,” said  Shawn McCambridge , a Chicago-based analyst at
Jefferies Bache LLC. He was one of the most accurate in
Bloomberg’s survey before the USDA report in June, and one of
the least before the January number. “The sharp growth in
ethanol and the different commodity mix that we’re feeding now,
it all contributes.”  Central Illinois  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg missed the USDA’s forecast
for corn inventories by an average of 8.1 percentage points in
the past seven quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the
previous 20 quarters, from June 2005 through March 2010, the
estimates were off by an average of 2.3 percentage points.  Cash  prices  for corn in central  Illinois , the second-
biggest producing state after  Iowa , rose or fell an average of
6.6 percent the day of the past four USDA quarterly reports,
government data show. That compares with an average of 2.7
percent in the previous 17 years.  “You can figure these numbers and analyze all day and
night, but the USDA can come out with whatever they want,” said
 Jason Britt , the president of Central States Commodities Inc., a
brokerage in  Kansas City ,  Missouri . “Whether you believe them
or not, we have to take them and trade them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  