-- S&P Said to Name Ratings Executives as Peterson Overhauls Firm
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-26T14:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/s-p-said-to-name-ratings-executives-as-peterson-overhauls-firm.html
Standard & Poor’s  appointed a
series of new ratings executives as Douglas Peterson, who took
over as president in September, overhauls the firm’s management
structure, according to company documents.  Fabienne Michaux was named chief credit officer for Asia-
Pacific, while Lapo Guadagnuolo will have that role in  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa , according to an internal memo, the
contents of which were confirmed by  Ed Sweeney , an S&P
spokesman, who declined to comment further. The two report to
Ian Thompson, who replaced Mark Adelson as the overall chief
credit officer in December.  Peterson, a former Citigroup Inc. executive, has been
reorganizing the firm’s management along regional lines since he
replaced Deven Sharma at the New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill
Cos. Thompson and the executives reporting to him are
responsible for S&P’s criteria. The firm’s methods, along with
those of competitors Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings, have been scrutinized by policy makers as sovereign-
debt downgrades roil markets around the world.  Congressional investigators earlier blamed the rating
companies for contributing to the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression by inflating their grades for mortgage-tied
securities.  S&P also appointed Gary Carrington as global criteria
officer for securities backed by commercial mortgages. S&P has
been shut out of that market since last July, when it derailed a
$1.5 billion sale by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc.
by withdrawing ratings on bonds bankers had already committed to
sell.  Regional Management  At the time, S&P said it was planning to update its
criteria for the securities. The firm hasn’t published a new
methodology yet.  The credit officers responsible for S&P’s methodologies are
different from the executives in charge of the firm’s ratings.
Paul Coughlin, who had been responsible for corporate and
government ratings, was given responsibility for the Americas in
December, with Yu-Tsung Chang leading the Asia-Pacific region
and Yann Le Pallec in charge of Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa. David Jacob, who was head of structured finance, left
last year.  Last month, S&P moved Peter Eastham to New York from
 Melbourne , to be head of CMBS ratings, replacing Barbara Duka,
who left the firm, according to another memo. Vandana Sharma,
who was responsible for bank criteria, took over ratings of
bonds backed by residential mortgages, S&P said in a third memo.
Sweeney confirmed the details of these documents as well.  Frank Parisi, who was in charge of structured-finance
criteria globally, is switching to a new role overseeing S&P’s
statistical methods, Thompson said in the first memo. Majid
Geramian, who was the criteria officer for CMBS, will work with
Parisi.  S&P also appointed Felix Herrera senior criteria officer
for structured finance with responsibility for ratings on bonds
backed by mortgages and other assets such as credit-card loans.  Thompson also said that S&P plans to hire another chief
credit officer for the Americas region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  