-- Saints’ Payton Spoke to Parcells About Interim Job, ESPN Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-26T18:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/saints-payton-spoke-to-parcells-about-interim-job-espn-says.html
Sean Payton of the New Orleans
Saints approached two-time Super Bowl champion  Bill Parcells  to
discuss him becoming the team’s interim coach during Payton’s
suspension for the National Football League season, according to
ESPN.  Payton, who had been an assistant under Parcells, has
spoken “numerous times” with his mentor in the past week, and
has discussed the possibility of Parcells coaching New Orleans
this season, the network said on its  website , citing several
people in the league that it didn’t identify.  The news comes one week after NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  announced Payton was suspended for the 2012 season
because of his role in allowing and covering-up a Saints bounty
program that included financial bonuses for injuring opposing
players. The punishment, the stiffest ever imposed on an NFL
team and its leadership, included a $500,000 fine, the loss of
two draft picks, and a half-season suspension for team general
manager Mickey Loomis.  Saints spokesman Greg Bensel did not immediately return an
e-mail seeking comment. Donald Yee, Payton’s agent, did not
return a message left at his office.  The  Associated Press  reported that Parcells said Payton and
he had spoken, but not about him coaching the team.  Parcells, 70, is the only coach to lead four different NFL
franchises to the playoffs. He was 172-130-1 in 22 seasons, and
coached the  New York Giants  to Super Bowl victories following
the 1986 and 1990 seasons.  Parcells last coached the  Dallas Cowboys  from 2003-2006.
Payton served as quarterbacks coach and assistant head coach for
the first three years of Parcells’ tenure in Dallas.  -- Editor: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  