-- Santorum Appears Near Court to Blast Romney on Health Care
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-26T17:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/santorum-appears-outside-court-to-blast-romney-on-health-care.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  appeared outside the  Supreme Court  after the
justices heard their first day of arguments on the health-care
law and attacked  Mitt Romney , saying his rival for the
nomination is “the worst person” to try to debate the topic
with President Barack Obama.  Romney “can’t, because he supported government-run health
care as governor of Massachusetts,” the former Pennsylvania
senator said.  “There’s only one candidate who has the chance of winning
the Republican nomination who can make this the central issue
that will be a winning issue for us to win the presidency back,
and that’s Rick Santorum,” he said.  “Unfortunately, the worst person to make that case is Mitt
Romney,” echoing a similar comment he made yesterday while
campaigning in  Wisconsin .  Asked by reporters today whether he regretted using
profanity when responding to a New York Times reporter who asked
him to clarify his comment yesterday, Santorum said he didn’t.  “I don’t regret taking on a New York Times reporter who
was out of line,” he said. “If you’re a conservative and you
haven’t taken on a New York Times reporter, you’re not worth
your salt, as far as I’m concerned.”  Santorum dismissed intensifying calls among Republicans to
unite behind Romney to end the divisive primary to avoid further
damaging the standing of their nominee against Obama.  “Of course, Governor Romney’s supporters are going to want
everybody out of the way. It would be nice if  Governor Romney 
and everybody else got out of my way. But that’s not how
primaries work,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  