-- Saudi Borrowing Costs Rise to 10-Month High as Lending Picks Up
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a l i a h   M e r z a b a n
-- 2012-03-26T12:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/saudi-borrowing-costs-rise-to-10-month-high-as-lending-picks-up.html
Saudi Arabia ’s one-year and six-
month treasury bill yields rose to 10-month highs after loan
growth reached the fastest pace in almost three years, lifting
borrowing costs in the world’s largest oil exporter.  The Persian Gulf nation paid 0.58 percent on one-year notes
at its weekly auction today, up four basis points from last
week’s sale,  data compiled by Bloomberg show . The yield, which
has risen in the last four auctions, is up six basis points this
month to the highest level since May. The yield on six-month
notes gained two basis points to 0.456 percent, also the highest
in 10 months.  Borrowing costs are rising in the largest Arab economy as
it pursues plans to spend more than $500 billion to develop
infrastructure, build homes and create jobs. Claims on the
private sector grew 12.1 percent in February, the fastest pace
since March 2009, according to  central bank data . Treasury-bill
sales rose 3.8 percent in February to 130.8 billion riyals ($35
billion), the first monthly increase since May.  “It might suggest that the government is drawing out some
liquidity due to potential concerns over inflation,”  Paul Gamble , head of research at Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment, said
by phone today. Annual inflation accelerated to 5.4 percent in
February from 5.3 percent in January, central bank  data  show.  Rates Rise  The three-month  Saudi interbank offered rate  known as
Saibor, the  reference rate  used by banks to lend to clients,
rose three basis points to 0.87375 percent at 1:30 p.m. in
 Riyadh , the highest level since May 2009. The  spread  over the
three-month London Interbank Offered Rate widened to 40 basis
points today, the most since June, and has doubled this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The yield would go up in line with interbank rates, and
Saibor has gone up consistently over the last six months,” said
Gamble.  Trading in currency forwards indicates an implied  one-year
interbank lending rate  fell 0.6 percent to 1.0205 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate, the actual
cost for banks to lend to one another, climbed in the previous
four days.  In the  United Arab Emirates , the second-largest Arab
economy, the  implied yield  based on three-month currency
forwards rose to 0.4806 percent from 0.4758 percent. Most Gulf
currencies, including the Saudi riyal and U.A.E. dirham, are
pegged to the dollar and central banks typically mirror monetary
policy of the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Default Risk Drop  The Saudi central bank, which fixes the riyal at 3.75 a
dollar, has held the reverse repurchase rate, its key deposit
rate, at 0.25 percent since June 2009.  One-year interest rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to
receive floating payments for one year, rose for the first time
in six days, gaining 1.8 basis points, or 0.018 percentage
point, to 0.909 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost of insuring Saudi Arabia’s debt against default
using five-year credit default swaps is down 19 basis points
this month to 118 on March 23, the third-lowest level in the
 Middle East , according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group and compiles prices in a privately negotiated market.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations.  The most-populous Gulf country has largely been spared
popular unrest that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  last
year and spread through other countries in the Middle East.
Default swaps for the U.A.E. capital Abu Dhabi were at 117,
while for the U.S. they were 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban in Dubai at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  