-- Scene Last Night: Chefs Boulud, Soliveres Cook for Tuft, Lynne
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-26T12:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/scene-last-night-chefs-boulud-soliveres-cook-for-tuft-lynne.html
When  Daniel Boulud  was a child in
Lyon,  France , his mother made him chocolate birthday cake with
apricots or pears.  Last night at his restaurant Daniel in New York, he marked
his 57th birthday with a four-foot-high sculpture of hand-blown,
spun and pulled sugar prepared by his pastry chef.  It was a grand finish to a five-course meal that nourished
the stomach as well as the coffers of  Citymeals-on-Wheels , where
Boulud is a board vice president.  His 13th annual event for the charity raised $500,000 to
deliver meals to homebound  New Yorkers  over the age of 60, said
Citymeals-on-Wheels Executive Director Beth Shapiro.  The evening began with Shigoku oysters with Meyer lemon
custard, served in the foyer.  That’s where Tom Tuft, a vice chairman at Lazard Ltd.,
greeted film producer Michael Lynne, and restaurateur Drew Nieporent talked champagne with Xavier Barlier, senior vice
president at Louis Roederer USA.  Later, retailer Lillian Vernon, litigator Herbert Wachtell
and Marchesa’s vice president of public relations Karla Barbosa
were in the dining room admiring the  L’Olivier Floral Atelier 
centerpieces of yellow and dark-orange calla lilies.  Boulud welcomed his co-hosts, Pascale and Thierry Gardinier,
owners of Paris restaurant Taillevent and Relais & Chateaux
hotel Les Crayeres in Reims. Taillevent’s chef, Alain Soliveres,
took a bow, then disappeared into the kitchen as waiters served
Boulud’s tiger jade abalone, with vodka beurre blanc and Ossetra
caviar. The few bites were briny and rich.  Crowd-Pleaser  Next Soliveres prepared a crowd-pleasing spelt risotto with
parmesan and black truffle, followed by a famous Taillevent dish
that was a little harder to love: duck breast and foie gras
wrapped in pastry.  A live auction offered time to digest, and guests were
restless for their caramel parfaits by the time Boulud started
banging on a shiny new copper pan, his birthday gift from
Citymeals-on-Wheels.  His point: to offer a paella dinner for eight in his home.
Donald Tober, an owner of Sugar Foods Corp., paid $33,000 for
the impromptu item, pan not included.  Boulud blew out the candle on his birthday “cake” with
help from his daughter Alix, who is back in  New York  after
working in  Singapore  as an analyst at the LVMH-backed private
equity fund L Capital Asia.  “I want her to establish herself,” Boulud said. “Then
she can get involved in a charity. By now she knows Citymeals-
on-Wheels very well.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  -- Editors: Mark Beech, Jim Ruane.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 