-- Senate Agrees to Debate Bill Repealing Oil-Industry Tax Breaks
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-03-26T22:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/senate-agrees-to-debate-bill-repealing-oil-industry-tax-breaks.html
The  U.S. Senate  agreed to take up
legislation that would repeal oil-industry tax breaks, a signal
that both political parties see an advantage in debating energy
policy amid rising gasoline prices.  The 92-4 procedural vote today lets lawmakers consider the
measure this week. The legislation introduced by Democrats is
unlikely to garner the 60 members needed for passage in the
Senate.  Republicans said eliminating tax breaks for oil companies,
such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  would hurt the  U.S.
economy  by encouraging producers to drill overseas and raising
consumer prices. The lawmakers sought to link the proposal with
President  Barack Obama , whose 2013 budget proposes repealing oil
industry breaks.  “Raising taxes will, in fact, translate into higher
prices,” Senator John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, said today
during debate.  Democrats said U.S. oil companies are profiting from high
gasoline prices and can afford to pay more.  “The American people are sick and tired of paying
ridiculously high gasoline prices at the pump and then paying
Big Oil again with our collective taxpayer subsidies,” said
Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey Democrat who introduced
the bill.  The legislation would limit or repeal tax breaks for the
largest  oil companies  operating in the U.S. The revenue would be
used to pay to extend credits for alternative fuels and energy
efficiency and to reduce the federal deficit.  Raising Revenue  Menendez’s bill would increase revenue by $24 billion over
10 years. Some of the funds would help to extend conservation
and clean-energy tax breaks costing $11.7 billion over that
period, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. The
difference would help reduce the federal deficit.  The Senate rejected a similar proposal from Menendez last
May. Republicans sided with the oil industry last year to defeat
the measure.  “Some bad ideas never seem to go away,” Stephen Comstock,
tax policy manager for the  American Petroleum Institute , an
industry-backed trade association, said today in a conference
call with reporters.  “We’ve been giving tax breaks to the oil industry for
decades, and what have we gotten in return?” Peter Lehner,
executive director for the New York-based Natural Resources
Defense Council, said in a statement. “Gas prices that keep
going up and an oil industry monopoly on our transportation
system.”  Gasoline on average cost about $3.897 yesterday, according
to AAA’s  daily fuel  report. That price is about 5 cents higher
than last week, and about 32 cents more than the cost of regular
unleaded gasoline in March 2011.  The oil tax bill is S. 2204.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  