-- Senate Banking Committee to Vote on Fed Nominees on March 29
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-26T21:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/senate-banking-committee-to-vote-on-fed-nominees-on-march-29.html
The Senate Banking Committee plans
to vote on President Barack Obama’s two nominations to the
Federal Reserve Board of Governors on March 29, according to a
statement posted on the committee’s website today.  Committee approval would move Jerome Powell, a former
private equity manager and Treasury undersecretary under
President  George H.W. Bush  and  Jeremy Stein , a Harvard
University economist and former adviser to Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , a step closer to taking seats on the board.
They would still require a favorable vote by the full Senate.  “Both these guys will get support from the Democrats and
the question is whether they get support from Republicans,”
said Mark Calabria, an economist and the director of financial
studies at the  Cato Institute  and a former senior aide for
Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee.  Stein and Powell, a Democrat and a Republican, would bring
expertise on financial markets to the Fed’s board, filling a
void left by  Kevin Warsh , a former Morgan Stanley banker and
confidante of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Warsh resigned from the
board in April.  With that background, “these are guys you would normally
say wouldn’t have a hard time,” said Calabria. “There are
issues here that go beyond simply the personal qualifications,”
he said, referring to the difficulty of moving nominations
through the Senate during a presidential election year.  Stein and Powell wouldn’t be the first Fed nominees in
recent years to fall victim to presidential politics. Fed
Governor  Randall Kroszner , a University of Chicago Booth School
of Business professor, joined the Fed in 2006 and was
renominated for a full 14-year term in 2007 by President  George W. Bush . The Democratic-controlled Senate declined to act on
Kroszner’s re-nomination.  Hold a Vote  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Banking Committee at the time, said in 2007 that he
was reluctant to hold a vote on Kroszner’s 14-year term given
the possible change in party control of the White House.  Stein and Powell testified to the committee last week that
the Fed must withdraw their record monetary stimulus in a way
that keeps prices stable and doesn’t jar financial markets.  Powell, 59, told the committee he sees “tremendous risk in
the exit,” responding to questioning on the central bank’s
balance sheet. “You don’t want to do it too early and snuff out
a recovery that’s still weak and you don’t want to do it too
late and cause inflation,” he said.  Stein, 51, has published academic research on the central
bank’s exit strategy. In January, he and Anil Kashyap, a
professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business,
published a paper on “The Optimal Conduct of  Monetary Policy 
with Interest on Reserves.”  Tightening Policy  The paper, appearing in the American Economic Journal,
looked at how the Fed can use interest on reserves to control
 interest rates  once the central bank begins tightening policy.  Stein told the panel that the central bank’s eventual
tightening of policy must avoid having a “disruptive impact on
markets.”  Powell would fill the term vacated by former Fed governor
 Frederic Mishkin  which expires in 2014. Stein would fill Warsh’s
seat that lasts through 2018.  Even if they pass committee, nominees for positions at the
Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Comptroller of
the Currency have been in limbo since Obama in January used a
recess appointment to install Richard Cordray as the first
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau without
formal Senate approval.  The president made the appointment of Cordray after
Republicans blocked his confirmation in December. While the
Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-member chamber, Senate
leaders needed at least 60 senators to advance the nomination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  