-- Serbian Central Bank Mulling Change in Reserve Requirements
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-26T15:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/serbian-central-bank-mulling-change-in-reserve-requirements-1-.html
Serbia ’s central bank said it’s
considering changes to reserve requirements to release funds to
keep inflation and the exchange rate stable.  The changes would also be aimed at lowering borrowing costs
and encourage banks to seek longer-term sources of financing,
the Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije said in an e-mail today.  Banks in Serbia set aside 30 percent on short-maturity
foreign-currency assets and 25 percent on longer maturities
exceeding two years, paying 85 percent and 90 percent
respectively in euros and the remainder in dinars.  “This decision will create demand for dinars and somewhat
ease pressure on the exchange rate,” Jasna Atanasijevic, chief
economist at the Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank AD, said by
phone.  The central bank has been under pressure to lower  reserve
requirements  as businesses face slowing demand for their goods
at home due to declining purchasing power and abroad as  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis weighs on demand for Serbian exports. This
has hurt their ability to repay loans, resulting in expanding
bad-debt portfolios for banks.  The central bank has already exempted dinar assets with
maturities beyond two years from any mandatory reserve
requirements, while banks must set aside 5 percent for shorter
maturities.  Changes in the reserve requirements need to be approved by
the management of the National Bank of Serbia, which next holds
a policy meeting on April 12. Rate setters will also discuss any
necessary policy response to a slowing economy and  exchange rate 
volatility.  Serbia will hold parliamentary elections on May 6 with the
dinar at its weakest levels since the fall of former Serbian
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic  in 2000, unemployment at 24.4
percent and economic growth of no more than 0.5 percent,
according to central bank and International Monetary Fund
forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  