-- Serbian Opposition Party Widens Lead Ahead of Vote, Survey Shows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-03-26T12:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/serbian-opposition-party-widens-lead-ahead-of-vote-survey-shows.html
Serbia’s main opposition party
widened its lead ahead of the ruling  Democratic Party  of
President  Boris Tadic  before May 6 general elections on concerns
caused by high unemployment.  The opposition  Serbian Progressive Party  would get 33.2
percent of votes cast, while Tadic’s  Democrats  would win 29.1
percent, according to an opinion survey conducted by Belgrade-
based  Faktor Plus  pollster in the week starting March 18 among
1,184 people. It had a margin of error of 3 percent.  With only 34 percent of the respondents clear about their
political choice, “it seems the voters are dissatisfied with
offered political options,” Vladimir Pejic, a manager of Faktor
Plus, said at a news conference in Belgrade. Still, the pollster
counts on “around 4 million people,” or almost 60 percent, of
the electorate casting the ballot.  The election comes at a time when the dinar is at its
weakest levels since Milosevic’s fall in 2000, unemployment is
at 24.4 percent and growth is 0.5 percent at best, according to
the central bank and the International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Voters in  Serbia  attach the greatest importance to economic
woes, wages and fight against crime and corruption, followed by
solidarity and Serbia’s ultimate membership of the European
Union, Pejic said. A developing democracy is at the bottom of
the list of their priorities, he said.  The results compared with a survey presented on March 9, a
week after Serbia was granted the status of EU candidate, which
showed the Progressives’ lead tighter, at only 1.5 percentage
points.  The Socialists, once led by Serbian strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , ranked third with 11.1 percent of voters. Three more
parties would make it to Parliament with the backing of more
than 5 percent each, which is the threshold for the 250-seat
legislature, according to the poll.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  