-- Services Displace Factories in Driving U.S. Expansion: Economy
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-26T14:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/services-displace-factories-in-driving-u-s-expansion-economy.html
Service producers are taking over
from manufacturing as the driver of the almost three-year-old
U.S. expansion.  The end of the recession in June 2009 triggered the biggest
surge in production in a decade, propelled by rising demand from
overseas and the need to replenish inventories and upgrade
equipment. That is now giving way to increasing sales at places
like restaurants, transportation companies and temporary-help
agencies, leading to gains in employment that have bolstered the
world’s largest economy.  “The pickup in services provides a broader base for the
economic expansion and actually is a source of more sustainable
growth,” said  Richard DeKaser , deputy chief economist at
Parthenon Group LLC in  Boston  and the third-best forecaster of
gross domestic product in the two years to February, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News. “We’re going to continue to
see job gains close to the magnitude we’ve seen in recent
months, with services likely contributing a large share.”  The economy has created more than 200,000 jobs in each of
the past three months, and the increase in payrolls since
September has been the biggest since 2006, according to figures
from the Labor Department. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
services index, which includes mining and construction companies
and tracks about 88 percent of the economy, has exceeded its
factory gauge in seven of the last eight months, opening the
biggest advantage in three years in February.  Bernanke on Jobs  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that
while he’s encouraged by progress in the labor market,
“continued accommodative policies” are necessary to sustain
demand that will further boost job growth.  “A wide range of indicators suggests that the job market
has been improving, which is a welcome development indeed,”
Bernanke said to the National Association for Business
Economics. “Still, conditions remain far from normal, as shown,
for example, by the high level of long-term unemployment and the
fact that jobs and hours worked remain well below pre-crisis
peaks, even without adjusting for growth in the  labor force .”  A report from the National Association of Realtors today
showed the number of Americans signing contracts to buy
previously owned homes held in February near an almost two-year
high, a sign that the real estate market may be stabilizing.  The  index  of pending home purchases fell 0.5 percent to
96.5 after a 2 percent increase the prior month. January’s
reading of 97 was the highest since April 2010. The median
forecast of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a 1 percent rise.  German Business Confidence  In  Germany  today, a gauge of business confidence
unexpectedly rose to an eight-month high in March, suggesting
 Europe ’s largest economy will return to growth even as the
sovereign-debt crisis curbs euro-area demand for its exports.  U.S. stocks rose after Bernanke’s comments and as investors
speculated the European Union will increase the size of its
bailout fund. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent
to 1,411.20 at 10:28 a.m. in New York.  Manufacturing in the U.S. “is doing yeoman’s work in
keeping things growing moderately,” said  Joel Naroff , president
of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,  Pennsylvania . “But
by itself, it cannot shift the economy into high gear. What we
are starting to see, and what we absolutely need to see, is the
spending on services side that can drive the economy forward to
some pretty solid growth.”  Retail Sales  Retail sales  climbed  10.3 percent in February from the same
month in 2011 before adjusting for seasonal variations, second
to the 10.6 percent gain in March 2010 as the biggest in a
decade, data from the Commerce Department showed March 13. Auto
dealers, furniture stores, home and garden centers, and
restaurants were among merchants seeing a pickup in demand in
excess of 10 percent over the past year.  By contrast, factory production was up 5.1 percent last
month from a year earlier, cooling from a decade high 8.1
percent gain in the year ended June 2010, according to figures
from the Fed. Reports from regional Fed banks in New York and
Philadelphia showed gains in orders slowed in March.  Staples Inc. (SPLS) , the Framingham, Massachusetts-based office-
supply chain, is among service providers seeing a pickup.  “Things are starting to feel a little better, especially
in  North America ,” Ronald L. Sargent, Staples’ chief executive
officer, said in a Feb. 29 conference call. “The economy is
slowly starting to turn,” he said, “and small business seems
to be leading the way.”  Small Business  Confidence among small businesses rose in February to the
 highest level  in a year as profits improved, a survey by the
National Association of  Independent Business  showed March 13.
The group’s earnings gauge climbed to the highest level since
before the recession began, and more owners said they are
boosting wages to attract workers as sales increase.  Spending on “the little luxuries of life,” like dining
out, “is really good because it shows growing confidence,”
said Naroff. “That’s what we need to see within the economy for
it to pick up steam.”  New cars are on Americans’ shopping lists, indicating that
auto production will be one area of manufacturing that will hold
up. Cars last month sold at the  fastest pace  in four years, led
by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors
Co.  Growing car purchases can also prove to be a boom to
 service industries . Jacksonville, Florida-based  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the
biggest railroad in the eastern U.S., said March 15 that its
auto volume has advanced about 20 percent this year through
March 9.  Auto Production  Auto production “is critical not just for our automotive
business, but also for our steel business, our chemical business
and our intermodal business,” Fredrik Eliasson, CSX’s chief
financial officer, said at a JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in
New York.  The pickup in services brightens the outlook for hiring
because those industries rely more on workers than machines to
satisfy demand, said Parthenon Group’s DeKaser.  “In services you don’t have the kind of large productivity
gains that we enjoy in manufacturing,” he said. “Manufacturing
output can more readily be met through productivity gains,
whereas the services sector requires more workers.”  As the rebound in manufacturing gave the economy time to
heal, a more stable  construction industry  may now be giving
factories a lift. Excluding the period in mid-2010 when housing
got a boost from the Obama administration’s first-time buyer tax
credit, output of building materials over the past three months
has climbed by the most since 1994, the Fed’s industrial
production report showed last week.  “The service sector is snapping back” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
in  New York . The economic expansion “is broadening out, which
tells me the gains are more likely to be sustained than if they
were led by just one area of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  