-- Vivendi’s Levy Takes Charge of SFR After Market Value Slumps
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-03-27T07:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/sfr-chief-esser-said-to-be-stepping-down-after-more-than-decade.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  will have to show how he can stop customer
defections to discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  as he takes over managing SFR
almost a year after signing off on the 7.95 billion-euro ($10.6
billion) buyout of the French telecommunications unit.  Frank Esser, the 53-year-old SFR CEO of more than 11 years,
will step down immediately while Levy, 57, will assume
additional responsibilities of running the division, Vivendi
said yesterday. The Paris-based company declined to say whether
Levy will run SFR on a temporary or permanent basis.  Vivendi’s market capitalization has shrunk by more than 30
percent since it agreed in April last year to buy  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) ’s 44 percent stake in SFR. At 17.5 billion euros as of
yesterday’s close, Vivendi, which also owns the world’s biggest
music and video-game companies, is worth less than the 18
billion euros it valued the SFR unit alone a year ago.  “Levy made his bet on SFR and now they’ve handed it over
to him to turn the situation around,” said  Conor O’Shea , an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, who recommends holding the
stock and projects it will reach 14.70 euros. “In hindsight it
looks like Vivendi could have paid much less for SFR had it
waited a year.”  Cost Cuts  Vivendi added 9.5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 14.12 euros at
9:37 a.m. in Paris. The stock is down 17 percent this year.  Levy takes on the additional role as Vivendi pledges to
take a break from making any big acquisitions to focus on
reducing debt. His predecessor,  Jean-Marie Messier , went on a
$77 billion acquisition binge to transform a water utility into
a global media giant. Since taking over, Levy has dismantled
Messier’s empire and expanded in new directions, making
selective purchases, including Brazilian phone company  GVT
Holding (GVTT3)  SA in 2009, to drive growth.  As SFR’s new CEO, Levy will have to come up with a response
to Iliad. Pierre Trotot, the 58-year-old senior executive vice
president of SFR, has been leading plans to restructure the unit
and cut costs, one person familiar with the matter has said.  “What the market really wants is to understand what SFR’s
strategy is going to be in  France  and what measures management
is going to take, namely to adjust costs,” said Stephane Beyazian, an analyst at  Raymond James (RJF)  Euro Equities, whose
rating points to Vivendi shares performing in line with the
market to reach 17 euros.  Customer Losses  SFR lost 208,000 subscribers as of March 1, less than two
months after competitor Iliad, founded by French entrepreneur
Xavier Niel, started selling mobile-phone packages at a
discounted price. Iliad has captured as many as 2 million French
mobile customers according to regulator Arcep.  The new competition has prompted Vivendi to forecast an
earnings slump until 2013. The company said it will have to
adjust its costs structure to offset a projected decline in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of as much as 570 million euros at SFR in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  