-- Shale Boom in Europe Fades as Polish Wells Come Up Empty
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-03-26T16:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/shale-boom-in-europe-fades-as-polish-wells-come-up-empty-energy.html
Europe’s best hope for a shale-gas
boom is fading as explorers in  Poland  confront rising taxes, a
lack of rigs and rocks that are harder to drill than expected.  While shale could help Poland lessen dependence on Russian
supplies and cut its gas bill, a government proposal for a levy
on production threatens to curtail investment. Failed wells by
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  curbed the optimism that led two dozen
companies to grab licenses. The government said last week that
shale-gas reserves may be lower than estimated, and drilling a
well costs almost three times as much as in the U.S.  “The growth of shale in Poland will be slower than in the
U.S. because it would need to build the infrastructure the U.S.
already had available,” said Laura Loppacher, an oil and gas
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “We know the
gas in place is there, but it’s unclear if it can be extracted
at a rate that’s commercial.”  Exxon,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and ConocoPhillips acquired rights in
Poland, anticipating Eastern Europe’s largest economy would lead
the development of shale fields similar to those that upended
 North America ’s energy industry and made the U.S. the world’s
biggest natural gas producer. The U.S. Energy Information
Administration said last year Poland may hold 5.2 trillion cubic
meters of gas, or enough fuel trapped in shale to meet domestic
needs for 300 years.  Many Differences  Europe’s greater population density and stronger
environmental lobby make drilling more difficult than in the
U.S. France and  Bulgaria  have banned hydraulic fracturing, the
controversial process that uses water, chemicals and sand to
break open shale rock.  “There are many differences between Poland and the U.S. in
terms of geology and the amount of data from exploration
wells,” said Arkadiusz Wicik, a director on the energy team at
 Fitch Ratings . “Technology will have to be adjusted and initial
costs of output will be higher.”  The Polish Geological Institute cut estimates of domestic
gas reserves 85 percent last week, based on analysis of data
from wells drilled between the 1950s and 1980s.  More recent drilling into shale layers has disappointed.
Exxon said in January that two exploratory wells failed to flow
enough gas to make development profitable. Flow rates at sites
drilled by 3Legs Resources Plc and BNK Petroleum Inc. weren’t as
high as similar wells in the U.S.  3Legs Resources declined by 3.1 percent to 63.5 pence by
the close of London trading.  More Exploration  As results from some exploration wells disappoint, Poland
plans to announce taxes on natural-gas production next month.
The government wants energy revenue to bolster state finances
and has considered the creation of a sovereign wealth fund
similar to  Norway ’s petroleum fund.  Drillers argue the government is getting ahead of itself,
and more exploration is needed to establish shale’s potential.
While Poland has granted 109 licenses, just 13 wells have been
completed out of 127 promised by explorers by 2017.  “Proposing draft legislation at this stage may be
detrimental to exploration, given that the scope of investment
and costs of potential production are yet to be known,” said
Marcin Zieba, general manager at the Polish Exploration and
Production Industry Organization, an industry group whose
members include Exxon, Chevron and the country’s dominant gas
company  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA .  PGNiG, as the company is known, today began drilling a new
shale gas exploration well in eastern Poland. The company plans
to drill a 4,300-meter (14,100-foot) deep well in 100 days.  It closed 0.5 percent higher at 3.92 zloty in Warsaw.  Tap Rocks  The industry’s criticisms are being heard.  “As a government we have to facilitate shale gas
development,” Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski told a
conference in Warsaw last week. “The worst we could do would be
proposing measures that would slow exploration.”  Using hydraulic fracturing, which critics say risks
polluting groundwater, has boosted U.S. natural-gas production
21 percent in the last three years, driving prices to a 10-year
low of $2.20 a million British thermal units. Prices in  Europe 
are about four times as high.  New methods and tools need to be invented to tap some rocks
in Europe and  China  and many fields may prove unresponsive to
drilling techniques that worked in the U.S.,  Rex Tillerson ,
Exxon Mobil’s chief executive officer, said on March 8.  “We should first find out how much gas is available and
what  capital expenditures  are required to mine it and only then
try to propose an adequate fiscal regime,” Piotr Dzieciolowski,
a Warsaw-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone.  Country Roads  Shale-gas drilling in Poland costs more than the U.S.
partly because of greater population density, according to
Schlumberger Ltd., the largest oilfield-services provider.  The cost of drilling a 2,000-meter horizontal well in the
U.S. averages $3.9 million, compared with $11 million in Poland,
Peter Richter, global unconventional technology and marketing
manager at the company, said in November. Some Polish wells have
been as deep as 3,600 meters.  “Planned tax on gas output can’t be simplistic, it has to
take into account the costs of exploration, development and
production,” said Tomasz Minkiewicz, a partner and head of the
natural-gas team at  CMS Cameron McKenna  in Warsaw.  Explorers have to use single-lane country roads to
transport parts of the 1,500-ton rigs. Because many of the roads
were built to support vehicles of as much as 15 tons, more time
and money is needed for the job.  Law in Line  “There’s the issue of lack of adequate infrastructure,
which results in stretching the time needed to move rigs from
one well to another to weeks rather than days in the U.S.,”
Dzieciolowski said.  Not all Polish wells have failed. Last week, ConocoPhillips
exercised an option to buy 70 percent of three concessions owned
by 3Legs Resources after the Isle of Man-based explorer drilled
a successful horizontal well in the Baltic Basin.  “Shale gas in Poland could still be a game changer for the
country’s energy sector despite the disappointing shale gas
reserve estimate,” said Fitch’s Wicik.  As Poland brings laws into line with European Union
guidelines, all licenses to explore and produce oil and gas in
the nation must be awarded by competitive tender, according to
the  Environment Ministry . Exploration licenses were granted on a
first-come, first-served basis.  Negative Factor  “Another negative factor is uncertainty concerning EU
pressure to tender exploration and production licenses
separately, unlike now where exploration companies have
certainty over control of output,” according to Marek Matraszek, Warsaw-based head of CEC Government Relations, which
advises companies dealing with the government.  “It has been decided that rights acquired by investors
will be honored,” Piotr Wozniak, the country’s deputy
environment minister and chief geologist, said last week.  Whatever the size of Poland’s reserves, the industry isn’t
yet giving up.  “We need dozens if not hundreds of wells before we can
estimate Poland’s shale gas potential,” said Tom Maj, Poland
manager for  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Calgary-based oil and gas
explorer. “Wells must be kilometers rather than dozens of
kilometers apart, as they are now, to fully assess the
reserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  