-- Silver Says Deal Near on Cuomo’s $132.5 Billion New York Budget
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-26T19:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/silver-says-deal-near-on-cuomo-s-132-5-billion-new-york-budget.html
New York (STONY1)  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said he expects a deal on Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s $132.5
billion budget proposal as soon as today.  Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, and Senate Majority Leader
Dean Skelos, a Long Island Republican, are still working with
Cuomo’s office on details, including how they’ll allocate a 4
percent increase, or about $800 million, in education funding to
local school districts. Cuomo proposed doling out $250 million
through competitive grants, while Silver and Skelos have said
they want more money given out based on need. Cuomo has said
he’s flexible.  “I expect us to have a completed budget by tonight,”
Silver said in an interview in Albany, the capital. “We are
getting there,” on the education funding, he said. Voting on
the budget would start March 28 and finish the next day if a
deal can be reached today, Silver said.  New York ’s 2013 fiscal year begins April 1, and Cuomo,
Silver and Skelos have said they want to have the budget
approved on-time, if not early. If the spending plan is approved
on-time, it would be the first time since 2005 and 2006 that
consecutive final budgets were passed by March 31, Morris
Peters, a budget division spokesman, said in an e-mail. Before
then, the last time consecutive budgets were passed on-time was
in each year from 1982 to 1984, Peters said.  Health-Care Exchanges  The lawmakers and Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, are also
stuck in negotiations on plans for creating a health-care
exchange, Silver said. Cuomo and Silver want New York to set up
its own one-stop shop for health insurance before the federal
government steps in and establishes one for the state. The
exchange is part of President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul, and Republicans who control the Senate have been
reluctant to support it.  Some of the budget’s most contentious issues were resolved
March 15, when the Legislature approved a Cuomo-backed pension
overhaul and a teacher-evaluation system, items that were part
of the spending plan Cuomo sent to lawmakers in January.  An agreement reached last night will provide $13.1 billion
to fund the last three years of the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority ’s five-year capital budget, allowing projects such as
the Second Avenue subway to proceed as planned, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the deal, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the deal hasn’t been formally
announced. The state had originally funded only $9.1 billion for
the first two years. The agreement raises the MTA’s debt cap by
$7 billion.  Gambling Commission  “With this funding, the MTA will continue to enhance our
riders’ experience by investing in the future of our
transportation network,” MTA Chairman Joseph Lhota said in a
statement e-mailed today.  Another deal included in one of three budget bills printed
last night would create a seven-member gaming commission to
operate the lottery, and oversee Indian casinos, horse racing
and the video lottery terminals in the so-called racinos at race
tracks. The commission, which will include five members
appointed by the governor, one from the Senate majority leader
and one from the Assembly speaker, will replace and combine the
existing Racing and Wagering Board and Lottery Division.  This month, the Legislature voted in favor of a
constitutional amendment that would allow for as many as seven
Las Vegas-style casinos in the third-most-populous state. The
amendment will be sent to voters if lawmakers approve it a
second time next year. The bill creating the commission doesn’t
discuss how it might relate to those non-Indian casinos.  Infrastructure Task Force  A separate measure included in the printed bills would
create a 15-member infrastructure  task force  that would
determine the state’s building needs across several agencies and
develop a plan for meeting them. The task force, part of Cuomo’s
original proposal, would also recommend financing options,
including using state-backed debt, federal funding and “other
finance vehicles.” Cuomo is seeking legislation separate from
the budget process that would allow private investment in public
infrastructure projects.  “We’ve never looked holistically about what our
infrastructure priorities are,” Karen Rae, deputy secretary of
transportation, said in an interview in New York before the deal
on the task force was reached. “This is a much more proactive
intervention on how we prioritize across many agencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  