-- Singapore Output Misses Estimates on Electronics Slump: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-03-26T06:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/singapore-production-weaker-than-estimated-on-electronics-slump.html
Singapore’s  industrial production 
grew less than economists estimated in February as a slump in
electronics output persisted.  Manufacturing rose 12.1 percent from a year earlier after a
revised 9.6 percent decline in January, the  Economic Development
Board  said today. The median of 13 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News was for a 16.2 percent gain.  Asia ’s manufacturing rebound from the first two months of
the year, when the output numbers were distorted by the Lunar
New Year holidays shutting factories, may be limited by Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and  China ’s slowing economic growth. The
region’s currencies have declined in March even as six months of
the strongest U.S. job growth since 2006 bolstered the outlook
for demand.  “It’s a timely reminder that while activity may not be
crashing, they are still slowing down across Asia,” said Edward
Lee, Singapore-based regional head of rates strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc. “Some data may have surprised on the upside but
the key takeaway is that growth is still moderating.”  Asian stocks fell today, extending last week’s loss, amid
concern exporter earnings are deteriorating. The  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.5 percent as of 3:14 p.m. in  Tokyo .  A leading index for China rose at a slower pace in February,
a report showed last week, adding to evidence of moderating
growth that may prompt Premier Wen Jiabao to loosen policy
further. A preliminary reading of the purchasing managers’ index
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed China’s
manufacturing may contract for a fifth month in March.  Turmoil Eases  While the euro area’s turmoil has eased after the  European
Central Bank  last month boosted liquidity through three-year
loans to banks and European Union leaders this month sealed a
second Greek bailout package, Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti
has warned that  Spain ’s struggle to control its finances could
reignite the debt crisis.  “The coming weeks may well bring a slew of further
discouraging data,” said  Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-
head of Asian economic research at HSBC. “Markets may not like
it. But it is important to see through temporary distortions.
Only in a couple of months will it become clear whether the
global, and indeed Asia’s, recoveries are proceeding as
expected.”  German Confidence  In Wellington today, a government report showed  New Zealand 
posted a trade surplus in February as imports fell to a 13-month
low amid a labor dispute at the nation’s largest port. Shipments
overseas also declined.  German business confidence probably held at a seven-month
high in March, suggesting  Europe ’s largest economy will return
to growth even as the sovereign-debt crisis curbs demand for its
exports, a report may show today. The Ifo institute’s business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, stayed at
February’s reading of 109.6, according to economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Elsewhere in Europe, reports may show Italian  consumer
confidence  weakened in March, while Poland’s unemployment rate
may have increased to 13.5 percent, the highest level since
April 2007, Bloomberg surveys of economists showed.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is
scheduled to speak at a conference in Arlington,  Virginia , while
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  gives remarks at a
conference in Paris. The Chicago Fed will release its national
economic activity index for February.  Drug Production  Singapore ’s industrial production fell a seasonally
adjusted 1.1 percent in February from January, when it rose a
revised 2.3 percent from the previous month, today’s report
showed. The median of six estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 5 percent gain.  “We continue to believe that industrial production will
weaken strongly as external demand slows down,” Cynthia Kalasopatan, an economist at IdeaGlobal in Singapore, said
before the report. “The expected global economic slowdown will
likely affect exports and thus weaken industrial production
overall.”  Electronics production decreased 6 percent from a year
earlier in February, while pharmaceutical output climbed 37.7
percent after gaining a revised 33.3 percent in January. The
performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is volatile
as production swings by companies such as GlaxoSmithKline Plc
can cause industrial output to fluctuate from month to month.
Drug companies sometimes shut plants for cleaning before making
different products.  “Barring any unforeseen drop in pharmaceutical production
due to plant shutdown, overall manufacturing growth is expected
to gradually pick up from the second quarter onwards,”  Irvin
Seah , an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said
before the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  