-- Sleepless in Dubai as Traders Rejoice Eight-Fold Volume Gain
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-03-27T07:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/sleepless-in-dubai-as-traders-rejoice-eight-fold-volume-increase.html
Just four months ago,  share prices 
and  trading values  in Dubai fell to the lowest levels since
2004. Now  stock trading  has increased eight-fold, the most among
the world’s 40 biggest markets, as the emirate rebounds from its
biggest financial crisis.  “In December, you could fall asleep at your desk and wake
up and nothing would be happening,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, 37,
the senior finance manager at Daman Securities LLC in Dubai.
This year, brokers are working non-stop “dealing with this
increased activity,” he said in a March 15 phone interview.  The Persian Gulf financial center was upended in 2009 and
again in 2011 by  Europe ’s debt crisis, popular uprisings in the
 Middle East  and speculation that Dubai’s borrowers will struggle
to repay about $10 billion of debt due this year. Now, investors
are returning after the  European Central Bank  bolstered credit
markets, the sheikhdom evaded protests that turned violent in
nearby Bahrain, state-owned companies refinanced debt and
developers posted earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  surged 22 percent this year
through yesterday, the third-best gain worldwide after equity
gauges in Egypt and  Vietnam . The measure is still 74 percent
below its 2008 peak, before Dubai’s real-estate bubble burst and
the emirate required a $20 billion bailout led by  Abu Dhabi  to
repay debt. The DFM index trades for 10.6 times estimated profit
and 0.7 times net assets, compared with multiples of 10.6 and
1.7 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Recovery  The DFM General index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,660.94 at
11:19 a.m. in Dubai.  Credit markets also show improving sentiment. Yields on the
government’s 7.75 percent bonds due 2020 have dropped 67 basis
points, or 0.67 percentage point, this year to 6.25 percent,
within four basis points of the lowest level since the debt was
issued in September 2010. Credit-default swaps on Dubai fell 110
basis points to 335 basis points, compared with 375 for  Italy ,
according to data provider CMA.  Dubai’s economy, which contracted by 2.4 percent in 2009,
will expand by as much as 5 percent this year, the government
said on Feb. 15. Home sales increased 67 percent by value in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, Land Department data show.
Tourist arrivals rose 10 percent in 2011 as hotel revenues
gained 20 percent, the emirate said March 7.  The 30-day average value of shares traded on the  Dubai
Financial Market (DFM)  soared 725 percent to 491 million dirhams ($134
million) yesterday, from a seven-year low of 59.6 million
dirhams on Nov. 27. The  value of shares traded  in  Saudi Arabia 
more than doubled for the second-biggest increase among major
markets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Genuine Turnaround’  Abu Dhabi Financial Services and Al Ramz Securities LLC
said the increase in trading may help them post a profit this
quarter after all five of Dubai’s top brokerages reported losses
in 2011. Nabil Rantisi, who left his job in June as the director
of brokerage at Rasmala Investment Bank Ltd. in Dubai to help
start a local delicatessen named 1762, said he may return to the
finance industry should the rebound continue.  “This is a sign of a genuine turnaround and not just a
bear market rally,” Rantisi said. The rally will benefit
“brokerage houses who decided to stick around,” he said.  Many did not. About 50 of the 98 brokerages operating at
the end of 2008 have closed or had their trading licences
suspended, according to data on the market regulator’s website.
Shareholders of CAPM Investment PJSC, an Abu Dhabi-based
financial services company that operated a Dubai stockbroker,
decided last week to sell itself to a U.A.E. lender after
incurring losses, Chief Executive Officer Yasser Geissah said in
a March 22 interview.  Drydocks Debt  Markets in Dubai, which borrowed more than $100 billion to
transform itself into a financial and tourism hub, suffered a
meltdown in 2009 after state-owned holding company  Dubai World 
said it was seeking to freeze debt repayments.  Even after dropping this year, Dubai credit default swaps
are 225 basis points more expensive than contracts on  China , the
biggest emerging economy, up from 61 basis points four years
ago, according to CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  Dubai Group LLC, an investment firm owned by Sheikh
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the emirate’s ruler, is in talks
with banks to reschedule payments on $6 billion of bank debt.
Drydocks World LLC, which owns the Middle East’s biggest
shipyard in Dubai, presented a plan to creditors earlier this
month to restructure $2.2 billion of debt.  Iran Concern  The risk of conflict in  Iran , located about 100 miles (161
kilometers) from Dubai, has kept Advance Emerging Capital’s Slim Feriani from boosting equity holdings in the U.A.E. U.S.
President  Barack Obama  said March 4 he takes “no options off
the table,” including a “military effort,” to stop the
government in Tehran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  “We remain cautiously optimistic and we’re not going to go
pile up” on stocks in the U.A.E., said Feriani, the chief
investment officer at Advance Emerging, which oversees about
$800 million in emerging and frontier markets. His  Advance
Frontier Markets fund  has about 3 percent of its assets in the
U.A.E. and about 25 percent in the Persian Gulf region.  “A conflict with Iran could have some seriously negative
implications on sentiment,” Feriani said.  Gains in some of Dubai’s best-performing stocks have been
sparked by “rumors” rather than earnings and valuations, said
ING Investment Management’s Yazan Abdeen.  ‘Quick Profit’  Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC) , the construction company that
proposed cutting its stock dividend on March 8 and posted a 15
percent drop in 2011 profit, has surged 79 percent this year
amid speculation the company will win new contracts in Abu Dhabi
and a regional investor was accumulating the stock. Chief
Financial Officer  Ziad Makhzoumi  didn’t return a phone call and
text message seeking comment.  Arabtec shares  trade  for 22 times estimated 2012 earnings,
compared with the median multiple of 13 times for global peers,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The money in the market is after quick profit,” said
ING’s Abdeen, who helps oversee about $250 million as a money
manager in Dubai.  Investor demand for riskier assets worldwide has increased
after the ECB said in December it will offer unlimited three-
year loans to banks, easing concern of a financial crisis in the
world’s second-biggest economic bloc.  ECB Boost  Dubai doesn’t need to raise money from international bond
markets in 2012 and has “no intention” of seeking support from
Abu Dhabi, the sheikhdom home to more than 90 percent of the
U.A.E.’s oil, Mohammed Al Shaibani, director general of the
Dubai ruler’s court, said on Feb. 15. Crude has climbed 8.2
percent in New York trading this year to $107.03 a barrel.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, the real
estate and hospitality company owned by Dubai’s ruler, repaid a
$500 million bond maturing on Feb. 1. The debt had traded for as
little as 91.4 cents on the dollar in October.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority’s Chief Executive
Officer Saeed Mohammed al-Tayer said in a March 13 interview
that the state-run utility will repay 1.2 billion dirhams of
loans ahead of schedule.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, said on Feb. 14 that fourth-quarter profit
more than doubled, beating the average estimate of five analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is valued at 0.6 times net
assets, less than half the 1.4 median ratio of global peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar Earnings  Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI)  reported a 36 percent
increase in annual profit on Feb. 13, topping analysts’
projections. The Dubai-based construction company trades for 11
times reported earnings, compared with the median multiple of 15
for global peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The markets had gotten cheaper and there’s a fundamental
valuation case there,” said Andrew Howell, a London-based
strategist for frontier and emerging European markets at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  who advises frontier-country investors to hold
more U.A.E. stocks than are represented in benchmark indexes.  Foreign money managers, who sold a net $45 million of Dubai
shares this year, may return after the outlook for economic
growth improved, according to Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head
of Middle East and North Africa investments at Schroder
Investment Management, whose parent company oversees about $291
billion.  ‘Blue Chips’  “International investors will start looking again at the
market,” Sidani said in a March 15 interview. “The blue chips
which have underperformed continue to offer great investment
cases.”  Ziad Dabbas, an adviser to Abu Dhabi Financial Services,
said the brokerage is fielding 50 to 60 calls a day from clients
and potential clients asking about the stock market, up from
about 15 on slower days at the end of 2011. The brokerage unit
of  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-biggest
bank by assets, will return to profit this quarter if volumes
remain high, Dabbas said.  “The past year was the survival of the fittest,” said
Hassan El Salah, the head of institutional equities at Al Ramz
Securities LLC, an Abu Dhabi-based brokerage that was ranked
first by the value of shares traded in Dubai in February. He
said the company plans to expand should volumes be sustained.  Revenue from trading a few months ago barely covered daily
expenses for most brokerages, said Daman Securities’ Al Khateeb.
Now that volumes have climbed, Daman isn’t worried about whether
it would have to close in tougher market conditions, he said.  “We are a believer in this market,” Al Khateeb said. “We
believe this year will be a strong one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  