-- Slovenia Plan Benchmark Bond Sale After Borrowing Costs D
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-26T11:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/slovenia-said-to-plan-bond-investor-meetings-in-europe.html
Slovenia, the first post-communist
nation to adopt the euro, plans to sell it first benchmark bond
this year as the European Central Bank loans to the banking
industry lowered its borrowing costs.  Slovenia hired BNP Paribas SA, HSBC Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Societe Generale SA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  to organize
presentations with investors in  Europe , the  Finance Ministry  in
the capital Ljubljana said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “The transaction will be carried out in the near future,
depending on market conditions,” the ministry said.  Slovenia wants to tap international investors after yields
on its benchmark bond have declined since December, when the ECB
started offering three-year loans to the banking industry.
Slovenia had its rating cut by two levels since September to A+
by  Standard & Poor’s , the fifth highest investment grade because
of an inadequate response of European leaders to the sovereign
debt crisis and weakness in the Slovenian  economy  and the
banking industry.  Slovenia may sell as much as 2.8 billion euros ($3.7
billion) in debt this year, Bostjan Plesec, the chief of the
debt management agency, said in a January interview.  “The timing is OK and Slovenia will probably be seeking to
sell 1 billion euros to 1.5 billion euros,” Marko Rozman, head
of trading of the investment and analytical department at
Dezelna Banka Slovenije d.d. in Ljubljana, said in an e-mail.
“The yield, if they opt for five-year notes, is likely to be in
the range of 220 basis points to 250 basis points above mid-
swaps.”  Borrowing Costs Surge  Slovenia’s borrowing costs surged in November past 7
percent on its benchmark bond because the debt crisis was
threatening  Italy , its neighbor to the west and its third-
biggest trading partner after Germany and  Austria . The yield on
the notes maturing in January 2021 has since dropped and was
trading at 5.147 percent at 1:05 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to
mid-pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prime Minister  Janez Jansa ’s government, which took power
in February after a snap vote in December, wants to allay
investors’ concern after public debt has more than doubled since
the 2007 adoption of the euro.  The administration pledged to cut spending by 800 million
euros by year’s end and lower the budget gap to 3 percent of
gross domestic product, according to Finance Minister Janez
Sustersic.  The Alpine nation initiated a legislative process to put
the goal of a balanced budget into the constitution after
European leaders agreed on tighter spending with the adoption of
the European Union fiscal treaty.  Slovenia’s public debt rose to 47.4 percent of GDP by the
end of last year from 23 percent in 2007, Sustersic has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  