-- SocGen Said to Create New Financial Institutions Unit
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   C h r i s   V .   N i c h o l s o n
-- 2012-03-26T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/socgen-said-to-create-new-financial-institutions-unit.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s
second-biggest bank, plans to create a new unit focused on
providing funding and advice to other financial institutions,
three people familiar with the matter said.  The unit will be led by Pierre-Yves Bonnet, currently
global head of strategic and acquisition finance at the bank,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the plans
are private.  The move comes as part of a broader reorganization of
Societe Generale’s investment bank scheduled for next month, two
of the people said. The French lender plans to combine its
equity capital markets team with its mergers and acquisitions
unit, the people said. Laurent Morel, head of global ECM at the
bank, will leave his current position while remaining at Societe
Generale in another role, the people said.  The combined unit, which may be named corporate finance,
will be led by Thierry d’Argent, Societe Generale’s current head
of mergers and acquisitions, said the people. Both Bonnet and
d’Argent will report to Thierry Aulagnon, head of the lender’s
coverage and investment banking division.  Societe Generale was one of the bookrunners for  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) ’s $10 billion rights offer in January and also managed  Banca
Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI) ’s share sale last year.  Europe ’s top
financial regulator is requiring the region’s banks to bolster
their capital levels by mid-2012 to withstand losses on
sovereign debt.  Societe Generale is reshuffling that division after its
corporate and investment bank posted its first loss in two years
and the French lender’s fourth-quarter profit fell 89 percent.
That unit had a 482 million-euro ($642 million) loss last
quarter as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed client trading
and Societe Generale sold and wrote down troubled assets.  The bank’s net income in the three months ended in December
declined to 100 million euros from 874 million euros a year
earlier, the bank said on Feb. 16.  Societe Generale ranks No. 7 in advising equity sales in
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest ranking for a French
bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson in Paris at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  