-- St. Jude’s Recalled Heart Wire May Fatally Short-Circuit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-26T20:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/st-jude-riata-heart-wire-may-fatally-short-circuit-in-patients.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s recalled
Riata wires, used to connect life-saving defibrillators to the
heart, can short circuit, a defect that may have led to 22
deaths, researchers said.  An analysis of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s
safety database turned up 133 deaths linked to St. Jude’s Riata
or  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s Quattro Secure leads, according to the
report from Robert Hauser, a cardiologist at the Minneapolis
Heart Institute. The 22 deaths that stemmed from failures of the
wires used to connect Riata and Riata ST to the heart were
typically caused by short circuits between high-voltage
components, the study found.  St. Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , stopped selling the
wires, known as leads, in December 2010 and recalled them a year
later amid reports that they could break through the insulation
coating and fail to work properly. The deaths weren’t caused by
the flaw, known as externalized conductors, Hauser said. The
wires remain in about 79,000 patients.  Riata and Riata ST wires “are prone to high-voltage
failures that have resulted in death,” according to the study
to be published in the journal Heart Rhythm that was obtained by
Bloomberg News and confirmed by Hauser. “These failures appear
to be caused by insulation defects that resulted in short-
circuiting between high-voltage components.”  Failures and Harm  Abrasion-related issues with defibrillator wires like Riata
that are insulated with silicone are known to cause failure and
patient harm, said Amy Jo Meyer, a St. Jude spokeswoman, in an
e-mail. The risk is documented in medical literature and is tied
to a failure rate ranging from 3 percent to 10 percent, she
said. The information was included in a December 2010 letter the
company sent to physicians, she said.  The risk is why St. Jude stopped selling silicone-only
defibrillator leads and started using a novel insulation known
as Optim, she said. Medtronic’s Quattro, which was compared with
Riata in the study, uses a polyurethane insulation.  “We continue to study the performance of our older
generation silicone leads through the Riata Lead Evaluation
Study that was initiated at the end of last year and will
communicate the findings from this study as soon as they become
available,” Meyer said.  Further Research  The company announced yesterday it had appointed  Population
Health Research Institute , an academic health science research
institute, to analyze data from three registries of the newer
Riata ST Optim and Durata leads to determine their performance.  “We take our responsibilities as a leading manufacturer of
cardiac rhythm management devices very seriously and recognize
our primary responsibility as a global medical device
manufacturer is to ensure that our devices are of the highest
quality and that they function safely and properly,” said Mark Carlson, chief medical officer of St. Jude. “We are pleased to
enlist PHRI to perform an independent analysis and validation of
the Optim insulated defibrillation lead data from these three
very large, long-term registries.”  St. Jude gained less than 1 percent to $43.80 at the close
in  New York . The shares have fallen 14 percent in the past year.  The analysis is a further look at a review by Hauser
released yesterday that found the failed leads had multiple
defects. Surgery to remove the wires still in use may present
higher risks than keeping them in, U.S. regulators have said.  Greater Visibility  There were five deaths tied to Medtronic’s Quattro Secure
lead, with the remainder stemming from other causes, according
to the report.  The study compares what is one of the best-performing
defibrillator leads, the Quattro, to an average or below average
lead, said Bruce Wilkoff, director of cardiac pacing and
defibrillation at the  Cleveland Clinic  and president of the
Heart Rhythm Society. The risk was already known, and the fact
that it happens more often with the silicone-coated lead isn’t
surprising, he said.  “This raises the visibility of the issue,” he said in a
telephone interview. “People will ask more questions and try to
work out what is the best way of a approaching these patients.
But the failure rate of this lead is not that much different
than other leads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  