-- Stocks to Gain as Crisis Wanes, BlackRock’s Doll Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-26T17:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/stocks-to-gain-as-crisis-wanes-blackrock-s-doll-says-tom-keene.html
Equities markets that have jumped
12.7 percent in 2012 are poised to gain at least another 10
percent before year’s end as the global financial crisis
subsides, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  Bob Doll .  “Equities will pause here for a bit as we consolidate the
good gains,” Doll, chief equity strategist at BlackRock in  New
Jersey , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “If Europe stays off the front
page and the Middle East behaves itself, we could see another
double-digit percentage gain between here and the end of the
year.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  added 0.9 percent at 12:56
a.m. in  New York , advancing to the highest level since May 2008.
The benchmark 10-year note fell, pushing the  yield  higher five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.28 percent, up more
than 0.4 percent this year.  Doll advised investors to move their money out of
Treasuries and into equities, while making sure to maintain
exposure to U.S. companies and focus on dividends. He said the
U.S. is the only major economy in the world that will have
stronger economic growth in 2012 than it had in 2011.  The U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to grow 2.2
percent this year, compared with 1.7 percent last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The euro region is
scheduled to contract 0.4 percent after growing 1.4 percent in
2011, while  China’s economy  will grow 8.3 percent after
expansion of more than 9 percent last year.  “Economic growth is acceptable,” he said. “Not
exceptional, but acceptable.”  ‘Incredible Support’  A part of the strength in equities can be attributed to
stimulative monetary policy across the globe, according to Doll.
The  Federal Reserve  has held the federal funds rate at a range
of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and has pledged to
keep it unchanged until the end of 2014.  “The central banks, and not just ours but all around the
world, have given incredible support to the environment,” he
said. “If the Fed or other central banks begin to be more
restrictive, it will be because the economy is good.”  The Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that accommodative
monetary policy is still needed to reduce U.S. unemployment in a
speech today in Arlington, Virginia, increasing speculation of a
third round of economic stimulus, or quantitative easing.  “What Bernanke is saying is that quantitative easing is
there if we need it,” Doll said. “I think he will constantly
talk about it to reassure markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  