-- Stomach Stapling Surgery Puts Diabetes on Hold, Studies Find
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-26T16:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/stomach-stapling-surgery-puts-diabetes-on-hold-studies-find.html
Diabetes runs in Heather Britton’s
family. Her mother died of complications at age 63, and over a
dozen other relatives have the disease. Until a few years ago,
Britton says she was convinced it would kill her too.  In January 2009, the Bay Village,  Ohio , woman underwent
gastric bypass surgery as part of a study by the Cleveland
Clinic to see if the operation can help severe diabetes. Within
months, she lost 80 pounds and stopped taking drugs for
diabetes, high cholesterol, and high  blood pressure .  The clinic’s results in 150 patients, reported today at the
 American College of Cardiology  meeting in  Chicago , found that
obesity surgery normalizes blood-sugar levels for a year in
overweight people with diabetes, outpacing the best drug therapy
and potentially changing medical practice, the researchers said.
A second trial in 60 patients found diabetes remission rates as
high as 95 percent two years after surgery.  “It has been amazing,” Britton, 53, said by telephone,
adding that her blood sugar is normal and she has kept almost
all the weight off. “There has been a total change to my
life.”  The studies are among the first to directly compare the
effect of obesity surgery to intensive drug treatment, wrote
Paul Zimmet, of the Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute in
 Australia , and George Alberti, of Kings College Hospital in
 London , in an editorial accompanying the research in the  New
England Journal of Medicine.   The findings “are likely to have a major effect on future
diabetes treatment,” they concluded.  Two Types of Surgery  Two types of surgery were studied. Gastric bypass, the most
common, limits food intake to a pouch about the size of a golf
ball at the top of the stomach. In so-called sleeve gastrectomy,
surgeons staple the stomach to reduce its volume by about 75
percent, from the size of a football to that of a banana.  About 200,000 Americans get obesity surgery every year, a
market mostly driven by severely heavy people. If confirmed, the
 Cleveland Clinic  study could expand use of the surgery to a wide
group of moderately obese people with uncontrolled diabetes,
said Philip Schauer, a surgeon at the center who led the study,
in a telephone interview.  “For people on seven, eight, nine medications who aren’t
getting better, their doctors should be talking to them about
this other option,” Schauer said. “Although it has risks, the
potential benefits are quite remarkable.”  One in three patients studied in the  Cleveland Clinic 
research wouldn’t have been big enough to qualify for obesity
surgery under current U.S. guidelines.  Normal Blood Sugar  About 42 percent of patients who got gastric bypass had
normal blood sugar levels a year later, compared with 12 percent
of patients on drugs, according to results. Almost 37 percent of
patients who got a second type of obesity operation called a
sleeve gastrectomy had normal blood-sugar levels a year later.  While four patients in the Cleveland Clinic study required
re-operations, there were no deaths or life-threatening
complications. The study was paid for by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
which makes surgical staples.  The second study, by researchers at Università Cattolica
del Sacro Cuore in  Rome  and New York Presbyterian Hospital in
 Manhattan , found even more impressive results. About 75 percent
of patients who got gastric bypass and 95 percent who got a
second type of surgery were in remission two years later.  The European research also studied used an aggressive
operation called a biliopancreatic diversion that removes about
80 percent of the stomach and bypasses most of the intestines to
reduce the amount of food absorption in the intestines.  ‘Discussion’ Begins  In the past, physicians who treat diabetics have been
resistant to considering surgery as an option for patients
uncontrolled on multiple medicines, said Maria Collazo-Clavell,
an endocrinologist at  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota .  The studies show that there should also be a discussion
about the possibilities of bariatric surgery, she said. Still,
doctors will need to weigh the risks and benefits, as surgery
can cause infections and in rare cases, death, she said in a
telephone interview.  For Britton, a programmer at  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HP)  learning
to eat again after she underwent surgery was “a major
struggle,” she said.  She now eats five or six mini-meals each day, and must take
supplements to make sure she is getting enough nutrients. Some 
“trigger foods” still make her sick, she said.  It’s worth it, Britton said. “My health has totally turned
around. It is kind of like a rebirth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at o
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  