-- Strauss-Kahn Charged With Procurement of Prostitutes
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-27T10:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/strauss-kahn-meets-judges-in-french-prostitution-ring-probe-1-.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , was charged by three
investigating judges in the northern French city of Lille with
procurement in a prostitution ring, prosecutors said.  The charge stems from an investigation into a prostitution
ring linked to the Carlton hotel in Lille. Investigators
uncovered evidence women had been hired to travel as far as
 Washington  to have sex with the then-chief of the IMF.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, turned himself in Feb. 21 and was held
overnight to answer questions as investigators sought to
determine whether he knew the women were prostitutes, or how
they were paid. French builder  Eiffage SA (FGR)  filed a complaint for
embezzlement after an internal probe found an employee spent as
much as 50,000 euros ($66,790) to pay for prostitutes for
Strauss-Kahn.  “The three investigating judges in Lille in charge of the
so-called Carlton affair have charged Mr.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn 
with aggravated organized procurement of prostitutes,”
prosecutors said last night in a statement.  The charges followed a closed-door meeting yesterday
between Strauss-Kahn and judges. Prosecutors said Strauss-Kahn
was ordered not to contact other people involved in the case,
including the eight other people charged in the case, witnesses
and the press, according to the statement. He was released on a
100,000 euro bond.  20 Years  Paying for sex is legal in  France , while procuring
prostitutes for someone else isn’t. Under the French penal code,
procurement in the context of a prostitution ring can be
punished by as much as 20 years in jail and 3 million euros.  Strauss-Kahn “declared with the greatest firmness that he
is not guilty of any of these deeds and never had the least
awareness that the women he met could have been prostitutes,”
Richard Malka, one of his lawyers, said last night upon leaving
the judges’ offices in Lille. His lawyers will hold a press
conference today in Paris.  The former IMF managing director gave up his post last year
after being arrested in  New York  on charges he sexually
assaulted a hotel maid. Local prosecutors dropped that case
because of concerns about his accuser’s credibility and Strauss-
Kahn returned to France, where he faced a separate accusation of
attempted rape, which was also dropped.  Civil Suit  Tomorrow, a hearing in New York state court in the Bronx is
scheduled in the civil suit of Nafissatou Diallo, the maid who
said Strauss-Kahn tried to rape her. His lawyers asked New York
State Supreme Court Justice Douglas E. McKeon to dismiss the
case, arguing Strauss-Kahn should have diplomatic immunity.  Diallo is seeking unspecified damages for what her lawyer
called “violent and deplorable acts” committed when she came
to clean his room at the Sofitel in midtown  Manhattan .  McKeon said he will listen to arguments from both sides
tomorrow and issue a written decision on Strauss-Kahn’s motion
about two to three weeks later. McKeon, who has been a judge in
 New York City  since 1989, said he has never dealt with a case
involving diplomatic immunity before.  Diallo’s lawyers say they have spoken with women from
“throughout the world” about their sexual encounters with
Strauss-Kahn and are confident they can use the information in
the civil case.  “Some of the people we’ve spoken to have said that he did
things against their will and that he was violent,” Douglas Wigdor, a Diallo lawyer in New York, said in November. The
stories “show Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s violence against women and his
modus operandi toward a lack of consent.”  The New York case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New
York State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  