-- Supreme Court Case Won’t End Republican Obamacare Attacks
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/supreme-court-case-won-t-end-republican-obamacare-attacks.html
The  Supreme Court  is much on Mitch McConnell’s mind these days. The Senate minority leader, a
Kentucky Republican, just finished reading Jean Edward Smith’s
biography of the great Chief Justice  John Marshall .  The book, a gift from the current chief justice,  John Roberts , reminded McConnell that disagreement over the scope of
the congressional power to regulate commerce among the states
“goes back to the beginning of the country.”  The court is again grappling with the issue this week, as
it hears arguments about the constitutionality of the health-
care legislation that President  Barack Obama  signed two years
ago. McConnell plans to attend part of the oral argument. “The
president  doesn’t want  to talk about it,” says McConnell, but
his fellow Senate Republicans are happy to. They will be making
a point of it this week and next.  McConnell is known as a crafty insider, rather than a
populist rabble-rouser, but sitting in his office in the Capitol
he speaks of the health-care law in the accents of the  Tea
Party . It is “the single-worst legislation that’s been passed in
the time I’ve been here,” he says. (He was first elected to the
Senate in 1984.) “ Obamacare  was really the metaphor for all of
the excess of this administration and a very compliant Congress
in ’09 and ’10.”  Intrusive and Bossy  Supporters of the law have repeatedly predicted that
Americans would soon come to like it. “They are genuinely
perplexed at how unpopular it is,” McConnell says. They
believed, he adds, that it would become as sacrosanct as Social
Security and  Medicare (USBOMDCR) , not realizing that it would come to be
seen, unlike those programs, as intrusive and bossy.  Democrats often tout two provisions of the law: the
requirement that insurers treat people with pre-existing
conditions the same as people without them, and the requirement
that they allow young adults to stay on their parents’ plans.
“I’ll concede those test well,” McConnell says. “What about the
other 95 percent of the bill?” The popular provisions do not
seem to be scaring his Republican colleagues away from
supporting repeal: “This is an issue where there are no
divisions,” he says.  McConnell argues that if the court upholds the requirement
for individuals to purchase health insurance, it would subvert
the constitutional order because the federal government would be
able to do anything the Constitution doesn’t specifically
prohibit. On the theory underlying the mandate, he argues, in
common with other opponents, the federal government could order
people to eat carrots, or quit smoking, or lose weight.  But McConnell doesn’t worry that a court decision to uphold
the mandate will make the law more popular or help the
Democrats. Most of the arguments Republicans made before the
vote on the law concerned its unwisdom rather than its
unconstitutionality, and no court decision can undermine those
arguments, he says. If the court keeps the law and McConnell
becomes Senate majority leader, he vows that “the first item up
would be to try to repeal Obamacare.”  But he doesn’t favor comprehensive legislation to replace
it. “We would want to more modestly approach this with more
incremental fixes,” he told me. “Not a massive Republican
alternative.”  Two ideas McConnell mentions are allowing people to
purchase health insurance across state lines and reforming
medical-malpractice laws. Neither idea would do much to increase
coverage, and McConnell didn’t mention one idea -- changing the
tax treatment of health insurance -- that would, perhaps because
his party hasn’t  reached  a consensus on it.  Election Issue  If McConnell shares the  jitters  of many Republicans about
the presidential race, he hides it well. And the president’s
record on health care is one of the reasons for his optimism.
“None of us has a clue what the Supreme Court will do,” he says.
“I don’t know what the  unemployment rate  will be on Election
Day. But I’ll bet you that Obamacare will be unpopular in
November.”  Signing the health-care legislation was probably the most
consequential action Obama has taken, yet it seems likely that
both major presidential candidates will be hesitant to talk
about it. Obama will avoid the topic because it’s unpopular,
while his probable challenger,  Mitt Romney , will do the same
because the health-care law he himself signed as governor of
 Massachusetts  bears an embarrassing resemblance to it.  McConnell faces no such constraints. He is going to do what
he can to keep the issue alive, whatever the Supreme Court
decides.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on  health-care reform’s day in court  and  Russia’s
objections to missile defense .  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  Israel’s
overconfident leaders .  Edward Glaeser  on  regulation that can aid
entrepreneurs .  Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  on why the U.S.
 abandoned the gold standard .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  