-- Swiss Designers of Spas, Tate Modern Follow Le Corbusier
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-03-27T10:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/swiss-designers-of-spas-tate-modern-follow-le-corbusier.html
Forget cheese and chocolate.
Switzerland’s latest successful export is architects.  The Swiss have proven that architectural prowess needs no
translation, with Jacques Herzog and Pierre De Meuron creating
the “Bird’s Nest” for the Beijing Olympics and converting a
 London  power plant into the Tate Modern Museum. Bernard Tschumi
designed the New Acropolis Museum in  Athens  and Mario Botta
crafted  San Francisco ’s Museum of  Modern Art .  “In a certain sense, we’re the new luxury exports,”
Botta, 68, said in an interview at his Mendrisio, Switzerland,
office in the southern Alps. “Swatch helps the image of Swiss
architecture as well even if it only makes watches.”  Switzerland’s wealth, quality of construction and
reputation for precision have promoted a style of architecture
that started with Le Corbusier, whose face adorns the Swiss 10-
franc note. Yet in the land of Alpine peaks, the tallest
building is the new Swiss Prime Tower in Zurich at just 36
stories. Switzerland’s limits on size means architects often go
abroad seeking new challenges on a bigger canvas.  “You cannot become a star in Switzerland, the country
simply is too small and there aren’t that many big projects
where architects can reach international fame,” said Christian
Schmid, who teaches at the  Swiss Federal Institute of Technology 
or ETH. Still, “there’s a very lively architectural scene in
Switzerland with many good architects.”  Swiss Architectural Stars  Since 2001, Switzerland’s Peter Zumthor and partners Herzog
andDe Meuron have won the annual Pritzker Prize, the most
important global prize in architecture. This year’s award went
to Chinese architect Wang Shu, whose works feature recycled
bricks and salvaged roofing tiles.  Past laureates include Americans such as  Frank Gehry , feted
for his Guggenheim Museum Bilbao,  France ’s  Jean Nouvel , designer
of the Quai Branly Museum in Paris, and  Norman Foster , whose
iconic Gherkin building in London’s financial district was
commissioned by Zurich-based reinsurer  Swiss Re (SREN) .  “We Swiss are not so susceptible to trends,” Zumthor, 68,
said to explain Switzerland’s architectural successes after
winning the 2009 Pritzker.  Zumthor built the Serpentine Gallery pavilion in London
last year, a summer structure commissioned annually. This year,
childhood friends Herzog and De Meuron along with Chinese artist
Ai Weiwei, whom they collaborated with in Beijing, are designing
the pavilion amid the run-up to London’s Summer Olympics.  Important architects are chosen for the pavilion, “and
among the big names in the world, there are just very many
Swiss, which is incredible,” Hans-Ulrich Obrist, co-director of
the Serpentine Gallery and Swiss, said in a phone interview.  Thermal Spa  “The constraints that  Switzerland  has, such as the
topography, create very interesting and dynamic architecture.”  Such topographical challenges in a nation where 40 percent
of the terrain is mountains proved little issue for Zumthor, who
built the Vals thermal baths southwest of Davos using 60,000
slabs of local rock.  Besides terrain, costs in a country of almost 8 million
residents are also important after the Swiss franc reached near-
parity with the euro last year, denting exports.  Local acceptance is crucial to the Swiss style of
democracy, with popular votes held to approve large projects.
Switzerland’s last big concert hall survived four referendums
before it was finished in 2000 by Nouvel on Lake Lucerne. Nouvel
also designed packaging for  Nestle SA (NESN)  to revamp a chocolate
brand.  Switzerland’s populace can be “perplexed by large and
expensive projects,” Schmid said.  Voting on Projects  While plans for a new Kongresshaus conference center in
Zurich were voted down, deemed as too expensive, Bern’s museum
for painter  Paul Klee  by  Italy ’s Pritzker-winner Renzo Piano,
architect of London’s landmark tower the Shard, won the go-ahead
from voters who admired its rolling design.  Swiss architecture has developed differently than the rest
of  Europe  as the country didn’t suffer the vast destruction of
World War II that Italy, France,  Germany  and Britain did.  “In Switzerland, there was a vacuum out of which in the
1980s came a group of new starters, including Livio Vacchini,
Zumthor, Herzog and De Meuron and myself,” said Peter Maerkli,
58, a design professor at ETH who built La Congiunta, a
minimalist sculpture museum in Ticino, and the visitor’s center
for drugmaker  Novartis AG (NOVN)  in Basel.  Homegrown Talent  With the exception of Zumthor, all studied at ETH, founded
in 1855 and a source for homegrown architectural talent.  “At ETH in Zurich, from very early on you are asked to
work with the design and the construction at the same time,”
Lausanne, Switzerland-bornTschumi said in a phone interview
from his office in  New York . “Many other cultures separate the
two.”  For his New Acropolis Museum at the foot of the ancient
Acropolis in Athens, Tschumi did just that, designing a
structure infusing concrete and glass with history.  “The approach to the build was very Swiss” as the site
was set amid delicate archaeological excavations in a hot
climate and quake zone, Tschumi said. “These conditions moved
us to design a simple and precise museum with the mathematical
and conceptual clarity of ancient  Greece .”  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, has hired Herzog and De Meuron to construct what will be
Switzerland’s tallest building in Basel. When done it will top
the Swiss Prime Tower by Gigon and Guyer by 4-5 stories.  Paradigm Shift?  That project may mark a paradigm shift for Swiss
architecture as younger architects find a toehold at home.  Harald Echsle and Annette Spillmann, for example, built the
Freitag flagship retail store in Zurich’s former industrial west
with 17 used shipping containers.  These architects may pave the way for a new generation that
integrates architecture with urban Swiss zoning where limited
building land leads to higher buildings. “This is where the
future lies,” Maerkli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthias Wabl at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net  