-- Swiss Stocks Advance, Halting Five-Day Losing Streak
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-26T15:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/swiss-stocks-advance-halting-five-day-losing-streak.html
Swiss stocks  rose, snapping five
days of losses, after a measure of business confidence in
 Germany  unexpectedly climbed and the U.S. Federal Reserve said
accommodative monetary policy is needed to reduce unemployment.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches, and
 Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement maker, led gains
by shares sensitive to economic growth.  Nestle SA (NESN)  rose 1 percent
after ING Groep NV increased its price estimate.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s largest
and most actively traded companies, added 0.7 percent to
6,283.26 at the close in Zurich. The number of shares changing
hands on the index was 22 percent lower than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge lost 1.6
percent last week for its biggest weekly decline in four months.
The broader Swiss Performance Index also rose 0.7 percent today.  The SMI has  climbed 5.9 percent  this year as the  European
Central Bank  lent the region’s financial institutions more than
1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years and U.S.
economic reports beat estimates.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said today that its
 business-climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
increased to 109.8 in March from a revised 109.7 last month.
Economists had forecast it would remain unchanged at the initial
February reading of 109.6, according to the  median of 44
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that the
world’s largest economy needs further accommodative monetary
policy to push the  unemployment rate  below 8.3 percent.  ‘Help from Liquidity’  “That means we’re going to need help from liquidity to
hold up the jobs market,” said John Plassard, director at Louis
Capital Markets SA in Geneva. “The market is anticipating a
third round of quantitative easing.”  U.S. economic reports this week may show that  orders for
durable goods  in the world’s largest economy increased in
February, while gauges of manufacturing in the Dallas and
Richmond areas declined in March.  Swatch increased 1.6 percent to 426 Swiss francs and Holcim
added 1.3 percent to 61.10 francs.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, climbed 1 percent
to 56.95 francs. ING lifted its share-price estimate to 57
francs from 54.50 francs. The maker of KitKat chocolate bars and
Perrier bottled water contributed the most to the benchmark
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) ’s advance today.  Lifewatch AG (LIFE)  advanced 6.7 percent to 8.43 francs. The maker
of medical equipment used to monitor cardiac patients said it
settled an investigation by the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services and the  U.S. Department of Justice .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  