-- U.K. Lawmakers Warn Twitter, Google Over Court Orders
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-27T08:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-k-lawmakers-warn-twitter-inc-google-inc-over-court-orders.html
A panel of U.K. lawmakers said the
government should consider new laws if search engines and social
media platforms such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Twitter Inc. and  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  don’t abide by court orders on people’s privacy.  In a report published today, Parliament’s cross-party Joint
Committee on Privacy and Injunctions cited the May 2011 case of
soccer player  Ryan Giggs , who got an injunction to keep details
of an affair secret, only to find the information repeated
75,000 times on Twitter.  Instead of calling for a new privacy law, the panel urged
stronger enforcement of existing rules, saying prosecutors
should lower the bar for bringing contempt of court actions
against people who break injunctions and that the platforms
should work to comply with them.  “When granting an injunction, courts should be proactive
in directing the claimant to serve notice on internet content
platforms, such as Twitter and Facebook,” the report said.
“The Attorney General should be more willing to exercise his
power as Guardian of the Public Interest to bring actions.”  The committee reserved criticism for Google’s refusal to
develop technology to prevent material that was subject to court
orders from appearing in search results.  ‘Totally Unconvincing’  “We find their objections in principle to developing such
technology totally unconvincing,” it said. “Where an
individual has obtained a clear court order that certain
material infringes their privacy and so should not be published
we do not find it acceptable that he or she should have to
return to court repeatedly in order to remove the same material
from internet searches.”  “This is a really important issue for which there are no
easy answers, particularly when balancing freedom of expression
and tackling unlawful content,” Google said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Google already remove specific pages deemed unlawful by
the courts,” it said. “We have a number of simple tools anyone
can use to report such content, which we then remove from our
index.”  It added: “Requiring  search engines  to screen the content
of their web pages would be like asking phone companies to
listen in on every call made across their networks for
potentially suspicious activity,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 