-- U.K. Rental Market Needs $319 Billion to Fill Financing Gap
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-k-rental-market-needs-319-billion-to-fill-financing-gap.html
The U.K. will need about 200
billion pounds ($319 billion) of investment in rental housing
over the next five years as more Britons are shut out of home
ownership,  Savills Plc (SVS)  and Rightmove Plc said.  Private landlords, who currently account for almost all
U.K. rental properties that aren’t owned by the government,
probably will provide 25 percent of the homes needed, according
to a report published today by the real-estate firms. That means
most of the money will have to come from investment funds.  “We need to drive institutional investment because in five
years’ time, we won’t have the stock to match demand,” Gavin
Sung, head of home leasing at Savills, said at a briefing in
London yesterday.  Institutional investors own about 5.5 million apartments in
the U.S., CBRE Group Inc. estimates, compared with virtually
none in the U.K. Unattractive returns on British rental property
have kept larger funds out of the market. There are signs of
improvement as rents increase and purchase prices decline,
according to the report.  “Low yields have been the biggest barrier to much-needed
long-term investment,” Lucian Cook, director of Savills
research, said in the report. “But as yields move out, there
are early signs of changing investor behavior.”  The U.K.’s housing slump boosted the number of renters as
banks reined in lending and demanded a larger proportion of the
purchase price up front. Tighter funding also contributed to
price declines and reduced the number of so-called buy-to-let
investors, who had fuelled a construction boom. Buy-to-let
funding will probably supply only 50 billion pounds of the 200
billion pounds needed, the report said.  Rising Rents  Savills forecast a 20 percent increase in U.K. rents over
the next five years, including 3 percent this year. The
country’s 4.8 million privately leased homes generated 48
billion pounds of rental income for private landlords last year,
according to the report. That’s expected to climb to 70 billion
pounds by 2016.  “We expect a 23 percent increase in the number of private
rented households, which is about 1.1 million extra homes,”
Cook said. “That’s an idea of the opportunity for institutional
investment.”  U.K. homebuilders need to develop buildings that will
attract institutional investors, which tend to shun existing
stock, according to Cook. An investment fund may seek a 25
percent discount on bulk residential purchases, he said.  Athletes’ Village  The U.K.’s largest private-rented project is the athletes’
village in  London ’s Olympic Park. In August, U.K. developer
Delancey and a division of Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co. bought the 1,439 apartments for 557 million pounds and plan
to convert them into homes, mostly for rental, after the Summer
Games.  The site will be available to tenants about a year after
the Games, which finish with the  Paralympic Games  on Sept. 9,
according to Sung of Savills. He declined to say how much the
apartments would be rented for.  The gap between rental demand and supply is at its highest
level since April 2009, according to  Miles Shipside , a director
at Rightmove, operator of the U.K.’s largest property-search
website. The average asking rent in London rose 7.2 percent in
London, the most in the U.K., according to  Rightmove. (RMV)   Kensington and Chelsea has the U.K.’s highest average
asking rent for a two-bedroom property at 48,230 pounds last
year. The lowest is 4,560 pounds a year in the borough of
Blaenau Gwent in south  Wales , according to Rightmove and
Savills.  London residents are spending around 53 percent of their
income on rent on average for a two-bedroom property, according
to Savills, Rightmove and Oxford Economics. That compares with
35 percent in  England ’s southeast, the second highest
percentage.  “That would suggest that there are a lot of people
sharing,” Cook said at a briefing. “It’s very common in London
but we expect to see that appear elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 