-- U.S. Suspends Argentina Trade Benefits Over Unpaid Damages
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-26T20:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-s-suspends-trade-benefits-for-argentina-over-unpaid-fines-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
suspend trade preferences for  Argentina  in retaliation for the
government’s failure to pay damages owed U.S. investors.  Goods worth $477 million, about 11 percent of total U.S.
imports from Argentina last year, will no longer be eligible for
tariff reductions under the Generalized System of Preferences, a
program to assist trade from developing nations, the U.S Trade
Representative’s office said in a statement.  The U.S. wants President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government to pay damages awarded by the  World Bank’s 
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes to
companies including  Azurix Corp (AZX) . The Houston-based company that
specializes in water services said in September that it is owed
$235 million, including interest, stemming from the decision a
decade ago to devalue the Argentine currency and freeze the
utility’s peso-denominated tariffs.  “We urge the government of Argentina to pay the subject
awards,” U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said in an e-mailed
statement. “This would allow us to consider reinstating
Argentina’s GSP eligibility and promote the growth of a mutually
beneficial U.S.-Argentina trade and investment relationship.”  Argentina had a  trade  deficit of $3.4 billion with the U.S.
in 2011, according to the national statistics agency. About 5
percent of its total exports are shipped to the U.S.  Beneficiaries of the U.S. trade program include exporters
of food and chemical goods, according to Mauricio Claveri, an
economist at Buenos Aires-based Abeceb.com research company.  Retaliation  The measure announced by the U.S. may trigger similar
action by other countries that were affected by Fernandez’s
decision this year to boost import restrictions to protect the
country’s trade surplus, Claveri said.  “There are several countries in  Europe  and in the region
that are complaining against Argentina’s trade policies,”
Claveri said. “This decision by the U.S. may generate further
retaliations.”  Argentina, which defaulted on $95 billion in bonds in late
2001, said that the U.S. decision was a result of pressure from
investors who didn’t accept the country’s debt restructuring
offers in 2005 and 2010.  “The lobby exercised by the vulture funds to get this
decision is a pressure that our country condemns,” said
Argentina’s Foreign Ministry in an e-mail statement. “Argentina
regrets the attempt to force our country to take a decision that
violates national laws on payments of rulings.”  As part of the changes announced today,  South Sudan , which
was created as a nation state last year, was added to the GSP
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  