-- U.S. Northeast Chill May Boost Heating Needs Near Normal
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-26T12:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-s-northeast-chill-may-boost-heating-needs-near-normal.html
A return to more seasonal weather
in New England and the Northeast this week may mean energy
needed for heating will be about normal for this time of year.  High temperatures will be in the 40s in New England and 50s
in  New York City  this week, according to the  National Weather
Service . Heating demand will be near normal throughout the
region, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives.  A freeze warning is in effect from Indiana to New Jersey
because overnight temperatures may fall below 32 degrees
Fahrenheit (zero Celsius), damaging plants that started growing
in last week’s above-normal warmth, the weather service said.  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. Gas prices have fallen 24 percent this
year as mild weather crimped demand while production reached
record levels. About 51 percent of U.S. households use natural
gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  While weather in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic states is
expected to be close to seasonal this week, temperatures may be
5 to 8 degrees above normal in the central U.S., said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC.  The central Great Plains may see temperatures 15 degrees
above normal.  Warmth Fading  “About the only things that the models agree upon right
now are that the super-warm March pattern is finally fading and
that the Midwest and South retains most residual warmth going
through the 6- to 10-day period” March 31 to April 4, Rogers,
based in Bethesda, Maryland, said in a note to clients.  The U.S. heating degree days value for this week is
expected to be 69, or 43 below normal and 76 lower than last
year, according to the  Climate Prediction Center  in Camp
Springs, Maryland.  Heating-degree days values are calculated by subtracting
the daily average temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show
energy demand. Higher values mean cooler weather and more energy
being used to heat homes and businesses.  New England  will have the highest value at 153, or 26 below
normal and 56 lower than last year, while the mid-Atlantic may
have the second highest with 130, or 29 lower than normal and 85
below last year.  From April 1 to April 5, the upper Great Plains and Midwest
may have temperatures 10 to 18 degrees above normal, said
Salmon, in Belton, Missouri, in his 6- to 10-day outlook.  The East Coast is expected to be 2 to 6 degrees above
normal, except in eastern New England where temperatures will be
seasonal, Salmon said.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for April 3 is
about 48, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . It’s 44 in Boston, 45 in  Chicago , 53 in St. Louis, 59
in Atlanta, 62 in  Dallas , 67 in Houston, 49 in  Seattle  and 60 in
Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  