-- U.S. Stocks May Rally Another 30 Percent, Gayed Predicts
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-s-stocks-may-rally-another-30-percent-gayed-predicts.html
U.S. stocks  may extend their rally
by 30 percent this year as investors move money from bonds into
stocks on growing confidence about the economy, said Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist at Pension Partners LLC.  “There’s a lot of scared money in bonds and defensive
stocks,” Gayed, who helps oversee $160 million, said in a phone
interview from  New York . There may be “a major flow into risky
assets as investors start to believe in the return of inflation
which, in turn, will change how equities are perceived.”  Inflation expectations have climbed this year, bond prices
show. The yield difference between five-year inflation-linked
debt and comparable maturity Treasuries was 2.16 percentage
points on March 16. The rate, a measure of the outlook for
consumer prices over the life of the securities, has climbed
from 1.53 points on Dec. 16.  “The market sensed very early in 2012 that deflation risks
were no longer a concern,” Gayed said. “Those sectors most
sensitive to inflation started showing strengths, and leadership
in those areas looks likely to continue as more and more
investors believe in the inflation theme.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has rallied 11 percent
since the beginning of the year and has surged 27 percent from
its October 2011 low amid better-than-forecast economic and
company earnings data. Global equities have gained about $5.2
trillion in value this year.  Financial Sector ‘Key’  Banks and financial companies, which have jumped 20 percent
as a group, have led this year’s rally.  “Financials are the key to everything,” Gayed said. “If
banks are telling you things are OK through dividend increases
and stock buybacks, it’s an automatic sign the financial crisis
is coming to an end and that they see an improvement.”  The  Federal Reserve  this month said 15 of the 19 largest
U.S. banks could maintain adequate capital levels even in a
severe recession scenario that assumes they continue to pay
dividends and buy back stock.  “It’s hard for anyone to argue that markets will drop
significantly this year,” Gayed said. “Almost everything
people were afraid of happened. In the eyes of many investors,
 Greece  defaulted. Italy’s bond yields reached record highs. And
despite no conviction by investors and continued skepticism, the
markets have continued to rally.”  Gayed, who  predicted in June 2011  that the market would
post “a significant decline,” said he expects “anything
consumer-related” to catch up with the rally in the second-half
of the year.  “Everyone is talking about a hard landing in  China ,”
Gayed said. “They’re using that as an excuse for a correction.
A correction, if there even is one, would be minimal and shallow
at best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  