-- U.S. Supreme Court Orders Trial in Case of ‘Israel’ on Passport
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-26T14:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-s-supreme-court-orders-trial-in-case-of-israel-on-passport.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  said a lower
court should consider a suit filed under a law that lets
Americans born in Jerusalem designate Israel as their place of
birth on their passport.  A trial judge and a federal appeals court barred a hearing
in the case, ruling that questions about Jerusalem’s status are
political issues that can’t properly be reviewed by the courts.
In an 8-1 decision today, the high court said the lawsuit should
go forward. Justice  Stephen Breyer  dissented.  The ruling is a victory for the parents of 9-year-old
Menachem Binyamin Zivotofsky. They sued in 2003 to have Israel
listed on the boy’s passport, pointing to a 2002 law giving
Jerusalem-born passport holders or their parents the option of
using  Israel  as the designation.  The Obama administration contended that Congress was
infringing on the president’s exclusive power to recognize
foreign sovereigns and determine their territorial boundaries.
The State Department has a policy of not taking a position on
the political status of Jerusalem.  The Zivotofsky family’s lawyers argued that any
presidential interest in the place-of-birth designation was too
trivial to warrant overturning an act of Congress. Thirty-nine
members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, filed a brief
urging the court to uphold the law.  “Insofar as the controversy reflects different foreign
policy views among the political branches of government, those
branches have nonjudicial methods of working out their
differences,” Breyer wrote in his dissent.  The case is Zivotofsky v. Clinton, 10-699.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 