-- U.S. House Backs Exemptions to Swaps Rules in Bipartisan Vote
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-03-26T23:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/u-s-house-backs-exemptions-to-swaps-rules-in-bipartisan-vote.html
The U.S. House voted to exempt
manufacturers and commercial swap-users from collateral
requirements and ease regulations on inter-company trades in a
bid to amend the Dodd-Frank Act financial overhaul.  The collateral measure, approved 370-24 in Washington, is
designed to bar regulators from requiring so-called end-users to
post margin. MillerCoors LLC has  sought an exemption  for swaps
it uses to hedge the price of aluminum, while Baltimore-based
 Constellation Energy Group (CEG)  uses  derivatives  to hedge volatility
in physical energy markets.  The two measures passed with bipartisan support and need
Senate approval before heading to President  Barack Obama  for
his signature. Republican and Democrat lawmakers have argued
that regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. have misinterpreted Dodd-Frank to lead
some end-users to face margin requirements.  “They have interpreted Dodd-Frank as not providing a clear
exemption,” Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican, said today.  The Democrat-led Senate has yet to consider similar
legislation and currently has no hearings or floor action
scheduled on the bill. Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, at a hearing last week, said that he was open to making
“technical corrections and fixing unintended consequences, but
in today’s political environment, there will need to be broad
bipartisan support to get anything approved.”  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, is
intended to reduce risk in the $708 trillion global swap market
after largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit
crisis. The law is designed to have most swaps guaranteed by
clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers, and traded
on exchanges or other platforms.  Collateral Rule  A regulatory  proposal  published last April governing non-
cleared swaps may lead end-users to post collateral, the
Coalition for Derivatives End-Users has testified to Congress.
The Fed,  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  and three other
regulators designed the proposal to limit the burden on end-
users,  John Walsh , acting Comptroller of the Currency,  said in
December . The proposal would require swap dealers to set credit
thresholds above which end-users could be required to post
margin.  A separate measure, approved on a 357-36 vote, would bar
regulators from imposing clearing, trading and margin
requirements on transactions between affiliates of a company
that files consolidated financial statements. “Without this
bill, companies could face double the margin and regulatory
costs,” Garrett said.  Exempting Certain Trades  The  Institute of International Bankers  and  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  have urged regulators to
exempt inter-affiliate trades because they don’t present risks
to the financial-system.  Requiring inter-affiliate swaps to comply with the clearing
and margin rules, “could actually increase risk for individual
swap dealers, as well as for the broader market, by impeding
internal risk management and mandating strict adherence to
costly and burdensome regulatory requirements that provide
little to no benefits,” Keith Bailey, managing director at
 Barclays Capital , said in  testimony  before a House Financial
Services subcommittee in October. Isda’s members included
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission , said last month that the agency may seek
comment on whether to require clearing for inter-affiliate
trades between subsidiaries of a financial company. Transactions
in which one party is a non-financial entity wouldn’t face the
requirements, Gensler told House Agriculture Committee lawmakers
on Feb. 29.  Attorney-Client Privilege  The House also passed by voice-vote a measure aimed at
protecting attorney-client privilege on information that banks
provide to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The
proposal, which has the support of  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s
director, would apply the same information protection guidelines
as are followed by the other banking regulators.  The bureau proposed a rule earlier this month aimed at
clarifying the legal confidentiality protections in place for
documents that banks share with the agency.  Johnson and Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, the top
Republican on the panel, have introduced a similar proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at   pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  