-- Lufthansa, Air Berlin Drop Flights Amid Airport Walkouts
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-03-27T09:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/lufthansa-to-cancel-400-flights-worldwide-tomorrow-due-to-strike.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germany’s two biggest airlines, scrapped more than
460 flights worldwide today because of a strike by baggage
handlers and security staff at the country’s main airports.  More than 80 percent of the 435 flights canceled by
Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest carrier, affected takeoffs
and landings at the company’s primary hub in  Frankfurt ,
according to information on the  airline’s website . Air Berlin
 dropped 29  flights nationwide because of the strikes, the
airline said today on its website.  Fraport AG (FRA) , which operates
Frankfurt airport, said one-third of flights had been scrapped.  “We are affected by some delays and have 445 cancellations
at Frankfurt airport today,” Mike Peter Schweitzer, a spokesman
for Fraport, said by telephone. “But we have basic handling
possibilities for flights despite the strikes and still have
1,300 planned flight movements today.”  Airports in Berlin, Munich, Cologne, Dortmund, Dusseldorf
and Stuttgart are also affected by the walkouts led by the
 Ver.di  labor union in a public-sector pay dispute. Strikes have
also affected kindergartens, trash-collection, power stations,
hospitals and public offices across  Germany  this month as Ver.di
seeks wage increases for about 2 million federal, state and
municipal employees.  Separate Strike  The walkouts are separate from strikes that ground
controllers held at Frankfurt airport last month that  Fraport  (FRA) 
estimated reduced passenger numbers by 170,000 travelers.
Frankfurt airport, Europe’s third-busiest after  London  Heathrow
and Paris Charles de Gaulle, handles 140,000 to 150,000
passengers daily, Schweitzer said today.  Lufthansa is canceling flights from cities including
Copenhagen, Istanbul, London,  Madrid ,  Rome , Stockholm and Tel
Aviv to German destinations, as well as outbound flights to
cities such as  Abu Dhabi , Detroit, Kuwait, Mumbai,  New Delhi  and
Orlando.  The strikes are scheduled from 5 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt, and until noon at most other airports, Air Berlin
said.  Ver.di is demanding a 6.5 percent pay raise for government
employees. The union said on March 13 that it will call more
strikes after pay talks in Potsdam broke up without result, and
it called an offer by employers for a 3.3 percent pay increase
“a provocation.”  Negotiations will resume  on March 28 and
March 29.  Lufthansa, the dominant carrier in Frankfurt,  Europe ’s
third-busiest airport, said late last month that the ground-
controllers’ walkouts in February led to costs “significantly”
exceeding 10 million euros ($13.3 million).  Frankfurt airport’s ground controllers, who handle taxiing
and parking of planes at terminal gates, reached a pay agreement
with Fraport this month, Fraport said March 21. The Gewerkschaft
der Flugsicherung union approved a proposal for wages that will
at least match pay levels at Munich airport, Fraport said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  