-- Myriad’s Human-Gene Patent Rehearing Ordered by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-03-26T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/human-gene-patent-rehearing-ordered-by-high-court-in-myriad-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  ordered a
lower court to revisit whether human genes can be patented in
light of the justices March 20 decision that limited the ability
to obtain legal protection for some diagnostic medical tests.  The justices today ordered the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit to reconsider its decision that allowed
patents on genetic material used in  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  tests
for breast and ovarian cancer.  The  high court  on March 20 said that patents shouldn’t be
allowed on tests that look at, for instance, the proper dosage
for a medicine based on a body’s reaction to a drug. Such tests
merely cover natural phenomenon and aren’t inventions, the court
ruled. The Federal Circuit, which specializes in U.S. patent
law, must consider the effect of that ruling on the Myriad
patents.  “The message is, ‘We’re not prejudging what the outcome
should be in this case, but we don’t think you’ve analyzed it in
the right way,’” said Nick Groombridge, a patent lawyer with
 Paul Weiss  in  New York  who also teaches law at Columbia and
Rutgers Universities.  The March 20 decision involved a dispute between Nestle
SA’s Prometheus unit and units of the  Mayo Clinic  and whether
certain types of diagnostic tests met the threshold of
eligibility for a patent. A June 2010 decision by the Supreme
Court also addressed what types of inventions qualify for legal
protection.  Array of Opponents  Myriad said the case doesn’t involve all of its patents
that cover the screening tests. Still, the company said, it
would defend the claims that are the subject of the lawsuit.  “It has great importance to the medical, pharmaceutical,
biotechnology and other commercial industries, as well as the
hundreds of millions of people whose lives are bettered by the
products these industries develop based on the promise of strong
patent protection,” Myriad Chief Executive Officer Peter Meldrum said in a statement.  The Myriad case pits the biotechnology industry, which
supports gene patents, against an array of opponents --including
doctors, researchers and patients -- who say gene patents will
stifle innovation and improperly permit a monopoly on part of
the human body. The case affects the field of personalized
medicine, in which doctors determine whether a patient is
susceptible to a particular disease or would be more responsive
to certain medications.  Human Genes  “The question of whether human genes and the information
they convey are patentable is of paramount importance to the
future of  patent law , the advancement of medical science and
patients’ health,” the challengers to the Myriad patents argued
in their appeal.  The group, whose legal team includes the  American Civil
Liberties Union , is pressing a test case against Salt Lake City-
based Myriad. The company makes tests for the hereditary risk of
breast and ovarian cancer.  The Prometheus patents “excluded too many other people
from developing new things,” said James Mullen, a patent lawyer
with Morrison & Foerster in  San Diego  who specializes in helping
biotechnology companies obtain patents. He said that the Supreme
Court’s decision to have the Federal Circuit look at the patents
anew is good news for patents on gene-related technology.  “If they wanted to put a stake through the heart of these
claims, they’d do it,” Mullen said of the  Supreme Court . “If
they delve into isolated DNA claims, they would have the ability
to disrupt and cripple biotechnology across the board.”  Myriad Rises  Myriad rose 56 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $23.34 at 4 p.m.,
its biggest one-day jump since Feb. 23. About 2.5 million shares
were traded, almost four times the three-month daily average.  About 20 percent of human genes have some level of patent
protection, according to a 2005 article in Science magazine. The
biotechnology industry says patents let it attract  venture
capital  to pay for research into new medicines and the causes of
diseases.  The central legal issue is whether so-called isolated DNA -
- genetic coding that has been removed from the body and
separated from other material -- is a product of nature and thus
ineligible for patent protection under previous Supreme Court
rulings.  In the March 20 decision, Justice  Stephen Breyer  wrote for
a unanimous court in warning against “tying up the use of the
underlying natural laws.”  Actual Politics  “To the extent that actual politics intrude on the thought
process of the Supreme Court, I wonder if they’re not concerned
with patent policy that results in an increase in costs to
patients,” Mullen said.  Genes are encoded strands of nucleotides in different
sequences that are responsible for inherited traits. In
isolating genes, Myriad strips out unneeded information to home
in on aspects that determine whether a person has a higher risk
of breast and ovarian cancer.  In court papers, Myriad said that “human intervention”
brings isolated DNA within the scope of the U.S. patent laws.
The company says the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued
2,645 patents for isolated DNA over the past 30 years.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad
Genetics, 11-725.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 