-- Hungary to Hold EU’s Highest Interest Rate on IMF Delay
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-27T09:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/hungary-to-hold-eu-s-highest-interest-rate-on-imf-delay.html
Hungary ’s central bank will
probably refrain from cutting the European Union’s highest
benchmark interest rate because of a delay in obtaining an
 International Monetary Fund  loan.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will leave the  two-week deposit
rate  at 7 percent for a third month today, according to all 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Central bank President
Andras Simor will explain the decision at 3 p.m. in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , battling to avert a recession,
asked for a bailout from the EU and the IMF in November as the
forint fell to a record low against the euro and the country’s
credit grade was cut to junk. Talks have yet to start as Hungary
has failed to show that independent institutions such as the
central bank are free of government influence.  “It is pretty clear to us that the EU-IMF assistance
package is a key determinant of interest rate policy,” Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , said in an e-
mailed report yesterday, adding that June was the earliest date
for an agreement. “It now looks to us as though the conditions
for rate cuts to materialize will be in place later than we
previously thought.”  The forint has weakened 1.5 percent against the euro since
rising to the strongest in five months on Feb. 21 as investors
questioned the government’s commitment to an IMF accord. It
appreciated 0.3 percent to 290.6 per euro by 11:34 a.m. in
Budapest. The currency strengthened 8.4 percent this year after
falling 15 percent in the second half of last year. A second day
of gains in the state’s benchmark 3-year bond cut yields by 6
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.552 percent.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Hungarian debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps rose to a month-high
544 basis points on March 23, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The spread fell to
535 basis points today.  Hungary was the first EU country to obtain an IMF bailout
in 2008 after investors sold the assets of the most-indebted
eastern member of the EU. Orban shunned renewing the aid after
coming to power in 2010, saying he wanted to conduct an
“unorthodox” economic policy that has included nationalizing
private-pension funds and forcing lenders to take losses on
foreign-currency loans.  OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, reported its
first quarterly loss in three years in the three months ended
Dec. 31. Foldhitel es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., the nation’s second-
largest mortgage lender, had its second consecutive quarterly
loss in the same period.  ‘Crucially Important’  The central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged last month
after considering cutting them for the first time in a year as a
surge in the forint and lower credit risk outweighed stalling
bailout talks.  An IMF loan for Hungary is “crucially important” for the
government to obtain “as soon as possible,” rate-setters
argued last month, according to the minutes of the Feb. 28
meeting, published on March 14. Policy makers urged “particular
care” on monetary policy before six rate-setters backed
unchanged rates and one supported a cut to 6.75 percent.  Forward-rate agreements, used to bet on three-month
interest rates at the end of June traded less than 5 basis
points above the Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, indicating no
change in borrowing costs in the next quarter. That compares
with nine-month forward-rate agreements trading 33 basis points
below the Bubor, signaling a quarter-point reduction by the end
of the year.  ‘Upside Surprise’  A jump in Hungary’s  inflation rate  to almost double of the
central bank’s target may add to arguments against a rate cut,
according to Eszter Gargyan, a Budapest-based economist at
Citigroup Inc. Consumer prices in February rose 5.9 percent from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in the EU, driven by fuel and
household energy costs.  “Although monetary policy is primarily driven by the
evolution of the  risk premium , an upside surprise in inflation
has confirmed our view that there is no room for rate cuts
before” the fourth quarter, Gargyan said in a March 22 report.  Hungary’s delay in cutting interest rates contrasts with
other emerging-market central banks in eastern  Europe .  The Czech central bank has kept the benchmark two-week
repurchase rate at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter-point
less than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, since May 2010.
The Romanian central bank cut the benchmark interest rate three
times since November to 5.5 percent, the lowest ever, as policy
makers seek to buoy the economy as Europe grapples with a debt
crisis.  Poland ’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
at 4.5 percent for a ninth month on March 7.  Subdued Economy  In Hungary, a subdued economy will probably keep price
growth in check in the medium-term, reducing the inflation rate
to policy makers’ target next year, economists at CIB Bank Zrt.,
a unit of  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , said in a March 23 e-mail.  Gross domestic product  may contract 0.6 percent this year,
according to a report published on March 13 by the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development. The European
Commission forecasts the economy will shrink 0.1 percent, the
only one of the bloc’s non-euro members expected to not grow
this year.  The government has scaled back its projection for economic
growth this year, maintaining that the country will probably
avoid a recession,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, said on
Feb. 20. The Cabinet’s estimate ranges between stagnation and
0.5 percent growth.  “The economy continues to teeter on the edge of a
recession, meaning that fundamental factors don’t justify the
change in  interest-rate  levels,” CIB Bank analysts including
Sandor Jobbagy, said in the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  