-- Turkish Central Bank May Leave Rate-Corridor Unchanged
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-26T15:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/turkish-central-bank-may-leave-rate-corridor-unchanged.html
Turkey ’s central bank is forecast
to leave its interest-rate corridor of varying borrowing costs
unchanged to support the lira and slow inflation after a
surprise cut to the ceiling last month.  The Monetary Policy Committee, which announces its decision
at 2 p.m. in Ankara tomorrow, will leave the benchmark one-week
repo rate at 5.75 percent, according to all 11 economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. The central bank won’t change the maximum
rate on overnight loans of 11.5 percent, which was cut 1
percentage point from 12.5 percent on Feb. 21, five of six
economists who responded to the survey said. One forecast a
reduction to 10.5 percent.  Governor Erdem Basci, who last week halted repo auctions at
the benchmark rate, has increased borrowing costs to about 8.5
percent from about 7.5 percent since last month’s decision and
may raise it to 11 percent in the short term, according to
effective lending-rate calculations and forecasts by banks. The
central bank is tightening monetary policy even as it seeks to
support  growth  to meet Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s 4
percent expansion target this year in the $735 billion economy.  “The bank will continue to intermittently tighten domestic
monetary conditions to support the lira, and keep macro-
prudential tools fairly accommodative, to support the financial
sector and the domestic economy,”  Ahmet Akarli , chief regional
economist for Goldman Sachs based in  London , said in an e-mailed
report before the decision. “More substantive easing in
domestic monetary conditions would be possible only against the
backdrop of accelerating capital inflows and moderation in
domestic inflation.”  Annual Inflation  Annual  inflation  dropped to 10.4 percent last month after
rising to 10.6 percent in January, the highest since November
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It dropped to
3.99 percent in March 2011, the lowest on record, from 33.4
percent in October 2002, the last reading before Erdogan’s
 Justice and Development Party  swept into power.  Turkey’s economy will grow 2.6 percent in 2012, according
to the median forecasts of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
It grew 9.6 percent in the first nine months of last year, the
fastest pace behind  China  among major economies.  Since last month’s rate decision, the lira has dropped 2.5
percent to 1.7865 per dollar as of 6:06 p.m. in Istanbul today.
Turkey’s currency, the worst performer globally with an 18
percent drop against the dollar in 2011, gained 5.3 percent this
year.  Policy Shift  Basci cut the top end of the lending rate last month after
announcing Oct. 26 a central bank policy shift away from the
benchmark, adopting a “corridor” in which rates fluctuate
daily between 5.75 percent and 12.5 percent. The one-percentage
point cut to the ceiling on Feb. 21 sent yields on the two-year
benchmark  debt  down 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point,
to 9 percent, the lowest since Oct. 19. The bonds reversed gains
and yields have since jumped by 54 basis points.  “A further cut in the ceiling rate looks unlikely as the
central bank has pushed up the cost of its lira funding recently
and its officials have recently adopted a more hawkish tone,”
Selim Cakir and Emre Tekmen, economists at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi
AS (TEBNK)  in Istanbul, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today.
“The central bank will continue to squeeze lira liquidity and
the average funding rate will approach 11 percent in the coming
days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  