-- Utley Says He’ll Play This Season, Start for Phillies From DL
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/utley-says-he-ll-play-this-season-start-for-phillies-from-dl.html
Philadelphia Phillies All-Star
second baseman  Chase Utley  will start the Major League Baseball
season on the disabled list because of injured knees.  While Utley didn’t give a timetable for his return, he
dispelled rumors the condition might end his season or career.
Utley said he’ll undergo daily therapy and strength training for
chondromalacia, which he described as a roughening of the
cartilage under the patella in the knees.  “It’s not bad enough to have micro-fracture surgery,”
Utley, 33,  told reporters  yesterday at the Phillies’ spring
training camp in Clearwater,  Florida . “It’s not bad enough to
end my career. There’s a lot of wear and tear in this game, and
I just have to get things around my knee to move better to take
a little pressure off my knee.”  Utley missed the Phillies’ first 46 games last season
because of knee pain and ended up posting a .259 batting average
and 11 home runs, both the lowest since his rookie year, in 103
games. The nine-year veteran left camp last week to meet with a
specialist about his condition.  Utley said he’ll be on the disabled list when the Phillies
open the regular season on April 5 in Pittsburgh. Philadelphia,
which had the best record in baseball last season at 102-60,
also will start without first baseman  Ryan Howard , who is
recuperating from a torn Achilles tendon.  “It’s going to take a little bit of time,” said Utley,
who also missed 47 games to injury during 2010. “I’m not happy
that I’m in this situation right now, but I’m not going to let
that deter me and get me down.”  Utley, a five-time All-Star, has a .290 career batting
average and 188 home runs. He hit more than 30 home runs three
times in four-year stretch from 2006-09.  “I have to do this right,” Utley said. “It’s important,
not only for this year, but for the rest of my career. I’m 33
years old. I know some people think that’s old, but I still feel
like I have a lot of baseball left in me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  