-- Vestas Remains Top Wind Turbine Maker, Goldwind Is Second
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-26T16:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/vestas-remains-top-wind-turbine-maker-goldwind-is-second.html
The wind-power market is expected
to grow more slowly than prior estimates, with Make Consulting
and  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)  cutting forecasts through 2016.  Global installations will probably increase at a compound 7
percent a year in the next five years, Aarhus, Denmark-based
Make said today in an e-mailed statement, down from its prior 10
percent figure. Navigant’s BTM Consult unit cut its cumulative
forecast for the five years through 2016 14 percent to almost
270,000 megawatts of turbines.  Turbine makers from  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the biggest,
to Spain’s Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA and  India ’s  Suzlon Energy
Ltd. (SUEL)  have been buffeted by the loss of subsidies in three of the
seven biggest markets. In the U.S., a cash-grant program ended
last year and a tax credit expires in December, while  Spain 
suspended clean-energy incentives in January and an Indian tax
break for wind farms is set to expire on March 31.  “The reasons for the downgrade are regulatory uncertainty
in the U.S., India and Spain,” Robert Clover, an analyst with
Make, said today in a phone interview. In  North America , the
expiring U.S. incentives led to “a certain amount of demand
being pulled forward, which will lead to a drop-off next year.”  BTM forecast delays in extending or replacing the U.S. tax
credit will cut 2013 installations by about 9 percent to 7,500
megawatts, said Aris Karcanias, one of the report’s authors.  “We’re anticipating an extension,” Karcanias said today
in an interview. “There will be a bit of a delay to activity in
the U.S. until that’s resolved.”  Vestas on Top  Spain, which in 2009 was the top wind turbine installer in
 Europe , according to Global Wind Energy Council data, this year
suspended subsidies to new renewable installations as it reins
in spending. The European share of new wind power fell last year
to 24.5 percent of the global total from more than half five
years ago, according to BTM.  Vestas (VWS)  remained the world’s largest wind turbine maker with
12.9 percent of the market in 2011, BTM said. It topped Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co. with a 9.4 percent share.
 General Electric Co. (GE)  was third with 8.8 percent, Gamesa was next
at 8.2 percent and Enercon GmbH ranked fifth at 7.9 percent,
Ringkoebing, Denmark-based BTM said today in an e-mailed
statement. Sinovel Wind Group dropped to seventh from second.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 