-- Vitro Bondholders Win Court Ruling on Defaulted Debt
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-03-27T02:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/vitro-bondholders-win-court-ruling-on-defaulted-debt.html
Vitro SAB (VITROA)  bondholders won a court
ruling that subsidiaries of the Mexican glassmaker are liable
for payment on defaulted bonds.  Justice Bernard J. Fried of New York State Supreme Court
ruled the units owe unpaid principal and interest on two series
of bonds under guarantee obligations, according to a decision
dated March 21.  Wilmington Trust NA, the trustee representing bondholders,
sued Vitro units last year, accusing Vitro and the subsidiaries,
which guaranteed the debt, of a “multi-year scheme” to avoid
payment. The total principal amount owed under the two series of
notes is $1 billion, Wilmington Trust said.  Vitro, which defaulted on $1.2 billion in bonds, won
approval in February from a Mexican court for a bankruptcy
reorganization plan opposed by bondholders. The court relieved
the subsidiaries of their guarantees on the bonds even though
they weren’t in bankruptcy.  The bondholders unsuccessfully opposed the Mexican
reorganization and have been fighting in courts in the U.S. as
well. Vitro is based in San Pedro Garza Garcia,  Mexico , near
Monterrey.  Fried rejected Vitro’s argument that the Mexican
reorganization bars suit against the subsidiaries. The judge
didn’t rule on the amount owed to bondholders. A lawsuit to
establish liability on the third bond issue is yet to be
decided.  ‘No Impact’  The ruling “will have no impact on Vitro or its
subsidiaries,” Roberto Riva Palacio, a Vitro spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. An order issued by a U.S. bankruptcy
judge “prevents the vulture funds that have been attacking
Vitro’s reorganization plan in the U.S. from seeking to collect
on judgments and seize assets belonging to Vitro,” he said.  Bondholders are also fighting Vitro in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in  Dallas  and in the federal appeals court in New Orleans.
Bondholders are scheduled to argue to the appellate court that
the Mexican reorganization shouldn’t be enforced in the U.S.
because it was approved using $1.9 billion in intercompany
claims to vote down opposition from bondholders. Vitro contends
the appeal should be dismissed because intervening events make
the issue moot.  Vitro is also scheduled to face the bondholders at trial in
bankruptcy court in Dallas on June 4, where the creditors will
ask a judge to rule that the Mexican reorganization shouldn’t be
enforced in the U.S.  Bankruptcy Court Ruling  The bankruptcy judge ruled earlier this month that the
bondholders can move ahead with lawsuits in  New York  state court
up to the point of obtaining judgment on the defaulted bonds.
The bankruptcy judge won’t permit bondholders to collect
judgments or seize assets before he rules on enforcement of the
Mexican reorganization in the U.S.  The New York case is Wilmington Trust NA v. Vitro
Automotriz SA, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan),
652303-2011. The bankruptcy court suit to decide if the Mexican
reorganization will be enforced in the U.S. is Vitro SAB de CV
v. ACP Master Ltd., 12-03027, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas). The bondholders’ appeal is Ad Hoc
Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB de CV, 11-11239,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York
at   rochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 