-- Vodafone Remains Exposed to Egypt Risks After Uprisings
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-27T14:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/vodafone-remains-exposed-to-egypt-risks-a-year-after-uprisings.html
Over five days early last year, as
the revolution escalated in Cairo, Hatem Dowidar, the chief
executive officer of  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Egypt unit, yielded to
the regime’s demands to issue pro-government  text messages .  While he objected, his focus was to keep his damaged
operation running amid the chaos and he considered the “public
safety” messages to be harmless. The instructions kept coming
until Feb. 2 when security forces ordered Vodafone to announce
the time and place of a demonstration in support of then
President  Hosni Mubarak . That day, clashes between protesters
and government loyalists in  Tahrir Square  hours later resulted
in the deaths of 20 people.  A year on, Vodafone is seeking an amendment to the law to
curb the state’s control and to protect its Egypt investments.
With the European Union set to publish a report this week
demanding the company learn from its “past mistakes” when it
gave in to Mubarak’s demands, Vodafone’s response and its crisis
planning are still under the spotlight.  “We’re lobbying very hard,” Dowidar said in an interview
from Cairo during the anniversary of the protests. When
demonstrators took to the streets a year ago, “no one in  Egypt ,
not the previous regime, not the revolutionaries, not us, was
prepared for what was happening.”  Lobbying  Vodafone wants the law changed to limit control over the
network to the president, who would then need endorsement from
the council of ministers.  Dowidar said the step would prevent a repeat of the phone
call he received from representatives of the security forces,
who threatened to come round to Vodafone’s network center if he
continued to refuse their request.  Efforts to amend laws have been slow following the popular
uprising that toppled Mubarak’s 30-year rule last year. The
proposed amendment has stalled and is still waiting to be
presented to parliament, according to the Egyptian telecoms
ministry. Tensions are also flaring again as more than 70 people
were killed last month at a soccer match when crowds invaded the
football field, sparking clashes between protesters and police
in Cairo.  Vodafone dropped 0.3 percent to 173.80 pence as of 2:59
p.m. in  London . The stock has declined 2.9 percent this year.  Vodafone may find itself even more constrained after the
European Parliament prepares to publish a report calling for
greater scrutiny of telecoms providers. Operators “must learn
the lessons from past mistakes, such as Vodafone’s decision to
give in to demands from the Egyptian authorities in the last
weeks of the Mubarak regime to suspend services, to disseminate
pro-government propaganda,” according to excerpts of the report
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Managing Risks  To manage risks, companies need to plan for the worst in
unstable markets, said Paul Argenti, professor of corporate
communication at the  Tuck School of Business  at  Dartmouth
College  in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  “Obviously, Vodafone didn’t,” Argenti said, referring to
Egypt. “It ends up costing you more in terms of  shareholder
value  when your reputation gets hit than just about anything
else.”  Revenue growth at Vodafone’s Egyptian unit, in which
 Telecom Egypt (ETEL) , the fixed-line monopoly partially controlled by
the government, has a 45 percent stake, has slowed since the
revolution.  France Telecom  “There’s still a very strong feeling of resentment and
people still don’t like the role Vodafone played,” said  Amr
Gharbeia , an activist at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal
Rights in Cairo. Egyptians have not yet seen “practical
measures and reforms that guarantee this is fixed.”  Vodafone won about one-sixth of the clients in the quarter
that included the ousting of Mubarak compared to the previous
period. While service revenue declined amid increasing price
competition between the operators, Vodafone gained 4.5 million
clients last year in the country. Rival Mobinil added 2.6
million clients.  Political uncertainty hasn’t stopped rivals from increasing
investments.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  may spend $2 billion in a deal
agreed last month to buy most of billionaire Naguib Sawiris’s
stake in their Egyptian wireless venture Mobinil and delist it.  Mobinil last year also issued pro-government messages,
though the operator did not transmit every message that it was
instructed to send, said  France Telecom  spokesman  Tom Wright .
The company also added a government or armed forces attribution
to every text transmitted, he said.  Reputational Impact  Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao has dismissed the potential for
any reputational impact upon the company from its actions last
spring. “The population has never been angry with Vodafone, the
population was angry with the authorities,” Colao said last
year.  At group level, Vodafone has also held preliminary talks
with operators including  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN)  and Nokia Siemens
Networks aimed at preventing the potential political abuse of
their networks. So far, specific outcomes and timeline are still
to be decided, said Cecilia Edstrom, a spokeswoman for
Stockholm-based TeliaSonera.  Vodafone’s Egypt crisis-management procedure didn’t include
a plan for the potential shutdown of its network, according to a
person with knowledge of the company’s preparations. The program
focused on safeguarding any expatriate employees, the person
said, declining to be identified as the plan is confidential.  Islamist-Dominated Parliament  Vodafone’s license allowed the authorities “to subject to
their administration” the operator, its network and employees,
according to the local telecommunication law.  Egypt last year held a largely peaceful parliamentary
election, its first since Mubarak’s ouster, resulting in an
Islamist-dominated parliament. The ruling Supreme Council of the
Armed Forces has ignored protester demands since a mass
demonstration on Jan. 25 to hold early presidential elections,
now scheduled for May, or transfer executive powers to
parliament.  Objecting to the messages had not loomed among his largest
concerns last year, Dowidar said.  In Cairo, Vodafone had 200 people sleeping in its
headquarters to avoid the curfew imposed on the city overnight.
About one-sixth of the network had been damaged by fire and
vandalism. Members of staff were missing, and at least two
senior managers had been arrested while protesting.  Vodafone needs to draw consequences and prepare for worst-
case scenarios in other markets to limit risks, said  Rajesh
Chandy , a professor of marketing at the  London Business School .  “Some things are easier to plan for once you’ve actually
gone through it,” he said. “That’s why the Egypt experience
will have implications for all the other countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  