-- War Veterans Group Says Unemployment Higher Than U.S. Count
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-03-26T15:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/war-veterans-group-says-unemployment-higher-than-u-s-count-2-.html
The  unemployment rate  among U.S.
veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan may be higher than
government statistics show, according to a support group.  The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America found in a
survey of members that nearly 17 percent were out of work as of
January 2012. The  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported last
week that the jobless rate among veterans who served since the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks averaged 12.1 percent in 2011.  “When looking at the current workforce, almost 17 percent
of our members are unemployed, eight percentage points higher
than the national average,” the New York-based group said in a
report to be released today.  The survey also highlighted the mental-health strains on
veterans as a result of a decade of war. More than a third of
respondents said they personally knew an Iraq or  Afghanistan  war
veteran who has committed suicide, and two-thirds said they
don’t think troops and veterans are getting the mental-health
care they need.  The group invited its members to fill out an online poll
between Jan. 1 and Jan. 16. While 4,278 people participated in
the survey, only 2,223 could be confirmed as veterans because
the others did not submit official proof of their wartime
service as requested, the group said.  Even so, “we are confident that our survey results
accurately represent our members’ experiences and opinions,”
the group said in the report.  Jobs Gap  The Obama administration has called attention to the
problem of unemployment among recent veterans, and has provided
new tax credits to employers willing to hire them. Even with
such efforts, veterans groups and officials, including Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta , have expressed concern that the problem
may get worse as more troops return from Afghanistan and the
Pentagon prepares to shed 123,900 troops by fiscal 2017.  The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America plans to
release its survey at a briefing today on  Capitol Hill .
Bloomberg obtained an advance copy.  The survey gave mixed reviews to employers, with 51 percent
of respondents saying employers “were open to hiring a
veteran” and 49 percent saying they weren’t.  Veterans who reported they were unemployed have been
jobless for 13 months on average, with a maximum time of 96
months. The single biggest reason for their joblessness -- cited
by 34 percent of respondents -- was “the current economic
downturn.” An additional 24 percent said they could not find a
job to match their skills.  Of those working part-time, 89 percent said they would like
to work full-time.  Mental-Health Issues  While employment was the most pressing issue cited by
respondents, mental health ranked second.  The survey found 67 percent of Iraq and Afghanistan
veterans don’t think the mental-health care received by troops
and veterans is adequate. Sixty percent said the Defense
Department doesn’t do a good job in “reaching out” to troops
and veterans needing such care.  Views of the Department of  Veterans Affairs  were more
evenly divided, with 51 percent saying the agency didn’t do a
good enough job in outreach and 49 percent saying it did.  The survey found that 37 percent of the group’s members
knew another veteran who had committed suicide, down four
percentage points from 2010, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  