-- Witty Mondrian Hated Trees, Befriended Earthy Nicholson
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-03-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/witty-mondrian-hated-trees-befriended-earthy-nicholson-review.html
It’s a half-forgotten fact that
Piet Mondrian once lived in  London .  This sojourn in Britain, for exactly two years between 1938
and 1940, and Mondrian’s links with a younger U.K. artist are
the basis for a delightful small exhibition at the  Courtauld
Gallery , “Mondrian Nicholson: In Parallel.”  Of the three current exhibitions devoted to comparing and
contrasting British and non-British artists -- the others being
“Picasso and Modern British Art” at Tate Britain, and
Turner/Claude at the National Gallery -- this is the most
successful and surprising. Its unexpected conclusion is that
Mondrian (1872-1944) and Ben Nicholson (1894-1982) had less in
common than you might have presumed.  It’s true that Nicholson was profoundly affected by
Mondrian’s work. Moreover, the two of them were friends and for
a while near-neighbors, and both were resolutely geometrical and
abstract in their work during the late 1930s. Nonetheless, side
by side on the wall their abstractions look very unalike.
Nicholson exclaimed in a letter from 1968, “Mondrian’s & my
development is astonishingly different!” He was right.  The reason for that difference can be found in Mondrian’s
jokes. Ascetic as a man and almost fanatically minimalist as a
painter, Mondrian isn’t generally noted for his humor. Yet he
could be drily amusing, and the main subject of his wit was how
much he didn’t like nature.  Flat White  At the entrance to his Paris studio there was famously a
single, artificial tulip in a vase. Mondrian painted it white,
stem and all. Looking out of a friend’s apartment in  New York  he
noticed trees planted in the middle of the street at intervals
of two or three hundred yards. “I didn’t know you lived in a
rural district,” he commented disapprovingly.  Mondrian didn’t much like space, either. According to his
fellow modernist, Naum Gabo, he painted and repainted a certain
picture, complaining that “The white is not flat enough.”  These attitudes are evident in his classic abstractions of
the late ‘30s, of which there are some prime examples in the
exhibition. They are powerful and precise arrangements in white
and black, with an addition of one or more in red, yellow and
blue. Mondrian disapproved of other colors -- green and brown
especially, which probably explains his terse, negative judgment
on his native  Netherlands : “Too many cows and too many
fields.”  His art was all about delicate adjustments of visual rhythm
and balance, over which he mulled sometimes for years.  Absent Circle  In contrast, though it would be an exaggeration to say that
Nicholson’s works of this period were landscapes, they certainly
remind you of nature. When he uses a circle -- absent from
Mondrian’s vocabulary of shapes -- it recalls a moon or sun.  Where Mondrian tries to squeeze all the depth out of his
works, many of Nicholson’s are actually carved out in space:
wooden reliefs, painted all white. Nicholson, instead of just
primary colors, used all manner of in-between shades of mauve,
gray-green, beige and oatmeal. Looking at them, you think of
air, sea, hills and caves.  All of which explains why, when the war broke out,
Nicholson and his wife, the sculptor Barbara Hepworth, headed
for the Cornish resort of St. Ives, while Mondrian eventually
booked passage for New York. When Nicholson and Hepworth wrote
telling him they had found a house beside the sea, Mondrian
replied, “I thought there was only water in St. Ives!”  It doesn’t sound as if he thought that was a
recommendation.  “Mondrian Nicholson: In Parallel” is at the Courtauld
Gallery, London, through May 20. Lead sponsor is  ING Groep NV. (INGA) 
Information:  http://www.courtauld.ac.uk/gallery .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 