-- World’s Natural Teak Area Shrinks, Planted Area Gains, FAO Says
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-26T10:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/world-s-natural-teak-area-shrinks-planted-area-gains-fao-says.html
The world’s natural teak forests
shrunk 1.3 percent between 1992 and 2010, while planted forests
with the hardwood increased in area, the  United Nations ’ Food
& Agriculture Organization reported.  The natural-teak forest area declined by 385,000 hectares
(951,335 acres) to an estimated 29 million hectares over the
period, led by a drop in  India , the Rome-based UN agency wrote
in a  report  on its website today.  India, Laos, Thailand and Myanmar are the only countries
with natural teak forests, the FAO wrote. Myanmar has almost
half of the natural teak forest and is the only country to
produce quality teak from natural forest, as India, Laos and
Thailand have bans on logging or log exports in place, it said.  “It is difficult to obtain precise figures on teak forest
loss, because teak trees do not grow in pure stands in nature,”
Walter Kollert, the FAO’s forestry officer, was cited as saying
in the report. “Supply trends point to a continuing decline in
the volume and quality of natural teak.”  Natural teak forest declined by an estimated 2.1 million
hectares in India, 1.1 million hectares in Myanmar and 68,500
hectares in  Laos  between 1992 and 2010, according to the FAO. In
Thailand, a complete ban on logging in natural forests may have
helped natural teak forest grow by 2.9 million hectares,
according to the report.  Teak is one of the most valuable hardwoods, and planted
teak forest has attracted investment in Africa,  Asia  and  Latin
America , according to the FAO. The planted teak area increased
in countries including Ghana, Nicaragua,  Brazil  and Indonesia,
the UN agency wrote.  “Although the time until trees reach harvestable
dimensions is comparatively long and on average takes between 20
and 80 years, teak planting serves local communities as a
savings account,” Kollert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  