-- Stocks Rise on Euro Optimism, Fed; Treasuries Pare Loss
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-26T20:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/yen-trims-biggest-weekly-gain-in-12-asia-stocks-drop.html
Stocks rose, rebounding from last
week’s losses, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
accommodative policy is still needed and investors speculated
the European Union will increase the size of its bailout fund.
Treasuries pared losses, while commodities climbed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 1.4 percent to
close at 1,416.51 at 4 p.m. New York time, returning to its
highest level in almost four years. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
added 0.9 percent.  Treasury 10-year yields  climbed two basis
point to 2.25 percent after increasing as much as six points
earlier. Oil increased 16 cents to $107.03 a barrel. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the U.S. currency against six major peers,
fell for a second day while gold and silver rallied.  Bernanke said that while he’s encouraged by the
unemployment rate’s drop to 8.3 percent, further improvement in
the job market will require continuing the central bank’s
stimulative monetary policies.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
 Germany  may back plans for the temporary and permanent euro-area
rescue funds to run in parallel. European finance ministers will
meet on March 30 to discuss raising a 500 billion-euro ($664
billion) ceiling on the region’s financial firewall.  “Bernanke made it clear that while the Fed is not going to
be revving the engine anytime soon, they are going to keep their
foot on the gas,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market
strategist for Russell Investments, said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $140.8 billion. “At the same time,
the Europeans appear to be more serious about addressing risks.
They’ve addressed shorter-term liquidity, but solvency remains
an issue.”  The  S&P 500   erased  last week’s 0.5 percent drop, the bigger
of two weekly declines in 2012. Gauges of health-care,
technology, consumer-discretionary and financial companies rose
at least 1.6 percent to lead gains in all 10 of the main
industry groups in the S&P 500.  Market Leaders  American Express Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and United
Technologies Corp. rose more than 2 percent to  lead gains  in the
Dow average. Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. rose 4.5 percent as
“The Hunger Games” film collected $155 million in weekend
sales in the U.S. and  Canada , a record for the month of March.  The S&P 500 is up about 13 percent so far this year, poised
for its best first-quarter rally since 1998. The benchmark index
of American equity has rebounded about 109 percent from its
bear-market low three years ago, trimming the retreat since its
2007 record to less than 10 percent.  Hedge funds  trailing the S&P 500 for the last five months
are giving up on bearish bets and buying stocks at the fastest
rate in two years.  Hedge Fund Bulls  A gauge of hedge-fund bullishness measuring the proportion
of bets that shares will rise climbed to 48.6 last week from 42
at the end of November 2011, the biggest increase since April
2010, according to data compiled by the International Strategy &
Investment Group. The Bloomberg aggregate  hedge fund  index
gained 1.4 percent last month, lagging behind the S&P 500 by
2.65 percentage points.  Treasuries pared declines today after Bernanke, in a speech
in Arlington, Virginia, said the drop in the  unemployment rate 
may reflect a reversal of the large layoffs that occurred during
late 2008 and over 2009.  “To the extent that this reversal has been completed,
further significant improvements in the unemployment rate will
likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and demand
from consumers and businesses, a process that can be supported
by continued accommodative policies,” he said.  ‘Cautious Optimism’  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said he doesn’t
currently see any need for additional monetary stimulus as the
economy recovers.  “The economy’s doing better, we’re gaining some
traction,” Plosser said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Paris today. “We’re not entirely out of the
woods. But I’ve got some cautious optimism.”  Benchmark 10-year yields have risen 27 basis points since
the end of February, headed for their steepest monthly increase
since December 2010. The U.S. is scheduled to sell $35 billion
of two-year notes tomorrow, $35 billion of five-year debt on the
following day and $29 billion of seven-year securities on March
29.  Merkel told reporters in Berlin today: “We could imagine
that the program that has already been agreed with 200 billion”
euros “could run parallel” with the permanent European
Stability Mechanism, which comes into force in July.  ‘Reinforcement of the Firewalls’  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said he’s confident ministers will resolve their differences on
providing more bailout funding. Speaking yesterday to reporters
in Saariselkae, Finland, Rehn said officials “will take a
convincing decision on the reinforcement of the firewalls.”  The Stoxx 600 rallied after falling 2.5 percent last week,
the biggest drop of 2012.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  climbed 7.5 percent as
 Europe ’s second-biggest discount carrier forecast a narrower
six-month loss. Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, a Scottish  fund
manager , advanced 4.4 percent after assets under management rose
6 percent in the first two months of the year.  European equities also gained after German business
confidence unexpectedly rose in March. The Munich-based Ifo
institute said today its  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.8 from a revised
109.7 in February. Economists forecast it would remain unchanged
at the initial February reading of 109.6, according to the
median of 44 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.4 percent after
slumping 2 percent last week. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.6 percent, its ninth consecutive decline, its
longest losing streak since July 2010. The BSE India  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, fell 1.8 percent amid concern the government
will find it difficult to rein in the fiscal deficit, and as the
rupee weakened to a 10-week low. Russia’s Micex Index gained 1.7
percent.  The euro climbed for a second day against its Japanese
counterpart and rose 0.4 percent to $1.3329.  China ’s yuan rose
0.01 percent to 6.312 per dollar, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System, after the central bank set the daily
 reference rate  at a record high.  The S&P  GSCI (SPGSCI)  commodities gauge increased 0.3 percent as
copper, silver and gold climbed at least 1.7 percent to lead
gains among 19 of 24 materials.  Hedge funds wagered the wrong way on commodity prices for a
fourth consecutive week, boosting bullish holdings just before
reports showing a contraction in manufacturing from China to
Europe drove prices lower.  Money managers lifted net-long positions in 18 U.S. futures
and options by 2.9 percent to 1.17 million contracts in the week
ended March 20, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
The S&P GSCI  of 24 raw materials dropped 1 percent last week,
led by declines in lead and corn.  Orange juice  tumbled 11
percent, the most since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  