-- LyondellBasell Sells $3 Billion in Bonds to Fund Debt Buyback
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-03-26T22:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-26/lyondellbasel-plans-3-billion-of-bonds-to-fund-debt-buyback.html
LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , the
chemical maker that emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, sold $3
billion of bonds to buy back higher-cost debt.  The world’s third-biggest independent chemical company
issued $2 billion of seven-year, 5 percent notes that priced to
yield 337 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$1 billion of 12-year, 5.75 percent bonds that yielded 323 basis
points more than government debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will help fund a tender offer for the firm’s
8 percent senior secured notes due in 2017 and 11 percent bonds
maturing in 2018, the Rotterdam-based company said today in a
statement.  LyondellBasell is refinancing as management seeks to lift
its  credit ratings  from junk status and to cut interest expenses
to below $200 million from about $800 million in 2010, according
to a Feb. 22 presentation.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the chemical
maker’s corporate credit rating today to BBB-, the lowest step
of investment-grade.  “This is an additional play to move into the investment-
grade level and refinance into lower rates,” Wen Li, an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“If the economy continues at the current pace, and they
continue to make huge amounts of profit and move their  capital
structure  in a way to appease the rating agencies, they should
be able to.”  Bankruptcy Filing  LyondellBasell filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January
2009 when it ran short of cash as demand for chemicals and
plastics plummeted during the worst recession in seven decades.  Moody’s Investors Service raised LyondellBasell’s corporate
family rating in November to Ba1, one level below investment-
grade, after the company announced a previous buyback of its
debt.  “LyondellBasell has performed strongly and generated
significant cash since emerging from bankruptcy,” S&P analysts
led by Cynthia Werneth in  New York  wrote in a statement today.
The company “has adequate sources of liquidity to cover its
needs, even in the event of a sharp drop” in earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization costs.  LyondellBasell, which analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
 estimate  will increase adjusted net income for a second year in
2012, is selling new debt to finance the purchase of as much as
$2.7 billion of outstanding borrowings, the company said in a
separate statement today. The offer expires April 20.  Moody’s assigned the new notes a Ba2 rating, two levels
below investment grade, the rankings firm said in a statement
today. That’s the same as the debt the company is seeking to
repurchase.  S&P rated the bonds BB+, one level below investment grade,
to match its grade for the company’s existing bonds. That’s
below the corporate rating because the new bonds will be
subordinate to obligations of LyondellBasell’s subsidiaries, S&P
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  