-- Abbott May Lack Company Support for Killing Aussie Carbon Price
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n
-- 2013-09-25T01:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/abbott-may-lack-company-support-for-killing-aussie-carbon-price.html
Australia ’s new prime minister
can’t count on big polluters to support his plan to stop
charging for greenhouse-gas emissions, according to the
Carbon Market Institute.  While business groups such as the  Minerals Council of
Australia  have criticized the carbon price as a “dead weight on
the economy,” few individual companies have spoken up for
 Tony Abbott ’s plan to scrap what he calls the carbon tax,
said Peter Castellas, chief executive officer for the Melbourne-based institute. It surveyed about 200 of the country’s
largest emitters before the Sept. 7 election and plans to
publish a study later this year on the costs of repealing carbon
trading in Australia.  “Those conversations are yet to be had by liable entities
in Australia,” Castellas said yesterday at the  Carbon Forum
Asia  in Bangkok. “Lots of money has already been invested.
Those costs have already been sunk.”  The Carbon Price Mechanism passed by former Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  in 2011 requires more than 300 of Australia’s
largest emitters to pay about $24.15 a metric ton for greenhouse
gasses this year, the highest price in the world.
EnergyAustralia, a unit of  Hong Kong ’s biggest electricity
supplier, would have to write off investments if Abbott prevails
with his repeal, said  Kenneth Wong , manager of carbon credits at
China Light & Power, EnergyAustralia’s parent company.  Electricity futures prices show the implied costs of
emitting carbon in Australia plunged 18 percent in the two days
following the election, bringing its monthly decline to 55
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At their
lowest, prices indicated an 80 percent probability that Abbott
will overturn the carbon price, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Climate Shift  “No doubt there has been a shift in Australia’s climate
policy,” said Martijn Wilder, the head of the climate-change
practice at Baker & McKenzie Ltd. in Sydney. While Abbott is
determined to keep his campaign promise to end carbon pricing,
he is unlikely to prevail until the new Senate is seated in
2014, Wilder said. Even then, newly elected senators may try to
win concessions before supporting repeal, Wilder said.  “The longer this uncertainty lasts, the bigger the problem
for Australian companies,” said Ingo Tschach, head of market
analysis for Tschach Solutions in Karlsruhe,  Germany .  Repealing the carbon price will be difficult for Abbott,
who is already coming up against opposition, according to Wilder
and Castellas. Australia’s Climate Commission, axed earlier this
month in one of Abbott’s first acts as prime minister, has been
relaunched as the Australian Climate Council after a
“groundswell” of private financing commitments to save the
adviser of global warming, Tim Flannery, the former chief of the
commission, said this week.  Market Measures  Abbott may also incorporate market-based measures in his
proposal for limiting emissions, Wilder said. The prime minister
has floated the idea of awarding credits to power generators
that reduce emissions from the historical baselines, Wilder
said. While emitters that exceed their base levels wouldn’t be
penalized, those that discharge less may be eligible for
government funding.  “Like it or not, we have the opportunity to work with the
new prime minister to design and implement his goals,” said
Castellas, who worked for Deloitte’s climate practice before
joining the Carbon Market Institute.  The $1 billion that Abbott is proposing to spend to start
his Direct Action policy “is not a small amount,” Castellas
said. Abbott’s new environment minister,  Greg Hunt , is genuinely
interested in climate issues, even as he enforces Abbott’s
desire to axe carbon trading, according to Castellas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  