-- ABC Says ‘Marvel’ Debut Led TV Ratings With Key Audience
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-25T20:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/abc-says-marvel-debut-led-tv-ratings-in-key-audience-age-group.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s first ABC prime-time show based on the company’s Marvel comics opened as the top
program in its time slot, drawing the largest audience in a key
age group for the network.  “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” premiering last night
in the new TV season, led its timeslot in viewers ages 18 to 49,
an age group sought by advertisers, and marked the highest-rated
drama debut in almost four years, ABC said today in an e-mailed
statement, citing preliminary Nielsen data.  ABC is using “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” to anchor
Tuesday nights and draw more male viewers, a goal met with the
premiere. The broadcaster finished in fourth place in the 18-to-49 age group last season. ABC hits including “Scandal” and
“Dancing with the Stars,” are popular with women.  “We are super proud to be the No. 1 women’s 18-to-49
network, and a lot of our hits have incredibly empowered women
in them,” ABC President Paul Lee said at an August event for
television critics. “We’re also a broadcast network, so it’s
absolutely incumbent on us to make sure that we bring in wider
audiences beyond that.”  The Marvel show, airing at 8 p.m.in most time zones, was
the most-watched program of the night among all male viewers,
the network said.  For the entire night, “S.H.I.E.L.D. tied with ‘‘The
Voice’’ in audiences ages 18 to 49. The NBC singing competition
aired over two hours.  Marvel Agent  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s network led the evening in total viewers,
averaging almost 16 million, with its long-running hit ‘‘NCIS’’
attracting 19.5 million, according to data supplied by the
networks. NBC was second with 12.5 million, while ABC was third
at 8.11 and Fox, owned by 21st Century Fox Inc., came in fourth
with 3.7 million.  ‘‘S.H.I.E.L.D.’’ stars  Clark Gregg , who reprises his role
as special agent Phil Coulson from the ‘‘Iron Man’’ and ‘‘Thor’’
films. The program revolves around an elite team of
investigators who battle villains with the help of super heroes.
The show is produced by Joss Whedon, who directed last year’s
top-grossing movie, ‘‘Marvel’s The Avengers.”  ABC’s Tuesday lineup includes “The Goldbergs,” about a
goofy family in the 1980s, and two other new shows, “Trophy
Wife,” a comedy and “Lucky 7,” an hour-long drama about
lottery winners.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , gained 0.2 percent to
$64.45 at the close in New York. CBS, owner of the most-watched
network, fell 1 percent to $55.52, while  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , parent
of NBC, declined similarly to $43.25. 21st Century Fox gained
0.4 percent to $32.67.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  