-- Abenomics Peaking for Tocom Means Focus on China, India
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-09-26T02:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/abenomics-peaking-for-tocom-volume-means-focus-on-china-india.html
Tokyo  Commodity Exchange Inc.,
 Japan ’s biggest raw materials bourse, plans to attract more
trading from investors in  China  and  India  to boost volume that’s
peaking as the yen’s slide stalls near 100 to the dollar.  “We want to see a further increase in participants from
overseas,” President Tadashi Ezaki said in an interview in
Tokyo yesterday. “Investors from emerging economies, such as
China and India, are particularly welcome.”  Growth in trading volume, which jumped 22 percent in the
first eight months of the year, may stop as early as October,
according to Ezaki. The yen averaged 98.78 per dollar since
reaching a four-year low of 103.74 in May after the  Bank of
Japan  implemented record stimulus as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
sought to lift the economy out of 15 years of deflation. Trading
by foreigners on Tocom, as the bourse is known, rose to a record
41 percent of total volume last month.  “I expect the yen will stay around 100 per dollar for a
while,” Ezaki said. Uncertainty about when the U.S. Federal
Reserve will start tapering stimulus has made Japanese investors
cautious and this may also slow trading, he said.  The share of trading by overseas investors expanded from 10
percent when Ezaki, 72, took over four years ago. The former
trade ministry official, who advised a research institute and
ran a bank after leaving government service in 1999, introduced
a high-speed trading system to Tocom and extended opening hours
to attract foreigners seeking arbitrage opportunities between
the exchange and overseas markets.  Overseas Rankings  Investors from  Hong Kong  accounted for 58 percent of
positions held by foreigners at the end of August, according to
Tocom data. Singapore was ranked second with 27 percent,
followed by the U.S. on 6 percent.  He’s also seeking partners to share trading systems costs
that last year ate 63 percent of revenue. These costs and
trading volumes that have slumped to one-third of their peak in
2003 drove the exchange to five years of losses.  Tocom has been in talks with  Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , the
operator of the second-biggest stock market, and Chicago-based
 CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the world’s largest futures market,
for sharing trading systems, Ezaki said.  A five-year contract to use Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s trading
platform is due for renewal in May.  Tocom has received proposals from CME, JPX and several
other exchanges for sharing trading systems and plans to make a
decision by the end of this year, Ezaki said, declining to
elaborate further.  Fukushima Impact  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which
supervises Tocom, wants the bourse to create  futures markets  for
electricity and liquefied natural gas to become a comprehensive
energy exchange in the wake of the Fukushima disaster.  The nation is the world’s largest LNG buyer and last year
paid 6 trillion yen ($61 billion) for a record 87.3 million
metric tons. It’s increasingly dependent on the supercooled fuel
after atomic reactors were shut pending safety checks following
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami that caused a meltdown at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant.  Futures contracts would allow consumers and producers to
hedge against price swings and challenge the current method of
linking the cost of LNG to oil, according to Takashi Ishizaki,
the director for the commerce policy division at the trade
ministry.  LNG Futures  Ezaki said it would take at least two years before LNG
futures could be traded.  Tocom offers contracts for gasoline, kerosene, gas oil,
crude oil, precious metals and natural rubber. It took over
trading of corn, soybeans, raw sugar and azuki beans from the
Tokyo Grain Exchange in February as the nation’s second-biggest
commodity bourse was dissolved because of losses and low
liquidity.  Tocom had a 596.8 million yen operating loss in the 12
months ended March 31, its fifth since a government crackdown to
protect individual investors from losses had the unintended
consequence of reducing volume.  Ezaki said Tocom is lobbying the government to change rules
and allow pension funds, trust banks and other institutional
investors to trade commodities.  Gold was the most-actively traded commodity on Tocom this
year. Volume jumped 27 percent to 9.51 million contracts in the
first eight months from a year earlier as the weaker Japanese
currency sent the yen-denominated price to a record 5,081 yen a
gram on Feb. 7.  Global Benchmark  Tocom’s rubber futures, the global benchmark, expanded 15
percent to 1.67 million lots over the same period. The price
climbed to 337.8 yen a kilogram on Feb. 6, the highest level in
almost 11 months.  Tocom accounts for about 99 percent of exchange trade of
commodities in Japan, with the remainder handled by the Osaka
Dojima Commodity Exchange, which mainly trades rice.  Once the world’s largest commodities bourse after the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange, Tocom had retreated to the 12th place
by contracts volume in 2012, according to data provided by the
Japanese exchange. It has been surpassed by China’s Shanghai,
Zhengzhou and Dalian exchanges, and India’s  Multi Commodity
Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  