-- Macquarie Adds Knight’s Krieg as U.S. Electronic Execution Chief
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-09-25T20:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/macquarie-adds-knight-s-krieg-as-u-s-electronic-execution-chief.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , the
Australian financial services firm, hired former Knight Capital
Group Inc. executive Brandon Krieg as head of electronic
execution in the U.S. to help expand its business in the world’s
largest market for  stock trading .  Macquarie has also hired Fred Fogg and Lance Vegna from
Credit Suisse Group AG to head the firm’s New York-based
portfolio solutions group, said Damian Hoult, global head of
execution services for the firm.  The hires are part of Sydney-based Macquarie’s effort to
boost its share of U.S. trading, Hoult said. American equity
transactions comprise two-thirds of global stock trading by
dollar value, according to data compiled by Credit Suisse.
Macquarie currently derives almost all its trading revenue
outside of America, according to Hoult.  The moves will also help the firm offer existing clients,
who are increasingly asking for global trading services, access
to the more than 50 venues that handle trading in U.S. stocks
and exchange-traded funds.  “The U.S. is in and of itself an incredibly important
market,” New York-based Hoult said in a phone interview. “It’s
also important for us to offer a global service and global
footprint, as this is something more and more clients are
focusing on. They want a global partner, not someone who’s just
in one country or one region.”  Krieg, 39, had been head of sales at Knight Direct,  Knight
Capital ’s institutional electronic trade execution unit, until
he left the firm in January. He will oversee Macquarie’s
relationship-building efforts with prospective U.S. and European
clients as well as the firm’s capabilities in electronic
trading. Knight Capital merged with Getco LLC in July and is now
called  KCG Holdings Inc. (KCG)   Fogg, 48, and Vegna, 42, will focus on advising investment
managers when they shift significant portions of their
portfolios. They were most recently Americas co-heads of Credit
Suisse’s transition management group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  