-- ADB Sees East Asia Growth Risk on $8 Trillion Funding Challenge
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-25T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/adb-sees-east-asia-growth-risk-on-8-trillion-funding-challenge.html
Emerging East Asian economies risk
slower growth after they failed to take advantage of ample cash
supply made available by global monetary authorities to build
roads and ports, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  Funding infrastructure needs has become harder following
recent turmoil in regional financial markets, and borrowing
costs could rise further when the U.S. Federal Reserve starts
tightening policy, the Manila-based lender said in a report
today. Weakening growth momentum could accelerate capital
outflows, and moves to defend Asian currencies by raising
interest rates will further curb economic expansion, it said.  The ADB estimates the region needs to invest $8 trillion in
transport, communication and energy framework in the decade
through 2020 to sustain growth. Developing deep and more liquid
bonds markets can help emerging economies attract investors such
as pension funds to finance such projects and guarantees can
help boost the ratings of infrastructure bonds, it said.  “When you are having a party, plenty of cheap money, you
don’t really pay too much attention on what is more fundamental
and needed in the long run,” Iwan Azis, head of the ADB’s
economic integration office, said in a telephone interview from
Manila. Building “strong infrastructure” would help shield the
region’s growth prospects in the event of tapering of global
stimulus, he said.  The lender classifies emerging East Asia as comprising
China,  Hong Kong , Indonesia, South Korea,  Malaysia , Singapore,
 Thailand ,  Vietnam  and the  Philippines .  Infrastructure Spending  In 2011, Thailand and the Philippines spent 1.5 percent and
1.6 percent of their gross domestic product on infrastructure,
respectively, according to today’s report. Spending by Malaysia,
Singapore and South Korea each amounted to about 2.3 percent of
GDP, while investment in Hong Kong was at 4.7 percent, it said.  The ADB in July cut its 2013 growth forecast for developing
Asian economies, including India, to 6.3 percent from a 6.6
percent expansion predicted in April. The projection for 2014
was lowered to 6.4 percent from 6.7 percent.  Indonesia’s rupiah is Asia’s worst-performing currency this
year, losing 16 percent, as investors fled nations with
worsening current-account deficits amid concern less money will
flow into  emerging markets .  Bank Indonesia  has raised its
benchmark  reference rate  by a total of 150 basis points, or 1.5
percentage points, since June this year to 7.25 percent.  Asian Bonds  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Sept. 18 more evidence of
a recovery in the  U.S. economy  is needed before the central bank
starts paring its $85 billion a month of bond purchases. The
average yield on Asian-local currency bonds has climbed 68 basis
points to 4.17 percent since May 21, the day before Bernanke
first hinted the Fed may start scaling back its record monetary
stimulus, an index compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc shows.  Asian local-currency notes have lost 4.8 percent in 2013,
led by Indonesia’s 11.6 percent drop, according to 10 debt
indexes compiled by HSBC.  Local banks and companies are major holders of fixed-income
securities and could face losses as policy makers raise interest
rates to defend their currencies, ADB’s Azis said.  “If the  interest rate  is raised much, the value of those
bonds will go down,” affecting balance sheets, he said. “This
is a prescription for bankruptcy. This is the reason we caution
against raising interest rates.”  Total sales of local-currency notes in the region declined
3.3 percent last quarter from a year earlier to $827 billion,
according to the ADB. Issuance by companies shrank 16 percent to
$168 billion, while government and central bank debt offerings
gained 0.4 percent to a combined $659 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  