-- Madoff’s Screw Sculpture Excluded From Evidence at Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/madoff-s-screw-sculpture-excluded-from-evidence-at-trial.html
Prosecutors at the trial of five
ex-employees of Bernard L. Madoff were barred from telling
jurors about a sculpture of a screw their boss kept in his
office after defense lawyers said the evidence would be crude.  The sculpture was recovered from Madoff’s office after his
2008 arrest for masterminding a  Ponzi scheme  that cost investors
about $17 billion in lost principal. Five former Madoff
employees are facing trial in federal court in  Manhattan  for
aiding the fraud. U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain
yesterday granted a defense request and prohibited the
government from showing jurors the sculpture or photographs of
it, after defense lawyers complained of the artwork’s
“colloquial inference.”  “See if you can get that screw out of the pictures” of
Madoff’s office, Swain told prosecutors.  The five defendants -- Daniel Bonventre, Annette Bongiorno,
Jerome O’Hara,  George Perez  and Joann Crupi -- are scheduled to
go on trial Oct. 7, with the start of jury selection. Next week,
a panel of 400 potential jurors will be called in to complete a
questionnaire.  Swain said jurors wouldn’t be told about the suicide of
Madoff’s son Mark or about luxury items bought by several
defendants. Prosecutors may tell jurors about a beach house
Crupi bought with a $2.7 million bonus, the judge said.  The five defendants, who deny wrongdoing, are accused of
helping maintain fake trading records at Madoff’s firm and
aiding him in other ways. Prosecutors said their case may last
12 weeks, followed by defense cases.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  