-- Airbus Wins Orders for 43 Planes From Chinese Startups
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-09-25T20:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/airbus-wins-orders-for-43-planes-from-chinese-startups.html
Airbus SAS (EAD) , the world’s second-biggest planemaker, won orders for $4.2 billion of single-aisle
planes from two Chinese startups amid rising travel and the
government’s deregulation of the nation’s civil aviation sector.  Qingdao Airlines , a newly established private carrier,
agreed to buy 23 A320s in a deal valued at $2.26 billion, based
on Airbus list prices. Zhejiang Loong Airlines, recently
approved by the regulator, signed an initial agreement for 20
A320s, valued at $1.91 billion. Airlines usually get discounts
from list prices.  The deals are a boost for Toulouse, France-based Airbus as
the planemaker expects to deliver more than 100 aircraft this
year to customers in China, the world’s second-largest economy.
Airbus, which lost the global sales lead to Boeing Co. last
year, has predicted airlines globally will buy planes valued at
$4.4 trillion in the next two decades, driven by demand in  India 
and  China  and global growth among low-fare carriers.  “It seems China is encouraging local investment into the
sector as new airlines can help boost domestic consumption and
economy,” said Kelvin Lau, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. “In the short term, competition on
certain routes would become fiercer and the prolonged problems
of airspace congestion and pilot shortage may get worse.”  New players in the long term are unlikely to be a real
threat for the dominant airlines, that are owned by the central
government, he said.  China, Brazil  About 36 percent of Airbus’s long-term sales forecast will
go to the Asia-Pacific region, with  Europe  taking 20 percent of
planes ahead of North America, which will be home to 19 percent
of forecast deliveries. The highest growth rate will be in India
where domestic  air travel  is set to advance almost 10 percent,
with China and  Brazil  due to see increases of about 7 percent.  Qingdao Airlines’ order includes 18 A320neos, a re-engined
version of the single-aisle jet, according to an e-mailed
statement from Airbus yesterday. Zhejiang Loong’s purchase will
have nine neos, the planemaker said in a separate statement.  “I question if China needs more airlines,” said Will
Horton, an analyst at CAPA Centre for Aviation. “Airlines
generate economic activity even if they are unprofitable. China
is no different from the rest of the world in that governments
see airlines as a source of pride.”  Airbus also won a $2.6 billion order from BOC Aviation
Ltd., the leasing unit of Bank of China Ltd. The Singapore-based
lessor is expanding as economic growth in  Malaysia ,  Indonesia 
and other Southeast Asian nations is boosting travel across the
region. That’s prompted  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ,  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) 
and PT Lion Mentari Airlines to also place orders.  VietJet Order  VietJet Aviation Joint Stock Co., Vietnam’s only privately
owned carrier, signed an agreement yesterday to buy as many as
92 planes from Airbus, including 42 re-engined A320neos, 14
current-model A320s, six A321s and 30 purchase rights.  China may need 5,300 new planes in the 20 years through
2032, Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China said yesterday. The
Shanghai-based company is making China’s first large passenger
plane in a bid to challenge Boeing and Airbus.  Qingdao Air, 20 percent owned by a unit of  Air China Ltd. (601111) ,
won preliminary approval to set up an airline business in May,
according to the aviation regulator’s website.  Delivery of the Qingdao Air’s planes will start in 2016 and
it will begin services next year with leased A320 aircraft,
according to the statement. Zhejiang Loong, based in Hangzhou in
eastern China’s Zhejiang province, plans to start business this
year.  Lightweight Model  Qingdao’s approval came after  Li Jiaxiang , the head of
Civil Aviation Administration of China, vowed in May to reduce
regulatory procedures for companies.  Airbus yesterday also introduced a lightweight version of
twin-aisle plane A330-300 to help Chinese customers cope with
airspace congestion and shortage of pilots. The shorter-range
model can be delivered by the end of 2015 or early 2016, Eric
Chen, Airbus head in China, told reporters in Beijing.  Air China, the country’s biggest carrier by market value,
and China Southern Airlines Co.,  Asia ’s largest by traffic, both
reported first-half profit gains helped by the  yuan ’s
appreciation amid increasing competition with bullet trains.  The air regulator in May also gave preliminary approval for
Ruili Airlines, owned by private firm Yunnan Jingcheng Group.
The new airline, based in Yunnan province, agreed to buy 18
planes from Boeing and Air Berlin in August, according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  