-- Alexander Says ‘Wrong Decisions’ Would Limit NSA Spying
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-25T21:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/alexander-says-wrong-decisions-would-limit-nsa-spying.html
Collection of bulk phone records by
U.S. intelligence agencies is essential to preventing terrorist
attacks and “wrong decisions” by Congress could curb this
power, the head of the National Security Agency said.  “We need our nation to understand why we need these tools,
and what those tools mean to civil liberties and privacy and
what they mean to defending this country,” NSA Director General
Keith Alexander said during a keynote speech at a security
conference in Washington today.  Bulk phone records were used to determine if there was a
threat to  New York  City in the aftermath of the April 15 bombing
of the Boston Marathon, as well as to determine if there were
terrorist plots against U.S. embassies abroad during the summer,
Alexander said in an interview after his speech.  “Somebody who has a database that can look at the foreign
and the domestic numbers can look at those and get the
information back quickly can tell you where there’s a threat and
where there’s not,” Alexander said. He declined to discuss
details about the cases.  The NSA is facing a backlash from some lawmakers and
privacy advocates over abuses in spy programs exposed by former
government contractor Edward Snowden and in documents recently
declassified by President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  Senate Bill  Democratic Senators  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon , Mark Udall of
 Colorado  and  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut, and Republican
Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky  announced a bill today that would
end bulk collection of phone records.  “It expresses our bipartisan view of what Congress must do
to enact real, not cosmetic, intelligence reform,” Wyden told
reporters during a press conference in Washington. “Dozens of
misleading public statements made by top intelligence officials
have now damaged the credibility of the leadership of the
intelligence community at home and abroad.”  The legislation would permit the collection of phone
records solely for people suspected of terrorism or espionage,
Wyden said.  The bill also would allow  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and other Internet companies to publicly disclose how they
respond to law enforcement orders for data on their customers.  Paul said Director of National Intelligence James Clapper
should resign because he gave an untruthful answer when
testifying before the Senate intelligence committee in March.  ‘Least Untruthful’  “I think in order to get back credibility for our
intelligence gathering he should resign,” Paul told reporters.
“I don’t think you can come to a committee and lie to a
committee and expect to have credibility.”  Wyden asked Clapper in March during a Senate intelligence
committee hearing if the government collects data on millions of
Americans. Clapper answered “no,” and then said, “Not
wittingly. There are cases where they could inadvertently
perhaps collect, but not wittingly.” He told NBC’s Andrea
Mitchell in an  interview  after NSA’s surveillance practices were
disclosed that his answer was the “least untruthful.”  Alexander pleaded for support of NSA programs during his
speech at the conference, which was attended primarily by
government and industry officials specializing in cybersecurity.  “We can’t do that without your help,” he said. “That’s
my ask of you.”  In particular, Alexander said the agency needs to collect
bulk phone metadata, such as numbers dialed and call durations,
to connect intelligence dots.  Americans’ Calls  Alexander said it’s “flat wrong” that NSA analysts have
been listening to all phone calls of Americans or reading
citizens’ emails.  He said analysts who were found to have committed 12
intentional abuses within the past 10 years have been punished
or left the agency.  “Congress is back in session. This is going to pick up,”
Alexander said. “The American people have to weigh in and get
the tools we need to protect this country and defend our civil
liberties and privacy.”  Alexander also warned that a terrorist attack similar to
the mall shooting in Nairobi,  Kenya , last week could occur in
the U.S. if NSA authorities are curbed.  Snowden fled the U.S. after releasing classified data to
media outlets and is currently in  Russia  on temporary asylum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  