-- Mall of America Boosts Security After Attack in Nairobi
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-09-25T19:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/mall-of-america-boosts-security-after-attack-in-nairobi.html
Mall of America, the largest U.S.
shopping  center  and entertainment complex, said it’s increasing
security after Islamist militants attacked a Kenyan mall,
killing at least 67 civilians.  The suburban Minneapolis mall, owned by real estate
development and finance company Triple Five Group of  Edmonton ,
 Alberta , is monitoring the news from Nairobi and working with
 law-enforcement  agencies, the center’s management said today in
an e-mailed statement. The Bloomington, Minnesota, property,
which opened in 1992, has more than 520 stores, an indoor
amusement park, an aquarium and a movie theater.  “Mall of America has implemented extra security
precautions,” according to the statement. “Some may be
noticeable to guests, and others won’t be. We will continue to
follow the situation, along with law enforcement, and will
remain vigilant as we always do in similar situations.”  U.S. mall owners face the challenge of protecting sprawling
properties filled with hundreds of people without disrupting
business. After an attack such as the one in Nairobi, the
 companies  may ask local police for patrol cars at their
properties or bring in additional security officers, said
Malachy Kavanagh, a spokesman for the  International Council of
Shopping Centers , a  New York-based trade group.  The death toll from the four-day assault is the worst since
al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi in August
1998, killing 213 people. Three floors in the building collapsed
during the attack, leaving an unknown number of bodies buried
beneath the rubble, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said
yesterday.  ‘Reasonably Secure’  Security at shopping centers varies by country and the
perceived threat level for potential attacks, Kavanagh said.  “Most malls are reasonably secure, given their mission
that they have to cater to the public,” William Nesbitt,
president of Security Management Services International Inc., a
Newbury Park, California-based consulting firm, said in a phone
interview. “Basically malls need to be open to the public.”  Some U.S. malls, because they’re often among the largest
buildings in a city and heavily trafficked, have a police
officer on site, Kavanagh said. Retail centers may house police
substations as well.  The Bloomington Police Department has a substation in Mall
of America, according to the property’s website. The center’s
security force has been the subject of a reality television
program, “Mall Cops: Mall of America,” on the TLC cable
network.  ‘Top Priority’  Mall of America didn’t disclose details of its security
plans.  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-largest U.S.
mall owner, doesn’t discuss specific parts of its safety
programs “in order to avoid compromising our efforts,” said
 David Keating , a spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  “The safety and security of our shoppers, retailers and
employees are always a top priority, not just when tragedies
occur,” he said in an e-mail  Les Morris, a spokesman for Indianapolis-based  Simon
Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the world’s largest mall owner, and Katy Dickey, a Los Angeles-based spokeswoman for  Westfield Group (WDC) ,
declined to comment on their companies’ security measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  