-- John Malone Says Time Warner Cable Deal Still Makes Sense
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-09-25T20:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/malone-says-reaching-time-warner-cable-deal-still-makes-sense.html
Billionaire John Malone, the cable-industry pioneer and largest investor in Charter Communications
Inc., is still aiming to convince  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that
teaming up is in both companies’ best interests.  Consolidation makes sense because cable operators need to
stay competitive with satellite-TV companies, Malone said in an
interview at the Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Communacopia
Conference in New York. So far, efforts to persuade Time Warner
Cable to join forces with Charter have proved fruitless,
according to people familiar with the discussions.  Malone’s dealings with Time Warner Cable are being handled
by his holding company  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which is run by
Chief Executive Officer Greg Maffei. The billionaire is letting
Maffei manage any potential deal process, which Malone doesn’t
expect to become hostile, he said.  “I’m not involved in those discussions,” said Malone, 72.
“I’m an investor and a philosopher these days.”  Time Warner Cable shares fell 0.7 percent to $110.84 at the
close in New York.  Charter (CHTR) ’s stock climbed 2.2 percent to
$134.01, while Liberty Media rose 0.2 percent to $145.33.  Justin Venech, a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, declined to comment.  Programming Fees  U.S. cable companies need to get bigger to improve their
negotiating power with programmers such as Walt Disney Co. and
CBS Corp., Malone said. CBS was blacked out on Time Warner Cable
for a month between August and September in some cities because 
of a battle over content fees.  Liberty got its start as the cable-TV programming arm of
Tele-Communications Inc., a company Malone ran for more than 25
years. Malone kept control of Liberty after selling TCI to AT&T
Corp. in 1999. AT&T spun off Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty
as a public company in 2001.  Malone has a net worth of $6.6 billion, making him the
61st-richest person in the U.S., according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires index. He’s also the country’s largest private
landowner, with 2.2 million acres of ranch and timber property
in nine U.S. states.  Liberty Media acquired a 27 percent stake in Charter in
May, marking Malone’s return to the U.S. cable industry. After
completing the purchase, he vowed to transform the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based cable company into “a horizontal acquisition
machine.”  Making the Case  Malone has set his sights on Time Warner Cable despite that
company being a much larger business. Bloomberg News reported in
June that Liberty and Charter were weighing how to structure a
bid for Time Warner Cable, which has a market value of about $32
billion -- more than twice that of Charter.  “You’ve got to make the case to shareholders,” Malone
said. “That’s the skill. That’s why Maffei gets the big
bucks.”  Time Warner Cable Chief Financial Officer Artie Minson said
yesterday that the company would consider taking on more debt if
it came across an attractive enough merger or acquisition. While
the cable provider doesn’t feel the need to get bigger, it would
add more debt to its balance sheet under the right
circumstances, Minson said at the Goldman Sachs event.  Gaining scale in the cable industry also could be done
through joint ventures, Malone said. Larger companies with more
clout could lower their costs, he said.  “You’d buy stuff cheaper and support technological
innovation more easily,” Malone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  