-- Amazon Unveils Faster Kindle Fires to Take On Apple
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-09-25T16:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/amazon-unveils-faster-kindle-fires-to-take-on-apple.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  unveiled its third
generation of Kindle Fire tablets and boosted their prices, as
the world’s biggest e-commerce company seeks to set itself apart
in an increasingly crowded market.  The new Kindle Fire HDX costs $229 to $479 and comes in two
display sizes, 7-inch and 8.9-inch, Amazon said in a statement
today. While the prices are lower than  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s latest iPads
and iPad minis, which start at $329, they are more expensive
than the older Kindle Fire HD that started at $199. The HDX
tablets have higher-resolution screens, faster processors, weigh
less than their predecessors, and have 4G wireless capability.  Amazon is battling Apple and Google Inc. in the tablet
market, where it remains a smaller player. While Amazon’s
devices have done well in the holiday season, sales have dropped
off after the rush. The company was No. 3 after Apple and
Samsung Electronics Co., with  12 percent  share in the fourth
quarter of 2012, according to researcher IDC, and slipped to No.
4 with  3.7 percent  share in the first quarter.  Amazon takes a different business approach with its tablets
than its rivals. While Apple makes money on an iPad each time a
tablet is sold, Amazon offers its devices at cost. The Seattle-based company instead aims to profit off the movies, books and
music consumed on each Kindle Fire, Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  said in an interview.  At Cost  “We want to make money when people use our devices, not
when they buy our devices,” Bezos said. “We think that’s good
customer alignment. No one has to be on the upgrade trend.”  The company has a history of offering some products and
services at cost or at a loss in order to drive consumer
engagement. Amazon charges just $79 a year for its Prime fast-shipping service, and members of the program tend to be some of
the heaviest buyers of goods through its website.  Amazon has been spending to improve its Kindles, squeezing
profit margins and contributing to a  $39 million loss  last year.
Earlier this month, the company updated its Kindle Paperwhite e-reader, adding a sharper screen, faster processor and new
features.  In total, the tablet market is projected to increase three-fold to  $125 billion  by 2017 based on units shipped, according
to IDC.  Amazon shares are up about 26 percent so far this year,
compared with a 19 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as Bezos pours money into fulfillment, cloud technology
and Kindles.  More Consumption  Those who own a Kindle buy four times more books -- both
physical and digital -- than those who don’t own one, an
indication that the devices may spur sales of other sorts of
products in the future, said  Mark Mahaney , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in San Francisco.  Sales of Kindles and the digital content people buy on them
make up more than 10 percent of Amazon’s revenue, Mahaney said.
Amazon may see a onefold or twofold increase in music and movie
sales per tablet, he said.  As part of the rollout, Amazon is also debuting a new
lower-end Kindle Fire HD for $139. Some of the new tablet models
will ship next month, with others available in November.  The company is adding more high-end features to the new HDX
tablets to attract consumers who may be accustomed to Apple
devices. The 8.9-inch Kindle Fire HDX screen has 339 pixels per
inch, more than the iPad, and weighs 13.2 ounces, about 10
ounces less then the iPad. Each HDX uses  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s quad-core Snapdragon 800 processor, whose 2.2 GHz is more than three
times faster than Amazon’s previous generation of tablets.  Improved Graphics  Amazon also added a new graphics engine to improve video-gaming experiences on the device. Games draw the most in-app
purchases of all of Amazon’s applications on Kindle Fires, and
the company recently added the ability to purchase physical
goods on Amazon through apps as well. The company doesn’t
disclose revenue figures for purchases on the tablet.  Amazon also included new security features such as hardware
and software encryption, moving to appeal to businesses.  Another new feature is a button called Mayday, which
connects the user to a customer service representative via
video. It allows Amazon support staff to see a consumer’s screen
as-is and draw on it -- arrows and circles to indicate how the
consumer should navigate turning on child controls, for
instance. The idea is to combine Amazon’s cloud-technology
capabilities with its products, Bezos said.  “If you think about Amazon’s history, we have always been
where we marry together high tech and heavy lifting,” Bezos
said. “Mayday is another example of marrying high tech and
heavy lifting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  