-- AmEx in Talks to Spin Off Half of Business-Travel Unit
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-25T15:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/american-express-in-travel-venture-talks-with-certares-led-group.html
American Express Co. (AXP)  is in talks to
spin off half of its business-travel unit in a joint venture
with Certares International Bank LLC, resulting in a one-time
gain for the credit-card lender.  An investor group led by Certares would inject $700 million
to $1 billion in return for a 50 percent stake, New York-based
AmEx said today in a statement. The deal could be completed in
the second quarter of 2014.  American Express, the biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by
purchases, said it would cut 5,400 jobs this year, mostly in
travel services, as consumers and businesses rely more on
digital technology for bookings. Commissions and fees fell 5
percent to $495 million in the second quarter from a year
earlier amid a slide in global sales, the firm said in July.  “We’ve been making strong progress in our efforts to
transform our corporate travel business,” Stephen J. Squeri,
group president, global corporate services, said in the
statement.  Certares is led by Michael Gregory “Greg” O’Hara, a
former chief investment officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
special investments group, according to Certares’s website.
AmEx’s global business-travel employees would move to the new
unit and be managed by a board of directors composed of
executives from AmEx and the investor group.  Shares Rise  American Express climbed 0.6 percent to $76.50 at 10:55
a.m. in New York. The shares have surged 33 percent this year,
outpacing the  23 percent advance  for 81-company Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index.  The business-travel group has operations and network
partners in 138 countries and serves corporate customers that
spend more than $19 billion a year, the lender said in the
statement. Travel commissions and fees fell 2 percent last year
to $1.94 billion from 2011, according to a financial  supplement .  The joint venture will allow AmEx to make investments in
its business-travel division to develop products and services
for corporate clients, the company said. Senior managers at New
York-based Certares have “significant experience in the travel
industry,” American Express said without elaborating.  UBS AG (UBSN)  is the lead adviser to AmEx on the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  