-- Metro-North Fix May Take Weeks as Riders Left to Scramble
-- B y   P r i y a   A n a n d   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-09-26T20:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/amtrak-halts-acela-from-nyc-to-boston-after-metro-north-delays.html
Metro-North Railroad trains filled
to capacity on the  New Haven  Line, with many riders standing,
after failure of an electrical cable limited service from
 Connecticut  to  New York  for as long as three weeks.  Diesel trains ran about every half-hour today, supplemented
by buses, and were able to accommodate only about one-third of
the daily ridership of 130,000, according to New York’s
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which runs Metro-North.  Tickets were being honored on the Harlem Line, which runs
through Westchester County, adjacent to Connecticut. This
afternoon, Metro-North released a new evening schedule on its
Twitter feed.  Consolidated Edison Inc., (ED)  which supplies electricity to the
New York metropolitan area, said it is working to arrange
temporary power to replace the cable that failed yesterday at
the start of morning rush hour. The utility said a second 138-kilovolt feeder, which could have been used as a backup, was
down for maintenance.  “We’re exploring different ways of getting power to that
section of railway and have a lot of people deployed in that
area,” Bob McGee, a company spokesman, said today in a phone
interview. He declined to estimate how long power would be out
or discuss what temporary fixes are being considered.  May Derailment  It’s at least the second major disruption on the New Haven
Line this year. On May 17, two trains collided near the
Bridgeport-Fairfield border, injuring at least 75. As many as
30,000 Metro-North users had to find alternative commutes for
five days.  Amtrak  canceled its Acela Express trains between New York
and  Boston  through Sept. 29. Northeast Regional service will run
on diesel power, and Amtrak will refund passengers for Acela
Express tickets, the company said today in a statement.  Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy, a Democrat, told state
residents to plan for weeks of limited service from New Haven to
Grand Central station in  Manhattan . Today, he halted routine
maintenance on Interstate 95, the Merritt Parkway and other
roads to accommodate the increased congestion stemming from the
train disruption.  “People need to now assume this is a long-term problem,”
Malloy said yesterday at a news briefing in Hartford. “Plan on
a long-term lack of service.”  There was no indication that work being done on the second
cable, which was taken off line earlier this month, led to the
outage,McGee of Con Edison said. The utility will need weeks to
repair the failed 138-kilovolt line because it runs through a
trench, he said.  At  Grand Central (GRAN)  today, Mark Glidden, a 70-year-old
marriage and family-counseling psychotherapist, said he
typically arrives in Manhattan shortly after 7 a.m. on the New
Haven Line and couldn’t risk missing morning appointments by
traveling on the limited-service trains.  “I stayed over at my office yesterday,” said the
Southport resident. “I had to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 