-- Manchester United Beats Liverpool in League Cup as Swansea Falls
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-25T23:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/manchester-united-beats-liverpool-in-league-cup-as-swansea-falls.html
Manchester United  beat Liverpool 1-0 to reach the round of 16 in English soccer’s League Cup, while
Birmingham City knocked out defending champion Swansea City.  Javier Hernandez  scored early in the second half last night
at Old Trafford as United rebounded from a 4-1 loss against
 Manchester City  four days ago that consigned the Red Devils to
their worst Premier League start since 2004.  “It was a massive turnaround,” United defender Chris
Smalling told  Sky Sports . “There was a lot of doubt at the
weekend. We needed to go out and put on a performance.”  Goals from Dan Burn, Matt Green and Tom Adeyemi gave
Birmingham, which plays in the second-tier Championship, a 3-1
home win against Swansea. Premier League clubs Arsenal,
 Newcastle United  and  Stoke City  also advanced to complete the
fourth-round lineup in  England ’s second-tier cup competition.  Manchester United scored 40 seconds into the second half as
Hernandez worked free from Jose Enrique and directed  Wayne Rooney ’s corner kick into the net from six yards out.  “His movement is great,” United manager  David Moyes  said
of Hernandez. “Not only that, it’s the way he adjusts his body
to get the finish off. He’s great in the box.”  Striker  Luis Suarez  returned to the starting lineup for
Liverpool, which has won a record eight League Cups, after
completing his 10-match suspension for biting Chelsea’s
Branislav Ivanovic in a match last season.  Swansea Goes Out  Birmingham scored all of its goals in the second half as
Swansea’s reign as League Cup champion lasted just one match.  Burn opened the scoring in the 57th minute and Green
doubled the advantage four minutes later. Adeyemi made it 3-0
with nine minutes remaining before Wilfried Bony scored a late
consolation for Swansea.  The game matched two of the past three League Cup winners.
Swansea routed Bradford City 5-0 last season to capture the
first trophy in its 101-year history, while Birmingham beat
Arsenal in the 2011 final.  Arsenal came from behind to beat West Bromwich Albion 4-3
in a penalty shootout after the teams drew 1-1.  Thomas Eisfeld gave Arsenal the lead in the 61st minute and
Saido Berahino drew the home side even 10 minutes later. West
Brom’s Morgan Amalfitano hit the crossbar in extra time, sending
the match to penalties.  West Brom took a 3-1 lead in the shootout as goalkeeper
Luke Daniels saved Serge Gnabry’s attempt. Craig Dawson and
Amalfitano then put their efforts wide as Arsenal made its final
three penalties, Nacho Monreal converting the deciding spot kick,
to advance to a matchup with  London  rival Chelsea.  Fourth-Round Draw  Papiss Cisse and Yoan Gouffran scored in Newcastle’s win
over Championship team Leeds United. Stephen Ireland and  Peter Crouch  got goals as Stoke beat Tranmere Rovers from third-tier
League One, the lowest-rated club left in the competition.  Burnley, Chelsea, Fulham, Hull City,  Leicester City ,
Manchester City, Southampton, Sunderland, Tottenham Hotspur,
Watford and West Ham United advanced two days ago.  Five of the eight fourth-round matches determined by last
night’s draw will be all-Premier League contests. As well as
Chelsea’s visit to Arsenal, Manchester City travels to Newcastle
and Manchester United hosts Norwich City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 