-- Anglo Settles South Africa Lung-Disease Claims by 23 Gold Miners
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2013-09-25T09:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/anglo-settles-south-africa-lung-disease-claims-by-23-gold-miners.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s South African
unit reached a cash settlement with 23 miners who contracted
lung diseases when working at its operations, the first such
accord in the nation, lawyers led by Leigh Day & Co. said.  Leigh Day sued Anglo American in 2004 on behalf of 18
former miners and widows of workers at its President Steyn mine
in the Free State province. Today’s settlement, which is
confidential, includes the claimants from President Steyn and
five others who worked on other Anglo mines in the Free State
province, the London-based firm said in an e-mailed statement.
Seven of the 23 claimants have died since 2004, it said.  The settlement is separate from a class-action suit the
company faces. In August, lawyers for more than 25,000 miners
and the dependents of deceased workers who contracted silicosis
and tuberculosis while working on South African  gold mines  filed
an application to combine three pending cases against producers.
The joint litigations against the companies, which owned or
operated 82 mines since 1956, were separately lodged in South
African courts in 2012.  “Agreeing to settle this long-standing litigation is in
the best interests of the plaintiffs, their families, Anglo
American  South Africa  and its wider stakeholders,” Khanyisile
Kweyama, an  executive director  at Anglo’s South African unit,
said in a statement. The company denies any liability in the
class action proceedings, according to the statement.  Silicosis is caused by prolonged exposure to silica dust in
mines, leaving incurable scar tissue in lungs, making it hard to
breathe. It also heightens the risk of contracting tuberculosis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  