-- Harvard Gains 11.3% on Endowment to Trail Returns at Yale
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-09-25T15:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/harvard-gains-11-3-on-endowment-to-trail-returns-at-yale-penn.html
Harvard University , which last week
introduced the largest capital campaign in the history of higher
education, gained 11.3 percent on investments in the year
through June, trailing  Yale University ’s 12.5 percent return.  Harvard, the world’s wealthiest school, said its endowment
grew to $32.7 billion, beating benchmarks and generating an
additional $600 million largely from U.S. and foreign public
equities and hedge funds. The university, based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said it gained on average 9.4 percent annually
over 10 years even after a record 27 percent loss in 2009.  “I am very proud of the internal and external managers we
have in place and the results they have achieved,” Jane Mendillo, chief executive officer of Harvard Management Co., the
university entity that oversees investments, said in a report
released yesterday. “We have made a strong recovery since the
global economic downturn of 2008-2009.”  Harvard is still seeking to recoup all of the losses it
suffered from the global credit crisis after the endowment
peaked in value at $36.9 billion in 2008. It has also trailed
returns posted by Ivy League rivals such as Yale in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , and the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  Yale’s Gains  Yale said yesterday its endowment rose to $20.8 billion in
fiscal 2013, while Penn reported last week a 14.4 percent return
and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  said investments
were up 11.1 percent. Foundations and endowments as a group had
a one-year median return of 11.28 percent for the 12 months
ended June 30, Wilshire Associates said in an Aug. 6 report.  Bowdoin College in Brunswick,  Maine ,  said  last week it
surpassed $1 billion in endowment assets for the first time
after posting an investment return of 16 percent. Paula Volent,
the school’s senior vice president for investments, previously
worked at Yale, as did the heads of Penn’s and MIT’s endowments.  Harvard, Yale and other elite schools generated superior
returns for years before the credit crisis by aggressively
expanding investments in alternative assets such as private
equity and  hedge funds , which are less liquid than publicly
traded stocks and bonds. Last year Harvard lost 0.05 percent,
while the Wilshire index was up 0.38 percent.  “This was a year in which it paid to be in public equity
and developed markets,” said Max Senter, a managing director at
Cambridge Associates LLC, a Boston-based research and consulting
firm. “It was a big up year for U.S. equity and for big
European countries and  Japan .”  Harvard’s Portfolio  Mendillo said in the report released yesterday that
Harvard’s holdings of domestic equities gained 26.6 percent,
while foreign equities were up 20.5 percent. The hedge fund
portfolio was up 13.2 percent, compared with a benchmark of 6.8
percent. Private equity returned 11 percent and over the last
decade failed to outperform publicly traded stocks, she said.  The university remains optimistic about  emerging markets 
even with only a 2.3 percent return for the year, Mendillo said.
Harvard also liquidated $600 million of timberland as it
expanded holdings of so-called real assets.  Harvard announced on Sept. 21 a $6.5 billion capital
campaign to raise additional funds for research, teaching,
renovating dormitories and resuming construction stalled by
losses from the credit crisis. The University of  Southern
California  had set the previous record target with a $6 billion
campaign that began in 2011.  Many elite schools are benefiting from a rebound in both
public and private markets, as well as the fact that they have a
bias against investing in bonds, said Jim Neill, a managing
director at Santa Monica-based consultant Wilshire Associates.
Domestic fixed-income markets fell 0.7 percent through June 30
while foreign bonds were down 3.4 percent, he said.  “They were buying private equity and hedge funds well
before they were on the radar screen of the average investor,”
said Neill. “It’s really a lot of those private strategies
turning the corner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at o
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  