-- AT&T’s European Expansion Seen as Perilous Growth Strategy
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-09-26T20:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/at-t-s-european-expansion-seen-as-perilous-growth-strategy.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , which is considering an
expansion across the Atlantic, faces the same realities that
undermined European deals a decade ago: Doing business in the
region is costly, complicated and highly regulated.  Phone companies have tried and failed to reap benefits from
global networks, said Craig Moffett, founder of researcher
MoffettNathanson LLC. In Europe, AT&T would have to contend with
a fragmented, price-sensitive market, with a patchwork of
governments hampering efforts to create a regional network.  “There simply aren’t sufficient economic benefits to
global scale,” said Moffett, who was Bloomberg Markets
magazine’s top-ranked U.S. telecommunications analyst last year.
“Anyone who has tried it has learned the hard way that the
economic benefits never materialize.”  AT&T wants to take its experience building out a fourth-generation U.S. network and apply it to Europe, where the
adoption of speedier services promises to bring a surge of data
use, said people familiar with the company’s thinking, who asked
not to be identified because the plans are confidential. While
the carrier has declined to comment on the idea, AT&T Chief
Executive Officer Randall Stephenson outlined the pros and cons
of a European expansion at a conference this week.  Mobile Internet  The lack of a robust market for mobile applications and
other services overseas means there’s opportunity for growth,
Stephenson said. The evolution of the mobile Internet experience
in the U.S. over the past six years helped turn Apple Inc. from
a computer-focused company into a powerhouse with $170 billion
in sales, he said. Europe has yet to fully benefit from that
transformation, Stephenson said.  “Why has this thing not really taken off to the degree
that it has in the U.S.?” he said. “That market is going to
evolve in Europe. I think it’s going to evolve very quickly.”  AT&T has the opportunity to take advantage of strong
valuations in the U.S. telecommunications market to buy Vodafone
relatively cheaply, Moffett said. The average price-to-earnings
ratio in Western Europe is about 40 and it’s more than 60 in
North America, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T has been evaluating bids for European companies,
including Newbury, England-based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , people
familiar with the matter have said. It could pick up Vodafone --
now that the British company sold its stake in AT&T rival
Verizon Wireless -- for 6.3 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to estimates
from Sanford C. Bernstein. That would value Vodafone at about
$130 billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Still Exciting’  “You can understand why AT&T wants to diversify,” Moffett
said. “AT&T’s position in the U.S. market looks to be a bit
precarious right now, and U.S. valuations are still at near all-time peaks, so there has to be at least some interest in using
that currency while it’s still exciting.”  Simon Gordon, a spokesman for Vodafone, declined to
comment, as did Brad Burns, a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T.  Vodafone rose 0.6 percent to 218.50 pence in  London , taking
its gains this year to 41 percent this year. AT&T closed 0.5
percent higher at $34.23 in New York. It’s up 1.5 percent this
year.  Betting on growth doesn’t always pay off, as companies that
counted on rising Internet use to expand internationally learned
a decade ago. They wound up as some of the biggest bankruptcies
ever. Global Crossing Ltd., which built 100,000 miles cables to
connect calls and data around the world, went into default in
2002 after amassing more than $12 billion in debt.  The same year, WorldCom Inc., which had assets ranging from
the U.S. to Europe to Latin America, had the then-largest
Chapter 11 filing in American history.  Falling Bills  Carriers in Europe struggle with heavier price competition
and a fragmented market that will make it difficult to eke out
cost savings from a pan-European network. The economy’s also
growing more slowly than in the U.S. and unemployment is higher.  The 4G growth also probably won’t be enough to compensate
for years of declining phone bills. Customers in Europe paid an
average of $38 per month for mobile service last year, according
to the GSMA industry group. That compared with $69 in the U.S.
Subscribers who upgrade to 4G typically only pay about 10
percent more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  AT&T would also have to grapple with more stringent
regulations than in the U.S. There are more than two dozen
countries with their own rules, along with the European Union’s
consumer-friendly executive branch. Regulators have capped the
fees carriers can charge each other for network usage, and
revenue from roaming and data plans also are restricted.  German Test  Regulators remain vigilant, with EU Commissioner Neelie Kroes, in charge of the bloc’s digital agenda, saying she’s
concerned about a Lehman Brothers-style implosion if companies
aren’t managed properly.  “The telecoms sector hasn’t had its Lehman moment yet,”
Kroes said in a speech this week. “With declining revenues,
rising debt, dated business models, I worry about that
happening. And I worry about the consequences if it did.”  Carriers also face antitrust obstacles combining networks
within countries, though a proposed deal between German mobile
operators could set a precedent if approved. The merger of Royal
KPN NV’s E-Plus and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 -- if it goes through --
may spur other carriers to reconsider their positions on
consolidation,  Orange SA (ORA)  CEO Stephane Richard said this month.  AT&T posted lower-than-predicted profit last quarter, hurt
by the cost of subsidizing smartphones -- a tactic to get
customers to sign up for two-year contracts. The company also is
struggling with falling landline revenue.  Acquiring Vodafone would be a “transformational” deal for
AT&T, which is mostly a domestic company, UBS AG analyst John Hodulik said in a note to investors. Still, it comes with no
guarantees, he said.  “While AT&T may believe it sees a bit of light at the end
of this very long, dark tunnel, a deal to acquire Vodafone’s
remaining assets would come with a new set of risks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  