-- Mattel Tops Holiday Toy List With Latest Disney Doll
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/mattel-tops-holiday-toy-list-with-latest-disney-doll.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest
toymaker, placed the most items on an annual industry list that 
tries to predict the hottest gifts for the holiday season.  The company, based in El Segundo,  California , has three 
items on the Toy Insider’s  Hot 20 list , including “Sofia the 
First Talking Sofia and Animal Friends” that retails for about 
$40. Sofia is the main character in “Sofia the First,” the 
animated series on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Disney Junior network that 
draws on the entertainment’s company’s Disney Princess brand.  Two products from  Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the Pawtucket, Rhode Island-based toymaker, made the cut, according to the trade website’s
eighth-annual guide for picking toys and gifts.  The companies could use some hit items for the year-end
holiday-shopping season after toy revenue in the U.S. market has
been sluggish the past three years. Hasbro’s  sales  have declined
2.6 percent to $4.06 billion in the past 12 months through June
while Mattel’s have increased 4.2 percent to $6.5 billion in the
same period.  This month, several retailers, including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and Toys “R” Us Inc., released their own top toy lists to
boost interest in the items they are betting on for the
holidays. Wal-Mart’s top-20 list, which it said was made based
on feedback from 1,000 kids, has 13 items from either Mattel or
Hasbro, compared with the Toy Insider list which has five
products combined from the two manufacturers.  Hasbro’s items on the Toy Insider list include “Big Hugs
Elmo,” from its Playskool brand which costs about $60.  Tablets and mobile devices specifically designed for young
children, a growing market for companies including Samsung
Electronics Co., were represented by  LeapFrog Enterprises Inc. (LF) ’s
LeapPad Ultra for $150 and the Kurio Touch 4S from Techno Source
that sells for about $100.  The Toy Insider’s Hot 20:  Age 2 and Under: Big Hugs Elmo (Hasbro); Go! Go! Smart Wheels
Construction Playset (VTech); Laugh & Learn Crawl Around Car
(Mattel); Twilight Turtle Tunes (Cloud B)  Age 3-5: Despicable Me 2 Talking Minion Dave & Stewart (Thinkway
Toys); Disney Planes Wing Control Dusty Crophopper R/C Plane
(Mattel); Doc McStuffins Get Better Checkup Center (Just Play);
Hexbug Nano V2 Black Hole (Innovation First); LeapPad Ultra
(LeapFrog); Disney Sofia The First Talking Sofia and Animal
Friends (Mattel)  Age 6-8: Battroborg (Tomy); Blingles Glimmer Glam Styler (Moose
Toys); Disney Infinity (Disney Interactive); Flutterbye Fairies
(Spin Master); Mega Bloks Barbie Build ’N Play Super Star Stage
(Mega Bloks); Skylanders Swap Force (Activision)  Age 9 and Up: Air Hogs Elite Helix X4 Stunt (Spin Master); Draw
Something Party Game (Hasbro); Kurio Touch 4S (Techno Source);
Lego Chima Cragger’s Command Ship (Lego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  