-- U.S. Stocks Gain With Commodities While Treasuries Drop
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-26T20:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/australia-futures-fall-on-u-s-slump-as-oil-extends-drop.html
U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rebounding following its longest losing
streak of the year, and commodities advanced after jobless
claims unexpectedly decreased. Treasuries fell.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  climbed 0.3 percent to 1,698.67 at 4 p.m. New
York time following a five-day slump. The index pared a gain of
as much as 0.7 percent amid concern lawmakers will fail to reach
a budget compromise to avert a government shutdown. Stocks
slumped in  China  and rallied in Japan while Europe’s benchmark
index closed little changed. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials gained 0.5 percent, with energy and industrial metals
leading gains. Ten-year Treasury yields increased two basis
points to 2.65 percent after falling for four days.  Initial jobless claims dropped by 5,000 to 305,000 last
week. The government’s final estimate of U.S. growth showed that
the economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized rate, unrevised
from the previous report and signaling the nation was weathering
 federal budget  cutbacks and higher taxes. President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Republicans are debating the U.S. federal
budget in a confrontation that risks a government shutdown
within days.  “Economic news have been reasonably good,” Mark Foster,
chief investment officer who oversees $620 million at Kirr
Marbach & Co. in Columbus,  Indiana , said in a telephone
interview. “On the negative side, we have the short-term budget
issues and debt ceiling. I don’t think that’ll end up being a
major issue. People just get somewhat immune to all of that.”  Budget Debate  House Republican leaders offered a proposal today to
increase the U.S.  debt  ceiling that drew protests from some
members as a dispute over federal spending risks a government
shutdown in four days. Republican leaders are preparing for what
House Speaker  John Boehner  last month called a “whale of a
fight” on the debt limit. They think they would win public
support for pairing spending cuts with the increase in the debt
cap rather than risking a government shutdown over the budget on
Oct. 1.  The  S&P 500  advanced after closing at the lowest level in
more than a week. The index had fallen 1.9 percent over the
previous five days after closing at an all-time high on Sept.
18. It’s up 19 percent for the year and 5.8 percent for the
third quarter.  Gauges of telephone, consumer and commodity companies rose
more than 0.5 percent to lead gains in nine of the 10 of the
main industry groups in the  S&P 500 (SPA)  today. Only utility shares
declined.  U.S. Movers  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. gained 4.5 percent after raising the
low end of its earnings forecast. Apple Inc. added 1 percent as
Morgan Stanley said iPhone demand is “tracking significantly
ahead of expectations.” Eli Lilly & Co. fell 3 percent after
its experimental drug ramucirumab failed to meet its goals for
treating  breast cancer  in a late-stage trial. Hertz Global
Holdings Inc. sank 16 percent, the most in four years, after
cutting its forecasts.  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes has fallen from a two-year closing high of 2.99 percent on Sept. 5 after the  Federal
Reserve  last week said it will continue with its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases, surprising investors who expected the
central bank to begin tapering its stimulus.  Fed Watch  Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said in
Stockholm that the size of the Fed’s balance sheet increases the
risks and the costs of policy errors. Fed Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota , a voter on policy next year,
said the Fed must do “whatever it takes” to strengthen a job
market that is healing too slowly.  Trading volume for shares in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index was
24 percent greater than the average of the past 30 days. The
gauge has surged 9.8 percent this quarter, on course for the
biggest gain in four years.  Ladbrokes Plc sank 7.6 percent as the U.K. gambling
operator said 2013 operating profit for the digital unit will be
below analysts’ estimates. Thomas Cook Group Plc slid 6.6
percent after the U.K. tour operator said winter bookings have
started more slowly than last year.  Hennes & Mauritz AB, Europe’s second-biggest clothing
retailer, surged 6.7 percent after reporting quarterly profit
that topped estimates for the first time this fiscal year.
Alcatel-Lucent SA rallied 6.3 percent as people with knowledge
of the matter said Nokia Oyj, which is set to become a
manufacturer focusing on wireless networks after the sale of its
handset business, is evaluating a linkup with the French
company. Nokia was little changed in Helsinki trading.  Italy’s 10-year bond yields increased 9.8 basis points to
4.34 percent before the country auctions as much as 6 billion
euros ($8.1 billion) of debt tomorrow.  Japan Stimulus  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will announce an
economic stimulus package on Oct. 1 at the same time as his
decision on whether to raise the country’s sales tax, ruling
Liberal Democratic Party tax panel chief Takeshi Noda told
reporters today. The nation plans to pledge to promptly start a
study on cutting the effective corporate  tax rate , Kyodo News
reported, without citing anyone.  The  Topix (TPX)  climbed 0.8 percent to 1,220.49 at the close in
 Tokyo , its highest since July 23.  Japan’s currency weakened 0.5 percent to 98.91 per dollar.
It was down 0.2 percent at 133.5 per euro. The Bloomberg U.S.
 Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against 10 major
currencies, gained 0.3 percent.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.5 percent, paring
its quarterly gain to 6.6 percent.  The  Shanghai (SHCOMP)  Composite Index slumped 1.9 percent, the most
in more than a week, as companies linked to the city’s free-trade zone led declines amid concern recent gains were
excessive. Taiwan’s TWSE Index dropped 1.2 percent and Poland’s
WIG20 Index jumped 1.2 percent.  Wheat, gasoline, lead and aluminum rose at least 1 percent
to lead gains in 17 of the 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index.  West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery rose
for the first time in six days, climbing 0.4 percent to $103.03
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. WTI closed
yesterday at the lowest settlement since July 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  