-- Bain Capital Is Said to Seek $4.7 Billion for Europe Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-09-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/bain-capital-is-said-to-seek-4-7-billion-for-europe-fund.html
Bain Capital LLC, the U.S. private-equity firm co-founded by  Mitt Romney , plans to seek 3.5 billion
euros ($4.7 billion) for its next Europe-focused buyout fund,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  The Boston-based firm has told prospective investors that
its fourth Europe fund is expected to be similar in size to the
predecessor vehicle raised in 2008, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the fund is private. Bain plans to
offer fee options that may include reduced carried interest and
management fee charges, as it did with its recent U.S. buyout
and Asia funds, the person said.  Bain Capital is joining a competitive fundraising market
where investors are becoming more selective about their
commitments. Some larger private equity firms, such as CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. and Advent International Corp., have
managed to gather significant sums relatively quickly, while
others have struggled. CVC Capital this year raised 10.5 billion
euros for its latest buyout fund, while Advent International
last year gathered 8.5 billion euros for its vehicle.  Alex Stanton, a spokesman at Stanton Public Relations &
Marketing, declined to comment on behalf of  Bain Capital .  Bain Capital’s Europe fund will make investments in smaller
deals mostly in Western Europe. For larger deals, the fund will
invest alongside the firm’s main fund. Bain Capital in July of
last year began raising its next flagship fund, seeking $6
billion.  The firm’s prior Europe fund, the 3.5 billion-euro Bain
Capital Europe Fund III LP, was generating a 2.3 percent net
internal rate of return as of June 30, according to the person.
The firm’s 2004 and 2001 funds were producing a 9.3 percent net
IRR and 31 percent net IRR, respectively, as of the same date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  