-- Barclays Wealth Said to Plan to Exit Nations on Cost Cut
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-09-25T15:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/barclays-wealth-said-to-plan-to-exit-nations-on-cost-cut.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  plans to cut its
wealth-management services in more than 100 nations as it seeks
to improve profitability, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter.  Barclays Wealth & Investment Management will cut the number
of countries in which it operates to 70 from as many as 200,
said the person, who asked not to be identified as the matter is
private. The unit will stop seeking new business in the
countries, where it typically doesn’t have staff or branches,
and eventually end its client relationships, the person said.  European banks are cutting back the number of countries in
which they operate as regulators scrutinize their compliance
with anti-money laundering laws, making business costlier.
Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank, plans
to stop providing wealth-management services to clients
domiciled in some countries to focus on growth markets.  “The wealth management landscape continues to evolve at
pace,” Peter Horrell, Barclays chief executive officer of
wealth and investment management, said in a statement. “We are
responding to this by reducing complexity in our business,
enabling us to focus on bringing the right services and products
to clients in locations where we have scale.”  Employees at the unit of Barclays, Britain’s second-largest
bank by assets based in London, were briefed on the new plan
yesterday and today, according to the person.  In the U.K., it’s “likely that this will cause some roles
to fall away,” the bank said in a separate statement. The
company will “conduct the appropriate consultation processes
and will ensure that we do everything we can to support those
affected,” it said.  The Financial Times reported the news earlier today.  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Dylan Griffiths  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  