-- Baron Sees Alibaba Lifting Sina to Baidu: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-03T15:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/baron-sees-alibaba-lifting-sina-to-baidu-china-overnight.html
(Corrects assets under management in sixth paragraph and
quote in same paragraph to show Kaufman said “plays” not
“places.” Adds that the fund is underweight China, in story
first published Sept. 26.)  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s
planned initial public offering in New York will help Chinese
Internet companies from Sina Corp. to  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  to extend
rallies, Baron Capital Inc. said.  Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, is seeking
U.S. law firms to help with an IPO after talks for a Hong Kong
listing broke down following management’s proposal to keep
control in a share sale, according to two people familiar with
the matter. Investment banks have valued Alibaba at as much as
$120 billion, which would make it the third-biggest  Internet
company  behind Google Inc. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  based on market
capitalization.  “This is going to be the most important e-commerce company
IPO in the world next to Amazon,” Michael Kass, a New York-based portfolio manager at Baron Capital Inc., which manages $20
billion in assets including emerging-market stocks, said by
phone. “Look at Baidu and Sina, and Ctrip and all the leading
China Internet companies, and investors’ interest is being
rekindled in those companies.”  Sina, owner of the Twitter-like Weibo in which Alibaba
acquired an 18 percent stake in April, has jumped 64 percent
this year. Baidu, China’s most-used search engine, has gained 50
percent while online fashion retailer Vipshop Holdings Ltd.
extended its surge to 227 percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
 Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S., poised for
its best quarterly gain in three years with a 19 percent rise,
added 0.4 percent to 102.2 yesterday in New York.  ‘New Normal’  China’s economy  could grow between 7 and 7.5 percent in
2013 and beyond, a level that “will become the new normal,”
Standard & Poor’s economist Paul Gruenwald wrote in a report
yesterday, adding slower expansion will make its growth more
sustainable. The world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.7
percent last year and 9.3 percent in 2011.  China represents the biggest country exposure in the
Thornburg Developing World Fund, portfolio manager Lewis Kaufman, whose fund has $1.28 billion of assets, said by phone
yesterday from  Santa Fe , New Mexico. “Consumption can continue
to be the relative bright spots of the Chinese economy. The
Internet and casino names are great plays on consumption,”
Kaufman, who is underweight China, said.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a casino operator in Macau,
is set for an 89 percent rally this year, the biggest annual
gain in three years.  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.5 percent to $37.92
in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3 percent
after Wal-Mart Stores Inc. cut orders and as concern grew that a
political showdown over  government spending  poses a threat to
growth.  Booking Volumes  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , the nation’s biggest online
travel agency, jumped 8.2 percent to $55.55 in New York, the
highest level since its U.S. IPO in 2003.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its recommendation on the Shanghai-based company to buy from hold, lifting a 12-month price target
by 85 percent to $65. Ctrip “is rapidly emerging as a clear
travel solution leader,” Vivian Hao, a Hong Kong-based analyst,
wrote in a note yesterday.  Tal Education Group (XRS) , an after-school tutoring service
provider based in Beijing, jumped 6.3 percent to $14.88 in New
York, the highest price since January 2011.  Sina added 3.9 percent to $82.50, the biggest rally in
three weeks. Baidu’s ADRs advanced 0.4 percent to $150.68, the
highest close since April 2012. Guangzhou-based  Vipshop (VIPS)  climbed
2.2 percent to $58.36, snapping a three-day retreat.  E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the country’s largest online book retailer,
added 2.2 percent to $9.62, taking its gains this year to 132
percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index ended little changed
at a one-week low of 10,598.18 yesterday, while the Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.4 percent to 2,198.52, the lowest
price in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  