-- Barroso Sees ‘Strong, Credible’ Euro as Region Exits Recession
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-09-25T23:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/barroso-sees-strong-credible-euro-as-region-exits-recession.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said that the euro area’s economy is recovering despite
record unemployment and that the euro is strengthening.  The “doomsday scenario against the euro” didn’t
materialize and the shared currency is strengthening after the
region emerged from its longest-ever recession earlier this
year, Barroso said in a Bloomberg Television interview with Sara Eisen that will air today. The commission is “pursuing a very
offensive trade agenda” to help jump-start exports, he said.  “The euro will be seen as a strong, credible and stable
currency and the European economy is stable enough to overcome
this crisis,” Barroso said in remarks taped yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “There is now a much better
outlook. Recovery is showing its first signs, but there is still
a long way to go to say that we have the crisis behind us.”  The euro area’s economy emerged from a record-long
 recession  in the second quarter amid the first sustained period
of financial-market calm since the start of the debt crisis. The
euro region economy grew  0.3 percent  in the second quarter, the
European Union’s statistics office said Sept. 4. Euro-area
unemployment remains at a record  12.1 percent .  “The crisis is not yet over,” Barroso said. “We are,
yes, technically out of recession but we are still at very high
levels of unemployment.”  The euro advanced versus the dollar yesterday. The shared
currency rose 0.4 percent to $1.3526 per dollar at 5 p.m. New
York time. The euro has gained 5.7 percent this year, the most
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  New Confidence  The  derivatives market  is showing more confidence in the
euro area as the premium traders pay to exchange euro-denominated loans for dollar funding for one-year drops to the
lowest since before the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Barroso said the U.K. will remain in the European Union.
“A referendum is also always a risk,” he said of the U.K. “If
there is a referendum, we have to face it seriously.”  He declined to say whether he would seek or serve a third
term. “I’m not going to speak about myself,” he said. “But
frankly I believe two terms is already a lot.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  