-- Base Metals Seen by Deutsche Bank Gaining to Year-End on China
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-25T11:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/base-metals-seen-by-deutsche-bank-gaining-to-year-end-on-china.html
Base metals may advance through the
end of the year on increased demand in  China , the world’s
largest user, while oil will probably see little change over the
final quarter, Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  Lead, nickel, tin and zinc are set to rise, while copper
may be little changed, the bank’s price forecasts show in an e-mailed report today. West Texas Intermediate crude oil was
forecast at $105 a barrel in the final three months from $106.07
this quarter, according to analysts including  Michael Lewis .
Gold was seen at $1,350 an ounce versus $1,330.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials has
climbed 4.2 percent this quarter, lagging behind a rally in
global stocks as data from the U.S. to China showed recoveries
gaining traction. While the U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from
tapering stimulus in September, a Bloomberg survey showed most
economists expect a cut in December. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
pared its 12-month forecast for commodity returns this month,
predicting drops in precious metals, agriculture and energy.  “Commodities continue to languish close to the bottom of
the asset-class league table,” Lewis wrote in the report.
“During the remainder of this year, we expect the rise in
precious metals and energy returns to fade and industrial metal
prices to recover.”  WTI traded at $103.74 at 7:41 p.m. in  Singapore , while gold
in  London  was at $1,322.19. Bullion is heading for the first
annual drop in 13 years as investment demand wanes.  “An eventual tapering in QE by the Fed will, in our view,
re-exert downward pressure on precious metal returns,” said
Deutsche Bank, referring to quantitative easing by its initials.
“We expect a rebound in Chinese economic activity should help
to lift industrial metal prices in the near term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  