-- Berlusconi Allies Mobilize as Threat of Expulsion Looms
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o ,   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-09-26T10:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/berlusconi-allies-mobilize-as-threat-of-senate-expulsion-looms.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s lawmakers
rallied round the former premier at a meeting in  Rome  as his
conviction for  tax fraud  prompts the Italian Senate to consider
his expulsion.  “There may be the possibility that if Berlusconi is
expelled, we all declare ourselves expelled,” lawmaker Fabrizio Cicchitto told reporters after discussions late yesterday
evening with colleagues of the People of Liberty Party, known as
the PDL. “It’s a serious possibility we’re taking into
consideration. The chief whips asked us to reflect, and there is
time to reflect.”  The move builds on Berlusconi’s threat in August to bring
down the government of Prime Minister Enrico Letta, who was
delivering a speech to the  United Nations  just as the lawmakers
convened yesterday. Letta’s Democratic Party, the largest group
in parliament, has said the expulsion is required by a law
passed last year. The standoff on Berlusconi threatens to split
the ruling coalition, which depends on the former premier’s
lawmakers for support.  Italy ’s 10-year government bonds fell for the first time in
nine days amid the risk the coalition government will collapse.
Its yield climbed eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 4.31 percent at 12:18 p.m. in Rome. That was the biggest jump
in three weeks.  Napolitano Event  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano canceled his
attendance at an event in Rome, Italian news agency Ansa
reported today, citing a message sent to participants. The
president said there was an “unexpected” political development
yesterday that requires his full attention today, Ansa cited
Napolitano as saying.  “The prime minister is in  New York  to represent Italy in
front of the UN and world markets,”  Democratic Party  Leader
Guglielmo Epifani said in a statement. He said the “decisions
and incredible noises from the PDL are further proof of its
irresponsibility.”  If Berlusconi’s lawmakers were to quit, those resignations
would then need to be ratified by a majority in a parliamentary
vote. Daniela Santanche, another of his allies, told reporters
that the threat to step down is real.  “If they oust Senator Berlusconi, they now have the proof
and the certainty that we will all be out,” she said.  Berlusconi, who turns 77 this weekend, said on Sept. 19
that a government crisis would be negative for Italy now and
that his party will continue to back Letta as long as he keeps
to promises on tax cuts. A motion to halt expulsion proceedings
against Berlusconi was rejected that day in a committee vote at
the Senate, paving the way for a possible showdown.  Senate Vote  A public hearing of the panel was set for Oct. 4 to allow
the media tycoon-turned-politician a forum to present his
defense. After that, the committe will decide whether to put the
matter before the full Senate for a final vote.  Tensions between Berlusconi’s allies and the government
have grown this month after People of Liberty’s lawmakers said
Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni needs to find a way to
avoid a value-added tax increase planned for Oct. 1. In an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  this week
Letta declined to say whether he will stop the levy’s increase.  “Having such an important partner in the coalition that
every other day blackmails the government does not benefit its
credibility both domestically and abroad,” Deputy Finance
Minister Stefano Fassina told reporters yesterday in Rome, when
asked about reports of possible resignation of Berlusconi’s
lawmakers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  