-- Big Banks Cut Basel Shortfall by $112 Billion at End 2012
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-25T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/big-banks-had-155-billion-basel-capital-shortfall-at-end-2012.html
The largest  global banks  cut the
shortfall in the reserves they’ll need to meet Basel capital
rules by 82.9 billion euros ($112 billion) in the second half of
2012, leaving a gap of 115 billion euros.  “Shortfalls in the risk-based capital of large
internationally active banks continue to shrink,” the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  said in a  statement  on its
website. The biggest European lenders account for a large part
of the remaining shortfall, according to data published today by
the European Banking Authority.  Banks also need to do further work to meet a planned
binding limit on indebtedness, known as a leverage ratio, the
Basel group said. A quarter of large global lenders failed to
meet the standard.  Global regulators have clashed with lenders over the
severity of capital, indebtedness and liquidity rules, which
were set out in 2010 as part of an overhaul of banking
regulation to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
measures, known as Basel III, will more than triple the core
capital that lenders must hold to at least 7 percent of their
assets, weighted for risk.  Market Factor  “Although the capital gap may seem to be narrowing, this
is only temporary and thus not a meaningful market factor,”
said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Washington-based
research firm Federal Financial Analytics Inc.  “The real story” is the Basel committee’s planned
 leverage ratio , which once finalized could widen banks’ capital
shortfalls “very, very dramatically, especially in  Europe  and
 Japan ,” she said.  Stefan Ingves, the Basel group’s chairman, has said that
work on the leverage measure should “be largely completed”
this year.  Under the Basel plan, banks will have to begin disclosing
how well they measure up to the leverage rule from 2015. The
Basel III capital requirements are scheduled to phase in fully
by 2019.  The biggest lenders in Europe account for 70.4 billion
euros of the capital shortfall at the end of last year
identified by the Basel committee, the EBA said in a separate
statement today. They boosted their capital levels by 29 billion
euros from June 2012, the EBA said.  Capital Gaps  Banks can plug gaps in capital by either boosting their
retained earnings, issuing more securities eligible to count as
capital or by reducing their assets weighted for risk. The
overall capital gap for large global banks narrowed by about 42
percent at the end of 2012 compared with the middle of last
year, the Basel group said.  “Although much progress has been made by the banks on
satisfying risk-based capital needs, there are still many open
questions about the usefulness and reliability of such
measures,”  Richard Reid , a research fellow for finance and
regulation at the  University of Dundee  in  Scotland , said in an
e-mail.  “In the near-term, the regulatory and market focus in
Europe is probably more on the impending asset-quality review”
of lenders by the  European Central Bank , Reid said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second largest bank by assets,
announced in July that it plans to raise 5.8 billion pounds
($9.3 billion) in a rights offering to bolster capital, in a bid
to respect leverage limits imposed by U.K. regulators.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental Europe’s biggest bank, said
in the same month that it would shrink its balance sheet by 250
billion euros as part of its efforts to comply with Basel.  Significant Opportunities  “More recently there has been greater focus on more
straightforward measures such as leverage” rather than regular
 capital requirements , Reid said. “But even here it would seem
that there are significant opportunities for forbearance and
mitigation.”  Both the EU and the U.S. missed a January 2013 deadline to
begin phasing in the Basel standards on capital, and have said
they will start the process from next year.  A sample of 222 banks surveyed by the Basel committee,
including 101 large international lenders, had a combined
shortfall of 563 billion euros in the easy-to-sell assets needed
to meet one of the Basel liquidity rules, the group said. The
liquidity coverage ratio is also set to fully apply from 2019.  2 Trillion Euros  The sample of banks also had a 2 trillion euro shortfall in
the stable funding needed to meet a separate Basel requirement
for banks to back long-term lending with funds that are unlikely
to dry up in a crisis. This measure, known as a net-stable
funding ratio, is under review by the Basel committee, and is
scheduled to become a binding requirement on Jan. 1, 2018.  “The liquidity numbers remain daunting, exacerbating my
deep fears about a mad scramble in the market for eligible
assets,” Petrou said.  The Basel group defines large global banks as those with
more than 3 billion euros in  Tier 1 capital  and which are
internationally active.  The U.S., U.K.,  Sweden  and  Switzerland  are among nations
that have promised to set tougher rules for their banks than
required by Basel.  As lenders bolster their balance sheets, relative yields on
bonds from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  fell below the
average for industrial notes this month, the first time since
September 2007 that investors didn’t require more from bank
borrowers, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data.  The relationship reversed after bank bond spreads surged to
an unprecedented 365 basis points more than industrials amid the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  