-- BlackRock Says Insurers Shift Bets, Ask ’QE or Not QE’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-25T19:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/blackrock-says-insurers-shift-bets-while-asking-qe-or-not-qe-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, said uncertainty about when the Federal Reserve
will begin to slow its monthly bond purchases undermined
insurers’ confidence about investing in higher-yielding debt.  A survey in May found that 73 percent of insurers were
boosting allocations to bank loans and other fixed-income
securities with higher yields, BlackRock said in a  report 
released today. Only 52 percent said they were diversifying
fixed-income investments in July, after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled a taper could begin this year. The Fed
unexpectedly opted last week to sustain its pace of purchases.  “The confidence levels have dropped” for insurers, David
Lomas, head of New York-based BlackRock’s insurance business,
said today at a media briefing about the survey results. “With
this noise around tapering, it’s changing the conviction they
have around moving into some of these assets.”  The Fed has been buying $85 billion of  bonds  a month to
help the U.S. recover as it emerges from the deepest slump since
the Great Depression. The program, known as quantitative easing,
or QE, has lowered bond yields, pressuring investment income at
insurers and driven them to change strategies.  “‘QE or not QE?’ -- That is the question insurers need the
Fed to answer definitively as the implications for portfolios,
investment returns and ultimately their businesses are so
dramatic,” Lomas said in a statement today about the survey, in
a play on the line from Shakespeare’s “Hamlet.”  Program’s End  Insurance executives at Axa SA, Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s
General Re and MetLife Inc. have said the Fed’s policies hurt
long-term bond investors. Lincoln National Corp. said in June
that it was finding value in assets such as middle-market loans,
private placements and commercial mortgages after hiring Ellen Cooper from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to oversee investments.  “After two decades of  declining interest rates , we see a
period where interest rates should trend up over time,” Lincoln
Chief Financial Officer Randy Freitag said today at a conference
in New York hosted by Keefe Bruyette & Woods.  About half of insurers surveyed in July said they expected
the bond-buying program to end in one to two years, according to
BlackRock. Thirty-five percent said it would end in more than
two years, and 13 percent said it would end within a year.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard,
a voter on policy this year who has backed record stimulus, said
the decision not to slow bond buying last week was a close call
and “small” tapering is possible next month.  Let’s Wait  “That was a borderline decision” after weaker data came
in, Bullard said Sept. 20 in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“The committee came down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  To prepare for a wind-down of quantitative easing and
higher interest rates, insurance companies plan on shortening
durations, increasing credit exposure and using more
derivatives, according to Lomas.  Insurers are trying to “ride out the rate rise through
more nimble strategies and techniques,” he said.  BlackRock’s financial institutions group managed $306
billion for 151 insurers in 20 countries at the end of June,
according to the statement. The company also provides risk-management services to the industry.  The Economist Intelligence Unit conducted the surveys for
the asset manager. The results in May included responses from
206 companies, while the July analysis included information from
100 businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  