-- BMW and Hyundai in Talks for Mexico Plants, Guajardo Says
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a ,   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-09-25T21:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/bmw-and-hyundai-in-talks-for-mexico-plants-guajardo-says.html
Mexico’s record auto production may
get another boost from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Hyundai
Motor Co. (005380) , which are considering building factories in Latin
America’s second-largest economy, Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said.  The government has held talks with both companies and at
least one of them may announce plans for a new plant next year,
Guajardo said in an interview in New York today. That would mark
Mexico’s first new car factory since April 2012, when Audi AG
revealed plans for a $1.3 billion plant it started building this
year to produce its Q5 sports-utility vehicle.  A BMW or Hyundai factory would further bolster Mexico’s
auto industry, which set production and export records in 2012
and has continued to expand this year even as the nation’s
economic growth has slowed. Nissan Motor Co., Honda Motor Co.
and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  are building plants in central Mexico,
while U.S. automakers  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are
investing in additional production.  “With both of them, there have been conversations with us
for future plants,” Guajardo said in reference to BMW and
Hyundai. “I cannot talk for them, but I think that starting
2014 we’ll have new announcements. At least for one.”  Elizabeth Solis, a spokeswoman for BMW in Mexico, did not
immediately respond to a telephone message and e-mail seeking
comment. Meeyoung Song, a spokeswoman for Hyundai in  Seoul , did
not respond to an e-mail for comment outside normal business
hours and a phone call to her office went unanswered.  Mexico Confidence  Mexican auto output rose 4.4 percent in the first eight
months of the year from a year earlier to 1.99 million vehicles,
according to the Mexican Automobile Industry Association.
Production last year climbed 13 percent to a record 2.88
million.  Autos, aerospace and electronics are “the leading
industries in terms of foreign direct investment,” which is on
target to more than double to $35 billion this year, Guajardo
said. Exports may rise 5 percent to $390 billion, he said.  Even discounting  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s $20.1 billion
purchase for full control of Corona brewer Grupo Modelo SAB,
Mexico is set for a “dramatic” increase in foreign direct
investment, Guajardo said.  “Investors are confident of Mexico’s future, regardless of
the slowdown in the first semester” he said. “There is a lot
of trust in the future of the Mexican economy.”  Diminished Forecast  Mexican  exports  increased just 1.4 percent this year
through July to $217 billion, the worst start to a year since
the end of the 2009 recession. Mexico sends about 80 percent of
its exports to the U.S.  “We are hopeful by the end of the year the U.S. economy
will pick up and that will help the behavior of the Mexican
economy,” Guajardo said.  Mexico ’s central bank on Aug. 7 cut its growth forecast for
2013, projecting the slowest expansion in four years amid
stagnant exports to the U.S. and a first-half drop in government
spending. Gross domestic product will expand 2 percent to 3
percent, as little as half of last year’s pace and down from the
3 percent to 4 percent previously forecast, the bank said.  Policy makers unexpectedly cut interest rates on Sept. 6 by
a quarter percentage point to a record-low 3.75 percent, their
second move this year after a half point cut on March 8.  Hurricane Impact  Guajardo, 56, an economist who got his doctorate from the
University of  Pennsylvania , became economy minister in December
when President Enrique Pena Nieto took office. He previously
served as a legislator in Mexico’s lower house and also worked
in the Foreign Ministry as a negotiator on the North American
Free Trade Agreement and as an economist at the International
Monetary Fund.  The economic effects of two hurricanes that left 139 dead
in Mexico this month will be limited as the storms did not cause
significant damage in leading manufacturing areas, Guajardo
said.  “The impact on the economy will not be as severe as you
may think,” he said. “The three main tourist spots, Cancun,
Puerto Vallarta and Los Cabos were not touched by the
hurricanes, therefore the main tourist centers of Mexico are
strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in New York at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  