-- BOE Says It’s Alert to Housing MaRKET sTAB
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-09-25T11:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/boe-says-it-s-alert-to-risks-to-stability-from-housing-market.html
The  Bank of England  said Britain’s
housing-market recovery is gaining momentum and its Financial
Policy Committee is ready to act if any risks to stability
emerge.  While the FPC said property activity remains below its
historic average, it “judged that it should closely monitor
developments in the housing market and banks’ underwriting
standards.” In a statement in London today following its
meeting on Sept. 18, the panel also said it would be “vigilant
to potential emerging vulnerabilities.”  The comments come amid criticism from politicians including
Business Secretary Vince Cable that government measures to aid
potential homebuyers may help to stoke a property bubble. While
the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors urged the FPC to
set a cap on price increases, BOE Governor  Mark Carney  has
downplayed the concerns.  The FPC said it has a “range of tools” to address any
risks. These include guidance on underwriting standards by
banks, additional  capital requirements  on  mortgage loans  and the
tightening of lenders’ affordability tests.  The FPC, set up to monitor financial stability, didn’t make
any new recommendations in its statement today.  After asking the Financial Conduct Authority and the
Prudential Regulation Authority in June to examine the
vulnerability of financial institutions to a jump in  interest
rates , it said today a preliminary probe suggested that a
moderate rise “did not pose an immediate threat.”  Hedge Funds  The panel highlighted that responses to the review didn’t
take account of “more significant stresses nor potential
amplification channels.” It also said the levels of leverage
and potential vulnerability of hedge funds “needed to be looked
at more closely.” The FCA and bank staff will gather more
information on hedge funds to improve assessment of stability
risks, according to today’s report.  Recent data indicate a pickup in the housing market. RICS’s
 house-price gauge  rose to the highest in more than seven years
in August, and its measure of the outlook for prices climbed to
the highest since 2002. Halifax, the U.K.’s largest mortgage
lender, said this month that values will probably continue to
increase through the rest of the year, while Hometrack Ltd. said
market conditions are the strongest in six years.  Spending on furniture and groceries drove the biggest
increase in retail sales in 15 months in September, the
 Confederation of British Industry  said today. An  index  of annual
sales growth rose to 34, the highest since June 2012, from 27 in
August.  Recovery Strengthening  The FPC said that global economic prospects have improved
since its last meeting in June, though “underlying
vulnerabilities in the euro area remained.” It also noted the
impact on long-term rates from the prospect of the  Federal
Reserve  tapering its monthly bond purchases this year.  The BOE committee said it is continuing work on a planned
stress-test framework for U.K. banks and will publish a
discussion paper on this on Oct. 1, when it will release a more
detailed record of its Sept. 18 meeting.  Addressing the issue of hackers potentially accessing
information at financial institutions, the FPC said it wants the
U.K. Treasury and regulators to ensure that banks and
infrastructure providers have a “high level of protection
against cyber attacks.”  Elsewhere,  consumer confidence  in Germany will reach the
highest since Sept. 2007 in October, according to GfK NOP Ltd.
It said today its gauge will rise to 7.1 from 7 this month. In
 Italy , household sentiment increased to a two-year high of 101.1
in September from 98.4.  China Slows  China’s economy  slowed this quarter as growth in
manufacturing and transportation weakened in contrast with
official signs of an expansion pickup, a private survey showed.  Increases in business-investment and real estate revenue
also slowed, while  service industries  picked up and employees
became tougher to find, the survey from New York-based China
Beige Book International said yesterday. The report is based on
responses from 2,000 people from Aug. 12 to Sept. 4 as well as
32 in-depth interviews conducted later in September.  In the U.S., data today may show purchases of  new homes 
probably rose in August from July, according to economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Orders for durable goods probably
rose 1 percent excluding the volatile transportation category,
another survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  