-- Boston Winnows Field to Replace Long-Serving Mayor Menino
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/boston-winnows-field-to-replace-long-serving-mayor-menino.html
Massachusetts state Representative
Martin J. Walsh and City Councilor John R. Connolly beat out 10
other candidates yesterday in the race to replace  Boston  Mayor
Thomas M. Menino, the city’s longest-serving chief executive.  Walsh, 46, captured 18.5 percent of the vote in a
preliminary round, according to unofficial city results.
Connolly, 40, had 17.2 percent. The two Democrats will compete
for the city’s top post in a Nov. 5 final election.  “This is a race about who we are -- about values, and
about whether Boston will be a city for all its people, in every
neighborhood,” Walsh said in a prepared statement.  Connolly, speaking at his election-night party at Hibernian
Hall in the city’s Roxbury neighborhood, said: “This city never
stands as tall as when we stand together.”  “We face a daunting equity gap that threatens to undermine
our future,” Connolly said.  The men emerged from a field of 12 who sought to succeed
Menino, 70, in Boston’s first open mayoral election in two
decades. During the campaign to lead New England’s largest city,
few divisive issues took center stage in what Menino described
as “a popularity show” that included pick-up basketball games
between candidates and some defending others during debates.  “The race will definitely be a little more acrimonious,”
said Conor Yunits, a Democratic political strategist at the
 Liberty Square Group , a Boston-based consulting firm. “We will
have two people with a really good shot at being the next
mayor.”  Fundraising Surge  There will also be a surge in fundraising and both
candidates will rush to sew up endorsements and support from the
losers, Yunits said.  Walsh, a Boston College graduate and former union leader,
won with the help of organized labor. That support helped him
turn out voters yesterday yet also opened him to criticism from
opponents that he would be beholden to unions as mayor.  Connolly distinguished himself as the first to get in the
race -- seeking the office before it was clear that Menino
wouldn’t run again. A Harvard University graduate, he stressed
improving the city’s education system on the hustings.  The Boston mayoral contest is nonpartisan, though 11 of the
candidates who ran in the preliminary election are Democrats.
Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans about 8-to-1 in the
city, while 38 percent of voters are independents.  Popular Mayor  Menino, who struggled with health issues in the past year,
tossed the post up for grabs in March by saying he wouldn’t seek
a sixth term. The mayor had a 74 percent approval rating from
city voters at the time, according to a survey for the Boston
Globe. A Suffolk University  poll  released last week said 79
percent of likely voters had a favorable view of him.  As Boston’s first mayor of Italian-American descent, Menino
has overseen an era when the city became safer, better-educated
and more diverse. He pays close attention to neighborhoods,
keeping a punishing public schedule and spending so much time at
community events that polls show more than half of Bostonians
have met him at least once.  In 1993, Menino, then the City Council president, became
acting mayor to replace Ray Flynn, who had been named ambassador
to the Vatican. Menino won the post in the 1993 municipal
elections and has faced few serious challenges for the office
since then.  Changing Metropolis  During Menino’s tenure, Boston’s homicide rate dropped to
10 per 100,000 residents in 2011 from 25 per 100,000 in 1990,
according to FBI crime data. Meanwhile the share of residents
with a bachelor’s degree or more rose to 43 percent in 2010 from
30 percent in 1990, U.S. Census Bureau data show.  Income levels grew to about $33,200 per capita in 2010 from
an inflation-adjusted $27,400 in 1989, according to Census
figures. By 2010, 53 percent of the population were members of a
minority group, while 47 percent were white, down from 63
percent in 1990.  Menino, who carefully guided downtown development, left a
lasting legacy along the South Boston waterfront, where a new
federal courthouse anchored the spread of office and condominium
towers on what was once a swath of parking lots and warehouses
frequented by convicted murderer James “Whitey” Bulger and his
gang. Now the so-called Seaport District features the award-winning Institute of Contemporary Art and a convention center.  Rising Demand  Office vacancy rates fell to less than 10 percent early
this year for the first time since 2009, spurring renewed
construction activity, the Globe has reported. The median sale
price of a single-family home downtown and in surrounding
neighborhoods soared to $1.9 million last year from $500,000 in
1990, according to the Warren Group, a Boston-based real estate
research firm.  Still, the city faces challenges. Among Boston’s almost
637,000 residents, 21 percent live in poverty, compared with 11
percent statewide and 19 percent in 1989, Census figures show.
Standardized test scores in city schools lag behind state
averages. Lack of affordable housing and an aging transit system
are two issues that repeatedly arose during the campaign.  One of the new mayor’s first actions will be appointing a
police commissioner. On Sept. 22, Ed Davis, who steered the city
though the  Boston Marathon bombings , told Menino he would step
down after seven years on the job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  