-- Brazil Real Drops as U.S. Budget Dispute Reduces Demand for Risk
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-25T13:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/brazil-real-drops-as-u-s-budget-dispute-reduces-demand-for-risk.html
Brazil’s real fell to a one-week
low as concern that U.S. lawmakers may fail to reach the budget
agreement needed to avoid a government shutdown eroded demand
for emerging-market assets.  The currency depreciated 0.6 percent to 2.2154 per  U.S.
dollar  at 10:01 a.m. in  Sao Paulo , the weakest on a closing
basis since Sept. 17. Swap rates due in January 2015 climbed
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 10.06 percent.  “The debates in Washington may be prolonged and the
concern is that the U.S. may breach the debt ceiling, which is
causing a certain  risk aversion ,” Daniel Cunha, the chief
economist at XP Investimentos, said in a phone interview from
Rio de Janeiro. “Investors believe that at the end a deal will
be reached, but in the meantime there is a risk.”  Brazil’s central bank President Alexandre Tombini signaled
yesterday that policy makers will maintain a $60 billion
intervention program to support the currency and curb inflation.
The real has advanced 10 percent since Aug. 22, when Brazil
announced currency-swap and credit-line auctions. That is
the best performance among the world’s dollar counterparts.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last week that policy
makers may curtail the intervention after the real rallied on
the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to sustain stimulus.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New York that investor confidence
in the possibility that a deal can be struck to raise the debt
limit is “a bit greater than it should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  