-- Brazil’s Ibovespa Futures Drop as U.S. Outlook Curbs Risk Demand
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-25T12:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/brazil-s-ibovespa-futures-drop-as-u-s-outlook-curbs-risk-demand.html
Ibovespa  futures  declined as
concern that a political deadlock in the U.S. will delay an
increase in the country’s debt ceiling curbed investor demand
for riskier assets including Brazilian stocks.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  may move after the oil
producer hired Lazard Ltd. to advise on a new business plan.
Education company  Abril Educacao SA (ABRE11)  may be active after saying
it plans over the next year to buy back as much of 3 percent of
its outstanding shares.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  may move after
Banco Santander SA lowered the wireless phone carrier to hold.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in October retreated
0.2 percent to 54,130 at 9:28 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real
weakened 0.3 percent to 2.2073 per dollar.  “Investors are worried that we may be standing before
another crisis in the U.S.,” Darwin Dib, the chief economist at
CM Capital Markets Asset Management, wrote in a note to clients
today. “The Ibovespa may fall due to increased risk aversion in
the global markets.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday
investor confidence that a deal can be struck to raise the debt
limit is “a bit greater than it should be.” The debt ceiling
may be reached some time after the middle of next month,
according to the Treasury Department.  The Ibovespa entered a  bull market  Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 17 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 4.5 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo yesterday was 6.12
billion reais, compared with a daily average of 7.72 billion
reais this year through Sept. 23, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  