-- Brazil BNDES ‘Overbooked’ and Needs Relief, Bank President Says
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-09-25T17:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/brazil-bndes-overbooked-and-needs-relief-bank-president-says.html
Brazil ’s state development bank
BNDES is “overbooked” and needs the private sector to step up
funding in investments, according to bank president  Luciano Coutinho .  Private lenders need to help finance investments in
logistics, which will double in the coming years, Coutinho told
investors in New York today. His comments echo those of Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega , who in speeches yesterday and today said
the government wants private banks to take on a larger role.  “We need to offer support and share the burden because
BNDES is already overbooked,” Coutinho said.  Lending by BNDES and other public banks has increased six
times faster than credit by non-state bank this year, as the
government tries to fuel economic growth. With gross debt of the
second-largest emerging market rising, Mantega is courting
private investment for the nation’s more than 200-billion-real
($90 billion) logistics program to open bottlenecks and boost
growth.  Brazil doesn’t have the resources to fund the concessions,
Mantega said in a presentation today in New York, adding that
the country is counting on private banks to finance the
projects.  Foreign investors will contribute 30 percent to 50 percent
of infrastructure financing, and local banks’ participation give
investors confidence, Mantega told reporters after his
presentation today. Industrial  confidence  as measured by the
National Industry Confederation rebounded in August from a four-year low in July.  BNDES Lending increased to 156 billion reais in 2012 from
51 billion reais in 2006 and is on track to reach as much as 190
billion reais this year, Coutinho said last month. Lending in
the year through July climbed 50 percent from the same period
last year, the bank said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  