-- Buccaneers Bench Quarterback Josh Freeman for NFL Rookie Glennon
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-25T19:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/buccaneers-bench-quarterback-josh-freeman-for-nfl-rookie-glennon.html
Josh Freeman was replaced by rookie
Mike Glennon as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ starting quarterback
after completing a National Football League-low 45.7 percent of
his passes during the team’s 0-3 start.  Freeman, 25, had been the Buccaneers’ starter since his
rookie year, when he was selected in the first round of the 2009
draft. Glennon, a third-round pick in this year’s draft out of
North Carolina State, will make his first start this week
against the  Arizona Cardinals .  “This is a performance-based decision,” Buccaneers coach
 Greg Schiano  said at a televised news conference. “The bottom
line is that we weren’t getting the job done on the field.”  Schiano, in his second season with the Buccaneers, said two
days ago that Freeman would remain the team’s starter. He said
today that he decided to make a change after meetings with
General Manager Mark Domenik and ownership, and that Glennon
will start the rest of the season.  “We came to a conclusion as a group, made a decision as an
organization, that we were going to make a change,” Schiano
said. “Mark and I believe this gives us the best chance to win
today. We’ve lost eight of nine games and haven’t played very
well on offense over those nine games.”  Tampa Bay  has the second-fewest yards passing and points
scored among the NFL’s 32 teams.  “It’s not the quarterback’s fault, but that’s the position
that handles the ball on every play,” Schiano said.  Freeman helped the Buccaneers to a 10-6 record in his
second NFL season, completing more than 61 percent of his passes
with 25 touchdowns and six interceptions. He threw 22
interceptions the following season as Tampa Bay went 4-12 and
last year had his completion percentage drop to 54.8 with 17
interceptions. The Buccaneers finished 7-9.  Freeman’s Struggles  Freeman has completed 43 of 94 passes for 571 yards, two
touchdowns and three interceptions this season. The former
Kansas State standout was the third quarterback taken in the
2009 draft after No. 1 pick  Matthew Stafford  of the  Detroit
Lions  and No. 5 selection  Mark Sanchez  of the  New York Jets .  The 6-foot-7 Glennon has yet to throw an NFL pass. In his
senior year at North Carolina State, he threw for 4,031 yards
and 31 touchdowns in 13 games while tying for the National
Collegiate Athletic Association lead with 17 interceptions.  The Buccaneers have a bye week following their Sept. 29
game against the Cardinals, a period that Schiano said will give
coaches extra time to dissect Glennon’s first start and help
with his adjustment to the NFL.  “Mike’s a smart, tough football player who loves the
game,” Schiano said. “He works extremely hard, he will go out
and try to do what we’re coaching him to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  