-- California Wins Four-Week Extension of Prison Deadline
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-09-25T00:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/california-wins-four-week-extension-of-prison-deadline.html
California won a four-week
extension to Jan. 27 of a court order to reduce the state’s
prison population, after asking a panel of judges to push the
deadline out to 2016.  The judges ordered state officials and lawyers for
prisoners to meet with a court-appointed referee to discuss how
the original Dec. 31 deadline can be met, and whether an
extension is needed, according to a filing today in federal
court in San Francisco. The referee has until Oct. 21 to make
recommendations to the panel.  California Governor  Jerry Brown  asked the court to extend
the deadline to December 2016 to avoid spending hundreds of
millions of dollars to rent private cells to remove 10,000
prisoners from state facilities. This month, he won state
lawmakers’ approval of a plan to spend more than $1 billion to
rent thousands of cells owned by Corrections Corp. of America
and  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  to temporarily meet the current deadline.  “During the meet-and-confer process and until further
order of the court, defendants shall not enter into any
contracts or other arrangements to lease additional capacity in
out-of-state facilities or otherwise increase the number of
inmates who are housed in out-of-state facilities,” judges said
in today’s order.  Exceeding Capacity  California ’s prison system, which operated at 200 percent
of designed capacity for more than a decade, was at
143.8 percent as of Sept. 4, with 123,777 inmates, according to
a Corrections and Rehabilitation Department report. The state
must reduce the number of prisoners to 137.5 percent of design
capacity.  A prisoner lawsuit led federal judges to seize control of
the prison health system in 2006, saying inmate care was so bad
it amounted to cruel and unusual punishment and violated the
U.S. Constitution. That led to the order to reduce inmate
numbers.  The case is Plata v. Brown, 01-cv-01351, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  