-- Calpers Said to Sell Stake in Aurora Resurgence
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-09-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/calpers-said-to-sell-stake-in-aurora-resurgence.html
California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension plan, agreed to sell
its anchor stake in a 2007 fund managed by the distressed-investment unit of Los Angeles-based Aurora Capital Group,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Other investors in Aurora Resurgence Fund LP would also
have the option of either selling their stakes to a group led by
Carlyle Group LP’s AlpInvest Partners NV or rolling investments
into a new fund, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the sale is private. The new fund, backed by AlpInvest
and the investor group, will purchase companies from the
existing fund and invest in future transactions as part of the
deal, which is valued at $500 million to $600 million, according
to one of the people.  Aurora Resurgence has faced a number of departures in its
senior ranks, including that last year of chief executive
officer Anthony DiSimone. Calpers, whose $400 million commitment
to the fund in 2007 made it the vehicle’s largest investor, has
been paring down its $42 billion private-equity portfolio to
focus on the best-performing managers.  The size of the deal led by AlpInvest would include Aurora
Resurgence’s unfunded commitments, net asset value of
investments and capital for future deals, according to one of
the people familiar with the matter.  Park Hill Group LLC, the placement-agent arm of Blackstone
Group LP, is advising Aurora Resurgence on the deal. Bryan
Darrow, a spokesman at Joele Frank, declined to comment on
behalf of Aurora Resurgence. Emily-Jane Finigan, a spokeswoman
at AlpInvest, declined to comment. Joe DeAnda, a Calpers
spokesman, said he couldn’t confirm the stake sale.  New Team  The Aurora Resurgence transaction is intended to establish
a new fund led by Steven Smith, Gerald Parsky and Ryan McCarthy,
according to another person briefed on the matter. Smith, who is
a managing partner of Aurora Resurgence, joined from UBS AG last
year. McCarthy, who was a principal in the group, was promoted
to partner in 2011. Parsky is the founder and chairman of Aurora
Capital Group, an investment firm that manages more than $2
billion in strategies including traditional private-equity
funds.  Some limited partners wanted to sell their positions in
Aurora Resurgence because of the change in fund leadership,
another person familiar said.  Aurora Resurgence Fund LP raised $636 million in 2007.
DiSimone left last year to lead new private-equity firm Peak
Rock Capital. Peter Leibman and Robert Strauss, principals at
Aurora Resurgence, and Steve Martinez, a managing director, also
left to be part of the executive team at Peak Rock.  Aurora Resurgence invests in debt and equity securities of
middle-market companies with at least $100 million in revenue,
according to its website. It focuses on complex situations such
as acquisitions of divisions owned by corporations.  Aurora Resurgence Fund LP was generating a 17.2 percent
internal rate of return and a 1.7 times multiple as of June 30,
according to performance data by Oregon Public Employees
Retirement Fund. The fund was almost 84 percent invested as of
that date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  