-- Canada Dollar Rises From Week Low on Delayed Taper Expectations
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-25T16:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/canada-dollar-rises-from-week-low-on-delayed-taper-expectations.html
The Canadian dollar rallied from
its lowest point in a week as the U.S. market for new homes
capped its weakest two-month period this year, bolstering the
case for the  Federal Reserve  to maintain monetary stimulus.  The currency strengthened after $1.1 billion of options
contracts for the right to buy U.S. dollars and sell Canadian
expired. Fed policy makers last week refrained from reducing the
$85 billion pace of monthly bond buying, saying the tightening
of financial conditions, if sustained, could slow the pace of
improvement in the economy. The bond-buying is thought to weaken
the U.S. currency.  “The CAD move is bigger than the broader dollar move or
the rates move, and that was probably something on the expiry
there,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign exchange
strategy at Bank of Montreal. The new-home-sales data “probably
takes the probability of Fed tapering in October from 20 percent
to 19 percent right there.”  The currency was little changed at C$1.0299 per U.S. dollar
at 12:44 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0319, weakest since
Sept. 17. One loonie buys 97.10 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bond  rose, with
yields falling to 2.57 percent, the lowest point in almost a
month. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 gained 25
cents to C$90.92.  Oil Discount  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.3
percent to $102.81 per barrel after rising as much as 0.8
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks was
little changed.  The  discount   Canada ’s benchmark crude oil grade, Western
Canada Select, faced to its U.S. peer was at $30 per barrel for
a second day, the most since Feb. 4.  The U.S. data highlight the risk that the run-up in
borrowing costs pose for the housing rebound, which has boosted
growth the past two years.  New-home sales increased 7.9 percent to a 421,000
annualized pace following a 390,000 rate in the prior month that
was less than previously estimated, figures from the Commerce
Department showed. Demand slumped 14.1 percent in July. The
median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
called for 420,000.  Fiscal Debate  The  U.S. Senate  is poised to vote today on advancing a
stopgap spending measure with the support of both Democratic and
Republican lawmakers to avoid a shutdown following a 21-hour
floor speech by Senator  Ted Cruz , R-Texas, in opposition to
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. Republicans who
control the  House of Representatives  have promised to craft a
longer-term funding bill that will undo parts of the law. Obama
has sworn to veto any such legislation.  “The news out of the U.S. political situation is again
ramping up and causing some nervousness, and I don’t think
people necessarily know how to assess all that’s going on in the
 United States ,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc. “That’s keeping markets
pretty close to home. No one really wants to get caught off
guard.”  The loonie has gained 0.1 percent this month against nine
developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation
Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has climbed 2.2 percent
while the  New Zealand dollar  has had the biggest increase at 4.4
percent. The U.S. dollar has dropped 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  