-- Canada Pension Funds Eye Some BlackBerry Assets
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-09-25T19:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/canada-pension-funds-eye-some-blackberry-assets.html
Two of  Canada ’s largest pension
funds have held preliminary discussions with  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  about its bid for  BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) , yet are holding
off from the effort because they only want pieces of the
smartphone maker, two people familiar with the talks said.  The  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and the Alberta
Investment Management Corp., which together manage about C$198
billion ($192 billion), are targeting BlackBerry’s secure server
network and other business  units , the people said. The funds
negotiating with Fairfax aren’t interested in backing a bid for
the whole company and haven’t joined the bidding consortium yet,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private.  Fairfax, the largest  shareholder  of BlackBerry, announced
Sept. 23 it was leading a group of investors planning a buyout
of the money-losing smartphone maker. Fairfax Chief Executive
Officer  Prem Watsa  declined to name the investors in the group,
saying it had a strong Canadian component.  That points to Canadian pension funds such as Ontario
Teachers’ and AIMCo, as the  Edmonton , Alberta-based fund is
known, said Kevin Stadtler, president of Stadtler Capital
Management LLC in  Texas . Other funds including Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board, the largest pension manager with C$188.9
billion under administration, and Caisse de Depot et Placement
du  Quebec , the second-largest, have said in the past six weeks
that they would look at BlackBerry.  “There is a fairly big financing risk if the Canadian
pension funds are not involved,” said  Greg Taylor , a portfolio
manager at Aurion Capital Management in Toronto that has about
C$7 billion in assets and doesn’t own BlackBerry. “The problem
is the core business has eroded so quickly that it’s hard to
make a case this is a good stable business that would fit their
liabilities.”  BlackBerry Falls  Deborah Allan , spokeswoman for Ontario Teachers’, declined
to comment as did Denes Nemeth, spokesman for AIMCo, Linda Sims
at Canada Pension, Jean-Benoit Houde at Caisse de Depot, and
Lisette Kwong at BlackBerry.  BlackBerry fell for a second day on concern that Watsa may
fail to win support for his $9 a share cash bid. Fairfax has
agreed to put up its 10 percent stake in BlackBerry for the
offer, and needs to find equity and debt investors for the rest.
BlackBerry fell 5.9 percent to $8.03 at 2:55 p.m. in  New York ,
cutting its market value to $4.21 billion.  “As more details, or lack thereof, emerge about the
Fairfax takeover deal, the chances of the deal going through
appear grimmer,” Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analyst  Pierre
Ferragu  wrote in a research note today. Bernstein rates
BlackBerry “underperform.”  Asset Values  BlackBerry’s assets are probably worth about $2.8 billion
excluding its cash reserves of $2.6 billion, said Steven Li, an
analyst at Raymond James Ltd. in Toronto in a note to clients.
That includes patents worth about $1.6 billion, its network of
secure servers that may fetch $825 million and licenses worth
about $400 million, said Li.  While revenue the Waterloo, Ontario-based device maker gets
from subscriber services fees generated $794 million in the
fiscal first quarter, that’s come under pressure from carriers
no longer willing to pass those charges on to their subscribers.
As of June, the company had 72 million subscribers, down from 76
million in the previous three months. BlackBerry didn’t provide
a figure for last quarter.  “I think that’s probably the only way it will work -- if
they try to team up to buy part of the portfolio,” Taylor said
in a phone interview yesterday. “No one wants to run the
hardware business.”  Watsa, who models his investment style after billionaire
investor  Warren Buffett , said the group is still seeking
financing for the offer, which will be subject to due diligence
and further negotiation.  Three Companies  BlackBerry holds long-term value, particularly as it moves
away from a focus on lower-margin consumer handsets to a focus
on corporate customers, which offer higher margins,  Paul Rivett ,
president of Fairfax, said in a Sept. 23 phone interview. Rivett
didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking
comment today.  “It would be best if it were three companies: intellectual
property, BlackBerry messenger and the services business,”
Stadtler said in a phone interview yesterday from  Fort Worth ,
Texas. “To maximize the value for the pension funds, you make
those three different businesses.”  Of the Canadian pension managers, Toronto-based Ontario
Teachers’ held the most BlackBerry stock, with 1.97 million
shares at June 30 worth C$17.3 million yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Ontario Teachers’ is Canada’s third-largest pension fund; Alberta Investment ranks fifth by assets.  Past Investments  Ontario Teachers’ has made technology investments in the
past. In June 2012, it was part of a group with BCE Inc., the
country’s largest telecommunications operator, to acquire data-center operator Q9 Networks Inc. for C$1.1 billion. Canada
Pension has also invested in technology companies, including
more than tripling a $300 million investment in Skype
Technologies SA in two years before selling the stake in 2011 to
Microsoft Corp. The Toronto-based  fund manager  had invested in
Skype with private-equity firms including Silver Lake Management
LLC.  “There is an element of nationalism and pride, but at the
end of the day it’s not really material,” said Stadtler, who
doesn’t own BlackBerry shares. “What’s material is: Are they
buying an asset at a low price that would benefit their
constituents that they manage money for? They do things to make
money, and that’s their only focus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  