-- Cardinals Rookie Wacha Loses No-Hit Bid With Two Outs in Ninth
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/cardinals-rookie-wacha-loses-no-hit-bid-with-two-outs-in-ninth.html
Cardinals rookie Michael Wacha came
within one out of pitching the third no-hitter of the Major
League Baseball season in a 2-0 defeat of the Washington
Nationals that moved St. Louis closer to a division title.  Ryan Zimmerman reached on an infield single after pinch-hitter Stephen Lombardozzi grounded out and Denard Span struck
out in the ninth inning at Busch Stadium in St. Louis last
night. Zimmerman made it to first base just ahead of shortstop
Pete Kozma’s throw after the ball bounced over the outstretched
glove of a leaping Wacha.  “I guess it was meant to be, I guess I wasn’t meant to
throw one,” Wacha said in a televised interview.  Yu Darvish of the Texas Rangers came within one out of
pitching the earliest perfect game in a season on April 3. On
Sept. 6, Yusmeiro Petit of the San Francisco Giants surrendered
a hit to Eric Chavez of the  Arizona  Diamondbacks on a full count
when needing one out to log the 24th perfect game in the major
leagues.  On May 25, Anibal Sanchez of the Detroit Tigers came within
two outs of throwing the first no-hitter of the season.  Had Wacha’s bid held, it would have been the 11th no-hitter
in Cardinals history and the first since Bud Smith, also a
rookie at the time, achieved the feat on Sept. 3, 2001.  The 22-year-old Wacha threw 112 pitches, struck out nine
and walked two batters in his ninth career start. He left the
game to a standing ovation after Zimmerman’s hit.  Playoff Spot  The right-hander was taken by St. Louis with the 19th
overall pick in the 2012 amateur draft out of Texas A&M
University and made his major league debut on May 30. He has a
4-1 record with a 2.78 earned run average.  With four games remaining, St. Louis (93-65) is assured of
a playoff spot and leads the National League Central division by
two games over the Pittsburgh Pirates (91-67), who beat the
Chicago Cubs 8-2 last night.  Two-time Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum of the Giants
threw the second no-hitter this season on July 13, 11 days after
taking the loss when Homer Bailey of the Cincinnati Reds got the
first. Bailey also threw the last of 2012’s seven no-hitters, on
Sept. 28 against the Pirates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  