-- Carried Interest Tax Break Risks Being Undercut by Court
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/carried-interest-tax-break-risks-being-undercut-by-court.html
A federal court ruling that’s
captured the attention of the private equity world and U.S.
government officials has the potential to undercut the legal tax
foundation of the buyout industry.  The ruling, in a pension-law case involving Sun Capital
Partners Inc., determined that private-equity funds were engaged
in a “trade or business” and weren’t merely passive investors
who could back out of pension-funding liabilities.  If courts or regulators apply that logic to the U.S. tax
code, the changes could jeopardize the structure of the industry
by altering some core benefits of private equity. Those are low-taxed carried interest for fund managers, tax-free income for
universities and an exemption from U.S. taxes for foreign
investors.  “The size of the risk is huge,” said Steve Rosenthal, a
visiting fellow at the  Tax Policy Center  in Washington. “The
likelihood of the IRS pursuing this is unclear.”  The court case poses a significant challenge to private
equity, beyond the often-discussed proposals from President
 Barack Obama  and other Democrats to raise taxes on fund
managers’ carried interest -- a push that has foundered for six
years in Congress.  So far, the Treasury Department and the  Internal Revenue
Service  have been cautious in reacting to the legal ruling,
saying publicly only that they’re looking at the issue
carefully.  No ‘Rush’  “There’s a recognition that the court’s decision may give
us an opportunity to reassess what ‘trade or business’ means,
but I think that there won’t be any rush to issue guidance on
this,” said Craig Gerson, an attorney-adviser in the Treasury
Office of Tax Legislative Counsel. He spoke at an American Bar
Association conference in San Francisco Sept. 20, according to
Bloomberg BNA.  The Sun Capital case “could potentially have important
implications” in the pension context, said  Steve Judge ,
president and chief executive officer of the Private Equity
Growth Capital Council, an industry trade group in Washington.  “This case, at its heart, is not a tax case,” he said in
a statement. “Speculation that there are implications for tax
law is simply that, speculation. The court did not opine on tax
issues in its ruling.”  Democrats have been maintaining since 2007 that carried
interest received by fund managers should be taxed as ordinary
income, at rates of up to 39.6 percent, not capital gains income
with a basic top rate of 20 percent.  Fund Managers  Carried interest is the profits share that fund managers
receive as part of their compensation. It’s currently taxed as
 capital gains , because the purchase and sale of companies is
treated like a stock transaction.  If and when the Sun Capital case is brought into the tax
world, it could affect the “entire legal infrastructure” of
private-equity funds, which are set up to protect foreign
investors and tax-exempt organizations from U.S. taxation, said
Victor Fleischer, a law professor at the University of  San
Diego .  “There’s no extra leap that a court would have to take
other than applying the same reasoning and interpretation to the
tax context,” Fleischer said.  The case stems from Sun Capital funds’ investment in Scott
Brass Inc., a Rhode Island company that made brass and copper
and was in  bankruptcy protection  in 2008 with pension
obligations. Sun Capital claimed the funds were passive
investors that weren’t in a trade or business and thus weren’t
liable for pension payments.  Refused Request  A three-judge panel of the First Circuit Court of Appeals
 ruled against  the private-equity funds on July 24 and sent the
case back to a lower court to address additional issues. On Aug.
23, the judges refused Sun Capital’s request for a rehearing by
the full appeals court.  Sun Capital, led by co-chief executive officers Marc Leder
and Rodger Krouse, declined to comment on the case, said Thomas
Faust of Stanton Public Relations and Marketing, which
represents Sun Capital.  Obama’s budget would generate $16 billion over the next
decade by making the change on taxation of carried interest.
Democrats pushed the proposal through the  House of
Representatives  in 2010 when they controlled the House; it never
passed the Senate.  Rosenthal said that private equity funds are in the
business of developing companies for resale and should be
treated like real estate developers for tax purposes and pay
ordinary income tax rates.  Fleischer, who maintains that carried interest should be
taxed as ordinary income, said he isn’t sure whether that issue
would be affected even if courts determine that the private
equity funds are engaged in a trade or business.  ‘Uncharted Territory’  “We’re kind of on uncharted territory here,” he said.  The IRS may have to act, Fleischer said, because an
individual investor could cite the Sun Capital case. If the
funds are active businesses, investors would be able to take
bigger deductions for the fees they pay.  The IRS would either accept that taxpayer’s position, which
would have negative consequences for the fund and its tax-exempt
investors, or challenge it, hoping courts would analyze the
issue in a different way than the First Circuit did.  “If it lands on their doorstep,” Fleischer said, “people
will run it up the chain and somebody will have to make a policy
decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  