-- CFTC Ends Silver Manipulation Probe Finding No Cause for Action
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-09-25T16:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/cftc-ends-silver-manipulation-probe-finding-no-cause-for-action.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission closed a five-year investigation into the silver
market, concluding there is no basis to allege manipulation.  The CFTC probe, which reviewed data on silver positions and
related derivatives traded on exchanges operated by the  CME
Group (CME)  Inc., didn’t produce evidence for lawyers to recommend an
enforcement action, the agency said in a statement today.  “There is not a viable basis to bring an enforcement
action with respect to any firm or its employees related to our
investigation of silver markets,” the CFTC said.  The probe began in 2008 following public complaints to the
CFTC about differences between prices in silver futures and
other silver products. The agency, which that year took the rare
step of confirming an open investigation, also reviewed
allegations of manipulation in the market.  Enforcement lawyers spent 7,000 hours on the probe,
reviewing trading data and documents and interviewing witnesses,
the agency said.  “For me, there’s not been a more frustrating nor
disappointing non-policy-related matter at the CFTC,”  Bart Chilton , one of three Democratic commissioners, said today. At a
2010 CFTC meeting, Chilton, referring to publicly available
reports on the silver market,  said  there have been “fraudulent
efforts to persuade and deviously control that price.”  The agency reviewed the silver market in earlier reports,
finding no evidence of manipulation. In a May 2008 report, the
agency said that there was no evidence of manipulation in the
market between 2005 and 2007.  The CFTC, in the preceding two decades, had received
“numerous letters, e-mails and phone calls from silver
investors” alleging that silver futures on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange had been manipulated downward, according to
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  