-- China Money Rate Falls Most in Three Weeks on Cash Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T03:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/china-money-rate-falls-most-in-three-weeks-on-cash-supply.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped by the most in 12 weeks after the central bank added the
most funds to the banking system since February.  The People’s Bank of China pumped in 88 billion  yuan  ($14
billion) via six-day reverse-repurchase contracts at 3.9 percent
yesterday to meet quarter-end and pre-holiday cash demand. That
was the  most  since 410 billion yuan of 14-day agreements were
sold Feb. 7, before the weeklong Lunar New Year break. The
monetary authority didn’t offer reverse repos for about six
months after that. Local financial markets will be closed Oct.
1-7 for the National Day holidays.  “The rate will largely remain stable before the holidays
after the large amount of injections yesterday,” said Liu Wenbo,
a Shanghai-based analyst at Shanghai Cifco Futures Co. “It will
be relatively elevated, but just like what normally happens at
quarter-end.”  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of funding availability in
the banking system, fell 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage
point, to 3.86 percent as of 10:49 a.m. in  Shanghai , according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest drop since July 2 and the first
decline in six trading days.  The PBOC gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills tomorrow,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions. The central bank also asked lenders to submit orders
for 28-day repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse-repo
agreements, the trader said.  The cost of one-year interest rate swaps, the fixed payment
to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, declined for a
second day, falling four basis points to 4 percent.  The yield on the government’s 4.08 percent bonds due August
2023 dropped one basis point to 4.05 percent, according to
prices from the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  