-- China May Boost Wheat Imports to Curb Prices, Shanghai JC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T06:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/china-may-boost-wheat-imports-to-curb-prices-shanghai-jc-says.html
China , the world’s biggest wheat
consumer, may increase imports to boost stockpiles and help curb
record gains in local prices, Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. said.  Wheat traded in central  Henan province , the biggest growing
region, rose 3.4 percent this month to 2,760  yuan  ($451) a
metric ton, according to  data  by China National Grain & Oils
Information Center. The government may sell from stockpiles and
ask state-owned companies to import additional supply, Shanghai
JC analyst Shi Wei said by phone today.  A smaller harvest this year and rising demand during the
mid-autumn holidays last week helped boost prices, according to
Shi. Imports may total 7.5 million tons in the year that started
June 1, Grain.gov.cn said on Sept. 23. That compares with 9.5
million tons estimated by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .
Last year’s purchases were 3 million tons.  “China’s wheat is more expensive, so there is always
strong motivation to import,” Shi said. “Only the government
can decide whether to sell domestic stockpiles to curb prices
and when to buy imports.”  Wheat for delivery in December was little changed at $6.59
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 1:40 p.m. in Beijing.
U.S. wheat costs about 2,375 yuan a ton after clearing Chinese
duties, according to Cngrain.com. Futures on the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange traded at 2,850 yuan a ton.  Under obligations when joining the  World Trade Organization ,
China may issue as much as 9.6 million tons of import quotas in
one calendar year, according to the National Development and
Reform Commission.  With 10 percent allocated to private industry, the majority
is held by the government and only used when it decides to
import, according to the commission.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  