-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Retreat, Free-Trade Stocks May Move
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T01:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/china-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-free-trade-stocks-may-move.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell
after the benchmark index dropped for the first time in three
days yesterday.  Shanghai International Port Group Co. (600018)  and Shanghai
Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co. may move after the
Xinhua News Agency said the city’s free-trade zone will open
this week-end. ZTE Corp. may be active among telecommunication
companies after the Shanghai Securities News said the government
will issue a fourth-generation license for mobile-phone
operators this year.  Futures on the CSI 300 Index expiring in October declined
less than 0.1 percent to 2,445 as of 9:22 a.m. local time.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.6 percent to
2,207.53 yesterday. It has advanced 12 percent since June,
heading for the biggest quarterly gain since the final three
months of 2009, as economic data signaled growth is accelerating
and shares linked to Shanghai’s free-trade zone surged on
speculation the area will serve as a testing-ground for reduced
government regulation and freer yuan trading.  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1.2 percent to 2,443.89. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 1.1 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index, the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 1 percent in New York.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 13 percent
higher than the 30-day average yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The index is valued at 8.8  times 
projected earnings for the next 12 months, compared with the
five-year average of 12.6 times.  Free-Trade Zone  Shanghai’s free-trade zone will open on Sept. 29, the
Xinhua News Agency reported on its microblog yesterday, citing
local government.  China’s economy  slowed this quarter as growth in
manufacturing and transportation weakened in contrast with
official signs of an expansion pickup, a private survey showed.  Increases in business-investment and real estate revenue
also slowed, while service industries picked up and employees
became tougher to find, the survey from New York-based China
Beige Book International said yesterday. The report is based on
responses from 2,000 people from Aug. 12 to Sept. 4 as well as
32 in-depth interviews conducted later in September.  China’s improving official economic data are unconvincing
to  Jim Chanos , the founder of Kynikos Associates Ltd., who is
maintaining bearish bets on the nation’s banks.  O’Neill Bullish  “My caution is related to the credit-driven model,”
Chanos, who correctly wagered in 2001 on the collapse of Enron
Corp., said on a panel moderated by  Tom Keene  at the Bloomberg
Markets 50 Summit in New York. “If you grow new credit by 30
percent to 40 percent” of gross domestic product a year, it’s
not difficult to reach the government’s growth target, he said.  While Chanos said China will have a “credit event” in
five years as the country fails to keep the same pace of loan
growth,  Jim O’Neill , the former chief economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said the economy will double in five years to $16
trillion, about the same size of the  U.S. economy  currently.  ZTE, China’s second-biggest phone-equipment maker, may be
active. China will issue the 4G license before the end of this
year, the Shanghai Securities News reported, citing Miao Wei,
minister of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.  China Unicom (CHU)  (Hong Kong) Ltd. and China Telecom Corp. led
declines in U.S.-traded Chinese equities yesterday after monthly
data showed the wireless carriers lost market share in third-generation services.  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest mobile carrier,
slid the most in three months. Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. traded
below its Hong Kong shares for a fourth day, while  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) 
climbed to the highest level in 17 months.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  