-- Christie Signs Order to Speed N.J. Sand-Dune Construction
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-09-25T18:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/christie-signs-order-to-quicken-dune-construction-at-beaches-1-.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
signed an executive order to speed the construction of sand
dunes to protect its coast from storms over the objections of
beachfront homeowners worried about losing their ocean views.  The order, which takes effect today, directs the state
attorney general to “immediately coordinate legal action” to
acquire the easements necessary to build the barriers. It also
creates an office within the state Environmental Protection
Department to coordinate property acquisition.  Christie, a 51-year-old Republican, has staked his re-election in November on his handling of the state’s recovery
from  Hurricane Sandy , which devastated the state’s 127-mile
shoreline on Oct. 29. The governor has pledged to use “every
tool” at his disposal to force beachfront homeowner holdouts to
sign easements to let the state build protective dunes.  “As we rebuild from Superstorm Sandy, we need to make sure
we are stronger, more resilient and prepared for future storms,
and dunes are a major component of this process,” he said in a
statement.  “We can no longer be held back from completing
these critical projects by a small number of owners who are
selfishly concerned about their view while putting large swaths
of homes and businesses around them at risk.”  Ocean Views  On Long Beach Island, about 45 miles (72 kilometers) north
of  Atlantic City , dunes constructed by the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers were credited with preventing widespread disaster when
Sandy struck. Homes that lacked the protection at the south end
of the 18-mile-long barrier island were devastated.  In July, Christie estimated 1,400 homeowners statewide 
hadn’t signed easements. That number is now about 1,000, said 
Larry Hagna, a DEP spokesman.  The issue led some beach towns to draw attention to the
holdouts by publishing their names and addresses. In Surf City,
on Long Beach Island, the owner of Anchor Produce posted a list
of about 30 holdouts who “will be welcome to shop here as soon
as their beach-replenishment easement has been signed.”  Christie’s order coincided with the settlement of a legal
dispute involving Harvey and Phyllis Karan of Harvey Cedars, a
borough on Long Beach Island that had objected to a jury’s award
of $375,000 as compensation for building a 22-foot-high dune on
the couple’s property. On July 8, the state  Supreme Court 
overturned that award and ordered a new trial.  The matter was resolved with $1 compensation for the
couple, according to a statement from acting Attorney General
Jon Hoffman and environmental protection Commissioner  Bob Martin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  