-- Church Slaughter May Derail Sharif Talks as Pakistan Bleeds
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y
-- 2013-09-25T09:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/church-slaughter-may-derail-sharif-talks-as-pakistan-bleeds-2-.html
Zahid Khan advocated talks with
Taliban militants in 2009 to stem a barrage of terror attacks in
the northwest Pakistan province where his party led the ruling
coalition. Now he sees negotiations as a waste of time.  “Our experience tells us that the dialogue route won’t
take us anywhere,” said Khan, whose  Awami National Party 
reached an agreement with Taliban militants in 2009 that fell
apart after two months. “Ultimately, the government will have
to use force.”  Khan’s skepticism about the renewed push for talks by Prime
Minister  Nawaz Sharif  was underscored by a suicide attack this
week at a Christian church that killed 81 people, including
women and children. Sharif, who took office three months ago,
confronts the challenge of engaging militant groups that have a
variety of ideologies and agendas -- a contrast with the Taliban
in Afghanistan, which has a clear leader and spokesmen who e-mail statements and claim responsibility for attacks on Twitter.  Pakistan’s array of militants includes homegrown Taliban,
Sunni fighters, India foes, foreigners battling against the U.S.
and dozens of others who often disagree on tactics and sometimes
fight each other. They have killed more than 1,200 civilians,
soldiers and police this year in more than 800 incidents,
including 85 suicide and bomb attacks.  2009 Collapse  “There are about 37 groups operating in our area,” Khan,
whose party lost power in  Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province  during May
elections, said by phone. “My question is which ones will you
pick to speak with and which ones will you leave?”  The 2009 agreement that Khan’s party negotiated called for
an end to fighting in Swat valley in return for placing the
region under Shariah law. It collapsed when insurgents started
to expand their influence in neighboring districts in violation
of the agreement, leading to an army offensive that forced local
commanders to flee to  Afghanistan .  “If a miracle happens and there is an agreement,
implementing that agreement would be a big challenge,” said
Rahimullah Yousufzai, a Peshawar-based analyst who researches
tribal militant groups. “I don’t foresee peace coming to this
land through peace talks.”  Sharif Regret  Sharif’s party swept to power in May elections after a
campaign in which he pledged talks with militants to end
violence that has destabilized the nuclear-armed nation of 193
million people. Earlier this month, the country’s political
leaders authorized Sharif to approach militants for talks, a
consensus now at risk after the Sept. 22 church bombing in
 Peshawar  and the assassination of a major-general a week
earlier.  “It’s a matter of regret that the thinking, the wish which
the government had, is unable to move forward,” Sharif told
reporters the same day during a stop in  London  as he headed to
the  United Nations General Assembly  in  New York .  Cricket legend  Imran Khan , whose party now governs Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa after winning May elections in the region, continued
to push for talks with militants.  “I don’t think we should give up efforts to find those
groups who want to talk,” he said after visiting the wounded at
a Peshawar hospital on Sept. 22. “We need to know who wants to
talk.”  Taliban Denial  The Pakistani Taliban, also known as Tehrik-e Taliban
Pakistan, formed in 2007 to fight the country’s military in
tribal areas in the northwest, impose Islamic law and expel
U.S.-led forces from Afghanistan, according to the U.S.  National
Counterterrorism Center . Pakistan blames the group for most of
the country’s terrorist attacks, including the assassination of
former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto  in 2007, it said.  The group denied that one of its offshoots, Jundul Hafsa,
carried out the church attack as was reported in the Pakistani
media, The News  reported  today, citing a spokesman it didn’t
identify. It blamed the attack on Jundullah, another militant
group in the area, the report said.  “The army has the ability to take the fight to the
terrorists,” Army General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani said in a
statement on Sept. 16 after the major-general was killed. While
reaffirming support for the political process, Kayani said he
would not let terrorists “coerce us into accepting their
terms.”  Afghanistan Taliban  Afghanistan’s Taliban will only fight coalition forces in
the country and will refuse to join any campaign against
Pakistan’s government and military, spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed 
said by phone.  “We take orders from our sole leader,” he said, referring
to Mullah  Mohammad Omar . “We don’t want to be with Pakistani
Taliban and do jihad in their country.”  The Pakistani Taliban withdrew an offer for talks earlier
this year after a U.S. drone aircraft on May 29 killed the
group’s No. 2 commander, the Dawn newspaper reported May 31,
citing Ehsanullah Ehsan, a spokesman for the group. The U.S. has
killed 99 people in 21 drone strikes this year, compared with
300 deaths in 46 strikes last year, according to the  Long War
Journal , a website that monitors conflicts in the region.  While negotiations will take time, a breakthrough is
possible as most U.S. troops leave Afghanistan and militant
groups split over tactics, according to Hamid Gul, a former head
of  Pakistan ’s Inter-Services Intelligence, the country’s top
spying agency. Most of the groups that form the Pakistan Taliban
are in favor of talks apart from Fazlullah, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,
al Qaeda and a few others, he said.  ‘Decisive Action’  “There are only five, six groups who are opposing talks
with the government, otherwise all others are prepared for it,”
Gul said by phone. “Even if these groups are isolated, it will
be a big thing.”  Pakistan’s leading political parties appear divided over
how to make that happen as attacks continue. Militants in
Mohmand, a tribal region near the Afghan border, last night
killed three people at a dam site with a roadside bomb and
kidnapped two others, Arshad Khan, an official with the region’s
top administrator, said by phone.  “We believe in decisive action against extremist elements
because we believe extremism is one of the biggest threats that
the country is facing,” said Nasir Jamal, a senior official at
 Muttahida Quami Movement , the fourth-largest political party in
the National Assembly, which had supported Sharif’s peace
efforts. “People should think again whether negotiation is a
viable option.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  