-- Citigroup Reduces Russian Expat Senior Bankers by 40%
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-09-25T10:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/citigroup-reduces-russian-expat-senior-bankers-by-40-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  cut the number of
senior expat bankers in Moscow by more than 40 percent over the
past four years and replaced them with Russians, according to
Zdenek Turek, the lender’s outgoing  Russia  chief executive
officer and head of Central and Eastern Europe.  Czech-born Turek, who was promoted to run Citigroup in
Western Europe, said the New York-based lender is grooming local
talent who will eventually assume the top Russian role. He was
replaced this month by Frenchman Marc Luet.  “There will be a Russian head of Citigroup in Russia one
day,” Turek, 49, said in a Moscow interview on Sept 18. “We
are grooming more and more Russian managers. When I came here
compared to today, we dropped the number of senior expatriates
by more than 40 percent to 11 from 19.”  During Turek’s five-year tenure, Citigroup promoted Michael Berner and Maria Ivanova, the first Russians to run consumer
banking and multinational companies, respectively. The bank’s
treasurer,  Denis Korshilov , is a Russian as is Svetlana Klochko,
head of banking. Andrei Kurilin, chief operating officer, is
also a Russian while Irackly Mtibelishvily, chairman of
corporate and investment-banking Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States, is from neighboring  Georgia .  Fourth Ranked  Citigroup, which  returned  to Russia in 1992 after a 72 year
hiatus following the collapse of the Soviet Union, is one of a
handful of foreign banks that have prospered in consumer banking
as state lenders have gained market share. It ranks fourth among
foreign retail banks, with more than 1 million clients, said
Denis Denisov, a Citigroup spokesman. The top three foreign
lenders,  France ’s Societe Generale SA,  Austria ’s Raiffeisen Bank
International AG and  Italy ’s UniCredit SpA, have expanded by
making acquisitions while Citigroup has largely grown
organically.  HSBC Holdings Plc,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Banco Santander SA are
among international lenders that abandoned consumer banking in
Russia over the past two years due to the dominance of OAO
Sberbank and VTB Group, the two largest Russian lenders.  “Many of these banks experimented but did not achieve
scale and didn’t spend enough time on customer segmentation,”
Turek said. “The Russian market is very large with 140 million
people, and you cannot strive to be everything for everyone.”  Citigroup has focused on the growing Russian middle class
with its Citigold wealth-management product, which targets
customers with a monthly income of at least $10,000. The average
monthly salary of its loan and credit-card clients is 45,000 to
60,000 rubles ($1,400 to $1,800), the bank said.  Corporate Clients  U.S. companies looking to enter Russia make up a third of
Citigroup’s corporate client base, Turek said. Other companies
looking to exploit the country’s consumer sector are mainly from
Asia and Western Europe, he said.  “We have a lot of loans to multinational companies that
are either financing the working capital or building factories
and buying technology,” Turek said. “For Russian clients, we
are mostly a window for them into the international market
through syndications, M&A advisory, raising equity and bonds.”  Citigroup is only lagging  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  as the
biggest arranger of Russian euro bonds this year, having worked
on 11 deals valued at $3 billion, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Citigroup missed out on advising the Russian
government on its $7 billion foreign currency bond to JPMorgan,
Barclays, Gazprombank, Renaissance Capital, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc and VTB Capital. The bank is the third-biggest arranger of mergers and acquisitions this year, behind
Deutsche Bank AG and VTB Capital, the data show.  The bank is profitable in Russia, and its balance sheet has
doubled during his stint in charge, said Turek, who combined his
new London-based role with his Moscow position until last week.
It has about 4,000 employees in Russia.  He predicted Citigroup in Europe could outperform European
banks, which may have to retreat from markets to focus on their
capital requirements and returns for shareholders.  “We are probably a more European bank than most of the
European banks,” he said. “Show me European banks that are
present in 30 countries across Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  