-- Citigroup to Pay Freddie Mac $395 Million to End Mortgage Claims
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-25T22:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/citigroup-to-pay-freddie-mac-395-million-tied-to-mortgages-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank, agreed to pay  Freddie Mac  $395 million to resolve
repurchase claims on soured mortgages sold to the government-backed firm over more than a decade.  The accord covers about 3.7 million loans sold to Freddie
Mac between 2000 and 2012, the New York-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The payment was covered by repurchase
reserves as of June 30, Citigroup said.  The biggest U.S. home lenders, including  Bank of America
Corp.  and Citigroup, faced mounting pressure after the housing
crisis to resolve claims on faulty mortgages sold to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, the U.S.-owned firms that took a $187.5 billion
bailout. Citigroup announced a deal in July to pay  Fannie Mae 
$968 million for loans over a similar period.  The deal with Freddie Mac is “another important milestone
in successfully resolving Citi’s remaining legacy mortgage
issues,” Jane Fraser, chief executive officer of the firm’s
CitiMortgage unit, said in the statement.  The accord doesn’t release the bank from liability tied to
servicing the loans. It excludes less than 1,000 loans from the
period with “certain characteristics,” including those already
in the process of being repurchased. Citigroup said it believes
it’s also adequately reserved for those.  The company had $719 million in reserves for buying back
faulty mortgages at the end of the June, according to a July 15
 presentation . The bank added $3.9 billion to its reserves since
2009 through June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Seizure  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, its larger rival, bought about
$2.2 trillion of mortgages from the 15 biggest banks and  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  between 2006 and 2009, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance, a trade journal. Regulators seized the two
firms in 2008 after their purchases of  risky loans  pushed them
to the brink of collapse.  Citigroup sold $62.4 billion of mortgages to Freddie Mac
between 2005 and 2009, according to data from Washington-based
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC. The bank’s CEO,  Michael Corbat , 53, named Fraser in May to run the mortgage operation.
She has sought to reduce staff and move beyond legacy issues.  Citigroup said earlier this week it’s cutting about 1,000
jobs in its home-lending business as refinancings slow. The bank
said earlier this month that it closed a Danville,  Illinois ,
facility, leading to 120 job cuts, and fired some telephone
sales agents. Separately, the firm is hiring employees to
originate new mortgages for home purchases as opposed to
refinancings, a person familiar with the moves said this week.  Citigroup created $65 billion of mortgages last year, or
about 3.4 percent of the total market, according to Inside
Mortgage Finance, a trade publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  New York  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  