-- Cnooc of China Wins Uganda’s First Oil Production License
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-09-25T14:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/cnooc-of-china-wins-uganda-s-first-oil-production-license.html
China National Offshore Oil Corp.
won a $2 billion production license in Uganda, the first to be
approved by the African nation as it seeks to tap reserves
discovered seven years ago.  Cnooc will develop the Kingfisher area in the Albertine
region over four years, Peter Lokeris, Uganda’s minister of
state for mineral development, said today in the capital,
Kampala. The area is estimated to hold 635 million barrels, of
which 196 million barrels are recoverable.  Uganda, classified as one of the world’s poorest nations by
the  World Bank , is finally on the verge of an oil boom after
crude was found in 2006. The country, with sub-Saharan Africa’s
fourth-biggest oil reserves, plans to feed some of the crude to
a planned refinery, enabling a reduction in energy imports.  Kingfisher will pump 30,000 barrels to 40,000 barrels a
day, the minister said. He expects 40 development wells and a
50-kilometer (30-mile) pipeline to the new refinery, due for
completion by 2018. The plant will have an initial capacity of
30,000 barrels a day, which may later double, Lokeris said.  The development of Kingfisher will also result in the
production of gas, which will be used in  power plants , Lokeris
said, without elaborating.  The Kingfisher area is jointly owned by Beijing-based
Cnooc,  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and France’s  Total SA. (FP)  Landlocked Uganda
is also negotiating with oil companies to build a pipe to the
Kenyan port of Lamu, Lokeris said. President  Yoweri Museveni  and
his Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to develop the link
in June, saying it would also have a loop to South Sudan.  The Ugandan government will have a 15 percent interest in
the Kingfisher area as soon as production starts, the minister
said. The country has sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest oil reserves
after Nigeria, Angola and South Sudan, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 