-- Cnooc Parent’s $3 Billion Loan Attracts 11 Banks in Syndication
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g
-- 2013-09-25T06:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/cnooc-parent-s-3-billion-loan-attracts-11-banks-in-syndication.html
China National Offshore Oil Corp.,
parent of the nation’s biggest offshore energy explorer  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) , signed $3 billion of syndicated loans with 11 banks,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The company obtained $2 billion in a one-year term facility
and $1 billion in a five-year term portion, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private. The
deal was signed on Sept. 17, they said.  China National Offshore Oil completed the loan as the oil
and gas producer seeks to raise even more debt. The company is
considering selling U.S. dollar-denominated bonds and has hired
banks to arrange meetings with investors in Europe and the U.S.,
a person familiar with the matter said last week.  Liu Xiaobiao, a Beijing-based spokesman for China National
Offshore Oil, didn’t answer two phone calls to his office
seeking comment on the loan today.  The lenders are  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Bank of America Corp., Bank of China Ltd., Barclays Plc, China
Construction Bank Corp., Citigroup Inc., Commonwealth Bank of
Australia,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , HSBC Holdings Plc, Mizuho
Bank Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the people said.  The loan’s one-year portion pays an all-in rate, which
includes margins and fees, of about 80 basis points more than
the London Interbank Offered Rate, and the five-year piece pays
about 140 basis points over the benchmark, the people said.  The borrowing will be the 10th-biggest in the Asia-Pacific
region excluding Japan this year. The largest syndicated
facility signed so far in 2013 has been an $8 billion deal for
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. in July, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Cnooc in May sold $4 billion of bonds in the biggest dollar
offering from Asia outside  Japan  in more than nine years.
Proceeds partly repaid a one-year $6 billion bridge loan the
company used to buy Canada’s Nexen Inc. That facility was the
region’s third-largest so far since Dec. 31, making Cnooc Asia’s
third-biggest borrower of bank debt overall this year outside
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  