-- Colorado Oil Producers May Need Weeks to Determine Flood Impact
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-09-25T14:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/colorado-oil-producers-may-need-weeks-to-determine-flood-impact.html
Colorado producers including
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  may take weeks to
tally the damage from a flood that shut down an estimated 12
percent of the state’s daily oil production.  State workers were being “hampered by wet and slow-going
conditions” as they evaluated wells and tank batteries, the
 Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission  said in an e-mail
yesterday. Companies are expected to estimate costs related to
any spills and timing for a return to normal drilling and
production in the next few weeks, said Rob Cordray, an analyst
with Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Dallas .  “We still have areas that are inaccessible for repairs,
and so it’ll be at least another week before we can start
putting together estimates of either damage or recovery times,”
 Tisha Schuller , chief executive officer of the trade group
 Colorado  Oil & Gas Association in Denver, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  About 1,300 wells are shut because of flooding, down from
1,900, according to the  Colorado Oil & Gas Association . The
group estimates about 12 percent of the state’s daily oil output
was shut at its peak this month. Officials also are tracking 11
oil spills that total more than 822 barrels, which is
approaching the equivalent of three 300-barrel storage tanks,
the state commission said in an e-mail yesterday.  Colorado, which saw daily oil output rise 26 percent last
year, is known in part for the Wattenberg field, where Anadarko
and Noble have operations.  Wells Offline  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , has more than 600
Wattenberg wells shut in Colorado because of flooding, John Christiansen, a company spokesman, said in a phone interview
yesterday. The company hasn’t said how much production has been
affected, and it hasn’t provided a timetable for having wells
back online. Anadarko has about 5,800 wells in the Wattenberg,
Christiansen said.  Colorado flooding may mean third-quarter sales volumes at
Anadarko fall within or at the low end of the company’s expected
range, said James Sullivan, an analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors in New York. Volumes in the fourth quarter also may be
affected, said Sullivan, who has a rating equivalent to a buy on
Anadarko shares and owns none.  The vast majority of Anadarko’s facilities in the region
are intact, the company said in a Sept. 23 statement on its
website. There were no environmental effects related to its
drilling or hydraulic fracturing work, the company said.  Noble, based in Houston, said yesterday in a statement that
it had put about 325 wells back online and that it had 433 wells
that remain shut.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , a Calgary-based producer, had 77
wells offline as of Sept. 23 of the 397 it shut earlier this
month, said Doug Hock, a spokesman.  The industry’s focus is on being a part of communities’
recoveries, the oil and gas association’s Schuller said.  “Relatively speaking, we came out in great shape,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  