-- Commerzbank Slides on Asset Quality Concern
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-09-25T12:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/commerzbank-slides-on-asset-quality-concern.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, fell the most in almost three months in Frankfurt
trading as analysts voiced concern the company is moving too
slowly to dispose of risky assets.  Commerzbank  dropped  as much as 6.7 percent in Frankfurt
trading, the biggest intraday slump since July 3. The stock was
down 5.7 percent at 8.81 euros by 1:47 p.m., extending its
decline this year to 18 percent and valuing the company at 10
billion euros ($13.5 billion).  The company is winding down and selling 136 billion euros
of assets to meet requirements for state aid granted in 2009 and
boost capital. Losses from shipping and commercial real estate
loans in that portfolio have eroded profit from corporate and
consumer banking divisions this year.  Martin Blessing , the chief executive officer, briefed
analysts in London yesterday at a meeting that was
“underwhelming in terms of sentiment,” Jaime Becerril, a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst with a neutral recommendation on
the stock, wrote in a note to clients today.  Commerzbank plans to cut the size of the portfolio to
“substantially below” 90 billion euros by the end of 2016,
company filings show.  ‘Not Enough’  The bank said its shipping loans are developing “as
expected,” which is “unfortunately not enough, in our view,”
Becerril wrote. “Management reported how its commercial real
estate portfolio is proving a bit less problematic than
previously expected, but more transactions are needed.”  Barclays Plc analysts who attended the briefing cited the
prospect of a lack of asset disposals at the end of this year as
negative. The analysts, who have an underweight recommendation
on the shares, commented in an e-mailed note to clients.  Blessing is scheduled to speak today at a conference hosted
by  Bank of America  Corp. in  London .  Some investors are concerned the European Central Bank may
identify a capital shortfall at Commerzbank after a planned
review of asset quality at European banks, Philipp Haessler, an
analyst with Equinet Bank AG, said by phone.  “Commerzbank has a few assets that are poorer than those
of its peers,” said Frankfurt-based Haessler, who cut his
rating on the shares to hold from buy yesterday “because the
stock had almost reached our price target of 10 euros after a
great run over the last few months.”  Commerzbank is “well positioned” for the ECB’s review
after similar audits of its assets, Stephan Engels, the
company’s chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference
call last month. “I do not see any specific risk there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  