-- Continental Extends CEO Degenhart’s Contract for Five More Years
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-09-25T13:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/continental-extends-ceo-degenhart-s-contract-for-five-more-years.html
Continental AG (CON)  extended Chief
Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart’s contract through August 2019
after he guided  Europe ’s second-biggest maker of car parts to a
return to  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index.  The 54-year-old executive’s contract, which would have
expired in August 2014, was extended for five years, the
Hanover, Germany-based company said in a statement today. The
manufacturer also appointed Frank Jourdan as management-board
member for the Chassis and Safety division.  A former executive at Continental’s biggest shareholder,
Schaeffler AG, Degenhart took charge of the car-parts maker in
August 2009 as it struggled with debt and the effects of the
financial crisis. Since then, Continental’s shares have risen
more than  fivefold . The stock returned to the DAX last year.  “The members of the supervisory board unanimously honor
Degenhart’s outstanding performance and reaffirm their trust,”
Chairman Wolfgang Reitzle said in the statement.  Continental largely sidestepped the slump of the European
car market, which is headed for its sixth straight annual
decline, by following German carmakers to  China  and the U.S. The
car-parts maker is focusing on high-tech components such as
braking and fuel-injection systems that are required to reduce
fuel consumption and road accidents.  “I am delighted to be able to continue putting all my
strength and energy into the journey we’re on,” Degenhart said
in the statement. “I am convinced that we can and will
successfully tackle the challenges that lie ahead of us.”  Jourdan, 53, succeeds Ralf Cramer, who is now overseeing
Continental’s China business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  