-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as September Bond Issuance Sets Record
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-25T21:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-september-bond-issuance-sets-record.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose as borrowers including  Wal-Mart (WMT)  Stores Inc. and American
International Group Inc. helped push issuance of corporate bonds
to a monthly record.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 79.7 basis points as of 3:55
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond sales this month have exceeded $177.9 billion,
surpassing the record $177.3 billion set last September. Issuers
are rushing to market in anticipation of the  Federal Reserve 
cutting back its monetary stimulus, which has boosted credit
markets.  “You’ve got a ton of new issuances today,”  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC
in Stamford,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The
spigot has really opened up.”  Yields on corporate debt declined to 4.05 percent yesterday
from a 15-month high of 4.37 percent on Sept. 5, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Index.  The CDS measure typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Benchmark Sales  Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest retailer, sold $1.75 billion
of five- and 30-year securities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  AIG (AIG) , the insurer that paid back a $182.3 billion
bailout package last year, sold $1 billion of 10-year
securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies in the U.S. have issued about $1.15 trillion in
corporate bonds this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A record $1.47 trillion was sold in all of 2012.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 3.1 basis points to 354.3, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 1.2 basis point to 131.7
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  