-- Croatia ‘Minuscule’ 2013 Growth to Cut Revenue, Widen Gap
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-26T12:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/croatian-minuscule-2013-growth-to-pinch-revenue-and-widen-gap.html
Croatia ’s economic growth of almost
zero this year will pinch revenue and raise spending as the
former Yugoslav republic fails to benefit from its first year in
the European Union.  The 21-month-old government of Prime Minister  Zoran
Milanovic  will preside over a budget gap expansion to 5.5
percent of total economic output in 2014 from 3.5 percent this
year, according to a document posted on the government’s website
before today’s cabinet meeting in Zagreb.  The Balkan nation, which has been hobbled by four years of
contraction or stagnation, is weighed down by rising interest
payments, state company debts and higher salaries and pension
payouts, the document said. This year’s growth was cut to 0.2
percent from 0.7 percent predicted in February, though that may
be too optimistic, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  “The budget was based on an overambitious growth forecast
from the start, and it is only natural that a revision lower to
growth estimates will imply lower revenue and hence a higher
budget deficit target,” said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an RBS
emerging-market analyst in  London , in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions. “The Croatian economy will likely contract
for a fifth consecutive year this year.”  Budget Review  The economy, after “minuscule” growth this year, will
gain pace and end 2014 with a 1.3 percent expansion, according
to the ministry document. The government needs to review the
budget plan because of “reduced expectation of economic
growth” this year, the ministry said.  Finance Minister Slavko Linic, who acknowledged that the
country that joined the EU on July 1, will “definitely” enter
the bloc’s excessive deficit procedure, the EU’s monitoring
system of budget offenders.  He said the cabinet will try to reduce the forecast of the
5.5 percent gap by the time the budget plan for next year is
presented and endeavor to bring it down to 3 percent of gross
domestic product by 2016.  Among measures, the country will earn 22.5 billion kuna
by the end of 2014 through a highway concession, raise the
value-added tax on tourism to 13 percent to bring in 600 million
kuna ($106.34 million) a year and raise tariffs on gas and
tobacco, officials said.  Today’s Reforms  At the same time, it will cut the real-estate transaction
tax rate to 4 percent from 5 percent, while the general VAT rate
will remain at 25 percent.  “We’ll start with these reforms from tomorrow, and they
will be implemented no matter how much yelling, how much
resistance we encounter,” Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic
told reporters.  Meantime, public debt will grow to 190 billion kuna by the
end of this year, Linic said. The Adriatic nation has struggled
to keep public finances in check during the economic crisis,
which has knocked more than 10 percent off economic output and
squeezed foreign direct investment by 80 percent since 2008.
Gross domestic product in fell 0.7 percent from April to June on
an annual basis.  The report said growth should accelerate to 2.2 percent in
2015 and 2.5 percent the following year. It said inflation
should stay at “the level of 2 percent,” without giving a
timeframe.  Ratings Decisions  Fitch Ratings  followed similar moves by  Standard & Poor’s 
and Moody’s Investors Service on Sept. 20 by cutting Croatia’s
long-term foreign-currency debt rating to BB+, one level below
investment grade, from BBB- with a stable outlook. It shaved its
local currency rating to BBB- from BBB, citing worsening fiscal
prospects.  Milanovic has sought to revive the economy by luring
investors with infrastructure and energy projects funded from EU
funds. The cabinet also plans to continue with public sector
cost cuts and consolidating state finances, Milanovic told
lawmakers in an annual address on Sept. 24.  The European Commission said in May the economy will
contract 1 percent this year, before a “modest recovery” in
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  