-- Czechs Set to Refrain From Koruna Sales as Singer Urges Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-09-25T07:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/czechs-set-to-refrain-from-koruna-sales-as-singer-urges-easing.html
The Czech central bank will
probably resist a renewed push from Governor Miroslav Singer to
weaken the koruna as  interest rates  hover at just above zero.  The Prague-based bank will refrain from announcing the
first koruna sales since 2002 at a meeting tomorrow, according
to 12 of 14 economists in a Bloomberg poll. It will keep the
benchmark interest rate at what it calls a “technical zero” of
0.05 percent for a seventh meeting, almost half a point below
the  European Central Bank ’s benchmark, according to all 15
analysts in a separate  survey .  Rate setters are debating whether price growth below their
2 percent target warrants a move to weaken the koruna after
three  rate cuts  in 2012 exhausted room for traditional monetary
easing. The Ceska Narodni Banka’s board, which voted in August
against starting the interventions, is weighing the strength of
an economic rebound against slowing price growth after the
country exited a recession that lasted six quarters.  “It’s surely a very close call, closer than any time in
the past year, but we think interventions won’t be launched,”
 Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna AS, said
yesterday by e-mail. “On one hand, we have better data from the
real economy and a better outlook; on the other, there’s an
economy that’s totally devoid of any inflationary pressures.”  Koruna Weakens  The koruna has weakened 3.1 percent against the euro this
year and has lost 0.3 percent in the past five days to trade at
25.902 as of 9:09 p.m. yesterday in Prague, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has moved to the center of
policy deliberations because its depreciation would make imports
more expensive and boost the competitiveness of exports, curbing
deflation risks.  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 3.6
percent yesterday, while Poland kept its main rate at a record-low 2.5 percent Sept. 4 and promised to leave borrowing costs
unchanged through at least year-end.  At the Czech central bank’s previous meeting on Aug. 1, the
seven-member board voted for the first time on whether to start
koruna sales. While Singer said after the meeting that the
probability of interventions had increased, the bank didn’t
disclose a breakdown of the ballot.  Intervention Support  Singer has spoken repeatedly this year in favor of more
relaxed monetary conditions and in an August interview with
Euromoney magazine, posted Sept. 18 on the central bank website,
said more policy easing will be needed. Vice Governor  Vladimir
Tomsik  and board member Lubomir Lizal may also back currency
interventions, according to Jaromir Sindel, an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Prague.  The Czech economy is sending mixed signals of improving
growth prospects and persisting slow price growth, Sindel said
in a Sept. 24 note.  “There’s still one important factor that could persuade
board members to join the three doves who probably already voted
for interventions in August -- the inflation outlook, which
remains low, and which will have to incorporate likely lower
electricity prices,” he said.  Czech  inflation  unexpectedly slowed for a second month in
August, reaching 1.3 percent from a year earlier after consumer
prices rose 1.4 percent in July, the statistics office said
Sept. 9. Prices fell 0.2 percent from the previous month in both
August and July.  Inflation relevant to monetary policy and adjusted for the
primary effect of changes in indirect taxes slowed to 0.5
percent in August from 0.7 percent the previous month. It’s
stayed below the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent tolerance
band since February.  With no immediate deflation threat, the central bank
doesn’t need to rush more policy easing via koruna sales, board
member Kamil Janacek said in a Sept. 11 interview.  “We don’t yet have all necessary arguments for relaxing
monetary conditions further in the coming weeks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  