-- Daiwa Follows Pimco in Linker Funds as Abe Spurs Inflation
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-25T02:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/daiwa-follows-pimco-in-linker-funds-as-abe-spurs-inflation-1-.html
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. and Daiwa
Asset Management Co. are starting inflation-linked funds six
months after Pacific Investment Management Co. announced plans
to offer Asian investors protection against rising costs.  Daiwa SB will invest in bonds linked to consumer-price
changes in the U.S., the U.K.,  Canada  and other nations with
liquid markets in the securities, said Kei Katayama, a portfolio
manager at the company in  Tokyo . The fund may open in the coming
months, Katayama said. The Daiwa Asset  Japan Inflation Linked
Bond Fund (04311139) , which began on Sept. 5, focuses on Japanese
inflation-linked debt. The companies are part of  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-largest brokerage.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Inflation-Linked
Government Index fell 4.4 percent this year as of Sept. 23,
headed for the first loss since it was set up in 1998, as costs
hold in check following the global financial crisis five years
ago. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Bank of Japan
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda are both pursing unprecedented easing
measures to drive faster growth and higher prices. Inflation
expectations are rising, Bank of America said.  “There is very extraordinary global monetary policy now
and very low inflation,” said Katayama, who helps oversee
equivalent of $49.7 billion at Daiwa SB. “There’s an increasing
risk of inflation within a few years, and we should be
prepared.”  Abe Inflation  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is using fiscal stimulus
and a package of growth-oriented initiatives including
deregulation to enhance the Bank of Japan’s efforts to end
deflation through monetary easing. Gross domestic product
expanded an annualized 3.8 percent in the second quarter from
the first, higher than an initial estimate of 2.6 percent, the
government reported this month.  Abe’s policies are creating demand from investors for
protection against inflation, according to Bank of Yokohama, the
company marketing Daiwa Asset’s product.  “Due to some positive factors such as Abenomics,
expectations for future inflation are getting high in  Japan ,”
Takashi Haraikawa, from the bank’s public relations and
corporate social responsibility department, wrote in an e-mail.  Japan plans to resume sales of inflation-linked bonds in
October after a five-year hiatus because of falling demand amid
deflation in the nation.  Australia  said today it plans to sell
at least A$500 million ($469 million) of inflation-linked notes
due in 2035 tomorrow.  The U.S. sold 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities last week, drawing  bids  for 2.38 times the amount of
debt offered. It was the lowest demand in a year.  Pimco Fund  Pimco, which is based in Newport Beach,  California  and runs
the world’s biggest bond fund, said this year it plans to offer
investors a portfolio to protect against inflation in  Asia .  The Pimco Asian Inflation Strategy Fund will aim to return
2 percentage points to 3 percentage points more than the average
consumer price gains in  Singapore  and  Hong Kong , according to
 Michael Thompson , head of Pimco’s wealth-management group for
the region excluding Japan.  The fund won’t be limited to Asian investments. Holdings
may include inflation-linked bonds in Brazil or Mexico, gold and
property, including shares of real estate investment trusts,
Thompson said when he announced plans for the fund six months
ago.  Thompson declined to comment when asked how the fund is
performing. He referred  Bloomberg News  to an employee at the
company’s office in Hong Kong who declined to give her name or
say when fund data will be available.  Global Prices  Over the past decade, the worldwide  inflation  rate based on
average consumer prices was as high as 6 percent in 2008,
according to the  International Monetary Fund . It has held below
5 percent since then, in the wake of the financial crisis,
highlighted by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, data on the IMF’s website shows.  Consumer-price gains will average less than 4 percent a
year through 2018, the IMF projects.  A Bank of America survey of fund managers conducted Sept.
6-12 showed inflation expectations are at the highest level
since early 2011. Fifty-five percent of respondents expect
higher costs in 12 months, the bank reported Sept. 17.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, consumer-price
inflation reached an annual rate of 1.5 percent in August. Fed
Chairman Bernanke refrained from reducing the central bank’s $85
billion pace of monthly bond buying after a meeting Sept. 18,
saying the job market needs to improve.  Bank of Japan  Governor Kuroda, trying to end 15 years of
deflation, began a bond-purchase program totaling more than 7
trillion yen ($70.9 billion) a month in April. The country’s
consumer prices, excluding fresh food, rose at an annual pace of
0.7 percent in July, the fastest pace since 2008.  In  China , the second-biggest economy, the inflation rate
was 2.6 percent in August.  “Inflation can rise along with a recovery in economic
growth,” Daiwa SB’s Katayama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 