-- Daiwa House to Beat Forecast of Record Profit as Orders Rise
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-09-25T06:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/daiwa-house-to-beat-profit-target-as-orders-rise-chairman-says.html
Daiwa House Industry Co. (1925) ,  Japan ’s
biggest homebuilder, will report a higher-than-forecast profit
because of strong orders, said Chairman Takeo Higuchi.  Daiwa House in May forecast record net income of 73 billion
yen ($738 million) for the year through March 2014. Orders have
risen 22 percent in the first five months of the fiscal year
that started April from the same period a year earlier,
according to the company’s  website .  Demand for homes is increasing ahead of the government’s
plan to raise the  consumption tax  next year and amid concerns
that interest rates will start to climb as the central bank
moves to stem deflation. Housing starts rose for the 11th
consecutive month in July, prompting  Sekisui House Ltd. (1928) , Japan’s
second-biggest homebuilder by market value, to raise its
earnings forecast.  “Our performance will definitely exceed the profit
forecast,” Higuchi, 75, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday, declining to provide a new estimate because the
company has not announced its first-half results yet. “We have
seen last-minute demand prior to the tax increase, as well as
customers who want to place orders while the  interest rate  is
still low.”  Monthly  housing starts  gained to an annualized 975,000
units in July, completing the longest rising streak since
February 1994, land ministry data showed Aug. 30.  Rising Taxes    The government plans to double the sales tax rate to 10
percent from 5 percent by 2015, with the first increase to 8
percent scheduled in April next year, as it tackles the nation’s
swelling debt.  Shares of Osaka-based Daiwa House closed 0.2 percent
higher at 1,873 yen in  Tokyo , bringing this year’s gain to 27
percent. The 96-member Topix Construction Index that includes
the homebuilder declined 1.4 percent, trimming this year’s
advance to 33 percent.  Annual housing starts at the company may rise to 1 million
units in the current business year, Higuchi said. The last time
Daiwa House had more than 1 million of housing starts was in the
fiscal year ended March 2009 when it reached 1.04 million units,
according to the land ministry’s website.  The homebuilder plans to boost net income to 100 billion
yen in three years, Higuchi said. The company is set to disclose
details in its three-year plan in November, he said.  Sekisui House on Sept. 5 raised its net income forecast by
22 percent to 77 billion yen for the current fiscal year, citing
increased demand. Orders gained 16 percent for the first six
months from a year earlier, the company said on its website.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s pledge to end 15 years of
deflation and the Bank of Japan’s monetary policy easing, along
with Tokyo’s winning bid to host the 2020  Olympic Games  have
helped boost consumer sentiment, said Higuchi.  The benchmark Topix index has advanced 41 percent this
year.  “Some very positive news continue to flow,” Higuchi said.
“With the winning bid to host the Olympic Games, Abenomics and
the rising stock market that are leading to an increase in
individual assets, we are in a virtuous cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  