-- Deciphering Some Mumbo Jumbo by the Fed
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-09-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/deciphering-some-mumbo-jumbo-by-the-fed.html
“The tightening of financial
conditions observed in recent months, if sustained, could slow
the pace of improvement in the economy and the labor market.”
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Sept. 18  “Currently, improving economic fundamentals versus fiscal
drag and somewhat tighter financial conditions are pulling the
economy in opposite directions, roughly canceling each other.”
New York Fed President Bill Dudley, Sept. 23  “No, financial conditions have not tightened. Really.”
MKM Partners’ chief economist Michael Darda, Sept. 17  What exactly are financial conditions, why is everyone
talking about them, and who’s right about whether they are
tightening?  Financial conditions, which statisticians like to express
in an aggregate index, are a reflection of liquidity and risk in
credit, equity and money markets. They are an indicator of the
availability and cost of credit.  Different indexes have  different components , but interest-rate spreads are a common feature: for example, the spread
between a risk-free Treasury rate and the yield on a BAA-rated
corporate bond; the TED spread between three-month Treasury
bills and three-month eurodollars; even intramarket spreads,
such as the one between a short- and long-term Treasury
security.  Spreads Rule  What’s important isn’t the level of interest rates but the
difference between a risk-free rate and what a bank, corporation
or municipality would have to pay to borrow.  OK, end of lesson. Back to our story.  Fed officials have been warning about tighter financial
conditions ever since long-term interest rates started to surge
in May. At his  news conference  last week, Bernanke made several
references to tightening financial conditions, including the
quote at the beginning of this column. Many analysts said they
were an important factor in the  decision  not to pare asset
purchases at this time.  MKM’s Darda seems to have anticipated both Bernanke and
Dudley, explaining in a Sept. 17  report  why their assessment of
financial conditions is incorrect.  “The stock market is up more than 25 percent since yields
bottomed in July 2012, the yield curve has steepened and credit
spreads have narrowed,” Darda said in a phone interview. “I
don’t know how anyone gets a tightening of financial conditions
out of that. You don’t even need an index.”  He’s right. During the entire period of rising long-term
rates, financial conditions have gotten looser, according to the
U.S.  Bloomberg Financial Conditions Index (BFCIUS)  (higher is looser),
the Chicago Fed’s  National Financial Conditions Index  (lower is
looser) and various other indexes. One might be tempted to
conclude that the Fed is talking about 30-year mortgage rates
and “using the cloak of financial conditions to disguise it,”
Darda said.  Dudley specifically mentioned mortgage rates as a drag on
the economy in a  speech  this week. Those rates rose from 3.35
percent for a 30-year loan in May to 4.5 percent last week,
according to Freddie Mac, and like all prices, they are affected
by both supply and demand. Yet when it comes to interest rates,
people get funny in the head and draw conclusions from the price
alone.  Curve Signs  If rising long-term rates are such a drag, why is a steeper
yield curve a harbinger of stronger growth? The New York Fed,
the bank Dudley heads, devotes an entire section of its website
to the  yield curve as a leading indicator . The steeper the slope
between a Fed-pegged overnight rate (or a short-term T-bill rate
under the influence of the Fed) and a market-determined -- at
least under normal circumstances -- long-term rate, the more
expansionary monetary policy is. On the other hand, an inverted
curve, with short-term rates higher than long rates, is a
recession signal. And no, it wasn’t different that time when the
curve inverted in mid-2006.  Former New York Fed economist Arturo Estrella, now a
professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York,
did a good deal of  research on the subject , so I called him to
get his thoughts on tightening financial conditions.  “A tightening of financial conditions comes from the Fed
and regulators,” Estrella said. “The Fed can withdraw
liquidity,” which it hasn’t done. “As a regulator of financial
institutions, it can make banks tighten  lending standards ,”
which they have been easing. “But the idea that financial
conditions are tightening independently?” He didn’t need to
answer his own question.  The spread between the funds rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note is one of 10 components of the Index of
Leading Economic Indicators. It’s in there by design. The spread
is the leading-est of the leading indicators. And it’s one
reason the Fed’s effort to flatten the curve -- through outright
asset purchases or by selling short-term bills and notes in
exchange for long-term securities -- is ill-conceived.  The yield curve doesn’t come with a caveat attached: “to
be used only in certain circumstances.” It is what it is. The
mechanics aren’t difficult to understand. An upward-sloping
curve is an inducement for banks to increase their earning
assets and the money supply. Money and credit drive economic
activity.  When the banking system is impaired, as it was in the early
1990s and again after the financial crisis, it takes a wider
spread for a longer period of time to get the same effect.  Before the Fed starts acting on what it perceives to be
tightening financial conditions, policy makers should consider
the alternative. Would it really be a healthy sign, a reflection
of easier financial conditions, if the 10-year yield collapsed
to 1 percent?  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 