-- Delayed Backup-Camera Rule for Cars Sees Court Challenge
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-25T13:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/delayed-backup-camera-rule-for-cars-sees-court-challenge.html
Three advocacy groups and two
parents who accidentally backed over their children are asking a
court to force the U.S. Transportation Department to issue a
long-delayed  rule  requiring rear-view cameras in new cars.  The department is 2 1/2 years overdue in issuing one of the
most expensive pending rules identified by President  Barack Obama ’s administration, with costs to automakers estimated at as
much as $2.7 billion.  “In light of the extent of the delay, the repeated self-granted extensions, and the hundreds of preventable deaths and
thousands of preventable injuries that will occur while the
public waits for the final rule, this court should let [the]
agency know, in no uncertain terms, that enough is enough,” the
groups said in the petition, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg.  Washington-based Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety,
Kids and Cars Inc., based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , and Yonkers,
New York-based Consumers Union said they will petition the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  today, asking for action within 90
days.  The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , part of
the Transportation Department, issued a proposed rule in 2010.
Shares of  Gentex Corp. (GNTX) , based in Zeeland,  Michigan , rose at the
time because the company makes mirrors to display images from
backup cameras that a driver can see when a vehicle is in
reverse.  DOT Steps  Yesterday, before the lawsuit was filed, NHTSA said it
would add rear-view camera systems to its list of safety
features it recommends on cars.  Joan Claybrook , NHTSA
administrator during President  Jimmy Carter ’s administration,
called the action “meaningless.”  “DOT should issue the rule requiring rear visibility
cameras as the Congress requested four years ago to save the
lives of very small children and older Americans, and to make
sure all Americans have these cameras on their new vehicles,”
said Claybrook, president emeritus of  Public Citizen , a
Washington-based advocacy group. “Our lawsuit is essential to
get the agency to do its job.”  Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said yesterday in an
e-mail that the department still plans to issue the rule.  Foxx’s predecessor, Ray LaHood, in June told lawmakers the
department was delaying the rule for a fourth time and setting a
self-imposed new deadline of Jan. 2, 2015. A 2008 law requiring
rear-view visibility improvements set Feb. 28, 2011, as the
deadline to publish a final rule.  Too Costly  NHTSA has said an average of 292 people -- primarily
children and the elderly -- die each year in backover accidents
and half those deaths could be prevented by requiring cameras.  The rule was one of several Obama delayed last year in the
months before his re-election. Automakers have criticized the
rule as too costly and proscriptive on the type of technology.  “Automakers are providing cameras in cars today for
greater vision and for new driver assists, and consumers should
decide which of these technologies they want to buy,”  Wade Newton , a spokesman for the  Alliance of Automobile
Manufacturers , said in an e-mail.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which isn’t a member of the Washington-based Alliance, plans to include backup cameras on all Honda and
Acura passenger vehicles sold in the U.S. next year. They’re in
96 percent of the company’s vehicles this year, said Jonathan
Otto, a Washington spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  Honda is running print and radio advertisements in the
Washington market touting its rear-view cameras, saying
installing cameras without being required is “the right thing
to do.”  Four Delays  The law is named for 2-year-old Cameron Gulbransen, who
died after his father Greg, a pediatrician from Syosset,  New
York , backed over him in 2002 in the family’s driveway after
checking his rear-view and side mirrors. Greg Gulbransen is one
of two parents joining in the court petition.  LaHood told lawmakers more analysis of the rule’s cost and
functioning of backup cameras was necessary.  “It’s easy for the administration to do nothing, but it’s
the families across the country who pay the ultimate price when
children are at risk of injury or death every day in their own
driveways,” Janette Fennell, president of Kids and Cars, said
in an e-mail.  The Transportation Department is “indentured to the auto
companies on this issue,” Claybrook said.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who is
chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, called on the
administration to issue the rule.  “When the experts tell me that installing rear cameras in
cars could save the lives of hundreds of young children and
prevent thousands of heartbreaking injuries, I want action,” he
said in an e-mailed statement. “I continue to believe the
administration needs to move forward with this common-sense
safety measure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  