-- Dell Says Success of Buyout to Be Judged Over 10-20 Years
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-09-25T16:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/dell-says-success-of-buyout-to-be-judged-over-10-20-years.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Dell  said his company’s success as it exits the public
markets will be judged on where it stands in 10 to 20 years.  “This is going to take a long-term vision and strategy
coupled with even more aggressive long-term investing,” Dell
said today in a keynote address at  Oracle Corp.’s (ORCL)  OpenWorld
Conference in  San Francisco .  Dell and his partner, Silver Lake Management LLC, are
taking the company he founded private in a $24.9 billion
leveraged buyout after prevailing in a Sept. 12 shareholder vote
on the deal. After years of ceding business to Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. in mobile computing, Dell is going
private to reduce its reliance on personal computers and expand
in hardware and software for corporate data centers.  The  Round Rock , Texas-based company plans to expand through
acquisitions while investing in higher-speed data centers,
mobile devices and data analysis, the CEO said. Dell said the
company will introduce a consumer tablet in a few weeks.  Dell’s presence at Oracle’s conference was also used to
announce an expanded partnership with the software maker around
data management, he said. Dell called out International Business
Machines Corp. in his speech as one competitor his company is
going after, with a focus on moving businesses away from  IBM’s (IBM) 
mainframes to Dell’s mass-market servers.  “We’re the folks to call to help you get off of that,” he
said. “We’re unencumbered by an old legacy.”  Dell and Oracle said today that they will provide
technology to manage Dell servers when running Oracle software.
The announcement follows an agreement in June to test Oracle’s
version of the Linux open-source operating system and
virtualization software on Dell servers. The partnership is
designed to reduce challenges information-technology departments
have when installing hardware and software from different
companies.  Oracle, the world’s largest supplier of  database software ,
holds its OpenWorld  conference  through Sept. 26, when it will
host a meeting with analysts to discuss the company’s financial
performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  