-- Danish Regulator Cracks Down on Mortgage Banks as Risks Grow
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-26T08:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/denmark-s-regulator-cracks-down-on-mortgage-banks-as-risks-swell.html
Denmark ’s financial regulator is
preparing a set of guidelines due to be unveiled next year to
stop mortgage banks falling deeper into a funding mismatch
spawned by reliance on short-term borrowing.  The Financial Supervisory Authority, criticized in a
government-commissioned report last week for failing to curb
risk-taking in the years leading into the financial crisis,
plans to set limits on issuance of bonds backing interest-only
and adjustable-rate mortgages in the $500 billion market,
Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said.  “This is an issue that we have been looking at for some
time,” Noedgaard said in a phone interview from Copenhagen.
“We are gradually shifting the mortgage system toward a less
risky profile, and the institutions themselves have been working
on that.”  A government-appointed committee investigating the causes
behind Denmark’s housing and banking crises said last week
regulators should have done more to prevent an explosion in
lending. More than one-third of the country’s commercial  banks 
have closed since a property bubble burst in 2008 and Denmark is
now home to the world’s most indebted households, according to
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “What we will do during 2014 is to come forward with a
model” to curb  reliance  on interest-only and short-term funding
and then “issue which targets there should be and at what point
they should be met,” Noedgaard said.  Impairment Ratios  Impairment  ratios  at Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s largest
mortgage lender, and BRFkredit A/S hit five-year peaks in 2009
of 0.74 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively, according to FSA
data. At Realkredit Danmark A/S, the mortgage arm of Denmark’s
biggest bank  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , the ratio that year was 0.2
percent.  “While mortgage banks have had quite low losses, there are
some variations,” Noedgaard said. “One of the things we hope
to accomplish is to look at what explains those divergences and
to bring that into” the guidelines, he said.  The FSA’s standards will be based on recommendations from
the  crisis committee , Noedgaard said. The clampdown on lending
follows warnings from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and the central bank that a shift away from 30-year,
fixed-rate mortgages over the past decade is threatening
Denmark’s financial stability as funding maturities no longer
match loans and as borrowers stop amortizing.  First Step  Though average interest-rate costs slipped “marginally”
to 2.794 percent in August, the declines are about to come to an
end, the Danish Mortgage Bankers’ Federation said today.  “Higher rates are a first step toward a normalization,”
said Karsten Beltoft, the association’s director, in an e-mailed
note.  Danish Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen also urged
Danes to prepare for higher interest rates, in a speech today.
He criticized the mortgage industry for issuing too many
interest-only and adjustable-rate bonds in the years before
Denmark’s crisis.  Mortgage banks refinance close to $230 billion every year,
equivalent to about two-thirds of Denmark’s gross domestic
product. The industry has defended adjustable-rate and interest-only mortgages, arguing they helped prevent foreclosures during
the crisis by reducing borrowers’ mortgage payments.  Still, banks have already taken some steps to wean
investors and borrowers off the loans by raising fees. The
industry, which before 2009 only held annual refinancings of
adjustable-rate mortgages, is also trying to mitigate
refinancing risks by spreading sales over quarterly auctions.
The Association of Danish Mortgage Banks said this week it’s
even exploring the option of tap issuance.  Comply or Explain  Mortgage banks will be expected to comply with the new FSA
guidelines or explain, Noedgaard said. The standards will
probably go beyond limits on mortgage lending to include other
thresholds such as lending growth in certain industries, he
said.  Lenders also will be given time to meet the levels to avoid
hurting a fragile recovery in the housing market, and the agency
will consider property price developments as it sets the levels.  “That will be an important part of the calibration,”
Noedgaard said. In the past, “we stayed away from making tough
regulatory proposals because we thought that, taking into
account the state of the Danish housing market, the gradual
approach would be the right way to go about this, and we still
think that is the case.”  Property prices slumped about 20 percent from their peak in
2007, a year before Denmark’s housing bubble burst. Single-family house prices are now at  88 percent  of their 2006 values
after rising an annual 3.2 percent in the second quarter, the
statistics agency estimates.  “We can’t change or shift some of the proportions very
much in a short time span and we wouldn’t want to do that,” he
said. “The important part is to have the right reaction and to
have the right speed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  