-- Yen Weakens on Speculation Abe Will Cut Taxes; Kiwi Appreciates
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-09-26T21:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/dollar-holds-drop-versus-euro-before-jobless-claims-home-sales.html
The yen weakened for the first time
in five days against the dollar as speculation  Japan ’s
government will cut corporate taxes spurred stock gains and
damped demand for the relative safety of the currency.  Japan’s currency dropped against all of its 16 major
counterparts as shares rallied on bets the tax cut proposed by
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will make companies more profitable.
New Zealand’s dollar strengthened amid speculation the country’s
central bank will be the first among developed nations to raise
 interest rates . The pound weakened against the dollar after a
government report showed annual economic growth was less than
earlier estimated.  “We anticipate further yen weakness over the coming
quarters as evidence mounts that Abe’s policy is bearing
fruit,”  Andrew Wilkinson , the chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“The yen’s going through a bit of a tussle. It’s been pushed
and pulled between its haven status on the back of the
Washington debate over the U.S. debt ceiling and potential for
further stimulus from the domestic Japanese government.”  The yen dropped 0.6 percent to 98.89 per dollar as of 5
p.m. New York time, after reaching 100.61 on Sept. 11, the
weakest since July 22. Japan’s currency lost 0.3 percent to
133.52 per euro. The dollar strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3489
per euro.  Market Rankings  The Brazilian real has gained 7.3 percent versus the
greenback this month, while the yen has declined 0.8 percent.  This quarter,  New Zealand ’s dollar has led all major
gainers with a 7.1 percent increase, while the worst-performing
South African rand has slipped 1.1 percent. Denmark’s krone is
the best-performing currency in 2013 and the rand has plunged
15.2 percent.  The  New Zealand dollar  rebounded from a one-week low
against the greenback as Asian stocks advanced, underpinning
demand for higher-yielding currencies. The currency rose 0.6
percent to 82.91 U.S. cents after dropping to 82.17 cents
yesterday, the lowest level since Sept. 18.  “Everybody’s forgotten that the  Reserve Bank  of New
Zealand is one of the most hawkish central banks out there,”
said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “I’m not surprised that the kiwi
has picked up a little bit. I think it’s got more to do.”  Technical Levels  The kiwi may extend its decline to as low as 79.95 U.S.
cents if it touches 81.80 U.S. cents, the 200-day moving average
and the Fibonacci 50 percent retracement of the currency’s
highest level in August,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based
technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co, wrote today in a
client note.  “The short-term corrective action continues to develop
after approaching the next line of key resistance levels,” he
said.  Abe’s government will pledge to promptly begin a study on
reducing the  corporation tax , Kyodo News reported, without
citing anyone. The Prime Minister will announce an economic
stimulus package on Oct. 1 at the same time as his decision on
whether to raise the country’s sales tax, ruling Liberal
Democratic Party tax panel chief Takeshi Noda said today.  “The fact that you’re seeing these corporate taxes being
successfully cut has had a weakening effect on the yen,” Sireen Harajli, a strategist at Mizuho Bank in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “The tax cuts are definitely seen as the
government getting its way in terms of making the corporate
sector more attractive.”  Pound Down  The pound dropped versus most of its major counterparts
after a separate government report showed Britain’s current-account deficit increased in the first quarter to the widest
since at least 1955.  Britain’s gross domestic product increased 1.3 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in  London , compared with an initial reading of
1.5 percent.  “Growth numbers came in a bit softer year-on-year and what
really sticks out is the current-account data,” said  Ned Rumpeltin , head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Standard
Chartered Bank in London. “The market went into these numbers
long and a little bit complacent so we’re seeing reaction in
positioning.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The pound dropped 0.3 percent to $1.6041 after climbing to
$1.6096, the highest level since Sept. 19.  Budget Debate  In the U.S., House Republican leaders offered a proposal
today to increase the U.S. debt ceiling that drew protests from
some members as the disputes about federal spending risk a
government shutdown in four days. The leaders are preparing for
what House Speaker  John Boehner  last month called a “whale of a
fight” on the debt limit.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $27 billion, from $20.3 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-Chinese  yuan   exchange rate  amounted to $6.1 billion, the largest
share of trades at 22 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate
totaled $4.6 billion.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 353 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading
was 4 percent less than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  