-- Health Management Board Hires Advisers to Review Takeover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-09-25T20:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/health-management-board-hires-advisers-to-review-takeover-offer.html
Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) ’s
new board of directors hired financial advisers to evaluate the
$3.9 billion takeover bid made by  Community Health Systems (CYH) , the
second-largest U.S. hospital chain.  The evaluation is consistent with terms of the acquisition
agreement announced July 30, Health Management said in a
statement today. The cash and stock deal is expected to close by
the end of the first quarter next year, the Naples, Florida-based company said in its statement.  Health Management runs 71 hospitals in 15 states, mainly in
non-urban areas. Glenview Capital Management LLC, which owns
about 15 percent of the stock, ousted the board and put in its
own nominees to determine if the offer is too low. The review
should be reassuring to shareholders, said Brian Tanquilut, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “It’s part of a process and they’re really covering their
bases,” Tanquilut said in a telephone interview. “From an
investor perspective, having a time line actually helps in
evaluating the risk of where the stock will trade.”  Health Management’s board retained advisers Lazard Freres &
Co. LLC and UBS Securities LLC  and legal counsel Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and financial operating and
compliance consultant Alvarez & Marsal Healthcare Industry Group
LLC, according to the statement.  “Both organizations are working diligently towards
completing the transaction, which we expect to close in the
first quarter of 2014,” Tomi Galin, a spokesman for  Community
Health , said in an e-mail.  Health Management fell 1 percent to $12.68 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  trading. Community Health declined less than 1 percent to
$39.18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  