-- Egis Climbs Most on Record After Servier Offer: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-25T09:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/egis-climbs-most-on-record-after-servier-offer-budapest-mover.html
Egis Nyrt. jumped the most on
record after the Hungarian drugmaker received a buyout offer
from its majority owner Les Laboratoires Servier.  The stock soared 31 percent to 27,565 forint by 10:17 a.m.
in Budapest, the biggest gain since 1995, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Trading was suspended yesterday after
Servier, which already controls 51 percent of the company,
offered 28,000 forint per share for the rest. The benchmark BUX
stock index rose 1.6 percent, as Gedeon Richter Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s
biggest drugmaker, added 1.1 percent, extending its advance in
the past two days to 5.2 percent.  Egis, which has the fifth-largest market value on the stock
exchange, will be pulled off the bourse because it doesn’t need
equity financing, said Pascal Touchon, Servier’s director of
business development. The board of directors will discuss the
offer on Oct. 1, state news service MTI reported yesterday,
citing Chief Executive Officer Istvan Hodasz.  “After opening a few hundred forints below the offer
price, the stock may gradually converge to it in the next two
months,” analysts at Erste Group Bank AG led by Jozsef Miro
wrote in an e-mailed report. “Today’s trading will probably be
all about drugmakers as the Egis offer also increased interest
in Richter.”  The offer price is final and Servier will not increase the
price, Touchon said yesterday, adding that the company wasn’t
planning any post-bids after the acceptance period ends,
regardless of the original offer’s outcome.  “Even if some minorities dissent, Egis shares are likely
to be delisted,” James Vane-Tempest, a London-based equity
analyst at Jefferies, said in an e-mailed note. Servier can pass
a motion to delist the shares with 75 percent of shareholders’
votes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  