-- Lehman Insurers Pay Bid to Be Voted on by Australia Towns
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-09-25T05:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lehman-insurers-pay-bid-to-be-voted-on-by-australia-towns.html
Australian towns, churches and
charities are scheduled to vote Oct. 17 on a proposal by a
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. unit and its insurers to pay them
about $48 million to cover part of their investment loss claims.  Federal Court of Australia Justice Peter Jacobson today
 approved  a plan by liquidators of Lehman Brothers Australia to
hold the vote in Sydney. The vote will involve three towns that
sued and other municipalities, churches and charities that lost
money by relying on Lehman’s investment advice, after the parent
company blocked a plan to pay all creditors.  U.S. insurers agreed to give $45 million and an Australian
insurer A$3 million ($2.8 million) under the proposal. The
payout is on the condition that creditors release the insurers
from any future claims. As a result, the plan had to proceed
under a court-supervised scheme of arrangement to be voted on by
creditors.  Suing in the U.S. against insurers is always difficult,
 John Walker , executive director of IMF (Australia) Ltd., which
funded the towns’ lawsuit, said today in a phone interview. He
said $45 million “is a reasonable sum.”  The liquidators estimate creditors will get 44.3 Australian
cents to 53.8 cents for each dollar owed, Jacobson said in
today’s ruling.  An earlier proposal to settle all creditor claims was
scuttled in June when Lehman Brothers’ Asian unit assigned its
claims to the parent company, which had the power to veto and
said it opposed the plan. The June creditors’ meeting was
adjourned without a vote.  Voluntary Administrator  Lehman Brothers Australia appointed a voluntary
administrator under the country’s bankruptcy laws on Sept. 26,
2008, after Lehman Brothers Holdings filed for bankruptcy. The
company, then the fourth-largest investment bank in the world,
had $613 billion in debt, making it the biggest bankruptcy in
U.S. history.  The parent company is scheduled to pay out $14 billion to
creditors on Oct. 3, bringing total distributions to $43
billion, according to U.S. court records. Australian creditors
haven’t received anything yet.  The Australian unit has assets of between A$297 million and
A$303 million and creditors are owed between A$596 million and
A$654 million, according to an IMF statement in April. IMF’s
clients are owed A$143.5 million, it said.  The Lehman unit “engaged in misleading and deceptive
conduct” in investing the towns’ money in synthetic
collateralized debt obligations whose value collapsed along with
the U.S. housing market, Federal Court Justice Steven Rares said
when he ruled in September last year that the unit was liable
for the towns’ losses.  PPB Advisory, the unit’s liquidator, is appealing the
ruling.  The case is In the matter of Lehman Brothers  Australia  Ltd.
(In Liquidation). NSD622/2013. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  