-- Telstra to Cut 3% of Workforce Amid Australia’s Jobs Drop
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-09-25T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/telstra-to-cut-1-100-jobs-amid-review-of-cloud-computing-unit.html
Telstra Corp. (TLS) ,  Australia ’s biggest
phone company, said it would cut about 1,100 jobs within the
next nine months to boost productivity, as a waning mining boom
pushed  unemployment  to a four-year high.  The cuts to Telstra’s operations unit, representing about 3
percent of its total 37,721 workforce at the end of June, would
stop duplication of work and help the division focus on growth,
Brendon Riley, Telstra’s chief operations officer, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It’s about 6 percent of jobs in the
operations business, Riley said.  Australian companies have been shedding jobs amid a
weakening economy which has forced the Reserve Bank of Australia
to cut interest rates to a record low and contributed to former
prime minister Kevin Rudd’s Sept. 7 election defeat. Ford Motor
Co. announced in May it would end production in the country
after nine decades, with the loss of 1,200 jobs, and  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Holden division has said it was waiting on the
result of the poll before deciding on further investment.  “Sluggish output growth, rising unemployment, low and
fragile confidence, and benign inflation” were making it more
likely the central bank would have to cut rates by 25 basis
points to  2.25 percent  in November, Stephen Walters, chief
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote in Sept. 23
note. “The peak in mining investment, which has been the
dominant force driving growth in the economy, is very near.”  Unemployment Climbs  Australia’s unemployment hit a four-year high of 5.8
percent in August, according to government data released Sept.
12. Overall employment fell 10,800 from a month earlier.  Telstra had previously announced a combined 1,080 job cuts
at its directories unit and call centers. The carrier’s net
income per employee, of $103,830, is the seventh-highest
globally among phone companies with more than $10 billion in
annual sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The operations unit where the latest cuts are being made is
responsible for Telstra’s networks, including building and
running cloud computing, data hosting, and Internet-based
products, according to the  company’s website .  “We are finding many examples where we could work better
together in a more streamlined and productive way,” Telstra’s
Riley said in the statement. “We are seeing reductions of roles
in declining businesses, due to evolving technologies and the
restructuring of our industry, and growth in other areas.”  Employees were told about the cuts yesterday, Riley said,
with almost half of the planned reductions already explained to
workers. Jobs to be eliminated include fixed network
technicians, customer service workers, and employees at the
business’s media operations team, according to the statement.  Telstra spent A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) upgrading its
network and bought A$1.2 billion of new spectrum last year to
tap surging demand for wireless services as it prepares to hand
over its higher-margin fixed-line business to NBN Co., a
government company building a national broadband network.  The rollout of NBN’s fiber network is falling about 50
percent behind targets and the program will be reviewed,
Communications Minister Malcolm Turnbull told reporters in
Sydney Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  