-- Temasek’s Pavilion Energy Plans to Invest in Asia LNG Assets
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-09-25T03:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/temasek-s-pavilion-energy-plans-to-invest-in-asian-lng-assets.html
Pavilion Energy Pte , the liquefied
natural gas unit of  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company,
wants to invest in Asian terminals and infrastructure to further
its aim of supplying gas to the region.  Pavilion Energy, owned by Temasek Holdings Pte, will add
more funds to its initial authorized capital of $1 billion to
fulfill its ambitions, Chief Executive Officer Seah Moon Ming
said at an LNG conference in Singapore today. He didn’t say how
the company will raise the additional money.  “We will acquire assets across the full LNG value chain by
building strong relationships with key partners, investing and
co-investing in gas acreage, liquefaction plants and assets,
shipping and regasification,” Seah said.  Temasek set up Pavilion Energy in April to tap growing
demand for LNG in  Asia , the company said at the time. Pavilion
will start trading LNG in Asia within the next three months and
will seek to form partnerships with existing trading companies
in  Japan ,  South Korea ,  China  and  Taiwan , according to Seah. It
will seek to reduce supply risk by considering purchases of LNG
from  North America , Australia and  Africa , he said. Pavilion
Energy has no long-term supply contracts, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Price Indexes  Pavilion will adopt a mix of price indexes for contracts of
different durations, according to Seah, who didn’t specify which
gas prices the company will use. Long-term LNG contracts, which
are typically more than 10 years in length, are usually settled
on the basis of a formula with a fixed percentage linked to
Brent oil or the Japan Crude Cocktail price.  Singapore imported its first LNG cargo in March to
inaugurate its 3 million metric-ton-a-year receiving facility on
Jurong Island. Completion of a third tank in early 2014 will
expand the terminal to 6 million tons.  BG Plc (BG/)  won the contract in 2008 to supply 3 million tons of
LNG to Singapore annually over 10 years starting in 2013. It
sold 2.7 million tons as of August, the company said on its
website. A second license to supply the Asian city-state with 1
million tons through 2018 will be awarded through a competitive
process held by Singapore’s energy regulator, the Energy Market
Authority.  Temasek Holdings  Singapore has what it takes to attract LNG to Asia and set
prices for the region, with Pavilion Energy playing a key role,
Seah said.  Temasek’s holdings jumped to a record S$215 billion in the
year ended March 31 as surging global stock markets bolstered
assets. Energy and resources companies make up 6 percent of its
investments, according to its annual report released in July.  The state-owned investor said in July new investment
opportunities include industries such as energy, resources, life
sciences, consumer and technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  