-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Brazil’s Real Drops Most in Month
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-25T22:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/emerging-stocks-fall-to-one-week-low-on-u-s-demand-rupiah-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated to
a one-week low, led by consumer discretionary companies.
Brazil’s real posted the biggest decline in a month.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,007.55.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  tumbled 2.8 percent in Mumbai for the
biggest four-day decline since March 2009, while  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  drove South Korea’s Kospi Index to the longest slide in
four weeks. Hungary’s benchmark gauge surged as Egis Nyrt.
jumped the most on record after receiving a buyout offer. The
real led the losses among 24 developing-nation currencies.  The slump in the emerging-market stock measure trimmed its
September advance to 8.4 percent amid concern that global
economic growth will falter. The  U.S. Congress  hasn’t passed a
budget for the 2014 fiscal year, which starts next week.  China’s
economy  slowed this quarter as growth in manufacturing and
transportation weakened in contrast with official signs of an
expansion pickup, a private survey showed yesterday.  “The real issue is what happens to the global economy,”
Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as chief
investment strategist at the private-banking unit of KeyCorp in
 Cleveland  said by phone. “ China  and the  emerging markets  in
general are struggling to stabilize their growth rates and we
will have to see where they go from here.”  Eight of 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
retreated today. The broad gauge trades at 10.5 times projected
earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slipped 0.8 percent to $41.55. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 0.6 percent to 22.49.  Brazil’s Ibovespa declined for a second day as  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  fell the most since July 2012 after Banco
Santander SA lowered the wireless phone carrier to hold. The
real depreciated 1.4 percent, the most since Aug. 21.  Russian stocks rose for the first time in four days as OAO
Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer, rallied after
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group was said to be
among potential bidders for a stake. The Budapest Stock Exchange
Index jumped 1.6 percent as Egis surged 31 percent after
receiving an offer from its majority owner Les Laboratoires
Servier.  China, India  The Shanghai Composite Index declined as China Shipbuilding
Industry Co. slumped 2.6 percent, while Shanghai Lujiazui
Finance & Trade Zone Development Co. jumped by the 10 percent
daily limit after the state-run Xinhua News Agency said the
city’s free-trade zone will open this weekend.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex decreased 0.3 percent after changing
direction at least 10 times. HDFC Bank declined 2.8 percent,
taking the four-day drop to 9.2 percent.  South Korea’s Kospi declined for a second day as Kia
tumbled 2.1 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 328 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  