-- Mobius Shuts Frontier Fund to New Investors on Record Inflow
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-25T15:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/templeton-closes-frontier-fund-to-new-investors-on-record-inflow.html
Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group
closed its fund that invests in the least-developed markets to
new money, as record cash inflows turn stock indexes from Dubai
to  Argentina  into the world’s best performers this year.  “The money was coming in too fast,”  Mark Mobius , the
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, which
manages $53 billion, said in a phone interview from Dubai on
Sept. 23. “But the market is still very buoyant and the
opportunity longer term is still very, very good.”  Funds that buy shares in frontier countries, which have an
average market capitalization of $36 billion, recorded $3.24
billion of inflows this year through Sept. 19, according to EPFR
Global. The  Templeton Frontier Markets Fund (TFMAX)  was closed to new
investors at the end of June while existing shareholders can
still add money, Templeton said in an e-mailed statement today.  Growing corporate  profits , dividends and current-account
surpluses have made frontier countries resilient to investor
concern that the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce monetary
stimulus. While low trading volumes in these smaller markets
mean higher transaction costs, the MSCI Frontier Markets Index
has jumped 13 percent this year, versus a 4.6 percent drop in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Frontier nations accounted for six of the seven biggest
gains among global equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg this year
as Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  and the MSCI Argentina Index surged
more than 38 percent. The MSCI frontier gauge is poised to
advance during a year of losses in the emerging index for the
first time on record.  Dangote Surges  Aldar Properties PJSC, an Abu Dhabi-based real estate
developer, and Dubai Financial Market, which operates the
emirate’s stock exchange, both rose at least 94 percent to lead
gains in the frontier index. Telecom Argentina SA’s U.S.-listed
shares surged 69 percent while Lagos-based  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,
controlled by billionaire Aliko Dangote, jumped 48 percent.  This year’s inflow into frontier funds is more than three
times bigger than the $879 million of net purchases last year
and is poised to surpass the previous annual record of $3.07
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. Emerging-market funds recorded
$13.7 billion of net outflows this year through August.  “There has been an awakening among investors that the
growth story in traditional emerging markets has run its
course,” Sean Wilson, the chief investment officer at LR Global
Partners, which oversees about $200 million, said by e-mail
Sept. 20 from  New York . “Frontier markets are only now being
discovered by the broader investment community, and offer what
traditional emerging markets offered 20 years ago.”  Mobius Picks  The U.S.-domiciled Templeton Frontier Markets Fund has
returned 19 percent during the past three years, versus a 15
percent  gain  for the MSCI frontier markets index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fund, which managed about $2.2 billion of assets at the
end of July, had its biggest holdings in  Saudi Arabia  and
 Nigeria (NGSEINDX) , according to a fact sheet on Templeton’s website. Its
largest industry positions were financial and telecommunications
stocks.  While the least-developed equity markets have outperformed
this year, they’re lagging behind in the third quarter after the
Fed’s unexpected decision to maintain its $85 billion of monthly
bond purchases. The frontier gauge is up 5.4 percent since the
end of June, versus a 7 percent gain for the emerging measure.  Liquidity Risk  Lower trading volumes in frontier markets make it costly
for investors to exit their positions. Dubai’s exchange had $151
million of average daily turnover so far in 2013, compared with
about $893 million for  Russia ’s Micex Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Given the liquidity in the market, the booms and busts
could be even stronger than you would find in emerging markets,
so that adds an element of risk,”  Andy Brown , a London-based
 money manager  at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees about
$318 billion worldwide, said by phone on Sept. 12.  Investors are piling into frontier markets because of their
growth prospects, Paul Herber, who helps oversee $5.7 billion at
Forward Management LLC in  San Francisco , said by e-mail on Sept.
20.  Per-share  earnings  in the frontier measure have increased
about 14 percent during the past two years even as profits in
the emerging gauge dropped 11 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The frontier measure has a 4 percent dividend  yield  and is
valued at 12.1 times reported earnings. That compares with a 2.7
percent yield for the emerging gauge, which trades for 11.9
times profits.  More Inflows  Current-account surpluses in frontier countries will
probably grow to an average 3.4 percent of gross domestic
product this year from 3.1 percent in 2012, while emerging
nations will post a deficit of about 1 percent, according to
estimates from the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund 
and data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As the asset class continues to mature, by way of more
liquidity in local markets and more investable products for
institutional investors, frontier-market equities will continue
to attract inflows,” Tim Drinkall, a New York-based money
manager at Morgan Stanley Investment Management, which oversees
about $347 billion, wrote in a Sept. 23 e-mail. “We expect them
to continue to outperform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  