-- Encana Investors See Dividend Cut Amid Revamp
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-09-25T14:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/encana-investors-see-dividend-cut-amid-revamp.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) , the natural gas
producer selling assets after losing half its value since 2010,
is being urged by investors to cut its dividend and focus on
profitable projects in the U.S. and  Canada .  A  dividend cut  would allow the Calgary-based company to
devote more resources to higher-yielding assets, said Greg Dean,
a  money manager  at CI Financial Corp. in Toronto.  “So at current gas prices, they either cut the dividend,
sell assets or both,” said Dean, who helps manage C$7.9 billion
($7.7 billion) for CI’s Cambridge Global Asset Management.
“They definitely have stuff that other people would want to
own.”  Encana “isn’t focused enough” and needs to “clean up”
its portfolio after natural gas prices plunged to a decade low
last year, Chief Executive Officer  Doug Suttles  said at
conference in  New York  on Sept. 12. The CEO pledged to turn
around the company by unloading so-called dry gas projects in
the U.S. and Canada with fewer associated liquids such as
butane. He also said the company would “evaluate” its dividend
as part of a strategic review.  “We have heard feedback from investors on a wide range of
topics related to Encana including varying thoughts on the
dividend,” Jay Averill, a company spokesman said in an e-mailed
response to questions on Sept. 23. “Ultimately, a decision on
the dividend lies with the Board of Directors.” Encana is
forecast to pay shareholders an unchanged dividend of 20 cents
per share on Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cenovus Split  Suttles, 53,  who took over the top post at Canada’s
biggest gas producer in June, estimated North American gas
prices will be “range-bound” between $3.50 per million British
thermal units and $4.50 in the next few years, from an average
of $3.69 so far this year.  The gas producer’s stock decline began after natural gas
prices started a slide in 2008, a year before Encana spun off
its oil sands business to create Cenovus Energy Inc. Cenovus’s
market value is now  44 percent higher  than its former parent. To
cope with falling gas prices, Encana has pursued a strategy of
selling stakes in joint ventures to fund an expansion of its
holdings in unconventional shale gas formations in regions such
as northeastern British Columbia.  Joint ventures , like last year’s $2.2 billion agreement
with PetroChina Co. on undeveloped acreage in the Duvernay
region, will help to develop properties. Other joint venture
partners include Mitsubishi Corp., Exaro Energy III LLC and
Nucor Corp.  “There’s going to be a preference to sell the existing
non-core assets,” said  Michael Dunn , an analyst at FirstEnergy
Capital Corp. in Calgary who has an “outperform” rating on the
shares. “It’s not an ideal market, but nobody knows when that’s
going to turn around. At least if they sell something now, they
can get the ball rolling to fund more profitable operations.”  Gas Rebound  The company has properties in the Deep Panuke basin off the
coast of  Nova Scotia  as well as leases in the U.S. Rocky
Mountain states that it could sell, said Dunn.  “Encana has some of the best real estate on the block when
it comes to natural gas resources and possesses solid execution
capability,” said Greg Pardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets , in a note to clients. “The missing element in the
equation has largely revolved around strategic direction.”  Encana has  fallen  9.3 percent this year compared with a 4.9
percent gain this year for the S&P/TSX Energy Index of which
Encana is a member. Encana was little changed at C$17.83 at
10:10 a.m. in Toronto.  Share Potential  The shares have the  potential  to gain 19 percent over the
next 12 months, according to 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Encana’s current share price does not reflect its
positive attributes, while its current valuation levels make
Encana shares attractive,” Pardy. said.  Encana will report net income of $139.7 million in the
third quarter and $167.3 million in the fourth quarter,
according to analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company posted cumulative losses of $3.7 billion from the fourth
quarter of 2011 through the first quarter of this year because
of sinking gas prices.  Natural gas for October delivery fell 11 cents to $3.492
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday, the lowest settlement since Aug. 23  Job cuts along with a reduction of the dividend are also
needed as Encana’s Suttles seeks to boost profit and bolster its
balance sheet, analysts and investors said.  Reducing the annual dividend by as much as 50 percent to 40
cents a share is “warranted,” considering the payout is now
“head and shoulders” above competitors, wrote RBC’s Pardy.  Encana’s 12-month  dividend yield  is 4.6 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.5 percent
for Talisman Energy Inc. and 1.3 percent for Chesapeake Energy
Corp. Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s largest energy company, pays
a dividend equal to 1.8 percent of its share price.  75 Years  Encana has land in  Alberta  and northern British Columbia,
as well as in parts of the U.S. including Colorado and  Texas .
The company has 75 years of production at current rates,
according to the website.  Encana has more than 17 producing areas, compared with
between one and seven for its peers and is weighted more heavily
toward less profitable dry gas, Suttles said.  “We expect Encana to dispose of dry gas assets as well as
some emerging plays in order to reduce the number of
opportunities that it funds,” said  Randy Ollenberger , a BMO
Capital Markets analyst, in a note to clients. Encana is setting
priorities for its assets that can remain profitable at a price
for gas of $3.50-4.50, he said.  “ North America ’s third-largest natural gas producer is
going through a metamorphosis and that metamorphosis takes
time,” said Dirk Lever, an analyst at AltaCorp in Calgary. More
sales of gas assets is expected and makes sense, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  