-- Enel Says 99% of Water It Uses for Power Returns to Environment
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2013-09-25T17:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/enel-says-99-of-water-it-uses-for-power-returns-to-environment.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Italy ’s largest power
company, said water and energy are so interlinked now that the
utility returns 99 percent of the water it uses to the
environment.  “The relation between water and energy is becoming more
and more relevant in a water-constrained world,” Andrea Valcalda said today at a forum in Brussels. “You need water for
energy production -- mainly for cooling in thermal generation --
and of course for hydropower generation.  ‘‘These are both valuable and clean ways to generate power
which use and return water to the environment,’’ the head of
Rome-based Enel’s environment unit said, according to a company
e-mail. ‘‘You also need power and energy for water distribution
in the supply chain, from extraction to treatment.’’  Energy’s future ‘‘depends on ample water,”  said  Brooke
Barton, director of the Ceres Water Program. “Companies like
Enel have a direct business interest in ensuring that rivers and
watersheds are well-managed and protected.’’ With  climate change 
and water scarcity, the power industry and investors ‘‘would be
wise to invest in generation technologies that both minimize
exposure to water risks and lay the foundation for a low-carbon
economy,” Barton said in an Enel website statement.  Noting the  International Energy Agency  for the first time
in last year’s World Energy Outlook had a chapter on water and
energy’s relationship, ‘‘at Enel we return to the environment
over 99 percent of the water we use,’’ Valcalda said.  With 98 gigawatts of installed capacity in 40 countries,
Enel used 23 billion cubic meters of water in its global
operations, Valcalda said. Of this, the group consumed 192
million cubic meters of water, ‘‘which is what isn’t returned to
the environment’’ and less than 1 percent of water used, he said
today at the Enel-Ceres forum on water risks and power.  ‘‘Only 6 percent of the electricity we generate comes from
water-stressed areas but we are committed to do even better,’’
Valcalda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in London at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  