-- Tepco Vows to Push Ahead With Restart of Niigata Nuclear Station
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2013-09-25T08:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/tepco-vows-to-push-ahead-with-restart-of-niigata-nuclear-station.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , operator
of the crisis-ridden Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station, vowed
to press ahead with plans to restart another atomic plant in
Niigata prefecture that’s key to its return to profitability.  “We’d like to file for safety inspection after gaining
approval from the prefecture,” Tokyo Electric President Naomi
Hirose told reporters today after meeting with Hirohiko Izumida,
the governor of Niigata prefecture where the utility’s
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa nuclear power plant is located. “We’d like
to ask them to give us permission soon.”  Izumida has said Tokyo Electric, or Tepco, put profit ahead
of safety and has demanded additional questions about the
original Fukushima disaster of March 2011 be answered before
he’ll agree to approve the restart of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa. The
Niigata plant, the world’s largest nuclear power station by
generating capacity, sits on a site by the  Sea of Japan  on the
opposite coast from Fukushima.  In a bid to win local approval, Hirose today said Tepco
will set up a secondary nuclear venting system at the No. 6 and
No. 7 reactors at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa. Under new safety rules,
nuclear  power plants  in  Japan  must install radiation filter
vents. Additional vents could cost several billion yen, Hirose
said today.  Kashiwazaki-Kariwa , 220 kilometers (137 miles) northwest of
Tokyo, consists of seven reactor units ranging in age from 16
years old to 28 years old, according to the Nuclear Regulation
Authority, Japan’s nuclear regulator.  Opposition, Concerns  In July, Izumida refused to approve Tepco’s plans to
restart the No. 6 and 7 reactors, saying the utility failed to
consult enough with the local community.  The debate over Kashiwazaki-Kariwa has been complicated by
the leaking of contaminated water from Tepco’s Fukushima plant
into the  Pacific Ocean . Fukushima fishermen today said they’d
started fishing again on a trial basis after no radioactive
materials were detected in sea water following tests by
prefectural officials.  Were Kashiwazaki-Kariwa’s reactors to be fully operational,
the plant would be able to produce 8.2 gigawatts of energy,
almost 18 percent of the country’s entire functioning nuclear
fleet and enough power to supply about 2.7 million Japanese
households. Kashiwazaki-Kariwa’s reactors have been idle since
the No. 6 reactor was halted for scheduled maintenance in March
2012.  Tepco Response  If operations at Kashiwazaki-Kariwa remain suspended, Tepco
would need to increase the rate it charges consumers for
electricity by 8.5 percent to 10 percent as early as January to
achieve a pretax profit for the year to March 2014, a company
document obtained by  Bloomberg News  showed. Tepco serves 29
million people in the Tokyo metropolitan area, the world’s
largest.  Tepco, which had a 685.3 billion yen ($6.9 billion)  loss 
last fiscal year, said in May 2012 that it would return to
profit this year if reactors at the Niigata plant are restarted.  Tepco said on Sept. 21 that it won’t request a safety
inspection from the regulator before gaining consent from
Niigata’s governor. Hirose reiterated today that Niigata’s
approval is critical.  Japan’s utilities are in the process of seeking approval to
restart their reactors under rules designed after the Fukushima
disaster.  Chubu Electric Power Co. today said it will strive to apply
for safety checks at its Hamaoka nuclear plant in the fiscal
year ending in March. Chubu’s Hamaoka nuclear plant, which lies
close to an active fault line, was shut in 2011 after the
utility accepted government calls to address safety concerns at
the site.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  