-- Hering Bets on Kids’ Clothing as Gap Threatens in Brazil
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-25T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/hering-bets-on-kids-clothing-as-gap-threatens-in-brazil.html
Cia. Hering (HGTX3) , the  slowest-growing 
Brazilian retailer, is betting that children’s clothing will
spur revenue gains as consumers pull back on spending.  Expanding the Hering Kids store line as much as fourfold to
200 outlets is part of a broader turnaround bid that includes a
new distribution strategy to keep shelves filled and the
creation of executive teams to manage the company’s four brands,
Chief Financial Officer Frederico Oldani said in an interview.  Hering needs the help. Same-store sales at Hering brand
stores slid 1.2 percent last quarter, part of an industrywide
pullback as inflation crimps Brazilians’ purchasing power, and a
lack of inventory marred the 2012  Christmas shopping season .
Adding to the pressure:  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer, opens its first Brazilian store tomorrow, in
 Sao Paulo .  “We have to figure out which products to send to which
stores -- we can be competitive in certain products in certain
locations,” Oldani said in Sao Paulo on Sept. 19. “There’s
very little offer in the way of children’s clothing stores at
malls.”  Slower growth for Blumenau, Brazil-based Hering follows a
 boom period  in the past five years, a period that included
annual revenue  gains  of 41 percent in 2010 and 34 percent in
2011. Growth decelerated to 10 percent in 2012, the  slowest 
among specialty-apparel retailers in  Brazil , where the average
was 17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refocusing Inventory  Revenue for 2013 is projected to rise 14 percent, according
to the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The consumer won’t open his wallet much this year,”
Oldani said. “But even with a weak macroeconomic scenario, we
will still grow in some markets.”  At yesterday’s close, Hering traded at 17 times estimated
2013 earnings compared with 15 times for San Francisco-based
Gap. The U.S. company’s 32 percent increase this year through
yesterday beat Hering’s 17 percent decline, while Brazil’s
benchmark Ibovespa index slid 11 percent.  Hering is targeting its basics apparel inventory toward
smaller cities and bringing costlier and more fashionable items
into big cities where consumers want better-quality products. It
has also hired Luis Bueno, an executive from cosmetics company
 Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , to lead its Hering brand.  Slower Growth  “Their initiatives are right on,” Vitor Paschoal, an
analyst at Itau Corretora de Valores SA in Sao Paulo, said in an
interview. “Before, the structure was focused on cost-cutting.
Today, as we see slower growth, the company needs to refocus
from dilution of expenses to each individual brand.”  New locations, including about 30 Hering Kids stores, will
open this year and will “be drivers of growth,” Sandra Peres,
a Sao Paulo-based analyst at Coinvalores, said in a telephone
interview. She is reviewing her hold recommendation now and has
no target price for Hering. “Operational numbers like earnings
before taxes and other items and revenue have been strong, but
margins have suffered as the price of imported goods has
risen.”  Passing along some of those costs to consumers this year
may hurt results, said Paschoal, whose outperform rating on the
shares is the equivalent of a buy.  ‘Too Far’  “Hering increased prices a lot and there is a concern that
it went too far and the product became too expensive and lost
the cost-benefit that made it attractive,” Paschoal said. “We
don’t agree with this.”  The Gap also looms as a competitor in  Latin America ’s
largest economy. Employees at the U.S. company are “excited
that Gap has opened up this year in Brazil,” Chief Executive
Officer  Glenn Murphy  said at a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
conference on Sept. 10.  Oldani said Hering learned lessons from late 2012, when its
failure to get enough goods onto shelves produced a bust in what
is usually retailers’ best season. Fourth-quarter sales at
Hering-brand stores fell 0.2 percent, and Oldani said next
quarter’s results would improve, without offering specifics.  “Last year, we couldn’t meet fourth-quarter demand because
we failed to provide stock,” Oldani said. “That should change
this year.”  Same-store sales growth for the Hering brand in all of 2013
will be in line with inflation, said Oldani, who didn’t give a
figure. Consumer prices have risen 6.1 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hering now plans to invest about 75 million reais ($34
million) in 2014 on technology, logistics and production
capacity as its kids stores open, Oldani said. The company has
about 700 stores now, including 600 under the Hering brand and
about 50 for the Hering Kids line, he said.  “Hering Kids will grow the most, as part of our
strategy,” Oldani said. “The potential is there. We are the
beginning of the expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  