-- Tesco Drops Most Since June After JPMorgan Cuts to Underweight
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-09-25T08:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/tesco-drops-most-since-june-after-jpmorgan-cuts-to-underweight.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, fell the most in more than three months as JPMorgan
Cazenove cut the stock to underweight a week after being dropped
as the supermarket company’s co-brokerage adviser.  The shares fell as much as 3 percent to 362.65 pence, the
 steepest intraday drop  since June 20, as JPMorgan analysts said
the emergence of German discounters Aldi and Lidl may cause
Tesco to go “through a painful rebasing of pricing and the
gross margin, synonymous to a profit warning.”  Tesco is struggling to maintain its dominant 30 percent
market share as consumers defect to discounters, upscale chains
such as Waitrose and the Internet. The grocer’s market share
fell to 30.2 percent in the 12 weeks ended Sept. 16 from 30.9
percent a year earlier, Kantar Worldpanel said yesterday. Tesco
is scheduled to report first-half earnings Oct. 2.  Aldi and Lidl are disrupting a price and range architecture
that the U.K.’s four biggest supermarkets used for two decades,
 JPMorgan (JPM)  analysts said in a report. That is “of most concern to
Tesco because its prices and ranges are margin driven.”  Tesco dropped JPMorgan Cazenove and Nomura as brokerage
advisers last week and said it appointed Barclays to work
alongside Deutsche Bank in the role.  Nomura’s new food retail analyst David Payne started his
coverage of Tesco with a neutral recommendation last week. His
predecessor Nick Coulter recommended buying the stock before
leaving this year to join Tesco’s investor relations team.  Tesco traded at 363.3 pence as of 9:10 a.m. in  London , down
2.9 percent from yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  