-- MetLife Says Lack of Focus on Car Insurance is Ridiculous
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-09-25T20:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/metlife-calls-agents-ridiculous-for-shunning-car-coverage.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, is pushing agents to sell more car and residential
coverage after the head of the company’s main retail business
said they’ve been missing an opportunity to diversify sales.  “Out of our 58 agencies, we had two agencies last year who
were doing meaningful amounts of auto and home business,” Eric Steigerwalt, who runs the U.S. retail business, said today at a
conference sponsored by KBW. “It’s ridiculous.”  MetLife Chief Executive Officer Steve Kandarian, 61, is
increasing sales of protection products at the New York-based
insurer, while scaling back from capital-intensive businesses
such as variable annuities and some types of life coverage.
Steigerwalt said today that he’s increasing the number of
agencies pushing home and car coverage to about 15 next year,
after promoting the products via five this year in a pilot.  Steigerwalt, the former interim chief financial officer who
was appointed last year to the retail post, has been cutting
costs by getting rid of about a third of the company’s advisers
and moving jobs to  North Carolina . He’s also shifting the mix of
business, retreating from some life and savings offerings and
highlighting home and auto coverage.  “These are products everyone needs,” he said. “Returns
so far on these pilot agencies are quite good.”  Operating premiums and fees from the retail property-casualty business rose 4.5 percent to  $440 million  in the second
quarter from a year earlier. The figure was $425 million in the
third quarter of 2011.  State Farm  MetLife was the No. 15 seller of homeowners’ coverage last
year with a 1.3 percent market share, and the No. 14 seller of
private passenger auto policies, according to  data  from the
 National Association of Insurance Commissioners . State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. was the leader in both
categories, followed by  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  MetLife’s share of the
private auto market has changed little since 2008.  Steigerwalt has challenged MetLife’s sales staff before. He
said in May that the company had cut its adviser force to about
5,000 from 7,500 in February of 2012, and the ones who were
dismissed “were never going to make it in this business.”  MetLife hasn’t advertised the car and home coverage as
aggressively as some rivals, instead focusing on sales to
existing customers. The company uses characters from the Peanuts
comic strip such as Snoopy and Lucy in television commercials
for its life coverage.  Interest Rates  Kandarian is curtailing business tied to capital intensive
products amid pressure from low  interest rates , which have
weighed on profits. Life insurers typically invest premiums from
clients in bonds to back future payouts. Guarantees tied to some
annuities also hurt results when stocks tumbled amid the 2008
financial crisis.  “In the traditional variable annuity space, we have ceded
some market share, and we’re OK with that,” Steigerwalt said.  MetLife has declined about 15 percent in the past five
years, while Allstate, the largest publicly traded seller of
home and auto insurance, climbed 14 percent. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has advanced 40 percent in that period.  Kandarian’s company gained 1.6 percent to $47.85 at 4:15
p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  