-- EU Mulls $68 Billion Fund to Aid Non-Euro Banks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-09-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/eu-mulls-68-billion-fund-to-aid-non-euro-banks.html
The European Union is weighing
whether a 50 billion-euro ($68 billion) rescue fund can be
turned into a bank backstop for  member states  outside the
single-currency bloc, two EU officials said.  The EU’s  balance-of-payments fund  currently has about 40
billion euros available, after being used to help Latvia,
Hungary and  Romania , the officials said. The European Commission
now wants to overhaul the fund and add a tool for bank aid that
could be tapped by non-euro countries whose lenders fail next
year’s continent-wide stress tests, they said on condition of
anonymity because the talks are private.  The Brussels-based commission wants a resource that can
operate alongside the euro area’s 500 billion-euro firewall, so
that the entire 28-nation EU is braced for the results of next
year’s stress tests, the officials said. The goal is to reach a
deal by the end of this year so that the tool can be ready by
mid-2014, when the commission also hopes to have finished
negotiations on when the firewall can provide direct aid to
euro-zone banks.  “The Commission has proposed that the Balance of Payments
Mechanism include a bank recapitalization instrument for the
same reason that one is available for euro area countries under
the ESM: to provide a credible public backstop at the European
level capable of reassuring supervisors and market participants
that financial stability will be assured,” Simon O’Connor, a
spokesman for the commission, said by e-mail.  Stress Tests  “This is particularly important in view of the forthcoming
asset quality review and stress tests, which need to strengthen
confidence in the solidity of the financial sector in  Europe ,”
he said.  The  European Central Bank  will be conducting balance-sheet
reviews of major banks across the euro area as it prepares to
take on new oversight duties in the second half of 2014. In
addition, all EU banks will face a new round of stress tests,
carried out by the ECB, national regulators and the European
Banking Authority.  If all the proposed backstops are in place, the EU would
have as much as 400 billion euros available to handle any
banking problems that emerge, one of the officials said. This
would include 60 billion euros in possible direct bank aid from
the European Stability Mechanism and another 280 billion euros
in capacity for banking assistance programs like the one  Spain 
received last year, as well as the proposed tool for non-euro
member states.  Unanimous Approval  Germany  and the U.K. are leading opposition to the
proposal, on the grounds that it might ease pressure on
countries to clean up their banking sectors without aid, the
officials said. Supporters including France, Spain and  Italy  say
the EU needs to show investors it’s braced to handle any
problems that emerge after next year’s bank reviews.  The proposed bank-aid tool is part of a broader proposed
overhaul to the balance-of-payments fund, which requires
unanimous approval by EU nations. Tapping the fund requires
countries to apply and to accept conditions, just as euro-area
nations must enter a reform program to qualify for ESM aid.  Lawyers for the Council of the European Union, which
represents member states, have said the bank-aid proposal would
need to be revised to show a direct link to the wellbeing of the
country in question, the officials said. The commission is
working on revisions to accommodate that concern, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  