-- EU Negotiators Agree Deal to Restrict Payments to Biggest Farms
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-25T06:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/eu-negotiators-agree-deal-to-restrict-payments-to-biggest-farms.html
European Union negotiators agreed
to cut payments above 150,000 euros ($202,000) for a single farm
in a deal on issues that remained outstanding after a June
agreement on updating the bloc’s common agricultural policy.  The European Parliament, the EU Council of Ministers and
the European Commission also agreed to adjust differences
between member countries in the level of direct area payments to
farmers, according to an e-mailed  statement  late last night.  The EU’s common agricultural policy sets the direction of
support from 2014 to 2020 for farmers who produce 20 percent of
the world’s wheat, milk and pork. The budget may total 373.2
billion euros over seven years.  “We have now been able to finalize the reform as a
whole,” EU Agriculture Commissioner Dacian Ciolos was cited as
saying in the statement. “I hope we can proceed swiftly to a
formal vote in the European Parliament and Council.”  A plan by farm ministers to trim payments for single farms
above a threshold was left out of final talks in June because of
a lack of consensus. Negotiators yesterday agreed on a cut of at
least 5 percent on direct payments above 150,000 euros to
individual farms.  The cut to individual aid doesn’t need to apply in
countries that use so-called re-distributive payments, meaning
they use 5 percent of national funds for increased subsidies on
the first hectares of a farm, according to the statement.  Parliament, ministers and commission also agreed to
increase funding for countries where the average direct payment
in euros per hectare (2.47 acres) is below 90 percent of the EU
average, with a minimum level to be reached by 2019.  Direct Payments  “The amounts available for other  member states  who receive
above-average amounts will be adjusted accordingly,” the
commission wrote.  Countries will also have the possibility to transfer as
much as 15 percent of their national funds for direct farm
payments to those for rural development, and vice versa,
according to the statement. States that get less than 90 percent
of the EU average for direct payments can transfer as much as 25
percent of rural development funds to the direct payments
budget.  Direct payments make up the biggest chunk of proposed
future spending on the CAP, budgeted at 277.9 billion euros for
the seven years through 2020. Spending on direct payments is
projected to fall to 37.6 billion euros in 2020 from 41.6
billion euros next year, according to EU proposals. The figures
are in 2011 prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  