-- Europe Sharing Fiscal Risks Would Avert Crises, IMF Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-25T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/europe-sharing-fiscal-risks-would-avert-crises-imf-says.html
Euro area countries should be
prepared to lose some degree of control over their budget, pool
resources to set up an insurance program and do common
borrowing, economists at the  International Monetary Fund  said.  To avoid a repeat of the debt crisis that led to bailouts
from Ireland to Cyprus, the 17 nations that share the euro need
to toughen rules enforcing fiscal discipline and set up fund
transfers before crises develop, according to a report released
today by the Washington-based fund’s staff.  “Although the first step to dealing with country-level
fiscal problems must be larger national fiscal buffers, the size
of shocks and their capacity to freeze up markets suggest a role
for a zone-wide insurance mechanism,” IMF economists wrote.
“Fiscal integration can be that mechanism.”  The most urgent task is to set up a backstop for banks,
according to the report. After agreeing to build a banking union
to help restore confidence in  Europe ’s lenders, policy makers
are now divided over a proposal to centralize control of failing
institutions. While a fiscal union is a further step away,
spelling out the measures to get there would help boost
investors’ confidence, according to the report.  To make such a plan viable, Europeans should agree to give
up more sovereignty over their budgets, according to the paper.  “The euro area cannot afford a repeat of the imprudent
fiscal and financial policies undertaken by some countries,”
the economists wrote. “To ensure that the agreed fiscal rules
are implemented, countries need to be provided with the proper
incentives to comply, but also with a credible threat in case
they do not.”  Discipline would enable them to pool resources toward an
insurance fund or even a full-fledged euro-area budget, the
economists suggested.  Once that’s in place, the euro-area could have its own debt
instrument, staff suggested. That could help finance the
temporary transfers to members facing shocks or even be a
backstop to the banking union, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  