-- Most European Stocks Drop as Nordea, Carnival Decline
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-25T16:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/european-stock-index-futures-fall-nordea-may-move.html
Most  European stocks  fell amid
concern over budget talks in the world’s largest economy and as
a report showed U.S. durable-goods orders excluding
transportation unexpectedly dropped.  Nordea Bank AB slid 2.6 percent as  Sweden  sold its
remaining stake in the Nordic region’s largest lender.  Carnival
Corp. (CCL) , the world’s biggest cruise-ship operator, slumped 6.7
percent for the biggest drop in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
ThyssenKrupp AG rallied 3.7 percent as Cevian Capital AB boosted
its holding in the German steelmaker.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 0.1 percent to 313.02 at the close of
trading, as three shares retreated for every two that gained.
The gauge has still climbed 5.3 percent in September as the
 Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing its monthly asset
purchases. It has surged 9.8 percent since the end of June,
heading for the biggest quarterly gain in four years.  “U.S. economic data continues to be of interest for market
participants with the Fed tapering in the back of their minds,”
said Peter Braendle, a portfolio manager at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG in Zurich, where he helps oversee about $60
million. “The debt ceiling talks in the U.S. have resurfaced. I
wouldn’t say it’s already causing uncertainty, but it’s a
welcome argument for bears.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 11 of the 18 western
European markets today.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 and  Portugal ’s PSI-20
each rallied 0.8 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s DAX were
almost unchanged. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 declined 0.3 percent.  U.S. Economy  U.S.  durable-goods  orders, excluding the volatile
transportation category, slipped 0.1 percent in August after
falling a revised 0.5 percent the previous month, according to
the Commerce Department. The median forecast of 60 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1 percent gain.  Americans are losing faith in the nation’s economic
recovery even as forecasters expect growth to accelerate,
according to a Bloomberg National Poll. Fewer people anticipate
European Stocks Fluctuate Before U.S. Durable-Goods Orders Data
improvement in the economy’s strength over the next year than in
the last survey in June, with 27 percent saying the expansion
will be more robust, down from 39 percent who expected
improvement three months earlier.  Congress has yet to pass a budget for the fiscal year
starting Oct. 1. U.S. lawmakers are also debating legislation to
increase the government’s authority to borrow and pay bills,
with the Treasury Department estimating the debt limit could be
reached as soon as mid-October.  Lew Warning  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said investor
confidence that a deal can be struck to raise the debt ceiling
is “a bit greater than it should be.” Lew, who spoke at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New York  yesterday, repeated that
President  Barack Obama  won’t negotiate with congressional
Republicans on increasing the $16.7 trillion limit on the
nation’s borrowing authority. Republicans want to use the debate
to undo parts of Obama’s health-care law.  Nordea (NDA)  dropped 2.6 percent to 77.15 kronor, the biggest
decline in four weeks. Sweden sold 284 million shares for 76
kronor each, valuing the 7 percent stake at 21.6 billion kronor
($3.4 billion).  Carnival fell 6.7 percent to 2,106 pence in London trading,
the lowest price in more than a year. Morgan Stanley cut the
stock to underweight, similar to a sell recommendation, from
equal weight, citing the company’s valuation. Carnival slumped
5.6 percent yesterday after the cruise-ship operator said it may
post a loss.  Tesco, Commerzbank  Tesco Plc, the U.K.’s largest retailer, fell 3.5 percent to
360.9 pence, the lowest price in two months, as JPMorgan Chase &
Co. reduced the stock to underweight from neutral. The brokerage
said the emergence of German discounters Aldi and Lidl may cause
Tesco to go “through a painful rebasing of pricing and the
gross margin, synonymous to a profit warning.”  Commerzbank AG dropped 6 percent to 8.78 euros, extending
its two-day decline to 7.9 percent. The shares fell yesterday
after Equinet AG downgraded the lender to hold from buy, citing
its exposure to the shipping industry and possible need for
another capital increase.  U.K. utilities retreated as Citigroup Inc. said rising
energy prices may lead to government intervention. SSE Plc slid
5.8 percent to 1,489 pence and Centrica Plc fell 4.1 percent to
375.6 pence.  Ed Miliband , the leader of Britain’s opposition  Labour
Party , yesterday pledged to freeze energy bills if he wins the
next election. Rising prices have enriched power companies at
the expense of consumers, he said.  ThyssenKrupp Gains  ThyssenKrupp rose 3.7 percent to 18.16 euros, the largest
rally in four months, as Cevian raised its stake to 5.2 percent.
The Swedish  investment company  said it’s convinced of the
steelmaker’s long-term potential.  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , Spain’s biggest gas supplier, advanced
4 percent to 15.45 euros and Enagas SA, the operator of the
nation’s natural-gas pipelines, gained 1.1 percent to 18.24
euros. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised both stocks to buy from
neutral, citing the impending review of gas regulation in Spain
as positive for both companies.  Vodafone Group Plc climbed 1.9 percent to 217.2 pence, as a
gauge of telecommunication companies posted the best performance
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. Orange SA, the
company previously known as  France Telecom , advanced 2.9 percent
to 9.13 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  