-- Euro Lure Outweighs Latvian Soviet Trauma, Berzins Says
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/euro-lure-outweighs-latvian-soviet-trauma-berzins-says.html
Latvia  opted for euro adoption next
year over public opposition stemming from the trauma of the
 Soviet Union ’s breakup because of the benefits to the country’s
businesses, President Andris Berzins said.  Most Latvians oppose the currency switch because of their
experience with the collapse of the Soviet financial system in
the early 1990s, Berzins said in an interview in New York
yesterday. Economic growth is driven by exports, which will be
helped by adopting  Europe ’s common currency, he said.  “We are making a practical decision,” Berzins said.
“Business is in favor of it. It’s good for business, including
because there will be no currency exchange. The only way for our
small economy to grow is to focus on exports.”  Latvia, which battled a 2009 slump that erased almost a
fifth of economic output, the world’s deepest recession, will
next year become the 18th nation to adopt the euro. It will
become the fourth former communist country in the currency area,
following the entry of neighboring  Estonia  in 2011.  Estonia’s experience will help Latvia navigate the pitfalls
of the currency switch, which threatens to boost inflation and
raises “some concerns about our independence” 22 years after
the country shed Soviet rule, Berzins said.  “We are in a very good position,” he said. “Our
neighbors, the Estonians, have introduced the euro. We will be
analyzing their experience, taking into account their mistakes
and problems made during their implementation process.”  Anti-Euro  Latvian support for the euro remained 22 percent in August,
with 53 percent opposed, according to the polling company SKDS.
Twenty-five percent had a neutral view or declined to say their
opinion. The poll of about 1,000 people was published Aug. 20
and didn’t give a margin of error.  Being invited to join the euro shows the level of stability
Latvia has reached and will help the country in its goal of
raising  living standards  nearer to the European Union average
over the next decade, Berzins said. That should also attract
people who left Latvia back to the country, giving another boost
to the economy, he said.  Economic growth, the EU’s fastest at 4.4 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, will probably slow to about
4 percent next year from an estimated 4.5 percent in 2013,
Berzins said.  “We started from scratch in the early 1990s and, finally,
we have reached some stability, we have reached some maturity,
we are competitive worldwide,” Berzins said. “Everyone started
with empty pockets in the early 1990s. When the Soviet Union
collapsed, it was a big mess for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  