-- European Banks Are Near Turning Point, Citigroup Analysts Say
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-09-25T11:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/european-banks-are-near-turning-point-citigroup-analysts-say.html
European banks are nearing a
turning point as a region-wide asset review promises to
accelerate a “healing process,” according to analysts at
Citigroup Inc.  “The European banking sector is passing an inflection
point over the next 12 months -- on capital, restructuring and
real economy -- which should support dividend yields and
earnings upgrades,” London-based analysts including Kinner Lakhani wrote in a note to clients today.  Citigroup reiterated an overweight rating on the industry
and said a transition to European Central Bank supervision
should reduce a “sector risk premium” on bank stocks. The ECB,
scheduled to begin overseeing lenders in the euro area in
October 2014, is preparing for a review of banks’ balance sheets
and will offer more details on the probes next month.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services firm,
and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest bank, were added to
Citigroup’s most-preferred list, which also includes Britain’s
Barclays Plc and  Nordea (NDA)  Bank AB of  Sweden .  ING rose 0.1 percent to 8.58 euros by 12:50 p.m. in
Amsterdam, while BNP advanced 0.2 percent in Paris and Barclays
gained 1.6 percent in  London . Nordea dropped 2.5 percent to
77.20 kronor ($12.01) after Sweden sold its 7 percent stake in
Scandinavia’s biggest bank at 76 kronor per share. The 44-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
dropped 0.4 percent.  While ECB oversight should help reduce concerns around the
industry, “there are clearly ‘tail risks’ for banks with
relatively high problem loans and low coverage, relative to
capitalization,” the analysts said.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  fell 1.7 percent to 4.27 euros
after Citigroup added it to its list of least preferred European
banking stocks, citing risks from asset quality deterioration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  