-- Lew Pressures Congress on Debt Limit With Deadline
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-09-25T19:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lew-says-extraordinary-measures-exhausted-no-later-than-oct-17.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew stepped up pressure on Congress to avert a potential
default, telling lawmakers in a letter that measures to avoid
breaching the debt ceiling will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  “We estimate that, at that point, Treasury would have only
approximately $30 billion to meet our country’s commitments,”
Lew said in a letter today to U.S. House Speaker John Boehner.
That projection was revised down from last month, when Lew told
Congress he expected the Treasury Department would have about
$50 billion left to  fund  the government in mid-October.  Lew’s letter marks the first time he has set a specific
deadline and gives lawmakers a target for raising the $16.7
trillion debt limit. Lew and President  Barack Obama  have said
they won’t negotiate on the limit, which is tied to payments and
bills the U.S. has already agreed to make. Republicans in
Congress want spending cuts to be part of the debt-limit debate.  The $30 billion “would be far short of net expenditures on
certain days, which can be as high as $60 billion,” Lew said in
the letter. “If we have insufficient cash on hand, it would be
impossible for the United States of America to meet all of its
obligations for the first time in our history.”  The $30 billion “is enough to cover the Treasury’s cash
needs for a couple of weeks, give or take a few days,” said  Lou Crandall , chief economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City,
New Jersey.  The Congressional Budget Office said today the Treasury
will probably exhaust its cash balance between Oct. 22 and the
end of the month.  ‘Hard’ Call  Lew’s deadline is different from the dates provided by his
predecessor, Timothy F. Geithner, during debt-limit talks in
2011, because Lew is giving himself a cushion of $30 billion,
Crandall said.  For example, on April 4, 2011, Geithner sent Congress a
letter saying extraordinary measures could give the Treasury
“headroom” until about July 8. On May 2, Geithner said that
because of “stronger than expected tax receipts,” the measures
could extend borrowing authority until Aug. 2.  Lew’s Oct. 17 deadline “is the date on which Treasury runs
out of the ability to raise new money, but he is not attempting
to pick the subsequent date on which the Treasury will run out
of cash,” Crandall said. “You can make objective forecasts
about the former, while the latter is much more uncertain. He is
telling us when we go to Code Red as opposed to predicting the
date of fiscal Armageddon.”  Debt Ceiling  The so-called extraordinary measures to avoid hitting the
debt ceiling are accounting maneuvers such as allowing the
government to redeem existing Treasury securities held by the
Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. The department
also suspends investments to the Postal Service Retiree health
Benefits Fund.  Treasury 10-year note yields traded at almost the lowest
level in six weeks amid speculation budget talks risk a
government shutdown.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year yield declined four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.61 percent at 3:04 p.m.
New York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to 1,694.89.  Lew reiterated his position that making payments on some
obligations and not others is unworkable. “Any plan to
prioritize some payments over others is simply default by
another name,” he said.  Republican Priorities  The Republican-led House could vote as soon as Sept. 27 on
a bill to raise the debt cap until Dec. 31, 2014. The bill,
expected to save at least $256 billion, would delay Obama’s
health-care law for a year and include other Republican
priorities, such as approval of the Keystone XL pipeline,
increasing means testing for Medicare and cutting government
regulations. The administration has said it will not approve
legislation that delays the health-care law.  “This is another reminder that we need to work together --
soon -- on a bill that raises the debt limit and deals with
causes of the debt by cutting Washington spending and increasing
economic growth,” Michael Steel, Boehner’s spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “And it should remind President Obama
that refusing to negotiate with Congress on solutions just isn’t
an option.”  Rory Cooper, a spokesman for House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said “we always knew that this
date would be approaching soon, which is why the House has been
acting swiftly to craft legislation that would control spending
and spur economic growth.”  ‘Ignoring’ Issue  Obama and Senate Democrats “must stop ignoring this issue
and threatening our nation with default,” Cooper said in a
statement.  The debt-limit bill would encourage offshore energy
production, energy production on federal lands and block
Environmental Protection Agency greenhouse-gas and coal-ash
regulations.  Lew, speaking yesterday at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit
in New York, said investor confidence that a deal can be struck
to raise the debt limit is “a bit greater than it should be.”  Omair Sharif , a U.S. economist at RBS Securities in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said today he isn’t surprised Lew gave a
precise date because “Treasury secretaries in the past have
also given dates to inform Congress of when they will exhaust
the extraordinary measures and risk default.”  “We’ve been here before,” Sharif said. “We have to get
through the political theatrics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  