-- Ex-Banker to Pay $152,000 for Insider Tips to Girlfriends
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-09-25T13:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/ex-banker-to-pay-151-621-for-insider-tips-to-girlfriends.html
Thomas Ammann, the former Mizuho
International Plc banker sentenced to 32 months in prison for
giving inside information on deals to two of his girlfriends,
must repay 94,568 pounds ($151,820), a judge ruled today.  Ammann, a German citizen who worked on the Mizuho team
advising  Canon Inc. (7751)  on its 2009 takeover of OCE NV, agreed to
repay the profits from crime within 14 days to the U.K.
Financial Conduct Authority.  Ammann pleaded guilty to insider trading and encouraging
the women to commit insider trading in 2012 and will serve half
of the 32-month sentence. Jessica Mang and Christina Weckwerth
were cleared of trading on illegal tips from him following a
London trial that ended in November.  Chris Hamilton, an FCA spokesman, declined to comment on
today’s hearing. A call to lawyers representing Ammann wasn’t
immediately returned.  Ammann appeared at the hearing in a blue V-neck sweater and
rimmed glasses. He only spoke to confirm his name. If he fails
to make the payment he could face another 18 months in jail,
Judge Anthony Leonard said today.  Mang and Weckwerth nearly doubled the amount they invested
trading on the tips and then paid half their profits to Ammann,
the FCA said during their trial. Ammann tried to avoid getting
caught by having his girlfriends, who didn’t know the banker was
involved with them both simultaneously, make the trades, the FCA
said.  Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and photocopiers,
agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro ($986 million) deal in
November 2009.  Japanese Girlfriend  Weckwerth, who has British and Cypriot citizenship, earned
about 2 million pounds after investing 1 million euros before
the deal, prosecutors said at her trial. She argued she bought
the shares only after doing her own research on Ammann’s
recommendation, and that she didn’t know his work was related to
the tips.  Mang, a British chiropractor who met Ammann at London
nightclub Movida in 2009, said she bought the shares at Ammann’s
request because she wanted to show she trusted him.  Ammann was with a third woman when his house was raided in
2010, the FCA said before he was sentenced. The woman, who
wasn’t identified, was Japanese and didn’t speak English.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  