-- Facebook Gripe Screens Show Room for Mobile-Ad Improvement: Tech
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-25T21:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/facebook-gripe-screens-show-room-for-mobile-ad-improvement-tech.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  executives are
reminded how much work they have left to do in the $16.7 billion
mobile-advertising market every time they glance at two large TV
screens in plain view at the company’s headquarters.  The monitors, erected recently by advertising Vice
President Andrew Bosworth, show a steady stream of complaints
lodged by marketing customers about ads shown to users of the
largest social network. Some lament that ad tools are difficult
to use. Others say messages leave customers confused.  Pressure on  Facebook  to improve mobile ads isn’t letting
up, even after the company said in July that it got more than 40
percent of second-quarter  ad revenue  from mobile -- up from zero
at the end of 2011. Investors applauded the gains, propelling
the shares 87 percent since the results were released.  “The ads are getting better, the ads are getting more
effective,” Facebook Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg
said in a recent interview. “Our job is to have a plan, stick
to it and believe that over time that plan will come to fruition
and people will understand it.” Sandberg is in  New York  this
week for the Advertising Week industry conference.  Finally gaining traction more than a year after rolling out
its first ads for smartphones and tablets, Facebook is stepping
up the pace as it works to prove that its progress so far is no
fluke. With rivals such as Twitter Inc. -- which has filed to go
public -- already far along in mobile ads, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
boasting a wide lead over both rivals, Facebook has to fight
harder to win share in a market that EMarketer Inc. predicts
will almost  double  this year.  Streamlined Buying  To keep up the gains,  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook
is taking steps to streamline ad buying, adding ways to track
results and courting a wider swath of business advertisers. The
company will soon announce it’s teaming up with  Nielsen Holdings
NV (NLSN)  to unveil a way to measure mobile audience sizes the same way
marketers measure television viewers, according to a person with
knowledge of the project, who asked not to be identified because
the matter isn’t public.  Adam Isserlis, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment. Flavie Lemarchand-Wood, a spokeswoman for Nielsen,
didn’t respond to requests for comment via phone and e-mail.  Facebook’s stock price has gained in step with its progress
in mobile. After its $16 billion initial public offering in May
2012 -- a record for a technology company -- the shares lost
more than half their value by September as mobile advertising
was slow to catch on. It took the second-quarter report in July
showing gains in mobile -- which now accounts for 71 percent of
the user base -- to get shares back to the $38 IPO price.  The stock  rose  2.1 percent to $49.46 at the close in New
York, climbing for a sixth day in seven. An analyst at Citigroup
Inc. upgraded the stock to buy yesterday and said the company’s
growth is “sustainable.”  Customers Overwhelmed  The results haven’t come without hiccups, including some
that affected customers. The quick development time and rapid
rollout of ad products for the social network’s website and
mobile app created a buying process that was sometimes
overwhelming to marketers. Earlier this year, the number of
separate tools had climbed to more than 25.  The system became “fairly confusing,” especially for
small advertisers, and Facebook needed to simplify and
streamline those features, said  Zachary Reiss-Davis , an analyst
at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   Bosworth, best known for his earlier work on user content
in Facebook’s News Feed, put up the advertiser-complaint screens
outside his conference room. Posters were hung up around the ad
area to keep workers focused on the customers.  Slashing Products  That’s led to cultural change, said Brian Boland, a vice
president who handles marketing for advertiser tools. The ad
team already has unveiled plans to slash the number of
advertising product options by half, he said.  “You’ll see us changing a lot of our products to make them
easier to understand and simpler to use,” he said.  Facebook’s learning curve has been steep. The company
rolled out its first mobile-ad products in March 2012, and just
two months later and days before the IPO, it spooked investors
by saying daily active users -- especially mobile users -- were
increasing more rapidly than the number of ads it was
delivering.  The company’s first quarterly report as a public company in
July 2012 did little to assuage those concerns. In June, Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  had addressed the entire
staff.  “He stood in front of the company and said, ‘We are a
mobile company,’” Sandberg said. “If we’re a mobile-first
company, that means mobile ads.”  No Banners  Seeking to avoid the sometimes jarring nature of promotions
on smartphones on other applications, the company wanted to take
a more measured approach. Instead of squeezing an ad onto
handsets’ small screens, Facebook put the paid messages in the
hub -- called the News Feed -- where users view updates from
friends.  “It’s not a small banner in the corner of the screen,”
said Cathleen Ryan, marketing manager for  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s
TurboTax, which advertises on Facebook mobile. “It’s a truly
integrated News Feed experience.”  That doesn’t mean the ads aren’t a nuisance for some users.
While Facebook says it takes precautions to avoid overwhelming
the News Feed, too many promotions in a user’s stream could spur
a revolt. Average members now get one ad for every 20 photos,
messages or other content they view on the social network.  More Engaging  Early on, Facebook executives saw that News Feed ads
generated more user response than those running on the side of
the desktop screen. News Feed promotions could be eight times
more engaging than the traditional ads. All mobile ads are in
the News Feed.  Facebook also made it easier for mobile-ad customers to
target potential shoppers by using data it already gathers on
members.  “That was a complete revelation,” Boland said. “It’s
very hard to get that targeting data on mobile.”  The results started showing up in the second half of 2012 -
- mobile made up 14 percent of ad sales in the third quarter and
23 percent in the fourth.  Marketers have noticed. In recent months,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  has seen more engagement with mobile ads than those on
desktop computers in the U.S., said Monica Peterson, Toyota’s
director of social media marketing. Facebook is getting better
with targeting, making it easier to reach those who may be
checking their phones several times a day, she said.  “We have to be where our people are, and give them the
message at the right time,” she said. “A larger percentage of
people are accessing Facebook from their mobile device.”  Small Businesses  The company is also focusing on turning more small
businesses into paying mobile customers. Facebook has almost 18
million local businesses using its site, with only about 1
million of them as paying customers.  Those advertisers include  Naturebox , a startup that
delivers healthy snacks to consumers. The company devotes 10
percent to 20 percent of its Facebook advertising budget to
mobile, and that could rise, said Ken Chen, the company’s co-founder and chief marketing officer.  Facebook remains a distant No. 2 in mobile ads, with Google
estimated to hold 53 percent of the market this year, compared
with Facebook’s 16 percent, according to EMarketer.  “Every six months, someone wakes up and goes, ‘Oh, we
should try Facebook,’” said  Jesse Pujji , CEO of Ampush Media
Inc., a San Francisco-based company that helps clients buy ads
on the social network. “Now, we’re seeing it’s working, and
people are saying, ‘Oh yeah, I want to do more with this.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  