-- Federal Housing Administration Said to Take Taxpayer Subsidy
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-09-26T12:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/federal-housing-administration-said-to-take-taxpayer-subsidy.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
will take a taxpayer subsidy for the first time in its 79-year
history after efforts to improve its bottom line failed to
offset losses on loans backed during the housing bubble,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The government mortgage insurer will draw the money from
the  U.S. Treasury  to shore up its insurance fund by Sept. 30,
the end of the current fiscal year, said the people who asked
not to be identified because the action hasn’t been announced.  Federal budget  officials are working to determine the exact
size of the cash infusion, the people said. White House
officials projected in April that the FHA would need about $1
billion. The agency, which is required to keep enough money on
hand to cover all projected future losses, has authority to take
the money without prior approval from Congress.  The FHA’s need for aid could spur lawmakers to move more
quickly to shrink the agency’s risk and its footprint in the
mortgage market. Representative  Jeb Hensarling , the Texas
Republican who leads the House Financial Services Committee,
urged swift passage of his bill to largely limit FHA coverage to
first-time borrowers purchasing moderately priced homes.  “Over the years, the FHA has strayed far from its original
mission,” he said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “It has
become the nation’s largest subprime lender.”  Bipartisan Bill  Hensarling’s panel passed his bill in July, setting the
stage for a vote by the full House. The Senate Banking Committee
in July approved a bipartisan bill that would set a floor on
premiums the agency charges and require it to hold more money in
reserve.  The FHA  raised  the amount it charges borrowers to insure
mortgages against default and tightened underwriting after an
independent actuary predicted in November that the insurance
fund would require a $16.3 billion subsidy. Those changes,
coupled with rising home prices, helped shrink the gap to the $1
billion projected in April.  Since then, rising interest rates have reduced the volume
of new business, potentially magnifying the projected shortfall
because revenue from new loans is used to cover losses on
defaulted mortgages. Projections show the FHA’s finances will
improve over time and the agency won’t require a subsidy in
fiscal-year 2014.  Appropriate Steps  The FHA has already taken appropriate steps to deal with
its funding issues, said Julia Gordon, director for housing
finance and policy at the Center for American Progress, a
Washington advocacy group with ties to the  Democratic Party .  “They’re on this,” Gordon said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Along with premium increases, they’ve also changed
policies to improve performance going forward.”  Addie Whisenant, press secretary for the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, declined to comment. FHA is part
of HUD’s Office of Housing.  The FHA’s shortfall stems largely from loans it backed from
2007 to 2009, when it expanded its book of business as private
capital evaporated. Those loans alone are projected to cost the
agency $70 billion.  FHA Commissioner Carol Galante said in April that the
agency’s need for funds was driven entirely by losses from
reverse mortgages. The FHA backs 90 percent of such loans, which
enable homeowners age 62 or older to withdraw equity and repay
it only when their homes are sold. Declining home prices have
left the agency holding properties worth less than the amount
borrowed.  The FHA is mitigating losses in the reverse mortgage
program with new requirements for financial assessments of
potential borrowers, new limits on the amount of equity that can
be withdrawn, and mandatory escrow accounts for payment of
insurance and taxes on the properties.  The agency insures $1.1 trillion worth of  mortgages  and
backs about 15 percent of the U.S. loan originations for home
purchases, almost quadruple the 4 percent share it had in 2007.  Hensarling’s bill is H.R. 2767.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  