-- Fink’s ‘Five Days’ Explores Hospital Deaths After Katrina
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/fink-s-five-days-explores-hospital-deaths-after-katrina.html
As New Orleans dug itself out of
the mess left by Hurricane Katrina,  Sheri Fink  began digging
into puzzling deaths at one of the city’s hospitals.  She won a Pulitzer Prize in 2010 for  investigative
reporting  that has now grown into a book, “ Five Days at
Memorial : Life and Death in a Storm-Ravaged Hospital.” It’s a
marvel of journalistic effort that brings an objective and
sympathetic eye to the suffering and tough decisions at Memorial
Medical Center.  What it’s not is an easy read. Densely detailed, “Five
Days” asks you to absorb anguish, pain and serious ethical
questions. It’s tough medicine, but it will do you good.  As Katrina drew near on Sunday, Aug. 28, 2005, Memorial and
a separate long-term-treatment facility it housed called
LifeCare held 1,800 to 2,000 people, including about 238
patients and 600 staff, plus family members, companions and
neighborhood people who sought shelter in the hospital.  There were countless pets as well, and the area where many
were kept behind the ICU was “filled with cages and the
earsplitting barking and the stench of frightened animals.” Add
in “the stench of sewage mixed with the odor of hundreds of
unwashed bodies” as electric power dropped, tap water stopped
and toilets backed up.  Baby Rescued  The medical staff focused on caring for and evacuating
patients. The former grew increasingly difficult without power.
Fink tells of a group of babies rescued in the first wave of
helicopters, with one doctor throughout a flight operating an
oxygen line by hand-pump for a 6-week-old born at 6 months.  Trucks, boats and helicopters slowly took away patients and
relatives. Few of the staff departed. By Wednesday, the patient
census had dropped to about 182. The feeling grew among a few of
the medical staff that “not all of the patients would be
getting out alive.”  Traditional triage was reversed. To “help speed the
evacuation,” patients were assigned numbers 1, 2 and 3, from
healthiest to most ill, with the No. 1 group getting out first.  Fink displays an uncanny knowledge of the actions of many
people throughout the hospital. A six-page list of “Selected
Individuals” that opens the book like a play’s dramatis
personae includes more than 50 doctors, nurses, administrators
and patients.  Ailing Pets  It was on Wednesday that a Dr. Ewing Cook began euthanizing
a few ailing and abandoned pets. Cook “prided himself as the
go-to man for difficult end-of-life situations.” For an
overweight comatose woman, he asked a nurse if she would mind
“‘increasing the morphine and giving her enough until she
goes.’”  The idea of euthanizing other patients was broached and
rejected at various points. Eventually, Dr. Anna Pou, after
consulting with Cook, would lead the effort to try to make some
patients “comfortable” with morphine and other drugs.  Whatever the intent, more than a week after the hospital’s
last living patients were evacuated on Thursday, rescue workers
recovered 45 bodies, “the largest number of bodies found at any
Katrina-struck hospital or nursing home.”  Fink is a trained physician who has worked in disaster
relief and in conflict areas. Her restraint in the face of this
charnel house is extraordinary.  Legal Constraints  Of course, careful language serves the demands of
journalistic objectivity, not to mention legal constraints. It
also ultimately makes it impossible to settle on a definitive
perpetrator. Still, it’s clear that natural causes probably
weren’t involved in some of those deaths.  The book’s second half, covering the investigation of Pou
and two other staff members, presents more of Fink’s fine
detective work, yet doesn’t ultimately offer the satisfaction of
a clear villain. Many readers will find one or more anyway.  A thoughtful epilogue that ranges through several disasters
since Katrina and assesses the lessons learned ends with a lousy
report card. Fink points to misguided or inadequate disaster and
emergency plans. It comes down unsurprisingly to the individuals
making the decisions. It’s sad to realize that good decisions
might not make such good books.  “Five Days at Memorial” is published by Crown (558 pages,
$27). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on opera and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 