-- Fonterra CEO Says Whole Milk Prices Too High, Need to Decline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-09-25T02:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/fonterra-ceo-says-whole-milk-prices-too-high-need-to-decline.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said milk powder prices
are too high and risk hurting the dairy industry unless they
normalize.  “The distance between whole milk powder and the other milk
products is too big,” Spierings said in an interview in
Auckland today after Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy
exporter, reported a 3 percent drop in earnings for the 2012-13
year. Higher prices not only push customers toward other milk
products, they also make substitutes such as soy or vegetable
oil more attractive, he said.  Prices have soared after a drought in New Zealand this year
curbed milk production amid strong demand in key markets such as
 China . Fonterra yesterday raised its forecast payout to farmer
suppliers to a record NZ$8.30 ($6.84) a kilogram of milk solids
for the current year. Spierings said that could rise further if
prices hold up.  “A very high payout is nice for the farmers, it’s not nice
for the consumers,” he said.  Fonterra buys milk to use in products from butter to baby
formula, and can’t pass on all of the higher cost without
reducing its competitiveness.  Spierings favors a  milk price  that yields “solid”
earnings before interest and tax, which is “normally when whole
milk powder is in a bracket of $3,500 to $4,000” a metric ton,
he said. “Now we are at $5,200. It’s too high. If it stays for
too long at a too-high level, it’s not good.”  China Demand  In regions like  Africa , demand is already dropping off
because of the affordability issue, “but China is so strong in
buying whole milk powder, because there are issues of foot and
mouth disease in the Chinese herd,” he said. “So I don’t know
how long it’s going to take.”  China suspended imports of some Fonterra products in August
after a contamination scare. While later testing revealed there
were no health risks, bans on whey protein and base powders
remain in place while safety assurance measures are improved.
Those products represent 5 percent of Fonterra exports to China,
said Spierings, who will visit the nation again next month as
the company seeks to repair its reputation.  “Of course the situation is difficult, there’s a lot of
angst and sometimes even anger,” he said. “On the consumer
side there’s still a lot of work to be done, because the
consumers are still not 100 percent sure what happened. There’s
still confusion out there.”  China is New Zealand’s  biggest dairy customer , buying NZ$3
billion worth of dairy products in the year through June.  Fonterra said earlier today that earnings before interest,
tax and one-time items declined to NZ$1 billion in the year
ended July 31 after the worst drought in almost 40 years drove
up prices and squeezed margins. It warned yesterday that
earnings in the first half of the current year will be
“significantly lower” than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  