-- Freddie Neglected $4.6 Billion Chance to Seize Assets
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/freddie-neglected-4-6-billion-chance-to-seize-assets.html
Freddie Mac  failed to go after
 foreclosed  homeowners who owed more than $4.6 billion on their
government-guaranteed loans, passing up the chance to seize
second homes and cars from people who defaulted on their
mortgage payments.  The company, rescued by the government along with  Fannie
Mae  in 2008, neglected to refer 58,000 foreclosures to servicers
for review to find borrowers with assets to repay deficiencies,
according to a  report  yesterday from the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  Office of Inspector General in  Washington . Among those
not pursued were real estate investors and other borrowers who
stopped repaying their loans while keeping up on other bills,
according to the review. The mortgages were all secured by homes
in states where post-foreclosure collections are allowed.  Targeting strategic defaulters, those who choose to stop
paying on a house that’s losing value, serves as a deterrent to
borrowers considering walking away to escape bad real estate
investments, according to the report. To set an example, they
should be pursued even though recoveries may be only a fraction
of the amount owed, the audit said.  “These are pennies on the dollar, but it sets an
example,” Frank Pallotta, managing partner at Loan Value Group,
a mortgage consulting firm in Rumson,  New Jersey  that advises
lenders on avoiding strategic defaults. “There’s a contagion
effect that kicks in when people who are underwater see their
neighbors walk away without having to give up cars or boats or
vacation homes.”  Strategic Defaults  Strategic defaults typically happen when the amount owed on
them is 25 percent or more than their value, Pallotta said.
While gains in  home prices  have reduced the number of underwater
borrowers nationwide, such homes still dominate markets in hard-hit states such as  Arizona  and  Nevada . Even after leading the
nation in price gains this year, Phoenix home values remain
about 40 percent below a mid-2006 peak and Las Vegas home still
are worth half their value of the same year.  “Strategic defaults aren’t rampant like they were at the
height of the foreclosure crisis, but there still is value in
giving a stern warning,” said  Diane Swonk , chief economist of
Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago . “If we want the market to
continue to recover, we can’t give any hope to the many people
who are still severely underwater that they can drive away in
their SUVs with no consequences.”  Distressed Sales  Homes in foreclosure sell for about a third of the price of
non-distressed properties, according to RealtyTrac, a housing
data company in  Irvine ,  California .  In about two-thirds of states, including Nevada and
 Florida , borrowers who default are still responsible for the
portion of the mortgage debt that isn’t satisfied by the current
value of their homes. Typically, servicers pursuing deficiencies
for loan holders like  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  check credit reports of
defaulters to see if they are keeping up on other bills and
review real estate records to look for other assets.  In non-recourse states, mortgage debt is satisfied by the
foreclosure and lenders are prohibited from pursuing them
further. Those states, which include California and Arizona,
tend to have the highest proportion of strategic defaults.  The failure to identify defaulted borrowers in recourse
states who are able to pay was due to “inadequate policies”
and “internal, informal practices that resulted from a mistake
by Freddie Mac staff,” according to the report.  Collection Practices  At the same time, the findings “should not be construed as
encouragement to aggressively pursue borrowers who do not have
the ability to pay their mortgage,” the review said.  Freddie Mac is reviewing the report to “determine what, if
any, changes to its current collection practices it should
make,” said  Brad German , a spokesman for the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage financier. Most of the borrowers who owe a
mortgage shortfall don’t have the resources to make additional
payments, he said.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, the regulator of
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, declined to comment beyond a
statement in the report from Jon Greelee, an FHFA deputy
director, that the agency concurs with the findings and has
already taken steps to tighten controls over deficiency
collections.  Freddie Mac and Washington-based Fannie Mae buy mortgages
from lenders and package them into securities on which they
guarantee principal and interest payments. The companies have
received $187.5 billion in taxpayer aid since 2008. They’ve sent
Treasury dividends totaling $132 billion, including $76 billion
this year alone. Those payments count as a return on the
government’s investment, not as a repayment of the aid.  Garnish Wages  Borrowers in recourse states remain on the hook for up to
20 years after banks seize their homes. Loan holders can garnish
wages, tap bank accounts and put liens on current and future
assets held by debtors. In some states, the collection period
can be renewed by going to court. The judgments that allow the
collections usually tack on court fees, fines and interest.  About a third of U.S. states, including California and
Arizona, prohibit collection efforts on primary residences after
foreclosure. In some cases, homeowners waive that protection if
they refinance. Most states allow collection on unpaid  home
equity loans .  People who walk away from homes they can afford have
ignored government programs to help homeowners, said Loan
Value’s Pallotta. The Home Affordable Refinance Program, or
Harp, allows underwater homeowners with Fannie Mae or Freddie
Mac mortgages to reset loans at current rates. About 2.7 million
borrowers who are current on their loans have used the program,
according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  “The more a person is underwater, the more likely that
they’re going to make the decision that their investment may
never be recouped,” said Pallotta. “That’s what makes them
walk away. But that decision only makes sense if you don’t have
to repay the balance of the mortgage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  