-- French Wine Test Finds Pesticides in Each of 92 Bottles Analyzed
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-25T14:50:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/french-wine-test-finds-pesticides-in-each-of-92-bottles-analyzed.html
Laboratory testing of 92 French
wines from across the country found pesticide traces in every
bottle, including those made from organically-grown grapes,
consumer organization  UFC-Que Choisir  reported.  All findings were “well below” toxicity thresholds
defined by European Union maximum-residue limits, the group
wrote in a report for the October issue of its magazine. Que
Choisir tested wines ranging from a 1.63-euro ($2.20) bottle of
generic red to a 15-euro Chateauneuf-du-Pape.  The toxicity limits used are based on those for wine grapes
before fermentation, as “bizarrely” no such EU limits are in
place for bottled wine, Que Choisir wrote. Wine producers in
France account for 3.7 percent of farmland and 20 percent of the
country’s pesticide use, the group said.  “By drinking a glass of wine, you have every chance of
unknowingly swallowing a few micrograms of these pesticide
residues,” Que Choisir wrote. “No wine today escapes the
pollution by plant-protection products applied to the vines.”  The findings included an insecticide and a fungicide not
allowed in the EU, the group said. Wines produced from grapes
from “conventional” agriculture on average contained four
pesticides, mainly fungicides, while for wine from organic
grapes residues mostly consisted of one to two pesticides, wrote
Que Choisir.  Health-risk assessments for pesticides are generally based
on toxicology studies for a single product, without taking into
account cumulative effects, Que Choisir said.  The biggest pesticide count was found in a bottle of
Bordeaux from 2010 priced at 10.44 euros, with 14 chemicals
detected, followed by a 3.75-euro 2012 Bordeaux with traces of
13 products, according to the report.  Vine Diseases  “Weather conditions, particularly rainfall, have a direct
impact on diseases of vines and attacks by parasites,” Que
Choisir wrote. “The warm and dry weather of Provence and the
Rhone valley partly explains why the wines from these regions
are significantly less loaded with pesticides than their cousins
from Champagne and particularly Bordeaux.”  The wines were tested using gas and liquid mass
spectrometry that allowed detection of “very low” quantities
of molecules of 1 to 10 micrograms, Que Choisir said. Cheaper
wines didn’t necessarily contain more pesticide traces than more
expensive wines, the test showed.  The highest level of residues tested were 1,682 micrograms
in a 2011 white from Graves in the Bordeaux region, followed by
582 micrograms for a 2012 Bordeaux and 569 micrograms for a 2011
Bordeaux. Those three wines and a Bordeaux rose exceeded Swiss
thresholds for phthalimide, a non-toxic substance formed by the
fungicide folpet, the report showed  The group also found wines with residues close to zero in
Bordeaux, as well as in the Rhone Valley, Loire Valley, Provence
and Languedoc-Roussillon regions.  For wine made using organic grapes, pesticide traces may
have originated in the environment, for example from spraying by
neighboring wine makers, according to Que Choisir. Of 10 wines
from organic grapes tested, six had residues close to zero, the
group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  