-- German Bund Yields Decline to Six-Week Low on ECB Stimulus Bias
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-09-25T15:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/germany-s-bonds-hold-two-day-gain-after-consumer-confidence-data.html
German 10-year government bonds
rose, with yields falling to the lowest in six weeks, on bets
the European Central Bank will consider further stimulus even
amid signs of a strengthening euro-area economy.  Benchmark 10-year  bunds  have risen this week as ECB
President Mario Draghi said officials are ready to pump more
cash into the banking system to stop borrowing costs from
rising.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said the central bank may add stimulus.
Italy’s two-year notes fell, pushing yields up from near a
seven-week low, as the nation auctioned 2.5 billion euros ($3.38
billion) of zero-coupon securities due in 2015.  “The economic data picture has brightened up significantly
in recent weeks and months but there’s another problem when you
look at the bank loan situation,” said Christian Reicherter, an
analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “We could expect lower
yields in the days to come.”  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 4:29 p.m. London time, the
 lowest  since Aug. 15. The 2 percent security due in August 2023
gained 0.215, or 2.15 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
101.60. The two-year yield was little changed at 0.19 percent.  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said yesterday
that policy makers will debate whether more longer-term
refinancing operations were needed. Policy maker Benoit Coeure
said the discussion was “open,” though there had been no
specific talk about what measure to use.  ‘Any Instrument’  “We are ready to use any instrument, including another
LTRO if needed, to maintain the short-term money markets at the
level that is warranted by our assessment of inflation in the
medium term,” Draghi said in the European Parliament in
Brussels on Sept. 23.  As part of its strategy to restore confidence in the
region’s economy amid the sovereign debt crisis, the ECB flooded
the banking system with 1 trillion euros of three-year loans
starting in December 2011 after financial institutions stopped
lending to each other.  Another LTRO is becoming more likely, Scott Thiel, deputy
chief investment officer for fundamental fixed-income at
BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, said in  London .  BlackRock is overweight Portuguese, Irish and Slovenian
securities, he said, meaning the company holds a bigger
percentage of the debt than the indexes against which they
measure performance.  Italian Sale  Italy’s two-year note yield added two basis points to 1.73
percent after falling to 1.67 percent yesterday, the least since
Aug. 7. The nation’s 10-year bond yield fell one basis point to
4.23 percent.  The Rome-based Treasury sold the zero-coupon securities due
in June 2015 at an average yield of 1.623 percent, compared with
1.871 percent at an auction on Aug. 27. It also allotted 750
million euros of inflation-linked debt maturing in 2021.  Spain’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.28 percent
after sliding 21 basis points in the previous seven days.  Germany’s 10-year yields fell for a third day as investors
awaited talks between  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s victorious
party bloc and possible coalition candidates.  Three days after Merkel won the highest share of votes in a
German national election since 1990, negotiations on her third-term government may still be more than a week away as Europe’s
biggest economy faces an extended political limbo.  Merkel has led efforts to get Europe’s most-indebted
countries to accept economic reforms in return for aid, helping
to ease a crisis that pushed borrowing costs in peripheral euro-area nations to records.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Germany and  Belgium , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bonds lost 1.9 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian securities
earned 4.6 percent, while Spain’s gained 9.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  