-- German Greens’ Co-Leader Says Coalition With Merkel Not Credible
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-09-25T10:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/german-greens-co-leader-says-coalition-with-merkel-not-credible.html
Germany’s Katrin Goering-Eckardt, a
top Greens party candidate in the Sept. 22 federal election,
said a coalition with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party would
lack credibility because the two sides are too far apart.  Goering-Eckardt, who may become the Greens’ next
parliamentary caucus chief after Juergen Trittin said he won’t
run for that position again, said Germany can’t afford a shaky
government in the “difficult times” the euro region still
faces.  “That would not only lack credibility after this election
campaign, after this programmatic positioning, but also wouldn’t
be helpful when it comes to the stability of a government,”
Goering-Eckardt  said  today on Deutschlandfunk public radio.  Green party reluctance to form a coalition with Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union and its Bavarian sister party, the
Christian Social Union, narrows Merkel’s choices to form a
government after some Social Democrats called for a party
referendum before any talks about a grand coalition with
Merkel’s bloc.  “When I look at what the CSU in particular has done in
recent weeks, then that has little to do with the claim for
modernization we represent,” Goering-Eckardt said. “I’m firmly
of the opinion that the Greens now have the task to develop the
path of autonomy on which they have already embarked more
clearly.”  Merkel approached the SPD on Sept. 23 as she began the
search for a third-term coalition partner to leverage the
biggest electoral victory in 23 years. The chancellor said SPD
chief Sigmar Gabriel asked her to hold off until his party
leaders meet on Sept. 27 to consider coalition options.  Axel Schaefer, a Social Democrat who represents lawmakers
from North Rhine-Westphalia,  Germany ’s most populous state, told
the Rheinische Post newspaper the SPD needs a party referendum
to decide on a possible re-run of the 2005-2009 grand coalition
with Merkel’s bloc. Florian Pronold, SPD leader in Bavaria, said
in the Bild-Zeitung newspaper such a referendum is
“obligatory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  