-- German Stocks Decline Before Durable Goods, Homes Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-25T07:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/german-stocks-decline-before-durable-goods-homes-data.html
German stocks  fell before reports
on U.S. durable-goods orders and new home sales, and as Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew warned that investors may be too
optimistic on the prospects for a deal to raise the debt limit.  Linde AG (LIN)  fell 0.7 percent, as a gauge of chemical stocks
dropped.  K+S AG (SDF)  slipped 3.5 percent, for the biggest decline on
the benchmark index.  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  rose 1.9 percent after UBS
AG added the stock to its most preferred list.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) 
gained 5.1 percent as Cevian Capital AB bought a 5.2 percent
stake in  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.3 percent to 8,636.56 at 9:47 a.m.
in Frankfurt. Shares have fluctuated as investors consider the
composition of a new government after Angela Merkel’s election
victory. The gauge has climbed 8.5 percent this quarter and is
heading for a 13 percent annual gain. It rose last week after
the Federal Reserve refrained from reducing its $85 billion of
monthly asset purchases. The HDAX Index fell 0.3 percent today.  “The risk-on rally has begun to fade as equity markets are
in a wait-and-see mode,” Christoph Hock, an equity sales trader
at Alpha Wertpapierhandels GmbH in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail. “Confusion about the Fed’s lack of decision to taper and
the deadlines on approving a resolution to keep the government
funded and to raise the debt ceiling are weighing on markets.”  A Commerce Department report at 8:30 a.m. Washington time
may show that  durable goods , excluding the volatile
transportation category, rose 1 percent in August after falling
0.8 percent the previous month, according to the median forecast
of 60 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Home Sales  Separate data from the Commerce Department will show that
purchases of  new houses  climbed to a 420,000 annual rate last
month after plunging in July by the most in three years,
economists projected.  Lew, who spoke at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in New
York yesterday, said investor confidence that a deal can be
struck to raise the debt limit is “a bit greater than it should
be.” He repeated that President  Barack Obama  won’t negotiate
with congressional Republicans on increasing the $16.7 trillion
ceiling on the nation’s borrowing authority.  A gauge of German  consumer confidence  will rise to 7.1 in
October from a revised 7 in September, Nuremberg-based research
company GfK AG said today. That would be the highest since
September 2007. Analysts had expected a reading of 7, according
to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg News survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  