-- GM CEO Sees One of Detroit Three Being Run by ‘Car Gal’
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-25T20:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/gm-ceo-sees-one-of-detroit-three-being-run-by-car-gal-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson predicted a woman will eventually run one of
the three largest U.S.-based automakers, while stopping short of
specifying when.  “The Detroit Three are all run by non-car guys,” Akerson
said today in Detroit at a conference hosted by Inforum, a
women’s leadership advocacy group. “Someday, there will be a
Detroit Three that’s run by a car gal. I actually believe
that.”  GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC have never had a
female CEO. Akerson, Ford’s  Alan Mulally  and Chrysler’s  Sergio Marchionne  all have engineering or financial backgrounds. Mary Barra, a veteran of GM and the automaker’s first female chief
product officer, is considered a potential successor to Akerson.  After a $50 billion U.S. government bailout in 2009, GM has
earned about  $22 billion  over the past three years and is
drawing praise from longtime critics including  Consumer Reports 
for making some of its best cars ever. That’s making it easier
for the largest U.S. automaker to hire talented executives,
including women, Akerson said.  “If I were a young woman, 20 years ago, I don’t know if
I’d have come to work here,” he said.  Barra, 51, was promoted to head of product development in
early 2011, less than six months after Akerson, 64, became CEO.
She is responsible for the design and quality of all GM cars and
trucks.  “There are an unbelievable number of talented women in
automotive, certainly at General Motors,” Akerson told
reporters, while declining to predict the timing of a Detroit
Three company naming a woman CEO. “It’s inevitable; it’s going
to come to pass.”  GM fell 0.7 percent to $37.18 at the close in  New York . The
shares have surged 29 percent this year, compared with a 19
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  