-- Goldcorp Hiring for Headquarters After Rivals Make Cuts
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-25T16:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/goldcorp-hiring-for-headquarters-after-rivals-make-cuts.html
Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s largest
gold producer by market value, is hiring workers for its
corporate headquarters even after its biggest rivals fired staff
as the metal slipped into a  bear market .  Now is a good time to be recruiting, Chief Executive
Officer Chuck Jeannes said in an interview yesterday in Denver.
Goldcorp requires extra headcount at its Vancouver base because
it’s building three mines, he said.  Goldcorp’s largest rivals,  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Newmont
Mining Corp. (NEM) , each fired about 30 percent of their corporate
office staff in the second quarter amid industrywide efforts to
become more efficient and improve profitability. Gold has
dropped 20 percent this year and producers have announced at
least $26 billion of writedowns since July.  “There are a lot of folks out there who are either looking
for jobs or who are disenchanted with their current jobs,”
Jeannes said.  Goldcorp, which operates mines in North and South America,
wrote down the value of its assets by $1.96 billion in July and
is slowing some project spending.  Its shares rose 2.9 percent to $26.34 at 12:19 p.m. in  New
York . They have dropped 28 percent this year.  The company is seeking to reduce production costs by $100
an ounce of gold by the beginning of 2015, Jeannes said
yesterday. He’s told mine managers to plan for positive free
 cash flow  in each of the next five years, or else produce a
closure plan for their operations.  New Mines  “If they want a new fleet of trucks or they want to expand
their crusher or do something, they need to pay for it
themselves out of their own cash generation,” Jeannes said.
“It has shocked people into really focusing on producing ounces
that make money.”  Goldcorp is building two mines in  Canada  and one in
 Argentina . While the company continues to evaluate potential
acquisitions, there aren’t many assets available that meet its
requirements, Jeannes said.  “The fact that we are already growing pretty significantly
means that we can be pretty selective and take our time,” he
said. “We haven’t done a deal for several years and we may not
do another one for another couple of years.”  A decline in the value of gold-mining and exploration
companies hasn’t made a big difference to the number of
potential targets because Goldcorp is focused on large deposits
that would have low costs and long lives, he said.  “The drop in the equity market hasn’t changed whether a
project hits those criteria,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  