-- Graphite Enterprise Jumps on Asset Sales, Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-25T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/graphite-enterprise-jumps-on-asset-sales-outlook-london-mover.html
Graphite Enterprise Trust Plc (GPE)  rose
to the highest since 1989 after the private-equity investment
company reported selling more assets in the first half and said
it would benefit from improving investor confidence.  The  shares  climbed 3.5 percent to 530 pence, the highest
price in at least 24 years in  London , taking the gain to 20
percent this year. The stock traded 22 percent below the
company’s net asset value at July 31 of 682.3 pence a share.  Graphite made gains in the first half ended July 31 from
the sale of Dominion Gas, and from Doughty Hanson & Co.’s
disposal of cinema operator Vue Entertainment, the London-based
investor said in a statement today.  “As the improved performance in the past six months
suggests, a more favourable economic environment should prove to
be very positive for the development of the portfolio,”
Graphite said. “We do not believe that the impact of rising
equity markets has yet been fully reflected in our portfolio.”  Outstanding investment commitments more than doubled in the
period, said Graphite. It has more than 500 million pounds ($800
million) of assets, mainly invested in other private-equity
funds. This month it agreed to invest 100 million pounds in a
new Graphite Capital Management LLP fund.  Graphite Enterprise’s single largest underlying investment
is in  Micheldever Group , a U.K. tire retailer and distributor
that accounts for 3.7 percent of its investment portfolio. Other
investments that make up 3 percent or more of the portfolio are
Algeco Scotsman, a U.S. supplier of modular buildings, and Ceva,
a French manufacturer of animal health products.  Graphite has buy recommendations from two analysts who
cover the  investment company  and share their reports with
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  