-- Greenpeace Activists Face 15 Years in Russian Pirate Probe
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-09-25T19:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/greenpeace-activists-face-15-year-term-in-russian-piracy-probe.html
Russia  is holding 30 Greenpeace
activists for questioning in a piracy investigation after
seizing a ship two of them used to scale an  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  rig in
the Arctic to protest the company’s plan to extract oil there.  The 30 environmental activists, who are from 19 countries
including the U.S., face a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison
if found guilty,  Amnesty International  said in a statement
protesting the detentions. Everyone responsible for acts of
piracy will be prosecuted regardless of nationality, Russia’s
top law-enforcement body, the Investigative Committee, said in a
statement on its website.  President  Vladimir Putin  said today that while the
Greenpeace workers “clearly” aren’t pirates, they violated
international law by trying to seize a drilling platform. The
action alarmed Russian officials, who couldn’t be certain who
was trying to board the rig, Putin said at an Arctic energy
conference in Salekhard, the closest town to the Polar Circle.  “Especially against the background of the bloody events
that happened in  Kenya , everything is possible,” Putin said,
referring to an attack by Islamist militants on an upscale mall
in Nairobi that killed at least 61 civilians.  “We didn’t know
who was trying to seize it.”  Russia’s Coast Guard boarded the Arctic Sunrise in
international waters on Sept. 19, a day after the protest, and
towed the vessel to the port of Murmansk yesterday. State-run
Gazprom plans to become the first Russian company to start
producing oil in Arctic waters at the Prirazlomnoye deposit as
soon as this year. Greenpeace activists scaled the same offshore
drilling platform in 2012.  French Bomb  The activists are guilty of at least “aggressive”
behavior, Natural Resources Minister Sergei Donskoi said at the
Salekhard conference. Gazprom may receive additional permits to
drill in the Arctic shelf by the end of 2013 or early 2014,
Donskoi said.  Greenpeace International Executive Director Kumi Naidoo
demanded the release of the campaigners, who were sent today to
various prisons, where they’ll be held for at least 48 hours.  “Our activists are motivated only by a passionate belief
in the need to protect the Arctic from reckless oil drilling and
climate change,” Naidoo said in a statement posted on the
group’s website yesterday.  The captain of Arctic Sunrise, American Peter Wilcox, was
in charge of Greenpeace’s Rainbow Warrior when it was sunk in
Auckland in 1985 by a bomb planted by the French intelligence
service.  A Swiss national is among those detained,  Switzerland ’s
Foreign Ministry said in a statement. The ministry, which is
“closely monitoring” the situation, today asked its Russian
counterparts and Russia’s embassy in Switzerland for
“clarifications concerning this case,” it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Salekhard, Russia at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  