-- Gross Says Investors Shouldn’t Trust Moody’s on U.S. AAA Rating
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-09-25T20:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/gross-says-investors-shouldn-t-trust-moody-s-on-u-s-aaa-rating.html
Investors shouldn’t trust the
opinion of Moody’s Investors Service on the U.S.’s Aaa rating
and should rely instead on the company’s competitors, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co. founder  Bill Gross .  Moody’s and the U.S. Treasury are one “happy family,”
Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said today in a
post on Twitter. “Trust S&P, Fitch & Egan Jones” for credit
ratings, he wrote.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, said Gross was referring to
Moody’s stance on the U.S. debt limit and potential for a
government shutdown.  Moody’s assigns the U.S. a stable Aaa ranking and said
yesterday it expects the debt ceiling to be raised, averting a
default, and for the government to avoid a shutdown. Fitch
Ratings, which has a negative outlook on its AAA grade, has said
its assessment of the country’s credit is taking into account
the political debate over raising the debt ceiling.  Michael Adler, a spokesman for Moody’s, declined to
comment.  Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. rating to AA+ from AAA in
August 2011, a move that reflected the impasse over raising the
debt limit as well as the government’s lack of a plan to rein in
its debt load.  Record Low  While the S&P downgrade didn’t result in investors charging
the U.S. more to borrow, as 10-year  yields  slipped to a record
1.38 percent in July 2012, the move contributed to a global
stock-market rout that erased about $6 trillion in value from
July 26 to Aug. 12, 2011. Yields on Treasuries due in 10 years
have risen to 2.6 percent.  Brandi Hoffine, a Treasury spokeswoman in  Washington ,
couldn’t immediately be reached by telephone for comment.  Egan-Jones Ratings Co. last year cut its credit rating for
the U.S. to AA-.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress that the
extraordinary measures being used to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling “will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17” and that the
department will have about $30 billion to pay obligations.  “Congress has a lot of work to do in a short period of
time and the consequences of their failure are very
substantial,” Lew said Sept. 24 at the Bloomberg Markets 50
Summit in New York.  S&P and Egan-Jones have faced legal action from the U.S.  The Justice Department sued S&P and its parent McGraw Hill
Financial Inc. in February, alleging the world’s largest credit
rater inflated grades on mortgage-backed securities to win
business from Wall Street banks. The New York-based company said
in a Feb. 5 statement that the lawsuit is “meritless” and that
it will defend itself “vigorously.”  Legal Disputes  S&P called the lawsuit “retaliation” for the ratings
company’s downgrade of U.S. creditworthiness, according to a
court filing earlier this month. S&P had maintained an AAA
rating on the U.S. for 60 years.  Egan-Jones Ratings was barred from grading government debt
and asset-backed securities for 18 months after settling claims
it made material misstatements to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is Moody’s biggest
 shareholder  with an 11.3 percent stake valued about $1 billion.
Buffett told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in 2010
that Moody’s sales are unaffected by investors’ opinions about
ratings, calling the business a “natural duopoly.”  Buffett lent his appeal to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign and the president named a tax-increase
proposal after him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  