-- Guccione Collector Sues FriendFinder in Penthouse IP Row
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/guccione-collector-sues-friendfinder-in-penthouse-ip-row.html
FriendFinder Networks Inc. (FFNTQ) , the
bankrupt owner of  Penthouse  magazine, was sued by a company that
has gathered movies, photos and other works created by the
publication’s founder, the late Bob Guccione, over ownership
rights of the artwork and property.  Guccione Collection LLC filed a lawsuit yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware , seeking a ruling that
the posting and sale of the works online doesn’t violate
FriendFinder’s intellectual property rights.  Guccione Collection, headed by Jeremy Frommer, a financier
and Wall Street veteran of more than two decades, was sent a
notice demanding that it take down the material, according to
the complaint.  The Penthouse publisher “cannot demonstrate that they own
any intellectual property rights covering assets owned by GC,”
Guccione Collection said in the complaint. “Assets offered for
sale by GC belonged personally to Mr. Guccione and were never
owned by Penthouse.”  FriendFinder had no immediate comment, said Thom Weidlich,
a spokesman for the  Boca Raton , Florida-based company, in an e-mail.  Guccione died in October 2010.  FriendFinder, the operator of thousands of adult-oriented
websites including adultfriendfinder.com, sought bankruptcy
protection Sept. 17, listing assets of $465.3 million and debt
of $661.9 million.  8,000 Websites  The company has more than 8,000 websites spanning more than
200 countries with more than 220 million members and over
750,000 paying subscribers, according to court papers. The
websites offer social-networking and adult dating, video-sharing
and live interactive video entertainment.  In addition to publishing Penthouse magazine, the company
licenses the brand for content such as pay-per-view programming.  The curator of Guccione’s lubricious collection contends
that it suffered damages both monetarily and to its reputation
when its website was taken down the same day as the bankruptcy
filing by its hosting service, which took about five hours to be
restored, following FriendFinder’s demands.  Frommer, interested in all things related to Guccione and
Penthouse, has spent more than a year building the Guccione
Collection.  Merely Speculative  “I am a buyer of any and all Penthouse assets,” Frommer
said yesterday in a phone interview. While he is interested in
the Penthouse magazine, any offer to buy the business is merely
speculative at the moment, he said.  “To make any offer I would need to do proper due
diligence,” Frommer said. FriendFinder would need to do an
analysis and review of its assets value to determine whether
Penthouse is a core asset, he said.  Frommer declined to speculate on Penthouse’s value saying
it would be “inappropriate to make my proposals in the press,”
and until he understands the financials better.  While both companies seek to sate lascivious desires,
FriendFinder’s business model differs greatly from that of
Penthouse, leading Frommer to believe that management would be
open to “discuss value with a potential buyer of non-core
assets.”  ‘Guccione Legacy’  Frommer said he wants to see “the Guccione legacy endure”
and return Penthouse to its roots in the 1980s, when it was the
top men’s magazine in the U.S. and sold 4 million to 5 million
issues domestically a month.  The magazine has been deteriorating for the more than five
years and “unless they have a turnaround plan for Penthouse, it
would be a shame” not to entertain discussions with a potential
buyer, Frommer said. He said he and his associates have the
“wherewithal” to make an offer.  Frommer would be open to forming a joint venture or some
sort of partnership if FriendFinder isn’t inclined to sell
Penthouse outright.  “The fact is I am reaching out to them in a friendly way
to discuss rebuilding an asset that was important to so many
fans, including myself, that has dwindled down” to an almost
forgotten periodical.  Frommer worked in the merger arbitrage field on  Wall Street 
for more than two decades and was chief executive officer of
Carlin Financial Group, overseeing its sale to Royal Bank of
 Canada .  Storage Locker  In February 2012The  New Jersey  entrepreneur began
collecting Guccione’s personal memorabilia, which had been
strewn about the country after being used to help satisfy some
of his creditors. At an auction in Englewood, New Jersey,
Frommer acquired a storage locker that contained erotic photos,
artwork, films, magazines and documents, according to court
papers. Frommer tracked more down in  Arizona  that belonged to a
creditor and bought those items last November.  “Filthy Gorgeous,” a film about the life of Bob Guccione,
who died at 79 from cancer, will air in November, Frommer said.
They are working on a line of women’s lingerie called “Guccione
Girls” and are in talks with a “major auction house” to sell
some of the collections key items including some of Guccione’s
earliest oil paintings, his personal camera, and assets related
to his film “Caligula.”  Born in  Brooklyn ,  New York , in 1930, Guccione started
Penthouse in the mid-1960s. The magazine achieved prominence and
infamy in the 1980s, displaying nude photographs of stars such
as singer Madonna and Vanessa Williams, the first black woman
crowned Miss America, who lost her title over the photos.  Battling Playboy  By the 1980s, Guccione had created a $300 million media
business, and Penthouse battled Playboy with more-explicit
photographs. It had a circulation of 4.7 million,  according to 
the New York Times.  FriendFinder sought  bankruptcy protection  seeking to
quickly execute a creditor-supported restructuring that would
turn the company over to noteholders.  Under the restructuring deal, Second-lien noteholders, with
about $320.3 million in 11.5 percent non-cash paying notes and
about $10.6 million in 14 percent cash-paying notes, would
exchange debt for all of reorganized FriendFinder’s equity,
court papers show. Current shareholders are slated to receive
nothing.  The 14 percent senior secured first-lien noteholders, owed
about $234.3 million, would get cash and new notes. The deal is
supported by holders of more than 80 percent of the company’s
notes.  The restructuring would shed about $300 million in debt and
cut annual interest expenses by about $50 million, according to
a company statement.  The lead case is In re PMGI Holdings Inc., 13-bk-12404,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington). The
lawsuit is In re Guccione Collection LLC v. FriendFinder
Networks Inc., 13-52259, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  