-- Guinness Toast Pits Diageo Against Medics in Irish Beer Row
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-09-26T14:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/guinness-toast-pits-diageo-against-medics-as-irish-pubs-struggle.html
More than two centuries after his
death, Arthur Guinness is dividing the Irish.  At 17:59 p.m. today, drinkers will raise a toast to the
18th century brewer, who invented the iconic stout in Dublin.
 Diageo Plc (DGE) , which owns the brand, says  Arthur’s Day  is a
celebration that supports Irish bars struggling after the worst
recession in the nation’s modern history. Opponents led by
medics and musicians say the event encourages binge drinking and
disorder in a country beset by alcohol abuse.  “Their mindset is entirely noble in the sense that they’re
trying to maximize profits for their shareholders,” said Frank
Murray, head of the alcohol policy group at the  Royal College of
Physicians of Ireland  in Dublin. “But the downstream effects of
excess alcohol consumption are huge.”  While the event may help Diageo boost falling Guinness
sales in Ireland, it’s spurred debate about alcohol in a country
home to some of the world’s most voracious drinkers, with the
argument dominating radio airwaves and newspapers this week.  The average Irish adult consumed about 11.9 liters of pure
alcohol in 2010, almost 40 percent more than in the U.S.,
according to the latest data from the  World Health Organization ,
and Guinness is still the nation’s favorite stout.  “It’s great to have an extra boost in terms of sales,”
said James Hardy, 37, whose family has owned Neary’s pub on
Chatham Street in Dublin’s city center since the 1950s. “It’s
like an extra weekend day.”  Manic Street  Diageo came up with Arthur’s Day four years ago to
celebrate the beer’s 250th birthday. The time, 17:59, refers to
the year the Guinness brewery was founded.  It has since morphed into a nationwide festival every
September. The London-based company is staging 500 concerts as
part of the event, with bands including Manic Street Preachers
and the Script turning up at bars.  Arthur’s Day is a “unique music festival,” according to
 Peter O’Brien , a spokesman for Diageo.  The day draws tipplers who now prefer to drink at home back
to bars, the company has said. Irish pubs are laden with 2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) of debt, after bar sales fell by 25
percent since 2005,  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  said last month.  Yet this year, the campaign against Arthur’s Day is gaining
momentum. In 2012, emergency ambulance calls in Dublin rose by
30 percent from the prior week amid the revelry, the Irish Times
newspaper reported.  Sodom City  Emergency consultant Stephen Cusack in Cork  described  the
streets of the city on Arthur’s Day last year as being akin to
the “last days of Sodom and Gomorrah.”  Consumers in Ireland spent about  6.4 billion euros  on
alcohol last year, the most since 2008, according the  Central
Statistics Office . Drink-related problems, including suicide,
crime and road accidents, cost Ireland about 3.7 billion euros,
according to a 2010 report from the government’s health agency.  “We have a discussion in Ireland that’s in a lot of
countries about the use and abuse of alcohol,” said Ireland’s
Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  in an interview at
Bloomberg’s  New York  headquarters today. “It’s about getting
that balance right.”  Gilmore said Diageo’s approach is “relatively light-hearted.” Artists playing at Arthur’s Day gigs will tell
customers to drink responsibly and Diageo is encouraging pubs to
give out free water, O’Brien said.  Drink Aware  The firm also funds  www.drinkaware.ie , a website founded by
distillers that gives advice on how to drink responsibly. Topics
on the site include “pacing your drinking,” “booze and sun
holidays -- what you need to know,” and “the morning after --
time is the only cure.”  While some drinkers may overindulge, at Neary’s people
enjoy the day sensibly, said Hardy, whose pub opened in 1853.  “Our customers embrace the occasion responsibly,” said
Hardy. “People will come in here, have a good time for a few
hours and at 5:59 they’ll raise a glass to Arthur Guinness.”  The  Waterboys,  whose song “Fisherman’s Blues” reached No.
3 on U.S. rock charts in 1989, released three songs to protest
the event as a “phoney national holiday.”  “We’ll leave the streets in tatters on Arthur’s Day,
because drink is all that matters on Arthur’s Day,” Mike Scott,
the group’s front man, sings on “A Song for Arthur’s Day.”
“We’ll raise a glass, fall on our ass, and never give a damn or
half a bother that we’re all just fodder for an advertising scam
on Arthur’s Day.”  Brand Loyalty  While the company has also established a fund in Guinness’s
name to invest in projects designed to “make Ireland a better
society,” the event is also about building loyalty, Diageo
spokesman O’Brien said.  Though Diageo says Guinness is the top-selling stout in the
world, sales were little changed for the year ended June 2013.
Irish sales fell 5 percent, outpacing a 3 percent drop in
western  Europe .  “It’s just another way of Guinness building its consumer
base,” O’Brien said. “It’s a massively important part of the
Diageo portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  