-- Gunvor Bids Urals Blend; Zawiya Port Ships First Crude Cargo
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   L a u r a   H u r s t
-- 2013-09-25T16:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/gunvor-bids-urals-blend-zawiya-port-ships-first-crude-cargo.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  withdrew its offer for
 North Sea  Forties crude after selling two cargoes yesterday.
Gunvor Group failed to buy Russian Urals blend at a lower price
than the previous session.  Libya ’s Zawiya port exported its first crude cargo this
month yesterday after flows were restored from oilfields that
supply the terminal.  North Sea  Eni withdrew an offer for Forties for loading Oct. 10 to
Oct. 12 at 5 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, according to
a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window. The Italian company sold two cargoes yesterday
at discounts of 15 and 35 cents.  Brent for November settlement traded at $109.57 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $107.90 from the previous session. The December
contract was at $108.59, a discount of 98 cents to November.  Hyundai Oilbank Co. bought from  BP Plc (BP/)  2 million barrels of
Forties for November loading, according to four people with
knowledge of matter.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc sold one very large crude carrier of
the crude to GS Caltex Corp. for mid-October loading, according
to five people who participate in the market.  Supertanker Marbat left Forties loading terminal Hound
Point this morning for Yangpu,  China , in the first shipment to
 Asia  since June 11.  Forties sulfur de-escalator for October was kept at 30
cents a barrel, unchanged from this month, Platts said in a
statement on its website.  Urals/Mediterranean  Gunvor failed to buy 100,000 metric tons of Urals for Oct.
11 to Oct. 15 loading at $1.80 a barrel less than Dated Brent on
a delivered basis to Rotterdam, according to the survey. The
grade was sold yesterday at a discount of $1.40.  OAO Lukoil was unable to sell 80,000 tons of the crude for
Oct. 5 to Oct. 9 at 60 cents less than Dated Brent delivered to
Augusta,  Italy , 20 cents more than its offer yesterday,
according to the survey.  Eni didn’t find buyers for 85,000 tons of CPC blend for
Oct. 8 to Oct. 12 loading at a premium of 90 cents to Dated
Brent, the survey showed.  Libya shipped a 700,000-barrel cargo from the terminal
yesterday, Mansur Abdullah, the oil movement coordinator at the
Zawiya refinery, said by phone today. The consignment is
destined for Repsol SA in  Spain . A second vessel is loading
800,000 barrels, he said. The port had stopped exporting since
Aug. 29, even though it was open for operation.  Algeria ’s Sonatrach increased its official selling price
for benchmark Saharan Blend for loading in October to $2 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, from a premium of $1.05 for this
month, according to an e-mailed price list from the company.  OAO Surgutneftegas issued a tender to sell two Urals
cargoes of 100,000 tons each for loading from the  Baltic Sea ,
according to four people who received the document. One lot is
for loading Oct. 7 to Oct. 8 from Ust-Luga, and the other for
Oct. 8 to Oct. 9 from Primorsk. The tender closes tomorrow.  West Africa  Taiwan’s CPC Corp. bought 1 million barrels of Nigerian
Antan crude from China International United Petroleum & Chemical
Corp., known as Unipec, for loading in November via a tender,
said two traders who participate in the market. It is unclear
whether the company has bought any other grades, they said.  Bharat Petroleum Corp. purchased 1 million barrels each of
 Nigeria ’s Qua Iboe and Azerbaijan’s Azeri Light for loading in
November via a tender, said four traders who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  The refiner bought Qua Iboe from Exxon Mobil Corp., three
of the traders said. The Azeri cargo was bought from the State
Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan , known as Socar, one of them said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  