-- Libor-Euribor Settlements Don’t Need All Firms, Almunia Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-09-25T16:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/libor-euribor-settlements-don-t-need-all-firms-almunia-says.html
European Union antitrust
settlements with companies such as those probed for manipulation
of Libor and Euribor lending rates don’t need to include all
companies involved, the bloc’s competition chief said today.  While EU settlements are normally concluded with all
parties at the same time, a company may ultimately opt out of
that process, EU Antitrust Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in
Washington today.  “Let me stress that if a company ultimately decides not to
join the others in a global settlement, it will continue to be
investigated under normal proceedings,” he said. “We have
already done this in the past.”  Regulators across the world are seeking to restore trust in
rates undermined by evidence of endemic rigging of benchmarks
including Libor, the London Interbank Offered Rate. In parallel,
the EU published this month plans to toughen regulation of
benchmarks underpinning more than 1,000 trillion euros ($1,350
trillion) of financial contracts ranging from oil and sugar to
mortgages and foreign-exchange swaps.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  are among banks and brokerages that have been
quizzed by the EU in a probe about manipulation of lending rates
that may have helped them and others generate profits from
derivatives trades.  “We believe that traders of interest-rate derivatives
colluded to manipulate the Euribor and Libor rates of the banks
to influence them and obtain a benefit in their own trading
positions,” Almunia said.  “There are prospects for a settlement with the parties
involved by the end of the year,” Almunia said.  Under the EU settlement procedure, a party must acknowledge
liability for the infringement and receives a 10 percent
reduction of the fine imposed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  