-- Libya’s Zawiya Oil Port Exports First Crude Cargo in September
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2013-09-25T14:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/libya-s-zawiya-oil-port-exports-first-crude-cargo-in-september.html
Libya’s Zawiya port exported its
first crude cargo this month after flows were restored from
oilfields that supply the terminal.  The nation, which canceled deliveries from several other
ports because of protests by guards, shipped a 700,000-barrel
cargo from the terminal yesterday, Mansur Abdullah, the oil
movement coordinator at the  Zawiya refinery , said by phone
today. The shipment is destined for Repsol SA in Spain. A second
vessel is loading 800,000 barrels, he said. The port had stopped
exporting since Aug. 29, even though it was open for operation.  The oil industry in the North African nation, one of 12
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
has seized up amid protests by oil facility guards, with
production plunging to 575,000 barrels a day last month, from
1.13 million in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
During the unrest Libya declared force majeure at as many as six
ports and terminals.  The country’s two most important ports, Es Sider and Ras
Lanuf, remained closed today, as were Hariga and Zueitina,
according to Ibrahim Al Awami, Director of Inspection and
Measurement at Libya’s oil ministry. The terminals and offshore
loading platforms of Zawiya, Brega, Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri
are open and operating, Awami said.  Force majeure is a legal clause excusing a company from
meeting its commitments because of events beyond its control.  Separately, Libya’s state-run National Oil Corp. met with
U.K. energy company executives yesterday in Tripoli to assure
them that security is being stepped up at energy facilities, NOC
said in a statement on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Sami in Tripoli at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net ;
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  