-- Michelin Picks 138 New York Restaurants Offering Value
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-09-25T15:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/michelin-picks-138-new-york-restaurants-offering-value.html
Michelin named a record 138
restaurants in  New York City  that offer value for money, serving
two courses and a glass of wine for $40 or less, plus tax and
service.  New recipients of the Bib Gourmand include ABC Cocina,
Bunker, Cata, Ciccio,  Dear Bushwick ,  Il Poeta , John Brown
Smokehouse, J. Restaurant Chez Asta, Mamak House, Mayfield,
Mexicana Mama, Mexicosina, Murray’s Cheese Bar, Northeast
Kingdom, Porsena, Prospect, Runner & Stone, Seersucker, Tang,
Tertulia and Xixa.  The results were announced by Michelin today in an e-mailed
release.  Jean-Georges  Vongerichten, who holds three Michelin stars
at Jean Georges, opened ABC Cocina earlier this year, serving
dishes such as sweet pea empanadas and green chili yogurt; and
peekytoe crab with corn fritters and chipotle mayo.  Dear Bushwick in  Brooklyn  describes itself as an English
country kitchen, with the slogan, “The Pork Chop Is Back.” J.
Restaurant Chez Asta is one of only four establishments in
Harlem to make the list.  Michelin publishes the Bib Gourmand results one week ahead
of its  New York  City Guide, which names the winners of stars. In
the 2014 edition, 138 New York City restaurants, which include a
diverse range of 31 cuisines across the five boroughs, have been
designated as Bib Gourmands, compared with 126 last year.  Michelin & Cie (ML) ,  Europe ’s largest tiremaker, produced its
first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until 1920 and was
intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  The recommendations include:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Martin Gayford on art and Scott
Reyburn on auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 