-- Miliband Says He’d Target Builders to Tackle Housing Gap
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r
-- 2013-09-25T12:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/miliband-says-he-d-target-builders-to-tackle-housing-gap.html
U.K. local authorities would be
able to force builders to sell them land that’s not developed
within a certain time frame if the opposition  Labour Party  wins
the 2015 election, party leader  Ed Miliband  said.  Miliband said developers that hold land approved for
building in the expectation that it will gain in value, a
practice known as land banking, could face forced sales to local
government councils to address the U.K.’s housing shortage.  “You can’t just sit on land and refuse to build,”
Miliband said yesterday at his party’s conference in Brighton,
 England . “We will give them a very clear message: either use
the land or lose the land. That is what the next Labour
government will do.”  U.K. home building has fallen behind government forecasts,
stoking price jumps in areas such as London where demand is
highest. Councils are targeting 170,000 new homes a year, a
shortfall of 51,000 a year below forecasts for a decade,
according to a June report by BNP Paribas SA. Labour would set a
target of 200,000 homes a year, Miliband said yesterday.  Developers “will not get near the 200,000 homes Labour is
promising” unless councils release more land for development
and the planning system is improved, said Stewart Baseley,
executive chairman of the Home Builders Federation.  Homebuilders have 200,000 plots of undeveloped land, well
under the three or four years supply the industry needs, Baseley
said by e-mail, citing a Local Government Association report.  Forcing companies to build on undeveloped land would result
in 30,000 more homes built in  London , Steve Bullock, Labour
Mayor of the London borough of Lewisham, said in a speech at the
conference.  “It’s frankly unacceptable that developers are hoarding
land which could be used to build much needed homes for
Londoners,” he said.  U.K. homebuilders have profited as land bought cheaply
after the financial crisis widened margins and the government
stepped up efforts to help homebuyers. The Bloomberg U.K.
HomeBuilder Index has surged more than 39 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  