-- Hillary Clinton Plans Global Review of Women’s Rights
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-09-25T16:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/hillary-clinton-plans-global-review-of-women-s-rights.html
  Hillary Clinton  plans to lead a
review of progress made on issues affecting women and girls
since a 1995 Beijing conference on women’s rights.  Clinton, who as first lady led the U.S. delegation to the
United Nations conference and made headlines with her speech to
the gathering, plans to couple her assessment with initiatives
to promote women in business, technology, and agriculture in the
developing world.  “It’s time for a full and clear-eyed look at how far we
have come, how far we still have to go and what we plan to do
together about the unfinished business of the 21th century the
full and equal participation of women,” the former secretary of
state said today at the  Clinton Global Initiative ’s annual
conference in New York.  The two-year campaign is timed to conclude on the 20th
anniversary of the Beijing conference, where Clinton’s
declaration that “women’s rights are human rights” helped give
the push for gender equality a worldwide profile.  Since leaving the Obama administration in February, Clinton
has used her status as the former top U.S. diplomat, U.S.
senator from New York and first lady as leverage for
philanthropic work through the rechristened Bill, Hillary and
Chelsea Clinton Foundation, the non-profit organization set up
by her husband after he left the White House in 2001. She also
is drawing interest from Democratic Party leaders as a potential
presidential candidate in 2016.  Corporate Partners  Clinton, 65, is enlisting corporate partners in her effort,
soliciting contributions from companies including Google Inc.,
Exxon Mobile Corp.,  Marriott International (MAR)  Inc.,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   She said her goals for the project are bringing Internet
access to 5 million African women, creating a pipeline of 2,000
female technology employees in developing countries, and
providing supplies and mentorship for 15,000 female
entrepreneurs in new markets.  “This is such a perfect example of CGI networking,”
Clinton told the audience of business executives, foundation
heads, and former Clinton administration officials. “Leveraging
social capital and real capital. It’s a great combination.”  Clinton hasn’t said whether she would undertake another
campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. She was
defeated in the 2008 primaries by President  Barack Obama .  Favored Candidate  Clinton would start as the leading contender if she decides
to run. A poll conducted by CNN/ORC International on Sept. 6-8
showed that 65 percent of Democrats and independents said they
would back her as their presidential nominee. Vice President  Joe Biden  comes in second, at 10 percent.  Clinton says she is enjoying her time outside of the
spotlight and a chance to spend more time with her husband,
former president  Bill Clinton . Neither one of them, she said,
has decided what will come next.  “I don’t think even he is, you know, focused on that right
now,” she said of Clinton, in an interview with New York
Magazine published this week. “Right now, we’re trying to just
have the best time we can have doin’ what we’re doin’.”  Backers already have created a fundraising apparatus, the
Ready for Hillary super-political action committee. The group is
building a database of supporters and donors, lining up
endorsements and signing experienced campaign hands. It also
raised $1.25 million through the end of June, the majority of it
in just one month.  Raising Money  Clinton also is keeping a presence in Democratic campaign
circles. She’s hosting two fundraisers on behalf of Virginia
Democratic gubernatorial candidate  Terry McAuliffe , a long-time
friend of the Clinton family. And she’s given paid and free
speeches across the country.  Earlier this month, she broke with some in her party to
endorse President Barack Obama’s effort to win congressional
backing for a military strike in Syria.  More than 1,000 business, government, and philanthropic
leaders descended on New York for the Clinton Global Initiative,
an annual meeting hosted by the Clinton family foundation.
Participants included  Lloyd Blankfein , head of the  Goldman Sachs
Group (GS) , Inc.,  John Chambers , CEO of  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the
former head of Microsoft Corp.,  Bill Gates , Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan, and rock star, Bono.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  