-- Linc Energy in Shale Talks With Oil Services Company in U.S.
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-09-25T06:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/linc-energy-in-shale-talks-with-oil-services-company-in-u-s-1-.html
Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) , seeking a shale
exploration partner in central  Australia , is in talks with two
groups, including a U.S. oil services company, that are
interested in helping to develop its prospects.  The company expects to start a five-well drilling program
at the shale oil properties in South Australia’s Arckaringa
Basin in February at an initial cost of A$15 million ($14
million), Peter Bond, chief executive officer of Brisbane-based
Linc, said today in a phone interview.  Linc is moving ahead with the drilling plans “on the basis
that one of the groups will commit between now and early next
year to go in with us on that program,” Bond said. “It makes
sense to get on with the drilling.”  The company, which hired Barclays Plc to help find a shale
oil partner, said earlier this year that it had been contacted
by companies from  North America  to India interested in funding
the development.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
Statoil ASA are among global energy companies that have made
shale investments so far in Australia.  Shares of Linc rose 9.2 percent in Sydney to A$1.55, the
most in two months, valuing the company at A$804 million. That
compared with a 0.8 percent gain for the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Bond said in January he expected to reach an agreement
about mid-year to sell as much as half of the shale oil project
and that drilling may start by the end of the year. Linc is
seeking a partner to contribute as much as A$300 million to fund
the exploration, Bond said in March.  The drilling plans are taking priority over the
negotiations, Bond said today. Along with the shale services
company, Linc is in discussions with a second group comprising a
couple of overseas energy investment companies that are
potentially interested in acquiring a stake in the project, he
said, declining to comment further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  