-- Iranians Lament Rebuff of First U.S. Handshake Since 1979
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-09-25T14:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/iranians-lament-rebuff-of-first-u-s-handshake-since-1979.html
“Maybe Another Time,” read the
front page of a Tehran-based newspaper after Iranian President
Hassan Rohani and U.S. President  Barack Obama  failed to meet at
the United Nations in New York.  The story in  Shargh , the most popular pro-Rohani newspaper,
followed a decision by Iranian officials that the time wasn’t
yet right for a handshake between the two leaders. The Iranians
cited domestic political considerations, a U.S. official told
reporters yesterday.  The article expressed hope that a meeting between the two
presidents may “finally happen” at a later date.  “I know maybe it’s not possible that they shake hands, but
I was disappointed that the two presidents didn’t even pass by
each other in a corridor, or even smile at each other,” said
Mostafa, 48, a mustachioed bank teller sitting is his booth at a
government-owned lender in Tehran’s affluent northwest. Like
many Iranians, he asked only to be identified by his first name
for security reasons.  Expectations are high among Rohani’s electorate that he’ll
improve fractious relations with Western governments and bring
relief to an economy crippled by international sanctions. The
Iranian rial, which lost more than half its value in the year
before Rohani’s June election, has gained about 20 percent since
June 13.  Iranian Handshake  “I watched Rohani’s speech live and felt proud when he
said  Iran  didn’t want tension with the U.S.,” said Esmaeil
Nourizi, a balding 65-year-old with a car dealership in downtown
Tehran. “Iran’s economic prosperity is in Zarif and Rohani’s
hands,” he said as he drank tea, expressing the hope that U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry and Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Zarif would shake hands at a meeting tomorrow.  Shiva, a 40-year-old lawyer wearing a black scarf as she
hurried with an armful of files to her office in northwestern
Tehran, said she had “expected a milder tone from Rohani. In
the first few minutes I was worried that he might repeat
Ahmadinejad’s tone. To be honest, President Obama's speech was 
more positive and hopeful for us.”  The U.S. saw an opportunity with Rohani because the
administration viewed his promises to improve an economy hobbled
by U.S.-led sanctions as an opening for a softer foreign policy
stance, according to an administration official, who asked for
anonymity to discuss the negotiations.  New Ties  Rohani said in an interview with  CNN  last night that while
“we didn’t have sufficient time” to coordinate a meeting with
Obama, he and the Iranian people are committed to forging new
ties with the U.S. Any encounter between Rohani and Obama would
have been the first between leaders of the two nations since the
1979 Islamic revolution.  Rohani, who took office in August, said in his address to
the General Assembly that Iran is ready to engage in “result-oriented” talks on the nuclear program while offering no
concessions. He called Iran’s goals peaceful and said nuclear
weapons have no place in his country’s doctrine.  Ahmad, a 33-year-old mechanic, said that the Obama
administration had seemingly also heard the comments of Supreme
Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who in a speech this month called
for “heroic flexibility” in dealing with Western nations
including the U.S. Khamenei is the highest authority in the
Islamic Republic and the ultimate decision maker on Iran’s
foreign and nuclear policy.  ‘Heroic Leniency’  “I can see heroic leniency in both sides’ behavior,” said
Ahmad, whose father was killed in the eight-year war against
 Iraq  that ended in 1988.  “It’s good to see that a cleric as president is respected
on the international scene,” said Ahmad, who lives in Tehran.
“It doesn’t matter if they didn’t shake hands. What matters is
that the world believes we are not a hostile nation and our
leaders are experienced diplomats who can negotiate
peacefully.”  The conservative  Kayhan  newspaper offered some of the most
downbeat coverage today out of Tehran-based dailies, referring
to Obama’s UN address as a “grand bluff.”  The headline highlights the belief of some of Rohani’s
opponents who are not keen for a rapprochement with the U.S.,
which they consider untrustworthy.  Rohani’s political opponents at home are generally silent
for the time being, Sadegh Zibakalam, a political science
professor at Tehran University, was quoted as saying in today’s
edition of Shargh, citing Khamenei’s apparent backing of the
president as a reason.  “At the same time they are convinced that Rohani’s efforts
won’t yield results,” Zibakalam wrote. “Hardline conservatives
believe the U.S. is by nature Iran’s enemy and will agree to
nothing less than the destruction of this regime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  