-- Iran’s Rebuff of Obama Handshake Shows Tough Task Ahead
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/iran-s-rebuff-of-obama-handshake-shows-tough-task-ahead.html
President  Barack Obama ’s attempt at
direct engagement with Iran’s new president was rebuffed at the
 United Nations  yesterday in a sign of the difficulty he’ll have
in putting the U.S. relationship with the Persian Gulf nation on
new footing.  On the same day that Obama told world leaders in  New York 
that he welcomed overtures from Iranian President Hassan Rohani
and the prospect of resolving a decades-long confrontation,
Iranian officials told their U.S. counterparts that the time
wasn’t yet right for even a handshake between the two leaders.  “We are encouraged that President Rohani received from the
Iranian people a mandate to pursue a more moderate course,”
Obama told world leaders gathered for the annual General
Assembly meeting. “The roadblocks may prove to be too great,
but I firmly believe the diplomatic path must be tested.”  Obama used his address to define a broad U.S. role in the
rapid changes taking place in the  Middle East , a region that
accounts for about a third of the world’s oil supply and is at
the center of some of world’s most stubborn conflicts.  He argued that his administration has pursued a purposeful
engagement in Middle Eastern conflicts and vowed that the U.S.
will use all means necessary, including military force, to
protect its “core interests” in the region, which include
making sure that the global economy isn’t destabilized by a
disruption in crude supplies.  In his own address to the General Assembly, Rohani, 64,
said his nation is ready to engage in “result-oriented” talks
on the nuclear program while offering no concessions. He called
Iran’s goals peaceful and said nuclear weapons have no place in
his country’s doctrine.  Private Negotiations  Behind the scenes, U.S. and Iranian officials were talking
as the Obama administration made clear it was open to some
informal encounter between Obama and Rohani when both were at
the UN. While the U.S. didn’t plan for any official meeting or
talks, Obama’s aides told the Iranians the two could have a
discussion on the side if the opportunity presented itself, an
administration official told reporters.  Any presidential encounter, even a greeting or handshake,
would have been the first exchange between leaders of the two
nations since the 1979 Islamic revolution, during which the U.S.
embassy in Tehran was stormed and 52 Americans inside were held
hostage for 444 days  The U.S. saw an opportunity with Rohani because the
administration viewed his promises to the Iranian public to
improve an economy hobbled by U.S.-led sanctions as an opening
for a softer foreign policy stance, according to the official,
who asked for anonymity to discuss the negotiations.  Iranian Politics  The Iranians said no. The U.S. official said they made it
clear that domestic politics made such a step too complicated.  Rohani said last night during an interview on CNN that “we
didn’t have sufficient time” to coordinate a meeting with
Obama. Still, he said, the Iranian people are committed to
forging new ties with the U.S.  Rohani is constrained by deep suspicion of the U.S. in
 Iran ’s power circles, according to Haleh Esfandiari, the 
director of the Middle East Program at Woodrow Wilson 
International Center for Scholars in  Washington .  “If he would have now met with Obama or shook hands with
him, the perception in Iran would have been among his enemies
that he is just selling out,” Esfandiari said. “They are
watching over him in Tehran and probably it wouldn’t have gone
down well among some of the revolutionary guards and even maybe
the supreme leader and the right-wing press.”  Warning U.S.  Obama, 52, also faces pressure to avoid acting too quickly
to reach out to Iran, which has the world’s fourth-largest
proven  oil  reserves.  Israeli President  Benjamin Netanyahu , who is scheduled to
meet with Obama at the White House on Sept. 30, warned Obama not
to fall into a diplomatic trap.  “We will not be fooled by half measures that merely
provide a smokescreen for Iran’s continual pursuit of nuclear
weapons,” he said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The chairman of the House Foreign Affairs, Republican
Representative Ed Royce of  California , said in a statement that
the U.S. should keep pressing Iran “through crippling economic
sanctions.”  In his address, Obama said he’s directing Secretary of
State  John Kerry  to meet with his Iranian counterpart as part of
talks over  Iran’s nuclear program  along with the other four
permanent members of the Security Council, plus  Germany .  Oil Prices  Speculation about a thaw in U.S.-Iran relations helped push
oil prices lower. West Texas Intermediate crude for November
delivery declined 46 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $103.13 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
July 30.  While the president has said previously he wants to shift
U.S. foreign-policy attention toward  Asia , his UN address
demonstrated how much the Middle East continues to dominate the
agenda. He cited three areas of focus for U.S. diplomacy in the
near term: Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons, the Arab-Israeli
conflict and the civil war in  Syria .  The president challenged the world body to hold Syria’s
regime accountable for promises to surrender its chemical
weapons and warned that failure to achieve a political
settlement that removes Bashar al-Assad from power risks wider
violence and a bigger foothold for extremists.  He repeated the U.S. argument that there can be no doubt
that Assad’s forces were behind a chemical attack against regime
opponents outside Damascus that killed 1,429 people. While Assad
has agreed under pressure to turn over Syria’s chemical weapons,
Obama said a political solution that removes him from office
must be the ultimate result.  ‘Strong’ Resolution  “There must be a strong  Security Council  resolution to
verify that the Assad regime is keeping its commitments, and
there must be consequences if they fail to do so,” he said.
“If we cannot agree even on this, then it will show that the UN
is incapable of enforcing the most basic of international
laws.”  The president said the U.S. would give $340 million in
additional humanitarian aid to Syria and other countries
impacted by the civil war, bringing the U.S. total to almost
$1.4 billion.  Obama said the U.S. must continue playing a major role in
the world, even as its military begins standing down from more
than a decade at war. He said what makes the U.S. exceptional is
that its willing to stand up “for the interests of all.”  “I believe America must remain engaged for our own
security,” he said. “But I also believe the world is better
for it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in New York at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in New York at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  