-- Iron Ore Seen Supported by Morgan Stanley as Citi Is Bearish
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-25T13:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/iron-ore-seen-supported-by-morgan-stanley-as-citigroup-bearish.html
Iron ore will be supported through
the final quarter and into the first half of next year as a
global surplus emerges only later in 2014, Morgan Stanley said
in a forecast that contrasts with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s outlook.  Prices may average $125 a metric ton in the final three
months of 2013 and $120 in the first quarter, Morgan Stanley
analysts Joel Crane and  Peter Richardson  said in a report today.
The steelmaking raw material will average $117 in 2014 and $114
in 2015, they said, describing the base-case price forecasts as
above consensus.  The largest commodity cargo after oil entered a  bull market 
in July as users in  China  replenished stockpiles that shrank in
March to the lowest level since 2009. Citigroup said this week
that it’s bearish in the short term, forecasting prices at $115
in three months on an expected surge in seaborne supply.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, said today
that rising supplies will weigh on commodity prices.  “We forecast the market to remain undersupplied the first
half of 2014 before shifting toward a modest oversupply in the
second half,” Richardson and Crane said. “Until that imbalance
arrives, the underlying commodity price will continue to carry a
premium to reflect supply tightness.”  Iron ore  with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin rose 0.8 percent to $133.80 a dry ton today,
according to The Steel Index Ltd. Prices have rallied 21 percent
from this year’s low on May 31 and averaged $132.48 since July
1.  Capacity Expansions  The global seaborne market is seen shifting to a surplus
next year as producers from BHP and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  to Vale SA
deliver capacity expansions to meet Chinese demand. The surplus
will reach 82 million tons in 2014 and expand through 2017,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in July.  “The iron ore market has been far more robust for longer
than we, and we suspect many others in the market, had
expected,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts including  Michael Lewis 
wrote in a report today, raising the fourth-quarter forecast 4.2
percent to $125. The outlook for next year was cut 4.3 percent
to $110 as the market shifts to surplus, Deutsche Bank said.  Morgan Stanley forecast a deficit of 72 million tons this
half, narrowing to 26 million tons in the first six months of
next year and moving to 48 million ton surplus in the second
half, according to the report. The increase in global supply
will be driven by bigger mines in  Australia , with Rio set to
overtake Vale as the world’s top shipper, it said.  More Cargoes  Citigroup said it’s bearish over three months as Rio, BHP
and Perth-based  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  boost exports in the
final quarter, while the resolution of logistical blockages in
 Brazil  allows more cargoes. At the same time, import demand may
soften, Citigroup said in reports on Sept. 23 and yesterday.  Increased supply has “exerted downward pressure on many
commodity markets more recently and we expect this trend to
continue over the short term,” BHP Chairman Jac Nasser said in
the Melbourne-based company’s annual report today.  Rio expanded its Australian operations to 290 million tons
of annual capacity, and is studying a further increase to 360
million tons. Fortescue Metals says it’s on track to boost
capacity to 155 million tons by the end of the year.  Stockpiles in China came to 69.8 million tons in the week
to Sept. 20, down from a seven-month high in the period ended
Aug. 30, according to Beijing Antaike Information Development.
Inventories are still 26 percent below a year earlier.  Iron ore  can be measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port, moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the weight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  