-- Italy Consumer Confidence Rose to Two-Year September High
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-09-25T11:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/italy-consumer-confidence-rose-to-two-year-september-high.html
Italian  consumer confidence 
increased more than economists forecast in September to the
highest in two years amid optimism that the  economy  is emerging
from recession.  The  confidence index  rose to 101.1 from a revised 98.4 in
August, the Italian statistics office Istat said in Rome today.
That was the highest since June 2011. The  median estimate  of 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a reading of 98.5.
 Istat  questioned 2,000 Italians in the first half of this month.  “The survey shows some improvement in the current climate
and economic situation, probably supported by less restrictive
fiscal conditions,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at
Newedge Group in  London , said in an e-mailed note to investors.
“Italian households remain cautious on future developments,
well aware that the political situation remains at risk.”  Italy ’s  unemployment  rate fell for a second month in July
to 12 percent, signaling companies may be less reluctant to hire
as the longest recession since World War II eases. Prime
Minister Enrico Letta’s government last month canceled
controversial property-tax payments on primary residences due
this year, possibly boosting consumers’ outlook.  Fragile Coalition  Letta’s coalition is fraying amid the legal troubles of his
ally, former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. His Democratic
Party is seeking to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat due to
the former premier’s tax fraud conviction. Berlusconi’s People
of Liberty party has threatened to topple the government if he
is expelled.  Gauges of Italians’ sentiment about the current economic
situation and their employment expectations rose, today’s report
showed. Istat initially reported the August consumer confidence
index at 98.3.  “Consumption is certainly going better than before,” Lars
Petersson, chief executive officer of Ikea Italy, told  Francine Lacqua  and Guy Johnson on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
today. “Seeing consumer confidence going up, we hope that that
will be translated also into consumption.”  While the economy of the 17-nation euro region returned to
growth in the second quarter, Italy’s shrank 0.3 percent as
unemployment restrained consumer demand. The government
forecasts the economy will resume growth next quarter and
continue to expand in 2014, Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni
said Sept. 8.  Letta, speaking with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker 
in an interview yesterday, reiterated his promise to ensure
Italy remains within the European Union’s budget-deficit limit
of 3 percent of gross domestic product this year. He said he’ll
achieve the goal through fiscal adjustments and cuts in
spending. He declined to say whether he’ll stop a value-added
tax rise planned for Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  