-- Lithuania Makes LNG Terminal Priority in Battle for Cheaper Gas
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-25T14:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lithuania-makes-lng-terminal-priority-in-battle-for-cheaper-gas.html
Lithuania ’s completion of a new
liquefied natural-gas terminal is its top priority in a struggle
to escape “unfair” pricing by its sole supplier,  Russia ’s  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius said.  Work on the terminal at the Baltic port of Klaipeda, which
slowed earlier this year due to legal challenges by companies
involved in tenders, is now proceeding apace, Butkevicius said.
Financing is also assured with an 87 million euro ($117 million)
loan that state-run terminal operator Klaipedos Nafta got from
the  European Investment Bank  in July, he said. The EIB valued
the project at 180 million euros.  “Given the importance it will play in gas supply
diversification, we have to complete it by the end of 2014 at
any price,” Butkevicius said in an interview today in the
Lithuanian capital, Vilnius.  Gas prices that are at least a quarter more than other
European buyers pay Gazprom are holding back Lithuania’s
economy, which uses the fuel intensely for power generation,
heat, and manufacturing, the prime minister said. While the
European Union wants to see an LNG terminal built in the Baltic
region to boost  energy security , Lithuania is worried it may
take too long and end up elsewhere, so it is building its own.  Klaipedos Nafta agreed last year to lease a floating LNG
terminal from  Norway ’s Hoegh LNG for a decade. Parliament this
week decided to probe whether it’s paying a reasonable price.  Competitive Drag  The higher gas prices and trade curbs imposed by Russia on
its EU neighbor prompted Butkevicius to accuse Moscow last week
of waging what “could almost be considered a sort of economic
war.” Gazprom has said it’s acting within a contract that is
valid through 2015.  “We’re talking about our competitiveness,” Butkevicius
said today. “How can you compete when your businesses face so
much higher production costs?”  President Dalia Grybauskaite urged the government last week
to speed up construction of the terminal due to an absence of
signs that talks with Gazprom may lead to a price cut. The
president has also recommended continuing a lawsuit that the
previous government filed against Gazprom in a Stockholm
arbitration court last year. The suit seeks 5 billion litai ($2
billion) for unjustifiably high past gas prices.  Butkevicius, who said he still hopes for an agreement with
Gazprom, is also looking beyond the LNG project to a proposed
new gas pipeline linking Lithuania with  Poland  that would boost
access to alternative suppliers.  “We see big support for this project from the European
Commission, which could finance up to 85 percent of the cost,”
he said. “It would end the isolation of the Baltic states and
 Finland  from the rest of the EU gas market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  