-- J.C. Penney Plummets as Goldman Raises Liquidity Concerns
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-09-25T20:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/j-c-penney-plummets-as-goldman-raises-liquidity-concerns.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the retailer
trying to reverse $1.6 billion of losses in the past year, sank
the most in almost seven months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said its liquidity will be strained this quarter.  The shares  fell  15 percent to $10.12 at the close in New
York for the biggest one-day since Feb. 28, the day the
department-store chain reported the lowest annual sales since at
least 1987.  “Weak fundamentals, inventory rebuilding, and an
underperforming home department will likely challenge J.C.
Penney’s liquidity levels in the third quarter,” Kristen McDuffy, at New York-based analyst for Goldman, wrote yesterday
in a note to clients. “In order to safeguard against a
potentially poor fourth-quarter holiday season, it is likely
that management will look to build a bigger liquidity buffer.”  McDuffy initiated J.C. Penney’s debt at an underperform
rating.  Since taking over in a second stint as chief executive
officer in April, Mike Ullman has borrowed money to shore up the
finances, and re-introduced discounts and brought back
merchandise to help recover from his predecessor’s failed
attempt to transform the company. The retailer has taken out a
$2.25 billion loan, arranged by Goldman, and drawn down $850
million from its credit revolver.  Cheap Financing  The chain is in talks to raise more cash, people familiar
with knowledge of the matter said Sept. 20. J.C. Penney doesn’t
have immediate cash needs and is exploring fundraising amid
shareholder pressure to take advantage of cheap financing, said
the people, who asked not to be named as the deliberations are
private.  Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, declined to
comment in an e-mail on whether the Plano, Texas-based company
was seeking ways to raise more cash.  “The stock movement is suggesting that negotiations for
the capital raise are serious,” said  Paul Swinand , an analyst
for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  Another report from Cleveland Research said the third
quarter looks “more difficult than initially expected.” The
return to more promotions doesn’t appear to be generating better
sales or store visits, the firm said.  Charles Grom , an analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
New York, countered those concerns in a note he wrote to clients
after meeting with Ullman, the chain’s chief executive. Ullman
said sales during the back-to-school shopping period showed
“good progress” and that merchandise brought in to replace
what former CEO  Ron Johnson  added is selling, Grom said in
describing Ullman’s comments.  Liquidity Forecast  J.C. Penney management also said it would end the year with
$1.5 billion in liquidity, including $1.2 billion in cash and
$300 million available in its revolver, said Grom, who
recommends buying J.C. Penney shares. That mirrors what Chief
Financial Officer Ken Hannah said last month when the chain
reported second-quarter results.  Contracts protecting against losses on J.C. Penney’s debt
for five years increased 3.3 percentage points to 22.4 percent
upfront as of 1:30 p.m., according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s in
addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $2.24
million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of J.C. Penney’s debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Glenview, Soros  Hedge funds Glenview Capital Management LLC and Hayman
Capital Management LP reported increased stakes in J.C. Penney
this month, betting on a revival. The retailer’s sales decline
slowed last quarter to 12 percent from 23 percent in the same
period a year earlier.  Before today, J.C. Penney’s stock had declined 40 percent
this year, compared with a 19 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  