-- Jain Says Deutsche Bank’s Debt-Trading Revenue Falls
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-09-25T16:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/jain-says-deutsche-bank-s-debt-trading-revenue-falls.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain said third-quarter revenue from trading debt
probably slumped at  Germany ’s largest bank.  “We currently anticipate debt sales and trading revenues
in the third quarter to decline significantly from last year,”
Jain, 50, told investors at a conference in  London  today.
“Market activity was substantially lower which has affected our
corporate banking and securities revenues.”  Investment banks have seen a slowdown in debt trading, a
key portion of their earnings, amid questions about the  Federal
Reserve ’s plans to taper economic stimulus. Jain also cited
weaker customer activity, less market volatility and the bank’s
own efforts to lower risk at its fixed-income business as
contributors to the revenue decline.  Jain, who spoke at an event organized by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , said revenue in the third quarter of 2012 reflected
“very active markets” following the  European Central Bank ’s
pledge to fight the sovereign debt crisis by buying the bonds of
states that sign up to reforms.  Deutsche Bank,  Europe ’s biggest investment bank by revenue,
fell 2.6 percent to 34.56 euros in Frankfurt today. The shares
have gained 4.9 percent this year.  Quantitative Easing  The Frankfurt-based lender relied on its trading and
investment banking arm, known as corporate banking and
securities, for 46 percent of its 33.7 billion euros ($46
billion) of revenue last year, according to company filings.
Sales and trading of debt and other products accounted for 59
percent of the unit’s total, the filings show.  Deutsche Bank’s third-quarter revenue from trading fixed
income, currencies and commodities will probably show a decline
of 31 percent from a year earlier, London-based analysts at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  wrote in a note to clients this week. They
have an overweight recommendation on shares.  Fed officials have been debating when to slow their $85
billion-a-month pace of bond buying, known as quantitative
easing, as the economy recovers and low  interest rates  prompt
investors to take more risk. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict the central bank to begin tapering asset purchases in
December after the Fed decided last week to maintain the pace.  Litigations  Jain said the equity sales and trading business continued
to perform well in the quarter, while its retail banking,
transaction banking and asset management divisions are “in line
with our expectations.” Deutsche Bank is scheduled to publish
 earnings  for the third quarter on Oct. 29.  The bank will set aside more cash for litigation, he said,
following a 25 percent increase in reserves for legal expenses
to 3 billion euros in the second quarter from the previous
three-month period. The bank also plans to cut an annual 4.5
billion euros in costs by 2015 and shrink assets by about 16
percent to meet stricter capital rules.  Jain and co-CEO Juergen Fitschen, 65, are spending money
defending and settling court cases and regulatory probes that
stretch from the U.S. housing market to allegations traders at
the company sought to rig interbank lending rates.  “We are watching some of our peers do settlements and
drawing our own inferences,” Jain said. “In terms of what
we’re dealing with, that picture hasn’t changed materially for
quite a long time now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  