-- JPMorgan Fines Could Halt Stock Buybacks, Portales Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/jpmorgan-share-buyback-plan-may-be-halted-analyst-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $6 billion
share-repurchase program could be halted as fines and penalties
imposed on the bank grow, Charles Peabody, an analyst at
Portales Partners LLC, wrote in a research note yesterday.  Peabody cut his 2013 earnings estimate 12.5 percent to
$4.90 a share, citing regulatory fines levied on the company and
“material control and procedure violations that the bank must
remediate,” according to the note.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, won conditional
approval of its buyback and dividend plan in March from the
Federal Reserve, which required the company to “address
weaknesses” in its planning process and threatened to modify
the payouts if needed. Since then, “there have been a myriad of
additional regulatory violations that could lead to significant
new levels of litigation costs,” Peabody wrote.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for the New York-based bank,
declined to comment.  The company last week agreed to pay about $1.3 billion to
resolve investigations into last year’s trading loss and to
settle unrelated claims that it unfairly charged customers for
credit-monitoring products.  The lender is trying to negotiate another deal this week,
this time with federal and state officials to pay about $11
billion to close several probes of its mortgage-bond sales
practices, a person familiar with the matter said yesterday. The
final amount could change, two people briefed on the
negotiations said.  Stock Impact  “Both the materiality of the potential litigation charges
and the potential suspension of the share repurchase program
could have a significant impact on JPM’s share price,” Peabody
wrote, referring to the bank by its stock-market ticker symbol.
Earnings estimates “could fall materially,” he added.  JPMorgan suspended a $15 billion buyback plan last year to
boost its capital levels after a bad bet on credit derivatives
in  London  that ultimately cost the firm more than $6.2 billion.
The bank repurchased roughly $4 billion of the $15 billion
originally approved by the Fed for 2012.  The lender overcame last year’s trading loss and earned a
record $21.3 billion. The average  estimate  of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is $23.4 billion in 2013.  JPMorgan agreed last week to pay $920 million to four
regulators in the U.S. and U.K. and admitted it violated
securities laws in last year’s trading debacle. Regulators said
top managers engaged in a “pattern of misconduct” by
maintaining poor internal controls, failing to keep their board
informed and allegedly misleading regulators.  Inquiries Continue  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which fined
the JPMorgan $200 million, said its investigation remains open.
The bank said last week that it received notice from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission that its staff intends to
recommend enforcement action. Prosecutors in  Manhattan  are
continuing their probe after two of JPMorgan’s former London-based traders were indicted on charges including conspiracy and
wire fraud.  The firm is facing an investigation of its hiring practices
in Asia and a criminal inquiry into its energy trading business,
among other issues.  “Both the qualitative and quantitative issues argue for a
suspension of JPM’s current $6B share repurchase program,”
Peabody wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  