-- JPMorgan Talks, BofA Race Bias, Libor Suit: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/jpmorgan-talks-bofa-race-bias-libor-suit-compliance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  resumed
settlement talks with the U.S. as the government was preparing
to sue the bank in  California  alleging it misrepresented the
quality of mortgage-backed securities sold from 2005 to 2007,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The government informed JPMorgan it was ready to file a
complaint yesterday in Sacramento, the person said. Shortly
after, talks between the bank and Justice Department officials
over a possible settlement restarted, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  JPMorgan wanted to negotiate an accord resolving mortgage-bond investigations being conducted by federal and state
authorities, including probes by the U.S. attorneys in
Sacramento, Philadelphia and Washington, according to another
person briefed on the effort.  The bank also tried to settle a $6 billion claim by the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  and an investigation by  New York 
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who sued the company in
October over mortgage bonds packaged by Bear Stearns Cos., which
JPMorgan acquired in 2008, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  The FHFA sued the bank and 17 other lenders two years ago
over faulty mortgage bonds.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on settlement negotiations. Adora Andy
Jenkins, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, and
Peter Garuccio, a spokesman for FHFA, also declined to comment.  Compliance Action  BofA Told to Pay $2.2 Million in Race Bias Case Spanning Decades  Bank of America Corp.  was ordered to pay $2.2 million to
black job applicants who were unfairly rejected for teller and
clerical positions in a case spanning almost two decades,
according to the U.S. Department of Labor.  An administrative judge told the bank to pay $964,000 to
more than 1,000 applicants from 1993 and $1.22 million to 113
people who were rejected from 2002 to 2005, the regulator said
yesterday in a statement. The lender also was ordered to make
job offers to 10 people. The firm settled separate claims of
racial and gender bias at its Merrill Lynch unit in the past
month.  The Labor Department complaint stems from a routine review
of hiring practices at an office in the firm’s hometown of
Charlotte,  North Carolina , according to the statement. After
talks broke down, the government filed an administrative
complaint in 1997, asserting the federally insured bank was
subject to laws covering U.S. contractors, the agency said. The
firm challenged that authority, according to the statement.  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
said it’s examining the recommended decision and order.  “Diversity and inclusion are part of our culture and core
company values,” said Christopher Feeney, a company spokesman.
“We actively promote an environment where all employees have
the opportunity to succeed.”  Courts  JPMorgan Chase Said to Be Sued Over Libor With 12 Other Banks  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and 10 other international lenders were sued by a U.S. credit
union regulator alleging they illegally manipulated benchmark
Libor  interest rates .  The  National Credit Union Administration , an Alexandria,
Virginia-based regulator, said it sued the banks Sept. 23 at a
U.S. court in  Kansas . The filing couldn’t immediately be
confirmed in court records.  Their alleged manipulation “resulted in a loss of income
from investments and other assets held by five failed corporate
 credit unions : U.S. Central, WesCorp, Members United, Southwest
and Constitution,” according to an NCUA statement.  The banks are accused of giving false information in
response to a daily survey by the  British Bankers’ Association ,
which asks lenders how much it would cost to borrow money from
each other for various intervals in 10 different currencies.  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is a key metric
to set interest rates for trillions of dollars in financial
instruments.  The misinformation allowed them to “benefit their
investments that were tied to Libor, to reduce their borrowing
costs, to deceive the marketplace as to the true state of their
creditworthiness, and to deprive investors of the interest rate
payments to which they were entitled,” according to the NCUA.  Kerrie Ann Cohen, a New York-based spokeswoman for
Barclays, declined to comment on the allegations.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
and Drew Benson, a spokesman for Credit Suisse, also declined to
comment.  The case is National Credit Union Administration Board v.
Credit Suisse Group AG, U.S. District Court, District of Kansas.  Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Has Assets Frozen in Insider Case  A judge in Manhattan yesterday froze the Florida home and
other assets of former SAC Capital Advisors LP manager Mathew
Martoma, who is charged in a $276 million insider trading case.  The U.S. claims the assets, including Martoma’s $1.9
million Boca Raton home and more than $4 million in accounts
held by Martoma and his wife, were derived from the alleged
crime. The government is seeking forfeiture if Martoma is
convicted.  Prosecutors and lawyers representing Martoma agreed to the
order, which bars him from transferring the property while the
case against him goes forward.  The U.S. claims Martoma used inside information from two
doctors who were involved in the clinical trial of the
Alzheimer’s disease drug bapineuzumab, or “bapi,” to trade in
shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth on behalf of SAC, the hedge fund
company founded by  Steven A. Cohen . The government has called it
the biggest criminal insider-trading case against an individual
in history.  Martoma was paid a $9.3 million bonus tied to the illegal
trades, prosecutors claim. SAC, based in Stamford, Connecticut,
was indicted in July, partly because of Martoma’s alleged
illegal trading.  Martoma has pleaded not guilty. His trial is scheduled to
begin Nov. 4. It may be delayed at his lawyer’s request and to
accommodate court schedules.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bank of New York Mellon Wins Case Over Interest Deductions  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  is entitled to deduct
interest on a loan linked to a transaction with a British bank
that generated disallowed tax credits, a U.S. Tax Court judge
ruled.  The loan “served a purpose beyond the creation of the tax
benefits,” Judge Diane Kroupa wrote in an opinion released
Sept. 23.  Kroupa’s decision grew out of her ruling earlier this year
that  BNY Mellon  couldn’t claim $199 million of tax credits and
related expense deductions for 2001 and 2002 from a series of
transactions with London-based  Barclays Plc (BCS)  because they had no
economic substance.  BNY Mellon didn’t challenge Kroupa’s ruling on the tax
credits and instead argued that since she ruled that the loan
proceeds could be used by the bank for business purposes,
interest on them is deductible. Kroupa agreed with that
analysis. The ruling didn’t indicate the amount of interest at
stake.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for BNY Mellon, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The  case  is Bank of New York Mellon Corp. v. IRS, 09-26683,
U.S. Tax Court (Washington).  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s White Says Jury ‘Still Out’ on High-Speed Trading  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo
White talked about market regulations, banking rules and high-frequency trading.  In a wide-ranging discussion, White talked about
acknowledgments of wrongdoing in SEC settlements, as well as
rule-making topics such as crowd-funding, which she described as
a “very high priority,” adding that she hopes to get those
rules done this year.  White also vowed the agency would eventually adopt a June 5
proposal to add new restrictions to money-market mutual funds.  She spoke with  Peter Cook  at the Bloomberg Link Markets 50
Summit in New York.  For the video, click here.  U.S. Bank Agency Invites Foreign Regulators to Review Its Work  The regulator of U.S. national banks is inviting overseas
counterparts to find flaws in its practices that may have caused
the agency to miss early signs of the coming financial crisis
more than five years ago.  Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said he has asked
regulators from Australia, Singapore and Canada to review his
agency’s bank supervision methods even as the OCC conducts its
own performance evaluation.  Curry made the comments in remarks prepared for delivery at
an American Banker regulatory conference this week in Arlington,
Virginia.  The OCC was among regulators criticized by lawmakers for
missing early evidence that the financial system was under
threat before the crisis, as well as for overlooking initial
signs of money-laundering violations at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
trades at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We’ll be looking at everything from agency culture to our
approach to risk identification,” Curry said in his remarks,
“and we’ll be looking for gaps in the system that might have
led us to miss problems in the past.”  Australia, Singapore and Canada were selected as countries
that weathered the 2008 global credit crisis well, Curry said.
They will conduct “an independent peer review of the process we
use for the supervision of large banks and thrifts” -- an
evaluation he said could be “frankly painful” for those at the
OCC, Curry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  