-- Kaupthing Rejects Krona Asset Writedowns Sought by Government
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-09-25T07:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kaupthing-rejects-krona-asset-writedowns-sought-by-government.html
The caretakers of  Kaupthing Bank hf 
won’t ask creditors in the failed lender to accept writedowns on
their krona-denominated claims, a step the government says is
necessary to end the island’s  capital controls .  “The winding up committee is obliged by law to preserve
the value of Kaupthing’s assets,” Johannes Runar Johannsson, a
member of Kaupthing’s winding-up committee, said in an interview
last week in London. “It’s therefore difficult, or even
impossible, to see how the winding-up committee could make such
a recommendation, given its legal duties.”  Kaupthing collapsed in October 2008 after running out of
cash to sustain its debt-funded expansion. The island’s
financial meltdown that month plunged the economy into its worst
crisis in six decades, forcing the government to impose currency
restrictions and seek an international bailout.  Offshore creditors holding about $8 billion have been
trapped by the krona restrictions as policy makers struggle to
scale back the measures without triggering a currency selloff.
Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson has said he wants
writedowns on $3.8 billion in krona-denominated claims held by
the creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir Bank hf and  Landsbanki
Islands hf  to help the government ease the capital controls.  “We’re already in a place where we feel that it’s likely
that we’ll be able to lift capital controls in the foreseeable
future,” Gunnlaugsson said in an interview in  London  last week.
“But that’s of course based on the reckoning that those that
have their funds locked behind the capital controls are willing
to assist us.”  Election Pledges  Gunnlaugsson won April elections after pledging to write
down mortgage debt and extract the nation from its krona
restrictions. In May, he said it wouldn’t take “too long” to
complete a plan, which he predicted would be finished this
month.  While administrators of Glitnir and Kaupthing have
expressed interest in completing a creditor settlement with a
composition agreement, they need an exemption to the capital
controls for such an accord to work.  “It’s a precondition to us,” said Johannsson. “If the
winding-up committee doesn’t any longer believe that a
composition agreement is achievable, it’s legally required to
request bankruptcy proceedings.” The committee still hopes to
avoid that outcome, he said.  Gunnlaugsson signaled last week he’s leaving it up to the
creditors to resolve the impasse. Neither the government nor the
central bank is “entering into negotiations with creditors,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  