-- Kenya Attack Stirs Complacency Fear Over Somali Pirates
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-09-26T15:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kenya-attack-stirs-complacency-fear-over-somali-pirates.html
The deadly assault this week in
Nairobi by a militant group from Somalia serves as a reminder of
the threats emanating from the war-torn East African country
that remains a hotbed for pirate attacks on key shipping routes.  The four-day battle in  Kenya ’s Westgate shopping mall with
the Somalia-based Islamist group Al-Shabaab left at least 67
civilians and security personnel dead before Kenyan forces ended
the siege. While Somali piracy has also been curbed by military
intervention and enhanced ship defenses, there’s no evidence
that the supply of would-be raiders has waned in a state ranked
the world’s second-poorest by Central Intelligence Agency.  “We’re in a dangerous phase,” said Philip Holihead, head
of anti-piracy measures at the  International Maritime
Organization . “When there are no attacks people get complacent
because it costs money to secure the ships. But take away any
one part and you hand the power back to pirates.”  Attacks off the Horn of  Africa  in seas vital to ships using
the Suez Canal and Cape of Good Hope peaked in 2011 before
falling 70 percent last year to 62, including 20 successful
hijackings, Oceans Beyond Piracy said in its latest  annual
report . The decline, which has continued this year with only two
Somali hijackings, is the result of $3 billion in annual
spending on shipboard security and navy patrols, a commitment
that’s in doubt amid pressure on company and state budgets.  Shortest Route  About 20 percent of world trade goes through the  Gulf of
Aden  between Yemen and Somalia bound to and from Suez, the
shortest route between the Atlantic and Indian oceans.  Somali President Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud said this month at
the Countering Maritime Piracy congress in Dubai that the causes
of piracy have yet to be removed, with poverty and instability
continuing to breed extremism. Speaking prior to the Nairobi
attack, he said investment equal to just a fraction of the cost
of piracy would help make a major difference.  Attacks began to increase in 2005, with high-profile raids
including one on  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s MV Maersk  Alabama ,
the first U.S.-flagged cargo ship hijacked in 200 years,
according to publicity for a film on the incident starring  Tom Hanks  on general release next month. The actor plays a captain
freed after his captors were shot by Navy SEAL marksmen.  Successful hijackings peaked in 2010, with 44 ransoms paid,
totaling $238 million, according to  Colorado-based OBP . The
international community responded with a show of naval power so
effective that patrols are now able to intercept pirates and
destroy their equipment “almost at the beach,” according to
Jan Fritz Hansen, who chairs the piracy task force at the
 European Community Shipowners’ Association .  Barbed Wire  At the same time, shipping lines have adopted measures that
include faster speeds to prevent boarding and the deployment of
barbed wire, water hoses, lights and lookouts to protect their
vessels and nets that entangle the propellers of pursuing boats.  “We have fought very hard and the situation is currently
under control at sea,” said Hansen. “But on land there are
still poor people and criminals that are tempted by what they
see as golden opportunities sailing by.”  The prosecution of captured pirates has benefited from
international funding, with European Union aid helping to fund
an overhaul of Somalia’s judicial system and prisons.  The net effect has been to impair the ability of pirates to
seize oil, bulk and container craft, reducing them to attacks on
ships such as fishing boats, where rewards are lower, said Cyrus Mody, assistant director at the  International Maritime Bureau ,
the International Chamber of Commerce’s marine crimes division.  Smaller Decline  The cost of dealing with Somali piracy was about $6 billion
in 2012, including $1.1 billion for military operations such as
reconnaissance planes and drones, detachments to guard ships and
the administrative budgets of naval operations. The cost of
private security measures rose to $2.1 billion as more shipping
lines deployed armed personnel.  The price of faster steaming was $1.5 billion, even with
reduced observance of guidelines, while re-routing cost almost
$300 million, danger money paid to seafarers about $500 million
and insurance $550 million, OBP calculates. Ransom payments fell
80 percent to $31.75 million, with the mean amount handed over
about $4 million and hostages held for an average 316 days.  While the cost of Somali piracy declined 13 percent overall
versus 2011, that was a far smaller decline than in the number
of attacks, with the cost per incident jumping almost threefold
to $83 million, prompting OBP to suggest short-term solutions
may no longer be economically efficient.  Atlantic Distraction  With European nations in particular imposing tough
austerity measures to bring down deficits, declining  defense
spending  will inevitably hurt the anti-piracy patrols, said
Andrew Linington, spokesman for the  Nautilus International  trade
union which represents about 23,000 maritime workers.  While naval operations have been effective, there’s also
concern that attacks may pick up with the close of the monsoon
season at the end of this month, when conditions will be better
for pirates to take to the water, Linington said by telephone.  “Somalia still has intense problems,” he said. “It’s
fragile. The problems certainly have potential to reappear.”  Simon Bennett, a director at the International Chamber of
Shipping trade body, which represents companies controlling more
than 80 percent of the world’s merchant tonnage, said a shift of
attention to a growing pirate threat in the Gulf of Guinea off
West Africa risks diverting resources from the  Indian Ocean .  “All of the resources to fuel a resurgence of piracy off
Somalia remain in place,” Bennett said by e-mail, adding that
the group is lobbying politicians to retain military safeguards
and aid efforts ashore while encouraging shipping lines to keep
security measures in place despite the decline in attacks.  Clan Chiefs  Adjoa Anyimadu, an Africa specialist at the Royal Institute
of International Affairs in  London , said that funding mechanisms
which support piracy and process its gains also remain intact.  “People who finance, people who process the ransom and so
on, all these structures are still in place” she said.  Still, Emma Gordon, East Africa analyst at IHS Country
Risk, said a federalization program underway in Somalia has had
more of an impact on piracy than commonly understood, with clan
leaders in the key province of Galmudug successfully coopted.  “What we’ve seen is that the leaders of the pirates are
more interested in becoming leaders of these federal states,”
Gordon said, with this process gradually removing vital funding
for attacks and safe havens in which to hold captured craft.  Mohamad Osman, executive director of the Somaliland Counter
Piracy Coordination Office, isn’t so sure.  “As long as there are Somali males with access to arms and
the existence of unemployment there will always be the threat of
piracy,” he said in an interview at the Dubai conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  