-- Kenyan Attack Death Toll May Rise as Mall Rubble Searched
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-25T16:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kenyan-attack-death-toll-may-rise-as-mall-rubble.html
Kenyan security forces expect to
find the bodies of more gunmen who killed at least 67 civilians
and security personnel and seized an unknown number of hostages
in an attack on the Westgate Mall, the government said.  Kenyan forensic investigators at the scene of the raid are
being assisted by experts from  Israel , the U.S.,  Germany ,  Canada 
and Britain in a probe that’s expected to last at least seven
days, Interior Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku said today. The
investigation will look into reports that planners rented a shop
in the mall before the attack was carried out and that at least
one of the assailants may have been female, he said.  “We are convinced that there will be insignificant if any
bodies holed up there except for the terrorists,” Ole Lenku
told reporters in Nairobi, the capital. Five of as many as 15
gunmen involved in the attack have been confirmed dead, he said.  The death toll from the four-day assault is the worst since
al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi in August
1998, killing 213 people. Al-Shabaab, the Somali-based Islamist
militia that claimed responsibility for the Sept. 21 raid, had
threatened to strike after  Kenya  deployed troops in Somalia in
October 2011 to fight the militants, blaming them for a series
of kidnappings and the murder of a British tourist in Kenya. The
al-Qaeda-affiliated group denied the accusations.  Buried Bodies  Three floors in the building collapsed during the attack,
leaving an unknown number of bodies buried beneath the rubble,
Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said yesterday. Kenyan security
forces used armored vehicles and weapons including heavy machine
guns to end the assault. The Kenya Red Cross said today that 71
people are missing in the attack as of yesterday.  Al-Shabaab claimed on its Twitter account today that Kenyan
forces demolished part of the building and were “culpable” for
the lives of 137 hostages. Interior Ministry Principal Secretary
Mutea Iringo declined to comment when asked about that figure.  There is “increased public anxiety on account of missing
persons, the disruption caused by the continued crisis and
inadequate information flow,” it said. Ole Lenku didn’t say how
many people are still missing.  Kenya’s relative stability in a volatile region has
attracted companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , International
Business Machines Corp., General Electric Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to set up bases in the East African nation. The  United Nations ’
African headquarters are also in Nairobi.  Eurobond Plans  East Africa ’s largest economy will stick to its plan to
seek about $1.5 billion from its debut Eurobond issue by
December and the outlook for economic growth is the same as
before the attack, which is an “isolated” incident, Treasury
Secretary Henry Rotich said yesterday. The state forecasts 5.6
percent expansion in 2013 from 4.6 percent last year.  The  shilling  gained for a second day and has now
strengthened 0.2 percent since the day before the attack to
87.20 per dollar. The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s FTSE NSE 25
Index has gained 0.4 percent over the same period to its highest
level in five weeks.  The attack began around lunchtime on Sept. 21 when as many
as 15 gunmen entered the upscale mall in Nairobi, throwing hand
grenades, firing automatic weapons and forcing panicked patrons
to flee the building or hide inside the more than 80 shops in
the complex. The government said more than 1,000 people were
rescued.  Final Sweep  More gunfire rang out last night and today, which the
government said was the result of security forces firing to
protect themselves as they entered new areas while doing a final
sweep of the building, the  Associated Press  reported.  Investigators are still trying to confirm the nationalities
of the attackers, Ole Lenku said. Kenyan Foreign Secretary Amina Mohamed told PBS’s “NewsHour” on Sept. 23 that two or three
Americans and a female British citizen participated in the
attack. A British national has been arrested in Kenya, according
to a statement e-mailed today by the U.K. Foreign Office.  African leaders remain committed to continue battling al-Shabaab’s forces in Somalia, the African Union’s Peace and
 Security Council  said in a statement on its website today.  The continental body will “continue its efforts in
Somalia, in order to rid the country and the region of terrorist
and criminal groups, and bring about lasting peace, security and
stability in Somalia,” it said.  Ugandan Attack  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006. The militant group claimed responsibility in July
2010 for coordinated bomb attacks in neighboring  Uganda  that
killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two
venues. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because the country
had troops serving in the African Union Mission in Somalia.  Kenyatta yesterday in a nationally televised address
thanked foreign leaders, including U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
for their support during the ordeal and praised Kenyans for
providing help to the victims. Citizens from the U.K.,  India ,
 France , Canada,  South Africa ,  China  and  Ghana  are among the
dead.  “Terrorism is a global problem that requires global
solutions,” said Kenyatta, who lost his nephew in the attack.
“Kenya will stand with our friends in tackling terrorism and I
ask our friends to stand with us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  