-- Kenyan Shilling Strengthens to Erase Loss as Mall Attack Ends
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-09-25T08:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kenyan-shilling-strengthens-to-erase-loss-as-mall-attack-ends.html
The Kenyan shilling gained for a
second day, erasing its loss earlier this week as security
forces in the country ended a four-day siege by al-Qaeda-linked
gunmen at a Nairobi shopping mall.  The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 87.25 per dollar
by 10:56 a.m. in the capital. A close at that level will be the
highest since Aug. 9. The currency traded at 87.35 by the close
on Sept. 20, a day before the start of the attack that left at
least 61 civilians dead at the Westgate Mall.  “The strengthening of the shilling speaks to the
resilience of the economy and to the fact that there is plenty
of appetite for Kenyan assets,”  Aly-Khan Satchu , chief
executive officer of Nairobi-based Rich Management Ltd., an
adviser to companies and high-net-worth people, said by phone.  The shilling may continue to strengthen as the Central Bank
of Kenya auctions as much as 20 billion shillings ($229
million), in 12-year  infrastructure bonds , he said. Sales of
 repurchase agreements  by the bank will also support the currency
in the coming weeks, Satchu said.  The FTSE NSE 25 Kenya Index advanced less than 0.1 percent
to 164.30, halting the biggest two-day decline since Sept. 16.
Safaricom Ltd., the country’s biggest company by market
capitalization, gained 1.8 percent to 8.40 shillings.  Five of the gunmen from al-Shabaab, which claimed
responsibility for the attack, were killed, 11 suspects have
been arrested in connection with the assault, and six Kenyan
security officers died, President Uhuru Kenyatta said in a
national address late yesterday. Three floors of the shopping
mall collapsed, and bodies, including those of some of the
attackers, are trapped under the rubble, he said.  ‘Knee-Jerk’  The shilling weakened 0.2 percent, the biggest drop since
Aug. 12, to 87.55 per dollar on Sept. 23, the third day of the
attack and the first day of trading since it started.  “Initially there was a knee-jerk reaction to Westgate,”
Sheikh Mehran, a senior dealer at Nairobi-based  Kenya  Commercial
Bank Ltd., said by phone. “There is no shilling in the market
right now so it becomes expensive to hold long dollar
positions.”  Al-Shabaab had threatened to strike after Kenya deployed
troops in Somalia in October 2011 to fight the militants, who
have been battling Somalia’s government since at least 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  