-- Kenyan Attack Death Toll May Rise as Mall Rubble Searched
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-26T07:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kenyan-attack-death-toll-may-rise-as-mall-rubble-searched.html
Kenyan security forces expect to
find the bodies of more gunmen responsible for slaying at least
67 people and seizing an unknown number of hostages in an attack
on the Westgate Mall, the government said.  Kenyan forensic investigators at the scene of the raid are
being assisted by experts from  Israel , the U.S., Germany,  Canada 
and Britain in a probe that’s expected to last at least seven
days, Interior Secretary Joseph Ole Lenku said yesterday. The
investigation will look into reports that attackers rented a
shop in the mall before the assault was carried out and that at
least one of the assailants may have been female, he said.  “We are convinced that there will be insignificant if any
bodies holed up there except for the terrorists,” Ole Lenku
told reporters in Nairobi, the capital. Five of as many as 15
gunmen involved in the attack have been confirmed dead, he said.  The death toll from the four-day attack is the worst since
al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi in August
1998, killing 213 people. Al-Shabaab, the Somali-based Islamist
militia that claimed responsibility for the Sept. 21 raid, had
threatened to strike after  Kenya  deployed troops in Somalia in
October 2011 to fight the militants, blaming them for a series
of kidnappings and the murder of a British tourist in Kenya. The
al-Qaeda-affiliated group denied the accusations.  Al-Shabaab leader Ahmed Godane, in an audio message, said
his fighters carried out the mall attack, and warned of “more
bloodshed” unless Kenya withdraws its forces from Somalia,
Xinhua news agency reported today.  Buried Bodies  Three floors in the Nairobi building collapsed during the
attack, leaving an unknown number of bodies buried beneath the
rubble, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta said on Sept. 24. Kenyan
security forces used armored vehicles and weapons including
heavy machine guns to end the assault. The Kenya Red Cross said
today that 71 people were missing in the attack as of yesterday.  Al-Shabaab said on its Twitter account yesterday that
Kenyan forces demolished part of the building and were
“culpable” for the lives of 137 hostages. Interior Ministry
Principal Secretary Mutea Iringo declined to comment when asked
about that figure.  There is “increased public anxiety on account of missing
persons, the disruption caused by the continued crisis and
inadequate information flow,” it said. Ole Lenku didn’t say how
many people are still missing.  Relative Stability  Kenya’s relative stability in a volatile region has
attracted companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , International
Business Machines Corp., General Electric Corp. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
to set up bases in the East African nation. The  United Nations ’
African headquarters are also in Nairobi.  The attack may curb government revenue and is credit
negative, Moody’s Investors Service said in a Credit Outlook
report today. The biggest impact on the country’s economic
growth will be on its  tourism industry , which accounts for 12.5
percent of gross domestic product, it said.  The  shilling  advanced for a third day, strengthening 0.1
percent to 87.11 per dollar and heading for its strongest close
since July 19. The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s FTSE NSE 25
Index gained 1 percent to 166.32.  The attack began around lunchtime on Sept. 21 when as many
as 15 gunmen entered the upscale mall in Nairobi, throwing hand
grenades, firing automatic weapons and forcing panicked patrons
to flee the building or hide inside the more than 80 shops in
the complex. The government said more than 1,000 people were
rescued.  Final Sweep  More gunfire rang out yesterday, which the government said
was the result of security forces firing to protect themselves
as they entered new areas while doing a final sweep of the
building, the  Associated Press  reported.  Investigators are still trying to confirm the nationalities
of the attackers, Ole Lenku said. Kenyan Foreign Secretary Amina Mohamed told PBS’s “NewsHour” on Sept. 23 that two or three
Americans and a female British citizen participated in the
attack. A British national has been arrested in Kenya, according
to a statement e-mailed today by the U.K. Foreign Office.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said yesterday that
investigators haven’t confirmed claims that Americans
participated in the attack. “At this point, we don’t have any
verification that any Americans have been involved in the attack
as attackers,” he told reporters in  Washington .  Citizens from the U.K.,  India ,  France , Canada,  South
Africa ,  China  and  Ghana  are among the dead.  Fighting Al-Shabaab  African leaders remain committed to continue battling al-Shabaab’s forces in Somalia, the African Union’s Peace and
 Security Council  said in a statement on its website.  The continental body will “continue its efforts in
Somalia, in order to rid the country and the region of terrorist
and criminal groups, and bring about lasting peace, security and
stability in Somalia,” it said.  Al-Shabaab has been fighting Somalia’s government since at
least 2006. The militant group claimed responsibility in July
2010 for coordinated bomb attacks in neighboring  Uganda  that
killed 76 people watching the soccer  World Cup  final at two
venues. Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because the country
had troops serving in the African Union Mission in Somalia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  