-- Kerry Signs Arms Treaty Opposed by Majority in Senate
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-25T16:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kerry-signs-arms-treaty-opposed-by-majority-in-senate.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
today signed the first  international treaty  regulating the $85
billion-a-year global arms trade, an agreement that a majority
in the  U.S. Senate  is on record as opposing.  After backing the treaty in talks at the  United Nations ,
President  Barack Obama ’s administration was conspicuous in its
absence in June when the U.K., France and other Western allies
signed the accord.  Kerry said at the time that the U.S. planned to sign the
treaty, which seeks to stop cross-border shipments of
conventional weapons -- from small arms and missile launchers to
tanks, warships and attack helicopters -- that could enable  war
crimes , terrorism or human rights violations.  “This treaty is about keeping weapons out of the hands of
terrorists and rogue actors,” Kerry said at a UN  signing
ceremony  today in  New York . “This treaty strengthens our
security, builds global security without undermining the
legitimate international trade in conventional arms which allows
each country to provide for its own defense.”  It was adopted by the UN General Assembly in April on a
154-3 tally, with only Iran, Syria and North Korea voting no.
Twenty-three countries abstained.  The accord confronts opposition in the U.S. Senate and has
dim prospects for ratification there. In March, senators voted
53-46 for a  symbolic  measure opposing U.S. participation in the
treaty. A two-thirds Senate majority is needed for ratification.  NRA Opposition  While the administration says the treaty wouldn’t affect
U.S. domestic sales or impinge on the constitutional right to
bear arms, the  National Rifle Association , which says it has
more than 4.5 million members, has lobbied against it.  The signing “is a direct dismissal of the bipartisan
Senate majority that rejects this treaty,” Kansas Republican
Senator Jerry Moran said today in a statement.  Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker , the top Republican on the
Foreign Relations Committee, released a letter to Obama today
warning the administration against taking steps to implement the
treaty without Senate action.  After years of stalled discussions about a multilateral
arms sales agreement, it wasn’t until Obama took office in 2009
that the U.S. reversed long-standing opposition to a treaty.  Kerry’s signing provides a symbolic seal of approval. U.S.
law already incorporates many of the restrictions the accord
seeks to encourage worldwide.  Mass Atrocities  In a  letter  to Obama last month, the leaders of 33 human
rights, development, security and religious groups said that
signing the accord “would be a powerful step” demonstrating
the U.S. “commitment to preventing mass atrocities and
protecting civilians from armed conflict around the globe.”  The groups included  Amnesty International , the Arms Control
Association, the Episcopal Church, Genocide Watch,  Human Rights
Watch , the National Association of Evangelicals, Oxfam America,
the United Methodist Church, U.S. Conference of Catholic
Bishops.  The U.S. is the 91st country to sign and four countries
have ratified the treaty, which goes into force after
ratification by 50 countries, the State Department said today in
a fact sheet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  