-- Kiwi Slides as Trade Deficit Widens, Fonterra Earnings Decline
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-09-25T06:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/kiwi-slides-as-trade-deficit-widens-fonterra-earnings-decline.html
New Zealand’s dollar slid against
all of its 16 major counterparts, extending yesterday’s biggest
decline this month against the greenback, after a government
report showed the country’s trade deficit unexpectedly widened.  The kiwi dropped to its lowest in a week against the U.S.
dollar, retreating from a four-month high reached on Sept. 19,
after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, said earnings shrank.
 Australia ’s dollar sank for a second day against most major
peers as the central bank said a weaker currency should support
exporters. The Aussie and kiwi fell yesterday as the risk of a
U.S. government shutdown cut demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The kiwi’s had a good run and in these uncertainties
there’s the possibility that you’re going to see people looking
to take some profit off the table,” said Chris Weston, the
chief market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “A lot
of these commodity currencies are perhaps a touch overbought.”  The New Zealand dollar slid 0.7 percent to 82.26 U.S. cents
as of 4:45 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it tumbled 1.1
percent. It earlier touched 82.22 cents, the lowest since Sept.
18. Australia’s dollar retreated 0.3 percent to 93.59 U.S. cents
after falling 0.4 percent yesterday.  So far this quarter, the kiwi is up 6.5 percent against the
greenback, the most among major currencies. The Aussie has
gained 2.6 percent.  Trade Deficit  The  trade deficit  in New Zealand widened to NZ$1.2 billion
($981 million) in August, the biggest shortfall in five years,
official figures showed today. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a NZ$700 million deficit.
 Exports (NZMTEXP)  fell to the lowest since September 2012 as dairy
shipments declined 1.8 percent from a year earlier.  Fonterra said full-year earnings dropped after a drought
curbed milk production. The results don’t capture the potential
impact of the contaminated milk scare that erupted in early
August, before tests showed that safety fears were unfounded.
The company has booked a NZ$14 million provision so far, it said
on a conference call after the earnings release.  Fonterra is “very comfortable” with the New Zealand
dollar at current levels, Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings
said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.  The kiwi has gained 4.1 percent in the past month, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Aussie is the second best
performer with a 2.2 percent advance.  Kiwi Retreat  New Zealand’s dollar fell from a four-month high of 84.36
U.S. cents last week after its 14-day relative strength index
rose above 75, a level that some traders see as a sign an asset
has risen too much, too fast and may be due to reverse course.  “If you’re looking across the risk spectrum, the kiwi is
probably still the one you want to be leveraged to,” said IG’s
Weston. “We sit in a currency world where people are trying to
play divergencies in the central banks. They’re going to be the
first to put rates up.”  Traders see an 80 percent chance the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand will raise borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5 percent
by April next year,  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They see a 55 percent probability the Reserve
Bank of Australia will lower its cash target rate from a record
low of 2.5 percent in the same period.  Benchmark 10-year Australian government bond  yields  fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.88 percent,
after earlier touching 3.85 percent, the lowest since Aug. 28.  Linker Sale  The Australian government started selling inflation-linked
securities due in 22 years, seeking to extend the maturity of
its debt, the Australian Office of Financial Management said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The Aussie fell for a fourth day in five versus the
greenback after the RBA said in its semiannual financial
stability review that weakness in the currency “should provide
support to some trade-exposed sectors.” It urged banks to
maintain loan standards as households’ risk appetite improves.  Investors sold the Aussie and kiwi yesterday as a Sept. 30
deadline looms to prevent a U.S. government shutdown. The Senate
is set to hold a test vote today on legislation passed by the
House of Representatives to cover federal spending through Dec.
15, and choke off funds for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has said the Senate will
pass a spending measure without defunding the health law.  “It’s five days to the end of the fiscal year in the
U.S.,” DBS Group Holdings Ltd. analysts including Singapore-based senior currency economist  Philip Wee  wrote in a research
note. “Markets are on the defensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  