-- Knicks Hosting 2015 NBA All-Star Game With Slam Dunk in Brooklyn
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-25T18:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/knicks-hosting-2015-nba-all-star-game-with-slam-dunk-in-brooklyn.html
The  New York Knicks  and the
Brooklyn Nets will co-host the National Basketball Association’s
2015 All-Star weekend, with the game held at Madison Square
Garden for the first time in 16 years.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said in February during the
All-Star weekend in Houston that both New York and Brooklyn
submitted applications to stage the midseason festivities, which
will be held in New Orleans in February 2014.  Michael Jordan  won the last of his three All-Star Game Most
Valuable Player awards in 1998 at Madison Square Garden, home of
the Knicks in Manhattan.  The Garden is undergoing a $1 billion privately funded
renovation. The Nets moved into the $1 billion Barclays Center
before last season, relocating from Newark, New Jersey.  “New York offers an extraordinary opportunity to host NBA
All-Star events at two world-class venues,” Stern said in a
statement. “We look forward to celebrating our game
with basketball fans across the entire city, in all five
boroughs.”  Brooklyn will host the Saturday events, which include the
slam dunk and 3-point shooting contests. The All-Star Game is
Sunday.  The league last split All-Star events in 2010, when the
Saturday events were held in American Airlines Center, home of
the Dallas Mavericks, and the game was held at the stadium of
the National Football League’s Dallas Cowboys.  Major League Baseball  held its annual All-Star Game at Citi
Field, home of the New York Mets, in July. The New York area
will host the 2014 Super Bowl, the National Football League’s
championship game at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford,  New
Jersey , the first time the game will be played outdoors in a
cold-weather site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  