-- Netflix Seeks Presence on U.S. Cable-TV Systems to Expand
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-09-26T17:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/netflix-added-to-swedish-cable-service-seeks-u-s-deals.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
subscription-streaming service, wants to attract more customers
by adding its Web-based movies and television shows to U.S.
cable systems, Chief Financial Officer  David Wells  said.  U.S. cable operators have had an “open offer” to add
Netflix for two years, Wells said yesterday in an interview at
the Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference in New York. The
company is still willing to forge partnerships, he said.  “We would love to reduce the friction to the end consumer,
and to be available via the existing device in the home, which
is the set-top box,” Wells said from the stage.  Newer set-top boxes blend Internet-based programming with
traditional pay television, a development that can fuel
expansion if Netflix reaches accords with cable providers. The
company, with 35.6 million paying subscribers globally as of
June, has signed two European cable systems after relying on
game consoles, Blu-ray players, smartphones and Web-TV devices
like Roku for growth.  Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, reached a deal
with  Virgin Media  in the U.K. this month, and said yesterday it
will become available in December on Com Hem AB, Sweden’s
biggest cable-TV system with 606,000 video customers. Netflix
has a goal of 60 million to 90 million subscribers, Wells said.  Cable operators have to decide whether they view Netflix as
a competitor or potentially complementary, Wells said. Pay-TV
services have struggled to adapt to a shift by viewers to
watching watching more shows on laptops, tablets and
smartphones.  Web Boxes  With Virgin Media and Com Hem, Netflix will be included as
an app on  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  digital video recorders. Newer set-top boxes
are capable of loading Web-based content more quickly, and
combining Web-delivered programming with regular TV guides.  In the U.S.,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
provider, has begun replacing its boxes with the X1, a DVR that
delivers information from servers in the so-called cloud.  Netflix rose 2 percent to $313.13 at 1:02 p.m. New York
time. The shares have more than tripled this year, to lead the
 S&P 500 Index. (SPX)  Tivo, based in  San Jose , California, fell 1.3
percent to $12.43.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  