-- N.Z. Policy Pioneer Wheeler Set to Raise Rates in ’14: Economy
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-26T03:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/new-zealand-policy-pioneer-wheeler-poised-to-raise-rates-in-14.html
Graeme Wheeler in his first year as
New Zealand’s central bank chief pioneered the use of loan curbs
to contain asset prices -- eschewing higher interest rates. In
his second, he’s poised to raise rates anyway.  Wheeler is spurring an evolution at the  Reserve Bank of New
Zealand , becoming the first governor to use lending restrictions
and forming a governor’s committee to advise on decisions. To
help the economy withstand a strong currency, he also made the
authority’s first publicly confirmed intervention in the
foreign-exchange market since 2007.  “Before Wheeler arrived, the line was these were things you
would do every 20 years or so at real extremes,” said Christian Hawkesby, fixed-income head at Harbour Asset Management Ltd. in
Wellington and a former  Bank of England  official. “He has
completely flipped that on its head,” he said, referring to the
measures to contain risks from a property boom.  The new macro-prudential tools allowed Wheeler to restrain
the biggest jump in  New Zealand   house prices  since 2008 without
rate increases that would have strengthened the kiwi and hurt
growth in the export-dependent nation. Wheeler signaled this
month borrowing costs will probably rise next year as spending
and housing investment pick up with economic recovery.  The central bank’s projected track for the three-month bank
bill yield shows increases in the first half next year, and
there is a 61 percent chance of a rate rise by March, according
to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg at 12:05 p.m. in Wellington.  Emergency Lows  “New Zealand will probably be the first so-called
developed economy to be raising interest rates from emergency
low levels,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based strategist at
TD Securities Inc. He expects a rate increase in March.  Policy makers are preparing for an economic recovery even
without the additional boost that could have come from a win by
Emirates Team New Zealand in the 2013 America’s Cup. A Kiwi
victory might have boosted confidence and housing demand in
Auckland, home to about a third of the country’s 4.5 million
people, as it would have become the venue for the next defense
of the sailing title. Oracle Team USA overcame New Zealand’s
lead to win the contest this week.  Wheeler, who like his predecessor Alan Bollard was born in
1951, marks one year in his role at the  Reserve Bank  today after
returning to his homeland from a 15-year stint in the U.S., much
of it at the  World Bank  where he watched the subprime crisis
unfold. He wasn’t available for an interview for this story, the
central bank said.  Bets Reduced  His focus on containing the currency and using lending
restrictions to cool the  property market  prompted investors to
reduce bets that the central bank will rush to raise borrowing
costs. The odds of an increase in December fell to 2 percent
from 21 percent in late July, according to swaps data.  Wheeler has widened the toolkit for an institution that
pioneered inflation targeting in the 1980s, building on
Bollard’s efforts to improve the central bank’s knowledge of
macro-prudential policy.  The current governor increased the amount of capital banks
must have on their balance sheet to offset riskier loans. In
August, Wheeler also said that loans for more than 80 percent of
a property’s value must account for no more than 10 percent of a
bank’s new lending, down from about 30 percent. The limit was
more aggressive than the 15 percent anticipated by banks.  “He probably has a greater confidence in enacting some of
these policies because of his background than others would have
had,” said Stephen Toplis, head of research at  Bank of New
Zealand  in Wellington. “He has probably moved quicker than any
of the alternatives we could have thought of for governor,
including his predecessor.”  Bollard Experience  Bollard, who led the central bank for 10 years from 2002 to
2012, didn’t have prudential tools when  annual house price 
inflation surged to more than 15 percent in early 2006. He
raised rates to a record 8.25 percent and held them there until
July 2008. The elevated borrowing costs drove the currency
higher and tipped New Zealand into a recession that was
exacerbated by a drought and the global financial crisis.  With the sole decision-making responsibility at the RBNZ,
Wheeler has held the  official cash rate  at a record-low 2.5
percent since he took over the role, prolonging a period of low
borrowing costs that began in March 2011.  Elsewhere in the world,  Taiwan  will probably keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a ninth quarterly meeting
today, according to economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Data
from the U.K. may reiterate the economy grew 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Kiwi Retreats  Wheeler’s reluctance to raise interest rates has helped cap
demand for the  New Zealand dollar , which has retreated after
climbing to a 20-month high of 86.76 U.S. cents in April. The
decline also reflected speculation since mid-year that the
 Federal Reserve  will start to cool the stimulus that has
suppressed the  U.S. dollar . The currency bought 82.41 U.S. cents
at 12:05 p.m. in Wellington.  “The RBNZ has moved reasonably quickly on issues like
formalizing the macro-prudential framework,” Finance Minister
 Bill English  said in an interview last week. Wheeler has brought
“a deep understanding of the global economy to the job and
that’s helpful for a small open economy that’s affected in lots
of different ways by decisions everyone else makes that we can’t
influence.”  Selling Currency  The governor helped the decline along when he told members
of a parliament select committee on May 8 that the central bank
had been intervening to sell the New Zealand dollar.  Wheeler worked at the World Bank from 1997 to 2010, joining
after a career at New Zealand’s Treasury department that
culminated in his leadership of the Debt Management Unit. He was
appointed treasurer of the World Bank in 2001 and became one of
two managing directors in 2006. He played a pivotal role in the
institution’s response to the global financial crisis, then
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said when Wheeler stepped
down in 2010.  “What I saw in the States did influence the way I did
think to some extent about this issue,” Wheeler said Sept. 12.
House prices “are significantly overvalued” in New Zealand and
a rapid correction in prices would have very significant effects
for financial stability and employment, he said.  Wheeler established a committee of four governors,
including Deputy Governor Geoff Bascand, a former Treasury
department colleague he hired in May to be responsible for the
central bank’s operations. The committee will discuss all major
monetary and financial policy decisions, though Wheeler said he
retains a right of veto.  Under New Zealand’s model, the governor is the sole
decision maker. Opposition politicians say Wheeler’s refusal to
cut interest rates this year boosted the currency and damaged
the economy, with the  Green Party  proposing a representative
board to make the rate decision.  If a change was forced on him, Wheeler “is a pragmatist,”
said BNZ’s Toplis. “He’d make work whatever he was dealt. Given
his nature, I’m absolutely sure he listens well to all the
information he’s getting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  