-- New York City Economy Matters More Than Next Mayor: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-25T17:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/new-york-city-economy-matters-more-than-next-mayor-muni-credit.html
New York’s borrowing costs have
fallen to the lowest this year even as the next mayor faces a
struggle to negotiate expired labor contracts that may cost
billions of dollars.  As the most-populous U.S. city wraps up an $899 million
general-obligation sale today, the extra yield buyers demand on
bonds maturing in August 2020 is about 0.29 percentage point,
the slimmest since at least January, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The gap is shrinking as voters on Nov. 5 will choose a
successor to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 71, whose 12-year tenure
ends Dec. 31.  Whoever takes office in January must resolve lapsed
contracts for 300,000 public workers, with some union leaders
clamoring for retroactive raises that Bloomberg has said may
cost as much as $8 billion. A growing local economy and civil
servants who work through different administrations will help
tackle the fiscal challenges, said Clark Wagner, fixed-income
director at First Investors Management Co. in New York.  New York “will be able to grow its way out of some of
these issues,” said Wagner, whose firm manages $1.5 billion of
municipal debt. The city has “an incredibly professional and
experienced set of managers who are not going to change because
of the election.”  Voting Battle  Democrat Bill de Blasio, 52, the city’s public advocate,
faces Republican Joseph Lhota, 58, a top aide to former Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani , in a battle to lead the city of 8.3 million.
Bloomberg, an independent who is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally barred from
seeking a fourth term.  New York is selling into the biggest rally for muni debt
since 2012 after the  Federal Reserve  delayed plans to reduce its
monthly bond purchases.  The New York issue offered preliminary yields of 4.18
percent on 20-year debt, according to three people familiar with
the sale who requested anonymity because pricing wasn’t final.
That was  0.31 percentage  point more than benchmark munis, down
from 0.72 percentage point in July.  First Investors may buy some of the bonds, Wagner said.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  assess New
York two steps below top-rated bonds, after both companies
raised the rating three times during Bloomberg’s tenure. New
York had about $40 billion of debt as of June 30, compared with
about $29 billion in June 2002, bond documents show.  Expansion Expectation  The metropolis’s economy is projected to grow 1.1 percent
this year to about $588 billion, and then expand through at
least 2017, the documents show.  “Although there are certainly concerns on the horizon,
some of them very significant, no one’s expecting an immediate
decline in  credit quality ,” said Tamara Lowin, director of
research for Belle Haven Investments, which manages $1.6 billion
of munis in  White Plains , New York.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city by more than 6
to 1. In a Sept. 17 poll by the Poughkeepsie, New York-based
Marist Institute for  Public Opinion , de Blasio led Lhota 65
percent to 22 percent.  Yet  New Yorkers  haven’t elected a Democrat mayor since
1989, when David Dinkins beat Giuliani. Four years later,
Giuliani, a former U.S. attorney for  Manhattan , won in a
rematch.  No Money  Among challenges awaiting the next mayor, who assumes
office midway through the fiscal year, is resolving negotiations
on contracts that expired at least three years ago with unions
representing city workers.  Bloomberg’s final budget, enacted in June, contained no
money for back pay in the event bargaining results in salary
increases. The cost of retroactive raises could approach $8
billion, more than 10 percent of the city’s $70 billion budget,
Bloomberg has said.  Future recurring labor-cost increases could tally almost $3
billion a year even without retroactive pay, Carol Kellermann,
president of the non-partisan  Citizens Budget Commission , a
business-funded fiscal watchdog, said in a July interview.  “That would be my biggest worry with a new mayor who is
likely to be pro-labor: If there are contracts with notable wage
increases that get locked in for the next few years, that could
be difficult for the budget,” Wagner said.  Lhota, who resigned in December as chairman of the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , has ruled out a
settlement that includes retroactive pay.  Retroactive Resistance  “I’ll say it over and over again, I’m not under any
circumstances in favor of retroactive pay,” he said in a March
interview. He’s stuck to that position.  De Blasio said he was open to negotiating the issue when he
was seeking labor support to secure the nomination. More
recently, he’s questioned whether the city could afford
retroactive compensation, after winning endorsements from most
city unions.  “We have to balance our budget; everyone in labor knows
it,” de Blasio said last week during a news briefing. “And
that $8 billion figure that assumes full retroactive pay, I’ve
said very publicly that’s not going to happen.”  In another challenge, the cost of worker and retiree health
insurance, now about $6 billion, will rise to $8.3 billion by
2018 unless workers start paying part of their premiums,
Bloomberg has said.  School Plan  De Blasio’s signature issue, a tax surcharge on income
above $500,000 to raise $530 million for universal pre-kindergarten and after-school programs, was belittled by his
primary rivals. They argued the increase wouldn’t win approval
from the state legislature and governor.  Universal pre-kindergarten would cost about $290 million
annually, with a start-up cost of about $50 million for new
classrooms, according to the Independent Budget Office, a city
agency that acts as a non-partisan fiscal monitor.  Lhota says that although he supports universal pre-school,
financing it through a tax increase on the wealthiest New
Yorkers runs the risk of slowing the city’s economy.  Universal pre-school is “the right thing to do,” Lhota
said during a Sept. 13 appearance on WPIX television. Yet he
disagrees that the city should raise taxes to pay for it. Lhota
hasn’t proposed an alternative funding stream.  “ We have daunting fiscal challenges ahead and it is
critical the next mayor have the experience and wherewithal to
keep the city’s finances sound,” Lhota said in a statement
yesterday. “I am the only candidate in the race with both
public and private sector experience managing large budgets.”  Localities from  California  to  Connecticut  are issuing about
$4.2 billion of long-term munis this week as yields are the
lowest since June. At  2.7 percent , benchmark 10-year muni yields
are the lowest since June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 