-- Newmont Seeking Acquisitions to Add Low-Cost, Long-Life Mines
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-09-25T05:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/newmont-seeking-acquisitions-to-add-low-cost-long-life-mines.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the second-largest gold miner, is looking for acquisitions to add low-cost
gold or copper output after asset valuations declined.  The company will assess deals on the basis of net present
value and return on investment, Chief Executive Officer Gary Goldberg said yesterday in an interview in Denver, where he’s
attending the Denver Gold Forum. It will focus on assets with
longer mine lives and lower costs and where the social,
political and technical risk is manageable, he said.  Newmont joins Centerra Gold Inc. and B2Gold Corp. in
flagging interest in deals as miners sell assets and explorers
struggle for funding after gold fell into a  bear market  in
April. Barrick Gold Corp. is in talks to sell more mines in
 Australia  after agreeing last month to sell three mines in the
South Pacific nation to Gold Fields Ltd. for $300 million.  “Now is the time when the markets are down to be looking
at potential for acquisition of assets,” Goldberg said, adding
there aren’t any transactions imminent. “We’re still looking at
things.”  The company will also consider partnering with others on
acquisitions and at existing assets, Goldberg said. There’s an
opportunity to work with other companies in the area to develop
infrastructure, including ore processing facilities, at
Newmont’s stalled Minas Conga mine in  Peru , he said.  Open to Talks  Newmont is also open to discussions with Barrick, the
largest producer, about cooperation in  Nevada , where the
producers have mines in close proximity to each other. Toronto-based Barrick would consider a joint venture in Nevada with
Newmont to reduce costs, Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky
said yesterday in an interview. The parties have had talks on
the subject in the past, he and Goldberg said.  “Clearly there’s some overlap and opportunities for
synergies in the process,” Goldberg said. “I think it’s one
that’s worthy of more conversations.”  The company is also willing to consider buying assets where
the primary metal is copper, Goldberg said. Newmont, which gets
about  90 percent  of its revenue from gold, already produces
copper along with gold at some mines.  Taking on more copper is also a “logical” step after the
valuation  premium  that gold companies used to attract has
disappeared, he said. The company is adding in-house capacity to
assess copper supply and demand trends.  “It might be a good time to be buying,” Goldberg said.
“It doesn’t mean we’re going to shoot for X million tons of
copper production by a certain year.”  While the company agreed this month to discuss the sale of
its Midas mine in Nevada to private equity group Waterton Global
Resource Management, Newmont isn’t focused on selling assets and
will look instead to improve its less profitable operations,
Goldberg said. It may consider transactions where it maintains
exposure to an asset by exchanging it for shares in the buyer,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Denver at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  