-- Obama Praises Two Generations of De Blasios at NYC Fete
-- B y   T e d   B u n k e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/obama-offers-kind-words-to-nyc-de-blasios-young-and-old.html
Bill de Blasio, the Democrat
running for New York mayor, got a boost from President  Barack Obama  last night at a party fundraiser in Manhattan, while the
candidate’s son, Dante, drew a compliment on his hairstyle.  Obama singled out the afro-sporting teenager, who was in
the audience at the Democratic National Committee event in the
Waldorf Astoria hotel on Park Avenue.  Dante “has the same hairdo I had back in 1978,” Obama
said. “Although I have to confess, my afro was never that
good.”  The president introduced candidate de Blasio, who he has
endorsed, as “your next mayor” at the family-oriented
fundraiser. De Blasio, the city’s public advocate, has focused
much of his campaign on rising inequality among New Yorkers. He
has proposed a tax on the wealthiest residents to boost pre-school services for middle-income and poor families.  De Blasio “is going to continue to move New York in a
direction where everybody has a chance to get ahead,” Obama
said. The president came to the 250-seat fundraiser after
speaking on Iran and Syria at the United Nations, and later on
his signature health-care law at the  Clinton Global Initiative ,
a charitable group started by former President  Bill Clinton .  Polls show de Blasio, 52, more than 40 percentage points
ahead of Joseph Lhota, his 58-year-old Republican opponent, who
ran the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  and was a top aide
to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani , a Republican. In speeches, de
Blasio refers to a “Tale of Two Cities” in which almost half
of New Yorkers are poor or struggle to make ends meet.  Middle-Income Jobs  Lhota has called de Blasio’s focus divisive, arguing that
the best way to foster opportunity for New Yorkers is by
creating middle-income jobs and maintaining order in a city once
plagued by crime and fiscal distress. After two decades under
Republicans and independents in the mayor’s office, crime rates
and welfare participation have dropped while parks, stadiums,
retailers and skyscrapers have risen.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, was barred by law from
seeking a fourth four-year term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ted Bunker in Boston at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  