-- Obama’s Jabs at Russia on Syria Show Diplomacy Tensions
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/obama-s-jabs-at-russia-on-syria-shows-diplomacy-tensions.html
President  Barack Obama  used his
speech to the United Nations to jab at Russian President
Vladimir Putin over Syria, reflecting their discord over how the
Security Council will ensure that President Bashar al-Assad gets
rid of his chemical weapons.  Obama’s sharp words in remarks yesterday to world leaders
reflected tensions with the Russian leader without mentioning
him by name. Obama said “it’s an insult to human reason” to
suggest -- as Putin has said -- that Syrian rebels rather than
government forces conducted the Aug. 21 nerve-agent attack near
Damascus that the U.S. says killed more than 1,400 people.  The sniping has been mutual, with Putin this month accusing
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry of lying about the extent of
al-Qaeda involvement with the rebels. Underlying the leaders’
comments are diverging views on UN-authorized military force and
on Assad’s fate.  Efforts to draft a Security Council resolution on
elimination of  Syria ’s toxic arsenal hit headwinds from Assad’s
ally Russia, which opposes U.S., French and U.K. demands to
include the threat of force if Assad violates his pledge to
surrender his chemical weapons.  “There must be a strong Security Council resolution to
verify that the Assad regime is keeping its commitments,” Obama
said in his speech to the UN General Assembly in New York. “And
there must be consequences if they fail to do so. If we cannot
agree even on this, then it will show that the United Nations is
incapable of enforcing the most basic of international laws.”  Kerry-Lavrov  Hours later, Kerry and his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, attempted to resolve differences that have slowed action
on a resolution. They had agreed to meet in New York as part of
their Sept. 14 Geneva accord that averted U.S. military strikes
by compelling Assad to accept a disarmament plan.  Lavrov said on Sept. 22 that  Russia  rejected a U.S. and
European proposal to include enforcement provisions under
Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, which allows for various measures
from sanctions to the use of force. They want to “drive through
a resolution based on force” that blames Assad for everything,
Lavrov said in an interview with Russia’s Channel One, published
on the Foreign Ministry’s website.  Although two U.S. officials characterized the talks
yesterday as very constructive, they wouldn’t say whether the
differences had been fully resolved. Kerry and Lavrov discussed
expectations for Syria and how to respond if the agreement isn’t
being met, said one of the officials, who didn’t provide
details.  Syrian Compliance  The meeting lasted for 90 minutes, twice the time planned,
as the two ministers and supporting teams worked on the
resolution’s language, according to the officials, who asked not
to be identified because the talks are private. Lavrov was
flanked by four men and Kerry was flanked by four women,
including Under Secretary of State Wendy Sherman and Assistant
Secretary of State Victoria Nuland.  The U.S. and its European allies, who are working together
to craft a resolution, aim to have the Security Council vote
within days after receiving an implementation plan from the
executive council of the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons, known as OPCW, the Netherlands-based body that
implements the Chemical Weapons Convention barring such arms.  The Security Council measure would mandate Syrian
compliance with the OPCW, establish provisions in the event of
Syrian violations, and waive some restrictions to permit removal
of chemical weapons breaching the convention.  Gassing Children  In his address, Obama touched on another area of
disagreement with Russia -- whether Assad has a place in a post-conflict Syria. Obama termed it a “fantasy” to think that
Syria can “somehow return to a pre-war status quo” with a role
for a “leader who has slaughtered his citizens and gassed
children to death.”  It’s time “for Russia and  Iran  to realize that insisting
on Assad’s role” plays into the hand of extremists, he said.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon opened the session of the
193-member General Assembly, calling Syria the “biggest peace
and security challenge in the world.” He urged the Security
Council to adopt an “enforceable” resolution on Syrian
chemical weapons, while saying that “we can hardly be satisfied
with destroying chemical weapons while the wider war is still
destroying Syria.”  Enforcement Provision  U.S. and European nations say the Security Council
resolution must include an enforcement provision under Chapter 7
because of doubts that Assad will fully comply. The Syrian
leader, who has provided the OPCW with an initial inventory,
still must allow inspectors starting next month to verify,
secure and then eliminate the weapons under a U.S.-Russia
timeline that runs to June 30.  French President Francois Hollande told the assembly that
the resolution “must have coercion” under Chapter 7 and call
for bringing to justice those responsible for using chemical
weapons in Syria.  An agreement on a resolution with strong enforcement
language would “send a powerful message that the use of
chemical weapons has no place in the 21st century and that this
body means what it says,” Obama said.  In the first day of general debate at the UN, the Syrian
civil war figured prominently. Some leaders vented anger at the
Security Council’s paralysis as a result of Russia’s protection
of the Syrian regime. Russia has used its veto power to block
all council attempts to impose sanctions on Assad’s government
since the conflict began with peaceful peaceful protests in
March 2011.  ’Proxy Wars’  Turkish President Abdullah Gul said “it is a disgrace”
that a divided Security Council hasn’t acted to end the fighting
due to “political differences, balance-of-power politics and
geopolitical considerations.” More than 100,000 people have
been killed in the conflict, and Gul said 100,000 more may die
if the fighting continues another year.  With  Turkey  backing the rebels in their efforts to topple
Assad, Gul alluded to Russia’s Syrian ties that go back four
decades to Assad’s father. Any recurrence of the “proxy wars of
the Cold War era” will plunge Syria into further chaos, he
said.  The emir of Qatar, a covert supplier of arms to the rebels,
called for Security Council reform, saying the council is “a
major obstacle to preserving international peace and security
and to the punishment of war criminals and perpetrators of
crimes against humanity.”  Continued Intransigence  “We all know that the responsibility for failure to impose
the political settlement we all prefer for Syria is due
basically to the inability of the Security Council to take the
required decision to stop the bloodshed and the continued
intransigence of the Syrian regime,” said Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, who assumed leadership of the Persian Gulf state
from his father in June.  Syria is a “global humanitarian and security disaster,”
said King Abdullah of Jordan, a neighbor whose economy and
resources are being strained by more than 500,000 Syria
refugees. That number could double next year if the conflict
continues, he said, calling for peace negotiations to be put on
a “fast track.”  Turkey’s Gul and Qatar’s Al Thani said that the U.S.-
Russian negotiated chemical weapons accord shouldn’t distract
from the thousands being killed with conventional arms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette at the United Nations at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  