-- Obama Appeals to Trout Fishermen on Power-Plant Pollution
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-25T14:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/obama-appeals-to-trout-fishermen-on-power-plant-pollution.html
The Obama administration is trying
to build support for a key element of its climate-change plan
with appeals to everyone from trout fishermen to fans of Al Roker on the Weather Channel.  The push to promote the Environmental Protection Agency’s
plan to curb carbon dioxide from  power plants  stands in contrast
to the low-key approach of President  Barack Obama ’s first term,
when it downplayed the hazards and trumpeted an “all of the
above”  energy policy .  “It’s very important to get out ahead of the issue,
because very strident things are said about the EPA” by
opponents, said  William Reilly , who was administrator of the
agency  under  President  George H.W. Bush  and is chairman emeritus
of the  World Wildlife Fund . “It’s not the case that you have
the power, and can issue the thunderbolts from above.”  The outreach by Obama aides -- along with opposition from
industry lobbyists -- follows last week’s proposal by the EPA to
cap for the first time greenhouse gases that new power plants
can emit. Those rules, and guidelines due next year for
thousands of existing power generators, take aim at the source
of 40 percent of the carbon dioxide released in the U.S., the
world’s second-biggest producer of greenhouse gases after China.  Coal War  The rules would prohibit construction of new coal-burning
power plants that don’t have  carbon-capture  technology, a plan
opposed by mining companies such as  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and
utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO)  Lawmakers from coal-dependent
states such as  Kentucky  and West Virginia have blasted the
agency for waging a “war on coal,” saying the plan will result
in a de facto ban on the construction of new coal-fired power
plants.  The administration has sought to rally allies, adopting the
hashtag  #ActOnClimate  on Twitter that’s been used both by EPA
Administrator Gina McCarthy and groups such as the  Natural
Resources Defense Council .  McCarthy gave an interview to the environmental publication
Grist and is set to appear at the annual conference of  Trout
Unlimited , an Arlington, Virginia-based conservation group,
later this week. Today and tomorrow she is in  New York , speaking
at the  Clinton Global Initiative  and appearing on Al Roker’s
Weather Channel show, “Wake up with Al.”  And the administration is also talking with those not in
its climate choir. White House energy adviser Heather Zichal and
EPA climate adviser Joe Goffman are set to  address  a group of
skeptical utility regulators today. And the EPA will soon unveil
a series of meetings nationwide to discuss their regulations
with states, industry groups and local citizens.  Dim Outlook  Environmental groups and the EPA argue that even without
the new rules, no new coal plants would be built anytime soon.
Low natural-gas prices and the boom in installations of wind and
solar power have cut the longterm outlook for coal. Gas-fired
plants release about one-half the carbon dioxide that
conventional coal-burning facilities do.  Industry groups are set to wage their own campaign,
targeting coal-producing regions and areas dependent on coal for
their electricity in order to prod EPA and Congress, said Luke Popovich, spokesman for the National Mining Association.  “We can handle the marketplace,” Popovich said. “What we
can’t handle is the government putting its finger on the
scale.” Kentucky’s  Mitch McConnell , the top Republican in the
Senate, has vowed to push legislation to stop the rules from
taking effect, an effort Republicans tried twice for related
rules during Obama’s first term, and failed each time.  “There has been a firewall in the Senate, and we’re
confident that the Senate firewall will remain,” Gene Karpinski, the president of the  League of Conservation Voters ,
said in an interview.  Existing Plants  McCarthy is already offering some details of what
regulators are considering for the more far-reaching rules for
the existing 2,235 coal and natural gas power plants nationwide.
Those rules, scheduled to come out in June, won’t establish the
tough carbon-capture criteria set for new-plants and will offer
wide flexibility to states, she said.  “It’s an entirely different process,” McCarthy told
reporters at a breakfast organized by the Christian Science
Monitor Sept. 23. It’s “one that recognizes that EPA has a
broader discussion about how states can reduce carbon.”  To be sure, it’s not just public opinion that will be
necessary in order to get the rules implemented. Once the final
regulations are published, they are sure to face legal
challenges.  First up will be a decision by the  Supreme Court  within the
next few weeks about whether it will review a federal court
ruling upholding the EPA’s judgment that  greenhouse gases  are a
danger to human health and the environment. That so-called
“endangerment finding” is the legal basis for the greenhouse
gas rules.  ‘Adequately Demonstrated’  Assuming that ruling prevails, EPA will eventually have to
defend its approach that said carbon capture is an  “adequately
demonstrated”  technology. So far there are no commercial-scale
power plants capturing the carbon they emit, and Southern Co.,
the company building the one plant under construction, in Kemper
County,  Mississippi , says that plant shouldn’t be a model for
the country.  Because of its “unique characteristics,” it “should not
serve as a primary basis for new emissions standards impacting
all new coal-fired power plants,” Tim Leljedal, a Southern
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The next set of EPA rules also face legal uncertainty.  The provision of the  Clean Air Act  used for greenhouse gas
regulation has been rarely used before, and never for an area
this far-reaching, said Michael Livermore, professor of law at
 University of Virginia  and senior adviser at the Institute for
Policy Integrity in New York.  ‘Vigorous Dispute’  McCarthy is signaling that the agency will view the entire
electric power system as one that it can push for reductions.  If the EPA sticks to that broad approach, it can achieve
deeper reductions, though “there will be a vigorous dispute”
about the approach,” said Kyle Danish, a lawyer at Van Ness
Feldman in  Washington . “We don’t have a situation where EPA has
adopted the broader standard, and a court has upheld or denied
them,” he said.  Both Livermore and William Pedersen, a lawyer based in
Washington for Perkins Coie LLP, argue that the agency can set
caps for states and then let state officials work up trading
programs or other flexible programs. That stands in contrast to
the rules for new plants, which set a target that each plant
must achieve.  “The agency is going to have a lot of discretion here,”
Livermore said in an interview. Still, “this is an issue of
huge controversy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  