-- Obama Nominee for U.S. FERC in Jeopardy With Scott’s ‘No’
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/obama-nominee-for-u-s-ferc-in-jeopardy-with-scott-s-no-.html
Senator  Tim Scott  will vote against
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, virtually erasing the possibility of a
Senate panel approving the nomination.  Scott, a South Carolina Republican, “is now a ‘no’ vote on
the nomination” of Ron Binz, Greg Blair, the senator’s
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Scott is the last of 10 Republicans on the 22-member Senate
Energy and Natural Resources Committee to announce opposition to
Binz, a former chairman of the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission. Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia Democrat, has
also said he’ll vote against Binz.  With half the panel prepared to vote against him, Binz
doesn’t have enough support for the committee to recommend him
for a full Senate vote.  The committee has been planning a roll call on the
nomination and has “no change of plans at this point,” Keith
Chu, a spokesman for the panel, said in an e-mail yesterday
after Scott announced his intention to vote against Binz.  Republican senators led by  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the
party’s top member on the committee, lined up against Binz after
his Sept. 17 confirmation hearing before the panel. Murkowski
told Binz at the hearing she was concerned he wasn’t forthcoming
about the extent of his support from lobbyists and public-relations officials.  Others, including Manchin and Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio
Republican, have said Binz displayed a bias toward renewable
fuels at the expense of coal as head of the Colorado regulatory
authority.  Binz, who has the support of clean-energy groups, said he
has been open with the panel about those who have helped him
prepare for his nomination. He has also denied being anti-coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  