-- Lockheed F-35 Quality Failings Cited by Inspector General
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-09-25T16:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lockheed-f-35-quality-failings-cited-by-inspector-general.html
The Pentagon’s inspector general
has flagged hundreds of deficiencies and corrective actions
needed for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, the military’s
costliest program.  The watchdog office’s “quality assessment” outlines what
it calls ineffective management by Pentagon oversight personnel
and insufficient attention to quality assurance in the design
and manufacturing phases of the $391.2 billion F-35 program,
according to a summary obtained by  Bloomberg News . The full
report may be issued as soon as Sept. 30.  Since May 2012, the inspector general has been reviewing
adherence to quality assurance standards by Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed and  five subcontractors : Northrop Grumman Corp.,
BAE Systems Plc, L-3 Communications Holdings Inc., Honeywell
International Inc. and United Technologies Corp.  The inspector general’s audit said the F-35 program office
should modify its contracts to “include a quality escape
clause, to ensure the government does not pay for nonconforming
product,” according to the summary.  Lockheed and the subcontractors are taking specific steps
to respond to 343 findings and recommended corrective actions,
the summary said, without disclosing the nature of the failings
found.  As of yesterday, 269 of the 343 “corrective action plans”
have been fully implemented, according to data provided to the
inspector general by the Pentagon’s F-35 program office.  All of the corrective action plans are scheduled to be in
place by April, according to Laura Siebert  a Lockheed
spokeswoman.  Price Tag  The Pentagon’s projected price tag of $391.2 billion for a
fleet of 2,443 aircraft is up 68 percent from the projection in
2001, as measured in current dollars. The number of aircraft
also is 409 fewer than called for in the original program.  Kyra Hawn, a spokeswoman for the Pentagon’s F-35 office,
said in an e-mailed statement that “partnering with the IG
offered an additional expert look at manufacturing processes,
oversight and compliance that will improve F-35 quality moving
forward.”  Siebert, the Lockheed spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the report “is based on data that’s more than 16
months old and a majority of the corrective action requests” in
the document “have been closed.”  “When discoveries occur, we take decisive and thorough
action to correct the situation,” Siebert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  