-- Hong Kong Exchange Sticks to Rulebook on Alibaba IPO
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-09-26T10:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/hong-kong-bourse-sticks-to-rulebook-on-alibaba-ipo.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) ,
the world’s second-largest bourse operator by market value, is
making a stand for transparency in the competition for Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.’s initial public offering.  Alibaba is moving toward a U.S. listing after talks with
the bourse broke down following management’s proposal for a
governance structure that leaves executives in control,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  China ’s
largest e-commerce firm is leaning toward making the  New York 
Stock Exchange its home market, said one of the people, who
asked to not be named because the process is private.  Hong Kong ’s exchange is under pressure from regulators and
investors to uphold standards after accounting scandals
involving Chinese companies from Hontex International Holdings
Co. to Boshiwa International Holding Ltd. The bourse is focusing
on derivatives and commodities to boost profits as IPOs dry up,
buying the London Metal Exchange for 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2
billion) in December.  “The benefit of turning away people who ask for favors is
that it will maintain standards and attract better quality
companies,”  David Webb , a former exchange director who founded
local governance watchdog Webb-site.com, said by telephone. “If
you maintain standards, investors pay for the quality. If you
improve them, they’ll pay more.”  IPOs Slow  Lorraine Chan, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong Exchanges,
declined to comment on the IPO, citing a company policy. Shares
of the bourse operator fell 1.1 percent to HK$125 in Hong Kong
today, extending their 2013 decline to 5.2 percent.  Companies raised $7.8 billion through Hong Kong IPOs this
year, compared with $20 billion in the same period of 2010, when
the stock exchange became the world’s biggest venue for first-time offerings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Listing
fees accounted for 11 percent of Hong Kong Exchanges’ revenue in
the six months ended June 30, according to a  company statement .  “They have to balance between the IPO pipeline and the
rule of law,” said  Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA,
who has Hong Kong Exchanges rated as the equivalent of sell. The
bourse and the regulator “don’t really want to let go of the
quality of the listing rules for just one company,” he said.  Alibaba, founded by former English teacher Jack Ma, may
raise about HK$100 billion ($12.9 billion) in an initial sale,
Ernst & Young LLP said on June 28. That would make it the
world’s biggest IPO since Facebook Inc. raised $16 billion last
year and Hong Kong’s largest since AIA Group Ltd.’s $20 billion
sale in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Image Dented  “It is damaging from a perception point of view for the
exchange, the Hong Kong market and the investor base,” Andy Maynard, global head of trading and execution at CLSA Ltd. in
Hong Kong, said in an interview today. “We would have traded it;
it would have been a good stock for all of the broking
community.”  Allowing Alibaba’s partnership to veto board nominations
would enable Ma, who owns 7.4 percent of the stock, and his
management team to run the company without worrying about being
pushed out by an activist investor with a different strategy, a
person familiar with the matter said last month.  Hong Kong’s  stock market  is dominated by companies with
majority shareholders, making it more important that the
exchange acts in smaller investors’ interests, BNP’s Chan said.  “Every investor needs to be protected and this is
something that has been working really well,” he said.  Facebook, Google  While the U.S. allows dual-share structures, Alibaba would
be subject to more stringent reporting requirements and a class-action litigation system, which does not exist in Hong Kong.  Manchester United Plc decided not to list in Hong Kong in
August 2011 before ultimately picking the NYSE, where it has a
two-class equity ownership structure that lets insiders retain
control. Both Google Inc. and Facebook, which list on a U.S.
market run by Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., also have two classes of
stock.  “This is not a mere profit-sharing mechanism, nor is it a
vehicle of power to exert greater control over the company,” Ma
said in a Sept. 10 e-mail to employees. “The partnership system,
operating based on a foundation of transparency, can shield the
company’s long-range development plans from the short-term
profit-seeking trends of the  capital market .”  Alibaba has previously asserted its desire to run without
consulting investors. It spun off the Alipay online payment
business to an outside entity in August 2010 without telling
Yahoo! Inc., its biggest shareholder, about it until the
following March.  Market Integrity  Hong Kong Exchanges shares have trailed the Hang Seng
Index’s 2.1 percent advance this year. The bourse operator’s
profit climbed 10 percent during the quarter that ended in June.  “It is very important for HKEx to not make exceptions and
to maintain market integrity, especially in light of what has
happened with Chinese companies in recent years,” said Arjan Van Veen, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who has the stock
rated neutral. “There are plenty of companies in Hong Kong and
China that would want to do similar things, so making an
exception creates a very difficult scenario.”  Hong Kong has faced several corporate governance scandals
surrounding mainland Chinese companies listing in the city.  Hontex, which raised $141 million in a December 2009 IPO,
in June 2012 agreed to pay shareholders $133 million to end a
lawsuit. The company, which had been suspended since just three
months after the IPO, was delisted this week.  Chinese Companies  Boshiwa (1698) , a maker of children’s apparel and licensee of the
Harry Potter brand, said in March 2012 that  Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu  resigned as its auditor because of a lack of financial
information. The company, which raised $321 million in a
September 2010 IPO, has been suspended from trading in Hong Kong
for 18 months.  Chinese companies listed in the U.S. have been plagued by
governance issues.  Focus Media  Holding Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
digital advertising company, withdrew its listing from the
Nasdaq Stock Market in May after a $3.8 billion privatization
deal. Short selling firm Muddy Waters LLC accused the company in
November 2011 of exaggerating its ad display network, sending
the shares of Focus Media down 39 percent in one day.  Of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, 11 have Hong Kong
Exchanges rated as hold, 7 have buy ratings and 8 have sells. As
the exchange expands into commodities, it will probably start
with monthly cash-settled metals products denominated in  yuan ,
then move into other commodities and physical settlement, Hong
Kong Exchanges Chief Executive Officer Charles Li said at an LME
meeting in Hong Kong on June 25.  Investor protections need to be considered objectively and
not be swayed by “emotional arguments” or be distracted by
“specific circumstances of any given company,” Li said in a
Sept. 25 blog post on the company website.  “There’s obvious downside from what would very likely have
been a fantastic IPO for HKEx and, subsequently, a huge volume
driver for the market,” said  Matthew Smith , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd., who has the stock rated at the equivalent
of sell. “But it would have been difficult for them to abrogate
their own rules just because it’s Alibaba.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  