-- Online-Lending Rules Clarification Promised by FDIC’s Gruenberg
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-25T20:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/online-lending-rules-clarification-promised-by-fdic-s-gruenberg.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation will clarify how banks should do business under U.S.
rules with online lenders who have been the subject of a
regulatory crackdown over their practices.  The FDIC will issue the new guidelines, known as a
financial institutions letter, explaining how how banks should
do business under U.S. rules with online lenders who may run
afoul of state laws, its chairman, Martin J. Gruenberg, wrote in
a Sept. 17 letter to lawmakers.  “The FDIC’s focus is the proper management of the banks’
relationships with their customers, particularly those engaged
in higher-risk activities, and not underlying activities that
are permissible under state and federal laws,” Gruenberg wrote.  The FDIC promise comes in the wake of demands from
Republicans in the U.S. Congress to explain why it has pressured
banks to cut ties with the online lenders, which offer loans,
typically with short terms and high interest rates, over the
Internet.  The letter was a response to Representative Blaine Luetkemeyer, a Missouri Republican, who had pressed the FDIC in
writing and in person to explain its stance. Since the summer,
signals from FDIC and some subpoenas from the Department of
Justice have led banks to end relationships with many online
lenders.  Lisa McGreevy, head of Online Lenders Alliance, a trade
association, said that the letter suggests FDIC is correcting a
“misstep” in pressuring the banks.  “The FDIC is clarifying that it’s perfectly appropriate
for banks to process for online lenders,” McGreevy said in an
interview.  Lawmaker Briefing  Andrew Gray, a spokesman for the FDIC, declined to comment.
FDIC Vice Chairman Thomas Hoenig told lawmakers in a briefing
last week that the letter would come within two weeks, according
to a person present, who requested anonymity because the meeting
was private.  Mark Kaufman, the commissioner of financial regulation for
 Maryland , said the FDIC’s stance will still pressure banks to
reconsider long-term relationships with lenders. The cost of
complying with its directives may be enough to shut out the
lenders, he said.  “The question is: Is the due diligence and oversight
required to process these transactions so costly that it’s not
economical?” Kaufman said in an interview.  Banks are the gatekeepers to an automated clearing house
system that enables direct payments into checking accounts.
Without access to the system, the online lenders can’t credit
loans to customer accounts, or debit repayments.  FDIC Campaign  Banks that handle transactions for online lenders have
faced a concerted campaign by senior FDIC officials to
reconsider this business, according to a document prepared by
the online lending industry. The document, which was circulated
to lawmakers last week, details specific threats made by the
FDIC against banks - they are not named -- that continue
processing lender transactions.  For example, one bank told a lender the FDIC had refused to
close out its current audit of the bank until it ended the
processing work. Another bank that was considering an online
lender as a client faced a threat of an unplanned audit,
according to the document.  Current FDIC rules do not explicitly bar banks from working
with online lenders. FDIC guidelines from 2012 order banks to
monitor their business with “high risk” merchants and
independent payment processors.  The letter from Gruenberg does not explicitly state whether
the FDIC regards online lenders who do not comply with
individual state laws to be illegal operations.  ‘Reasonable Measures’  “When a bank has a customer relationship with a company
whose business line is prohibited or restricted in at least some
states, the bank must take reasonable measures to ensure that
the company is operating only where the activity is legally
permitted,” Gruenberg wrote.  Lenders affiliated with Native American tribes have argued
that they are exempt from state laws -- such as licensing
requirements or interest-rate caps -- under the doctrine of
sovereign immunity. Other companies assert they can legally
evade laws of one state by basing their operations in another.  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director Richard Cordray was more explicit in a Sept. 13 appearance before the
House Financial Services Committee. He said lenders should be
“licensed and qualified” to do business.  “If they’re making loans that are illegal, or if they’re
making loans where they’re not licensed to make loans,” Cordray
said, “that’s a business model that we don’t want to endorse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  