-- Morrison & Foerster, Dentons, Jones Day: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-25T11:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/morrison-foerster-dentons-jones-day-business-of-law.html
Morrison & Foerster LLP is opening
a Berlin outpost by poaching most of  Hogan Lovells  LLP’s 30-lawyer office in the German capital, giving the firm nine new
transactional partners.  The Berlin expansion fits with MoFo’s long-term strategy of
building its mergers and acquisitions practice in key markets
while strengthening its representation of technology, media and
telecommunications companies, Robert Townsend, co-chairman of
the global M&A group, said in a statement.  “Our goal in Germany is to be nothing less than the
leading TMT transactional practice in the country,” he said.
Adding the Hogan Lovells lawyers “is a giant step in that
direction.”  The partners joining MoFo include Christoph Wagner, a
mergers and acquisitions lawyer who handles technology, media
and telecommunications regulatory matters. Tax and real estate
partner Jens-Uwe Hinder and employment and data privacy lawyer
Hanno Timner will be the office managing partners.  “Berlin is one of five offices that we have in  Germany  and
by far the smallest,” Chris Hinze, head of corporate
communications for Hogan Lovells, said in a telephone interview.
“It represents 8 percent of our German revenues.”  Hinze said that Wagner left the firm two months ago by
agreement and he confirmed that the additional eight partners in
the office will move to MoFo. The firm is currently in
discussions about transferring the office to MoFo but intends to
relocate staff who don’t wish to leave, he said.  Additional partners joining MoFo are Karin Arnold,
corporate; Dirk Besse, corporate M&A; Eckhard Bremer,
competition; Andreas Grunwald, TMT regulatory and antitrust;
Thomas Keul, litigation; and Jorg Meissner, corporate M&A.  The Berlin office is MoFo’s second new outpost this year,
following a January opening in  Singapore , the firm’s fifth site
in Asia. MoFo has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices
worldwide.  “Our clients across the United States,  Japan ,  China  and
Europe are doing the deals that are driving the fast-paced
convergence in the TMT sector,” Larren Nashelsky, chairman of
MoFo, said in a statement. “The addition of the Berlin team
enhances our ability to help our clients advance their business
objectives in Germany and other key European markets.”  Dentons Opens Houston Office to Focus on Energy Market  Dentons LLP will open an office in Houston for its energy
clients that will be staffed by existing firm lawyers and used
as a hub for its global energy team.  The new office is Dentons’s first since the firm was
created in March by combining Fraser Milner Casgrain, Salans and
SNR Denton. It’s the firm’s 16th U.S. location and 79th
globally.  “With the largest energy practice, our expansion into the
capital of American energy is a natural extension of becoming
Dentons,” Mike McNamara, the firm’s U.S. managing partner, said
in a statement. “Growing in  Texas  has been a priority, and
Dentons’ Houston office will allow our lawyers and professionals
to leverage the firm’s extensive global energy network to help
clients capture opportunities and adapt to evolving sectors,
technologies and regulations.”  Dentons partners Barry Cannaday, Terrence Dill, Martin
Gibson, Karl Hopkins, Steve Molina, C. Michael Moore, Mark
Nelson, Sinan Pismisoglu, Jason Schumacher, Ryan Sears and Susan
Wood are among lawyers who will be based at the office.  Houston is the firm’s second Texas office. The Dallas site
opened in 2007 and has about 50 professionals. Dentons has about
2,600 lawyers and professionals in  Africa , Asia, the Americas,
Asia, Europe and the Middle East.  Deals  Weil Advises Applied Materials on Tokyo Electron Purchase  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP advised  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) ,
the largest chipmaking-equipment supplier, on its agreement to
acquire  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035)  for $9.39 billion in stock in the
largest deal for a Japanese company from outside the country in
six years.  Jones Day is representing Tokyo Electric along with
Nishimura & Asahi. Mori Hamada & Matsumoto and De Brauw
Blackstone Westbroek also advised Applied Materials.  Weil’s deal team included Keith Flaum and James Griffin,
mergers and acquisitions; Steven Newborn and John Scribner,
antitrust; John Brockland, technology and IP transactions; and
Ellen Odoner and P.J. Himelfarb, Securities and Exchange
Commission disclosure.  Nishimura & Asahi’s lawyers included Kazuhiro Takei,
Ryutaro Nakayama, Shinnosuke Fukuoka, Masaki Noda and Stephen
Bohrer.  Mori Hamada’s leading lawyers on the transaction were
partners Yuto Matsumura, Atsushi Oishi, Rintaro Shinohara and
Koji Toshima.  The Jones Day team was led by M&A partner Scott Cohen and
included Troy Lewis, M&A; Jim O’Bannon, capital markets; Lester Droller, Lodewijk Berger and Koichi Inoue, tax; Ferdinand Mason
and Marc Rijkaart van Cappellen, M&A; Mike Shah, employee
benefits and executive compensation; Joe Sims, antitrust;
Kathryn Fenton and Ryan Thomas, antitrust; Noel Francisco,
government regulation; Carsten Gromotke and Yizhe Zhang,
antitrust; David Longstaff, private equity; Mike Davitt,
securities litigation and SEC enforcement; and Peter Wang,
global disputes.  Gary Dickerson, who became chief executive officer of
Applied Materials on Sept. 1, will be CEO of the combined
manufacturer, the companies said in a statement yesterday.
Applied Materials shareholders will own 68 percent of the new
entity.  Dickerson, who replaced Mike Splinter as CEO, is moving to
consolidate the industry across continents amid slowing demand
for equipment used to prepare silicon during the early stages of
chip fabrication. Applied Materials in August forecast revenue
that missed analysts’ estimates for the second straight quarter
amid a record slump in the personal-computer market and muted
semiconductor demand.  For more, click here.  Moves  Fox Rothschild Hires Two South Florida Partners  Fox Rothschild LLP hired two Greenberg Traurig LLP
attorneys as partners in its West Palm Beach,  Florida , office --
real estate partner Howard Bregman and litigator Gary M. Dunkel.  “The addition of these two talented attorneys will help us
to continue to provide exceptional value for our clients in
South Florida,” Amy S. Rubin, office managing partner, said in
a statement.  Bregman, who was managing shareholder of Greenberg’s West
Palm Beach and Boca Raton offices for 20 years, handles
commercial development, financing, sales and acquisitions,
resort and hotel development and property leasing matters.  Dunkel works in business disputes, real estate litigation,
creditors’ rights, bank litigation, non-compete lawsuits,
foreclosures and commercial landlord-tenant disputes.  Fox Rothschild has more than 550 attorneys in 19 U.S.
offices.  News  Boston Bomb Suspect Loses Bid for Second Death-Penalty Lawyer  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the 20-year-old Russian immigrant
charged with bombing the  Boston  Marathon, lost a court bid to be
represented by a second lawyer experienced in saving accused
terrorists from the death penalty.  A request to hire  David Bruck , a professor at Washington &
Lee University School of Law in Lexington,  Virginia , who directs
the campus’s death-penalty defense clinic, was denied Sept. 23
by U.S. District Judge George A. O’Toole Jr. in Boston. The
ruling was indicated in a brief posting in the case’s online
docket. A written decision wasn’t available.  Tsarnaev is charged with killing two women and an 8-year-old boy and injuring 260 others with homemade bombs left in
crowds near the marathon’s finish line. The April 15 bombing was
the first deadly terrorist attack in the U.S. since Sept. 11,
2001.  The request to hire Bruck was made by Tsarnaev’s current
death-penalty lawyer, Judy Clarke, who has represented murder
and terrorism convicts including “Unabomber” Ted Kaczynski and
1996 Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph. Both men received life
sentences after Clarke arranged plea deals to avoid capital
punishment.  Clarke said in court papers filed July 15 that the marathon
bombing defense is too complex for one specialist. She didn’t
return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  Tsarnaev, an ethnic Chechen who’s now a U.S. citizen, was
inspired by al-Qaeda and motivated by the U.S. military’s
killing of Muslim civilians, according to prosecutors. Tsarnaev
pleaded not guilty on July 10 to 30 counts, including claims he
shot to death a university police officer in the days after the
attack.  Prosecutors haven’t said whether they will seek the death
penalty in the case -- a decision that must come from Attorney
General Eric Holder. Whatever penalty the U.S. seeks, a jury
will decide following a trial that hasn’t been scheduled.  Bruck and Clarke previously worked together representing
Susan Smith, the South Carolina woman who was convicted in 1995
of drowning her two young sons the previous year by locking them
in her car and letting it roll into a lake.  Bruck negotiated a life sentence in 2004 for Jordanian Zayd Hassan Safarini, who hijacked Pan Am flight 73 on the tarmac of
a Pakistani airport in 1986 and executed an American on board.
Safarini and his accomplices later opened fire on the passengers
and flight attendants with automatic weapons and threw hand
grenades at them, killing 20.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-10200, U.S. District
Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  New York  at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  