-- S&P 500 Extends Longest Slump of Year; Treasuries Rally
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-09-25T20:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/most-asian-stocks-decline-with-currencies-as-commodities-rebound.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
capped its longest slump of the year as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
told suppliers it was cutting orders, fueling concern consumer
spending is slowing. Oil slid for a fifth day, while Treasuries
rose as investors watched budget negotiations in  Washington .  The S&P 500 lost 0.3 percent to 1,692.77 at 4 p.m. in New
York for a fifth straight decline, while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index closed little changed. Oil sank to the lowest level since
July after an unexpected increase in U.S. inventories. Benchmark
10-year Treasury yields fell 3.5 basis point to 2.62 percent,
the lowest level in six weeks. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
slipped 0.2 percent while the euro and yen strengthened against
most major peers.  The U.S. Congress hasn’t passed a budget for the 2014
fiscal year, which starts next week. The House and Senate are at
odds over using the measure to stop funding for the 2010 health-care overhaul known as Obamacare, and the lack of an agreement
may lead to a government shutdown on Oct. 1. Stocks swung
between gains and losses for most of the session before
benchmark indexes turned lower after Bloomberg News reported
that Wal-Mart was cutting orders for this quarter and next.  “We’ve seen a little bit of weakening in the strength of
the consumer recently and Wal-Mart could be a good example of
that, where people are starting to pull back on marginal
purchases,” James W. Gaul, a fund manager at  Boston  Advisors
LLC, which oversees about $2.3 billion from Boston, said in a
phone interview. “We have the usual Washington nonsense with
the potential shutdown in the government. It’s enough items
that, when added together, give the market a little bit of a
pause.”  Government Funding  The U.S. Senate unanimously advanced a stopgap spending
measure after Republican Ted Cruz defied party leaders by
staging an extended speech that lasted more than 21 hours.
Before sending the measure back to the House, Senate Democrats
plan to strip language from the House measure that would choke
off funding for the 2010 health-care law.  Unless an agreement is reached to expedite Senate
consideration of the measure, a vote on passage could occur as
late as Sept. 29. That would give the House just one full
workday to act before spending authority expires.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday that
investor confidence that a deal can be struck to raise the U.S.
debt limit is “a bit greater than it should be.” Lew, who
spoke at the  Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit  in New York yesterday,
said the government probably will have less than $50 billion in
cash by mid-October.  The S&P 500 has retreated 1.9 percent in the past five
sessions, trimming its September  rally  to less than 3.7 percent.  Wal-Mart Orders  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. slumped 1.5 percent for the biggest
drop in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)  The world’s largest
retailer is cutting orders it places with suppliers this quarter
and next to address rising inventories. Last week, an ordering
manager at the company headquarters described the pullback in an
e-mail to a supplier, who said others got similar messages.  “We are looking at reducing inventory for Q3 and Q4,”
said the Sept. 17 e-mail, which was reviewed by Bloomberg News.  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart spokesman, said the order pullback
isn’t “across the board” and is happening “category by
category.”  “In some cases, we’re going to be taking less, in some
we’re going to be taking more,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Market Leaders  Food and consumer-staples retailers, a category that
includes Wal-Mart, lost 0.9 percent for the second-biggest
decline among  24 groups  in the S&P 500. Other S&P 500 retailers
fell 0.8 percent as a group as Family Dollar Stores Inc., Kohl’s
Corp. and Dollar General Corp. all lost at least 1 percent. J.C.
Penney Co., the department-store chain trying to reverse $1.6
billion of losses in the past year, sank 15 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said its liquidity will be strained
this quarter.  Among other stocks moving today, Stryker Corp. slipped 2.9
after agreeing to buy Mako Surgical Corp. for $1.65 billion.
 Carnival Corp. (CCL)  retreated 5.3 percent as analysts cut their
recommendations after the world’s largest cruise-ship operator
forecast a possible quarterly loss. Noble Corp. added 1.8
percent after saying it plans to spin off about half its fleet.  Quarter Rebalance  The S&P 500 has rallied 5.4 percent in the third quarter
while Treasuries retreated 0.1 percent through yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Bank of America
Corp. The divergence will cause some funds to sell stocks and
buy bonds to rebalance asset allocations. UBS AG strategist
Boris Rjavinski projects “significant” outflows from U.S.
equities into Treasuries, with as much as $41 billion in stocks
being sold and up to $22 billion of fixed-income investments
purchased by pension funds.  Fixed-income securities are poised to deliver losses “for
the next couple of years,” according to BlackRock Inc., the
world’s biggest money manager.  “Overall returns of the market will continue to be
negative as monetary policy shifts,” Scott Thiel, deputy chief
investment officer for fundamental fixed income, said at a media
briefing in  London . “The direction of interest rates will be
higher over the next couple of years but the reality is that
that’s not in every single asset class, and not in every single
sector, and in particular, not in every single global market.”  Treasury Auction  Treasuries remained higher today as the U.S. sold $35
billion in five-year notes to stronger demand than at last
month’s offering of the maturity.  The debt drew a yield of 1.436 percent, compared with a
forecast of 1.422 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount sold, was 2.67, versus 2.38 last month and an average of
2.70 at the past 10 sales. Treasuries rose earlier amid bets
U.S. budget talks risk a government shutdown. The Fed declined
last week to slow its bond buying, saying it needs more evidence
of economic gains.  A Bloomberg National Poll showed Americans are losing faith
in the economic recover Twenty-seven percent of poll respondents
anticipate improvement in the U.S. economy’s strength over the
next year, down from 39 percent in the last survey in June,
according to the poll.  Economic Data  Orders for goods such as computers and machinery rose less
than forecast in August, showing a pickup in U.S. business
spending will take time to develop. Bookings for non-military
capital equipment excluding aircraft increased 1.5 percent after
a 3.3 percent drop in July, the Commerce Department reported.
The median forecast of economists in a survey projected a 2
percent gain. A separate report showed purchases of new homes
climbed 7.9 percent to a 421,000 annualized pace.  About three stocks fell for every two that rose in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  slid 2.6 percent as
 Sweden  sold its remaining 7 percent stake in the bank for 21.6
billion kronor ($3.4 billion).  The yen rose 0.3 percent to 98.45 per dollar, appreciating
for a fourth successive day. The U.S. currency weakened 0.4
percent to $1.3526 per euro. The euro was up 0.1 percent at
133.17 yen as it strengthened against 15 of 16 major peers.  Krone Slides  The Norwegian krone slid against 14 of 16 major peers after
a report showed unemployment rose to 3.6 percent in July from a
revised 3.4 percent the previous month. It weakened 0.5 percent
to 6.00601 per dollar and fell 0.9 percent to 8.12348 per euro.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened after the nation’s trade
deficit unexpectedly widened. The so-called kiwi fell 0.4
percent to 82.48 U.S. cents, after a 1.1 percent slide yesterday
that was the biggest loss in a month.  The S&P GSCI Index was up 0.2 percent following a four-day,
2.1 percent drop. The commodity gauge pared gains as West Texas
Intermediate crude erased an advance of as much as 0.8 percent
after government data showed U.S. inventories unexpectedly
increased last week. Crude for November delivery settled down
0.5 percent at $102.66 a barrel, the lowest since July 3, and
has retreated 5 percent in five sessions.  Copper for three-month delivery climbed for the first time
in four days, gaining 0.7 percent to $7,197.50 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange. Aluminum added 0.5 percent to
$1,804.00 a ton, and zinc climbed 0.6 percent to $1,886 a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  