-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Advance on Consumer, Resources
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-25T01:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/most-hong-kong-stocks-advance-on-consumer-resources.html
Most Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with
the city’s benchmark index heading for its first advance in
three days, as consumer shares climbed and raw-material
producers gained after copper and oil futures rebounded.  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 0.2 percent to 23,228.50 as of
9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong, with more than two shares rising for
each that fell. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also
known as the H-share index, added 0.3 percent to 10,626.23.  The Hang Seng Index climbed 6.7 percent this month through
yesterday, poised for its biggest advance since September 2012,
amid signs of economic recovery in China and after the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from cutting stimulus. The equity
benchmark traded at 11.1 times estimated earnings yesterday,
compared with 15.4 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The  H-share index  entered a bull market this month after rebounding
more than 20 percent from a June low.  Futures on the  S&P 500  were little changed. The gauge
yesterday fell for a fourth day from a record high on concern
lawmakers won’t reach a budget deal to avoid a government
shutdown as Republicans seek to defund President  Barack Obama ’s
landmark health care law. The Conference Board’s index of U.S.
 consumer confidence  slumped in September to a four-month low.  The Fed said after its meeting last week that it wants more
signs of strength in the labor market before paring its $85
billion of monthly asset purchases. The central bank is expected
to wait until December before taking the first steps in slowing
stimulus, according to 24 of 41 economists surveyed Sept. 18-19
by Bloomberg News.  Reports gave conflicting views of China’s recovery. The
China Beige Book survey showed the economy slowed this quarter,
and investor  Jim Chanos  told a conference in New York he isn’t
convinced by the nation’s improving fundamentals. State
economist Fan Jianping sees 7.7 percent gross-domestic product
expansion this year, exceeding the state’s 7.5 percent target,
according to a China Securities Journal report.  Raw-material producers rebounded as oil headed for its
first advance in five days and copper futures snapped a three-day loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  