-- Household Net Worth in U.S. Increases by $1.3 Trillion
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-09-25T17:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/household-net-worth-in-u-s-increases-by-1-3-trillion.html
Household wealth in the U.S.
increased from April through June, supported by gains in the
stock and housing markets that are improving Americans’
finances.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups climbed by
$1.34 trillion in the second quarter, or 1.8 percent from the
previous three months, to $74.8 trillion, the  Federal Reserve 
said today from Washington in its financial accounts report,
 previously known  as the flow of funds survey.  Climbing stock prices and rising home values have helped
ease the sting of higher payroll taxes and across-the-board
federal spending cuts this year. Further employment and wage
gains, combined with cheaper borrowing costs made possible by
the Fed’s record monetary stimulus, may provide more room for
improvement in household balance sheets and  consumer spending ,
which makes up 70 percent of the economy.  “This is a really important source of healing,” said
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas
SA in  New York . “The turnaround in the housing market has been
pretty important for consumer balance sheets and the ongoing
performance of the equity markets has been behind it as well.”  Household net worth is $6.7 trillion above its pre-recession peak of $68.1 trillion reached in the third quarter of
2007. It was $73.5 trillion in the first three months of 2013.  The value of financial assets, including stocks and pension
fund holdings, held by American households increased by $674
billion in the second quarter, according to today’s Fed report.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed  2.4 percent from
March 29 through June 28, following a 10 percent increase in the
first quarter.  Home Prices  An improved housing market has also helped support gains in
household worth. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values
in 20 cities rose 12.4 percent in July from the same month in
2012, the most in more than seven years, the group said
yesterday in New York.  Household real-estate assets climbed by $602.3 billion, the
data show. Owners’ equity as a share of total household real-estate holdings increased to 49.8 percent last quarter from 48.1
percent.  The Fed is trying to help preserve gains in household net
worth by maintaining a low interest-rate environment and
continuing stimulus efforts. Labor market conditions are “still
far from what all of us would like to see,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Sept. 18 after a two-day meeting of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , when it unexpectedly refrained from
reducing its $85 billion pace of monthly bond buying.  “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth,” Bernanke said at the time.  Auto Sales  Automakers have also benefited as easy lending conditions
lure buyers to showrooms. The annualized pace of motor vehicle
sales in August exceeded 16 million for the first time in six
years, and deliveries of new cars and light trucks may reach
16.1 million in 2014, according to the average estimate of 13
analysts in a survey by  Bloomberg News .  Household debt climbed at a 0.2 percent annual rate last
quarter, today’s report showed. Mortgage borrowing decreased at
a 1.7 percent pace. Other forms of  consumer credit , including
auto and student loans, increased at a 5.6 percent pace.  Total non-financial debt rose at a 3.1 percent annual pace
last quarter, led by a 6.9 percent increase in business
borrowing followed by a 2.5 percent gain in federal debt. State
and local  government borrowing  climbed at a 1.1 percent pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  