-- How to Avert the Next European Economic Crisis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-25T22:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/how-to-avert-the-next-european-economic-crisis.html
The European Union’s economic
crisis exposed grave flaws in the design of its single-currency
system. A new  report  from the  International Monetary Fund 
examines the biggest of these defects and recommends fundamental
reform: The EU, says the IMF, needs to take a step toward fiscal
union.  It’s not what most European policy makers want to hear. But
it’s advice they should follow.  The IMF’s report shows just how vulnerable the EU was,
fiscally speaking, in 2008 and afterward. In the U.S. -- which
is technically a republic, but can also be viewed as a kind of
economic federation -- shocks at the state and local level can
be cushioned by private and public financial flows. Ownership of
assets is dispersed, which spreads the pain, and distressed
companies and households have a variety of lenders to choose
from. Large-scale government help is crucial as well:
Unemployment insurance, for instance, puts money into hard-hit
areas and meets the cost with federal taxes and borrowing.  In the U.S.,  Canada  and Germany, these offsets can ease
about 80 percent of the shock to local output. In the euro area,
the same channels are only half as effective. Markets aren’t as
well integrated, and when panic spread five years ago, credit
flows within the union contracted sharply just as they were most
needed. Unemployment insurance and other ways to spread risk
were almost non-existent. All this was a formula for catastrophe
-- a catastrophe that parts of the EU continue to endure.  The EU, in its characteristically halting fashion, has
begun building some of these needed props. For instance, plans
are under way for a form of  banking union , which (done right)
would pool resources to support or resolve troubled banks. By
severing the link between banking stress and national solvency,
a union would help to keep governments creditworthy and avoid an
abrupt contraction of credit in future crises.  Outright sharing of fiscal risk, however, is barely being
discussed. The politics are sensitive, and for understandable
reasons. Citizens of creditworthy countries such as Germany
don’t want to find themselves permanently on the hook for
transfers to countries such as  Greece , whose fiscal profligacy
made it, in large part, the author of its own downfall. The
challenge is to make some kind of fiscal union politically
feasible -- which means designing it in such a way that the EU
is not divided into two permanent classes of givers and takers.  There’s more than one way to do this. Full fiscal union
along U.S. or Canadian lines won’t happen -- not until there’s
more  solidarity  in  Europe , which will take years. A better
proposal for now is to create a rainy-day stability fund.
Governments would pay a proportion of their national income into
it, and then draw on it when they encountered economic shocks.
In macroeconomic terms, this would mimic the effect of a shared
unemployment-insurance system.  How big a fund? The IMF estimates that annual contributions
of 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent of GDP would be enough, with time,
to provide the same fiscal cushioning that  Germany  gives its
regions. That seems cheap at the price. Another advantage of
such a plan is that it wouldn’t require collective decisions
about taxes and spending. And this kind of fund would not
persistently move resources from the center to the periphery.
The IMF shows that, had it been in place when the euro was
created in 1999, every country would have benefited at one time
or another.  None of this is to say this idea would be easy to put into
effect. The conditions under which governments could tap the
fund would need to be carefully defined, for instance. These and
other tricky technical issues can be resolved -- but not unless
EU governments are willing to start the discussion. That can’t
happen too soon.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 