-- HP Cuts Ties to Subcontractor After Navy Yard Shooting
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-09-25T23:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/hp-cuts-ties-to-subcontractor-after-navy-yard-shooting.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  cut ties to The
Experts, a Florida subcontractor that had employed the gunman in
the Washington Navy Yard shootings.  “Based on what we now know about The Experts’ conduct,
including its failure to respond appropriately to Aaron Alexis’
mental health issues and certain incidents recently reported in
the press, HP has terminated its relationship with The
Experts,”  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard said in a
statement today.  Hewlett-Packard confirmed its decision after authorities
released more details about Alexis’s rampage at the Navy Yard,
where he killed 12 people before being shot dead by police. He
had believed he was under the control of extremely low frequency
electromagnetic waves, according to the FBI.  “The etching of ‘My ELF weapon!’ on the left side of the
receiver of the Remington 870 shotgun is believed to reference
these electromagnetic waves,” according to a statement released
at a news conference in  Washington  today.  Alexis had been employed by The Experts for about six
months, and he held a secret-level clearance with the military
that would have allowed him access to the base. The company had
been working on a contract to upgrade equipment on the Navy
Marine Corps Intranet network.  Hewlett-Packard “has lost all confidence in The Experts’
ability to meet its contractual obligations,” Henry Dreschler,
director of HP Global Contingent Labor, wrote in a letter today
to Thomas Hoshko, chief executive officer of The Experts.
Hewlett-Packard is the world’s No. 2 personal-computer maker.  Relationship Terminated  “It is clear The Experts failed to meet HP’s
expectations,” Dreschler said in the letter, a copy of which
was obtained by  Bloomberg News . “HP elects to exercise its
right to terminate without cause because it is the most prompt
and efficient way to immediately end the business relationship
between HP and The Experts.”  Telephone and e-mail messages to The Experts, based in  Fort
Lauderdale , weren’t immediately returned.  Valerie Parlave, the assistant director in charge of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Washington field office, said
that investigators have found no evidence that Aaron Alexis
tipped off anyone that he intended to harm people, or that his
victims were specifically targeted.  A week after he began work at the Navy Yard, Alexis entered
the complex on Sept. 16 with a valid security clearance, a
building pass and a gun he had purchased in nearby  Virginia . The
gun barrel and stock had been sawed down, and purple duct tape
covered the end of the stock, Parlave said. Investigators found
that he had purchased a hacksaw at a home improvement store, she
said.  Attack Video  The FBI today released video and photos from the Navy Yard
attack. The video shows a car entering a parking garage and a
man with a backpack entering a building. Later, it shows a man
with a shotgun moving down a hallway while pointing the weapon
at the doorways, then walking down a stairwell to another floor.  An electronic document recovered from Alexis’s belongings
said: “Ultra low frequency attack is what I’ve been subject to
for the last 3 months, and to be perfectly honest that is what
has driven me to this,” according to Parlave.  Such low-frequency technology was used by the Navy for
submarine communications, though Parlave said there are
“conspiracy theories” that it’s used for “government
monitoring and manipulation of unsuspecting citizens.”  Parlave said that on Sept. 13, three days before the
attack, people she didn’t identify addressed a “routine
performance-related issue” with Alexis at work. She said there
was no indication it caused any reaction from him.  Random Targets  “We do not see any one event as triggering his attack,”
and Alexis appeared to have shot people at random, Parlave said.  According to a timeline released by the FBI, Alexis entered
the Navy Yard building at 8:08 a.m. carrying a backpack, entered
a restroom on the fourth floor and came out carrying a shotgun
and no backpack. He shot the first victim at 8:16 a.m. and the
first 911 call was received a minute later.  During approximately the next 40 minutes, Alexis went from
the fourth floor to the third floor, then to the first floor and
went back to the third floor at 8:57 a.m., according to the
timeline. Law enforcement officers shot and killed him on the
third floor at 9:25 a.m., it said.  The Pentagon will take three months to assess security-clearance procedures that failed to catch signs that Alexis was
a potential danger, Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said
today.  Security Procedures  Three separate reviews -- to be conducted by the Defense
Department, an independent panel and the Navy -- will be
completed by November and then compiled into a comprehensive
report that will be submitted to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
by Dec. 20, Carter told reporters at a Pentagon briefing.  The timeline suggests no immediate changes to security
procedures.  An initial Navy review found the service didn’t know of a
2004 incident in which Alexis shot out the tires of a
construction worker’s car in  Seattle . A background report, part
of a 2007 investigation before Alexis was granted a secret-level
clearance, said he was arrested for “deflating” the tires.  That discovery prompted Navy Secretary Ray Mabus to
recommend to Hagel that all investigative reports should include
any available police documents. Carter said that recommendation
would await the reviews now under way.  The review to be conducted by an independent panel will be
headed by retired Admiral Eric Olson, former head of the U.S.
Special Operations Command, and Paul Stockton, former assistant
defense secretary for  homeland security , Carter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  