-- Pakistani Rescuers Search for Survivors From Deadly Quake
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-09-26T13:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/pakistan-earthquake-that-created-new-island-kills-328-people.html
Rescuers led by Pakistan’s military
continued to search for survivors trapped under rubble from a
7.7-magnitude earthquake that killed more than 300 people and
created a new island in the  Arabian Sea .  The death toll from the Sept. 24 temblor rose to 355, with
619 people injured, according to an e-mailed statement from the
National Disaster Management Authority, a government agency.
Suspected militants fired two rockets at a helicopter carrying
the agency’s chief and another senior army officer during an
aerial survey of affected areas, Mir Abdul Quddus Bizenjo,
deputy speaker of the Balochistan Assembly, said by phone. The
rockets missed the target.  A total of 300,000 people lost their homes after the quake
affected an area of 40,000 square kilometers (15,444 square
miles), Jan Muhammad Buledi, spokesman for the Balochistan
government said by phone. That’s an area roughly the size of
 Switzerland . “Medical relief is reaching the areas but we still
have a lot to do,” he said.  The quake struck 41 miles north-northeast of Awaran in
Balochistan province bordering Afghanistan and  Iran , the  U.S.
Geological Survey   said  on its website. An island measuring 100
meters (328 feet) in length emerged off the Gwadar coast after
the temblor, Moazzam Jah Ansari, the district police chief, said
by phone yesterday.  Tents, Supplies  As of yesterday, 700 tents arrived in Awaran along with 513
cartons of food supplies, Naseer Ahmed Mirwani, assistant
commissioner for the district, said by phone.  “We need immediate medical supplies for 10,000 people and
food for at least 100,000,” he said. “There’s not even a glass
here to provide water.”  Sixty army vehicles carrying 600 troops, including doctors
and paramedics, left Karachi yesterday with equipment to set up
field hospitals, food, medicine and tents, Major Waheed Akhtar
Bukhari, a spokesman for the military, said by phone. They will
join 500 personnel already working in the area.  “There are mostly mud houses in the locality and most of
the deaths have been due to roof collapse,”  Syed Wajid Raza ,
the chief of staff at the nation’s Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Authority, said by phone from Islamabad
yesterday.  Balochistan province is Pakistan’s largest in size and
smallest in population. It covers almost 44 percent of the
country’s land area, with a population of about 8 million
people, according to the Provincial Disaster Management
Authority.  Nationalist Insurgency  The nation’s army and security agencies have pushed to curb
a nationalist insurgency in the province since 2006, when tribal
leader Akbar Bugti was killed in a military strike.  No major destruction was reported in Quetta, Balochistan’s
capital, Geo TV reported, citing unidentified rescue officials.
Television images showed people standing outside their homes and
offices in the commercial capital of Karachi, about 580
kilometers away. Other affected cities included Hyderabad,
Sukkur, Larkana, Thatta and Nawabshah, Geo TV reported.  Earthquakes hit  Pakistan  frequently. More than 300 people
were killed when a magnitude 6.4 earthquake struck the Ziarat
and Pishin districts of Balochistan in 2008. At least 86,000
people were killed and more than 69,000 injured when a magnitude
7.6 quake hit northern Pakistan in October 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  