-- Paraguay President Seeks 8% Growth on Investment Surge
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/paraguay-seeks-8-growth-fueled-by-investment-surge-cartes-says.html
Paraguay  President Horacio Cartes
said he will seek annual economic growth of as much as 8 percent
on a sustained basis by boosting infrastructure and agriculture
investments in one of Latin America’s poorest countries.  Cartes, a former tobacco magnate who took office Aug. 15,
said he wants $2.5 billion annually in public and private
investment to boost the land-locked nation’s $26 billion
economy. The world’s fourth-largest soybean exporter, Paraguay
is seeking private investment in irrigation, ports, airports and
highways, while the government will target health, education and
rural roads, he said in an interview.  “We prefer to have a target of 7 to 8 percent growth, on a
permanent basis,” Cartes said yesterday in  New York , where he
is attending the  United Nations  General Assembly meeting. “It’s
almost an obsession. We are confident we can have a good pace of
expansion,” he added, while declining to offer a growth target
for 2013 and 2014.  Paraguay’s  economy  will expand 11 percent this year thanks
to “excellent” agricultural yields, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in June, after contracting more than 1 percent in
2012. Growth is expected to slow to 4.6 percent next year, the
IMF said.  In his first month in office, Cartes imposed a tax on
commodities including soybeans, corn, wheat and sunflowers which
Finance Minister German Rojas said is expected to generate about
$250 million annually by 2015.  Debut Bond Sale  The poorest member of the Mercosur trade bloc with
 Argentina , Brazil, Uruguay and  Venezuela , Paraguay sold  $500
million  of 10-year bonds to yield 4.625 percent in January in a
transaction that marked the country’s debut in the international
 bond market .  Paraguay’s bonds have lost 7.3 percent since Jan. 21,
compared with a 6.9 percent decline in Latin American dollar
debt, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The country is
rated BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , putting it in the same category
as Angola and Vietnam.  The government can tap unused credit lines with
multilateral banks to finance infrastructure plans, Cartes said,
ruling out more bond sales this year. Under a law passed in
2012, the government must earmark over 80 percent of the revenue
generated by hydroelectric energy sales to Brazil from the
Itaipu dam to infrastructure and education. That totaled about
$550 million last year, according to the  United Nations .  Cartes also said he wants to improve the investment climate
in Paraguay, which ranked 103rd out of 185 economies in the
 World Bank ’s annual  “Ease of Doing Business ” report.  “We need to create a country in which it is easy to
invest, easy to move money, with all the controls, where
bureaucracy will not be a big hurdle,” Cartes said. “We want
to modernize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  