-- Paris Wheat Seen Falling on Fibonacci Breach: Technical Analysis
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-09-25T05:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/paris-wheat-seen-falling-on-fibonacci-breach-technical-analysis.html
Milling wheat may slide near the
lowest level in almost two years in Paris if futures breach a
so-called Fibonacci resistance level, according to technical
analysis by Arnaud Saulais at Starsupply Commodity Brokers.  Futures for November delivery on NYSE Liffe traded near
resistance of about 184 euros ($248) a metric ton last week,
representing 23.6 percent of the rally between the contract’s
all-time low on Aug. 14 to a high on Aug. 27, said Saulais, a
broker based in Nyon, Switzerland. That’s one of the levels
singled out in Fibonacci analysis. If prices slide below that
level, the decline may extend to 181.25 euros, the contract’s
low and the least for most-active futures since December 2011,
he said.  “Traders are looking carefully on the November contract at
the low at about 184 euros, which is good support,” Saulais
said by telephone yesterday. “After that would be the zone
around 180 and 181 euros for technical support. If the 180 level
is crossed, we could see further selling pressure on the
market.”  The November contract is down about 3.5 percent since
reaching a five-week high on Aug. 27, with global grain supplies
set to rebound as U.S. farmers begin harvesting the largest corn
crop ever. World production of wheat will be an all-time high of
708.89 million tons as harvests in  Russia  and eastern Europe
recover from dry weather in the previous season, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates.  “The fundamentals are still very bearish,” Saulais said.
“We have quite heavy stocks, and moreover there is harvest
pressure from the corn market, which could add pressure on wheat
as well.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes. Fibonacci
analysis is based on a theory that prices tend to drop or rise
by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  