-- Peru’s Southern Coast Hit by 7-Magnitude Quake Injuring 16
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-09-26T16:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/peru-hit-by-6-8-magnitude-offshore-quake-shaking-lima-buildings.html
A 7-magnitude earthquake struck off
 Peru ’s southern coast yesterday as the South American nation’s
strongest temblor in two years injured 16 people while damaging
homes and schools.  The quake struck at 11:42 a.m. local time, at a depth of 25
miles, the  U.S. Geological Survey  said in a bulletin on its
 website  after initially reporting the magnitude at 6.8. There
were no reports of a tsunami.  Four homes collapsed and scores of houses and school
buildings were damaged by the temblor in Arequipa, 460
kilometers (286 miles) south of Lima, the region nearest the
epicenter, Peru’s civil defense authority Indeci said on its
website.  “Schools were open when this happened and, although there
were a few problems, the fact that we were prepared helped,”
Cabinet Chief Juan Jimenez told Lima-based Radio Programas. “We
can’t drop our guard and we have to continue with the drills
that allow us to be prepared for these situations.”  A report by El Comercio saying three people died when an
underground mine collapsed wasn’t confirmed and may have been
based on poor information, Indeci spokeswoman Soledad Arevalo
said in a phone interview from  Lima  today.  Twelve workers were injured at the mine in Caraveli, a
province in Arequipa, the Lima-based newspaper reported on its
website, citing regional civil defense chief, Miguel Alayza.  Homes Shook  Window panes shattered as homes shook near the epicenter in
the town of Acari, Radio Programas reported. Mayor Carlos Mejia
said the quake left cracks in the walls of buildings and may
have destroyed homes made of adobe mud-bricks in rural areas.  Buildings shook in the capital Lima while some roads were
blocked and towns lost power in parts of Arequipa and the
neighboring Ayacucho region, according to Indeci.  There was “no apparent impact” at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Cerro Verde copper mine in Arequipa, spokesman
 Eric Kinneberg  said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  Peru is the world’s third-largest copper and zinc producer.  Transportadora de Gas del Peru SA’s Camisea gas pipeline
was operating normally after the quake, according to a company
official who asked not to be named citing company policy.  Rocks and boulders fell onto the Pan-American highway in
Arequipa, blocking one lane, the Transport Ministry said in an
e-mailed statement.  2007 Devastation  People ran outside their homes in the city of Ica, about
270 kilometers south of Lima, Radio Programas reported. In 2007,
the area was devastated by Peru’s worst temblor in more than 30
years that killed at least 510 people and left 80,000 homeless.  President  Ollanta Humala  said he would probably cut short a
visit to  New York , where he addressed the United Nations General
Assembly yesterday, his office said in an e-mailed statement.  Humala was scheduled to ring the closing bell at the New
York Stock Exchange at 4 p.m. today.  The sol was unchanged at 2.7630 per dollar at 9:14 a.m. The
 Lima General Index (IGBVL)  climbed 0.2 percent to 16,037.81.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  