-- Pimco Sees Buffett’s India Dream Cut to Junk as Vote Looms
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-26T13:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/pimco-sees-buffett-s-india-dream-cut-to-junk-as-election-looms.html
Little more than two years after
 Warren Buffett  labeled  India  a “dream market,” the economy is
expanding at the slowest pace in a decade and the nation’s debt
ratings are at risk of being cut to junk.  In the last three months,  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and Posco scrapped
plans for $12 billion of investments, while  global funds  pulled
$12.6 billion from Indian stocks and bonds. The exodus drove the
rupee to a record low and caused short-term borrowing costs to
soar, sending the government’s two-year bond yield to the
biggest premium to the 10-year rate in Bloomberg data going back
to 2001. Even Buffett packed up and left, with  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  exiting an insurance distribution venture.  Investors see little prospect of India tackling budget and
current-account deficits that drove the rupee down 20 percent in
two years as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  boosts food subsidies
to woo voters before a May 2014 election.  Standard & Poor’s  said
this month there is more than a one-in-three chance the nation
will lose its investment-grade rating within two years, while
Pacific Investment Management Co. sees a “large” chance of a
cut in as little as 12 months. Last year’s economic growth of 5
percent compares with an  average  7.6 percent in the previous
decade.  “India’s image has been spoiled and I feel the country has
more downside,” Raj Kothari, a fixed-income trader in London at
Sun Global Investments Ltd., said in an interview on Sept. 13.
“We are bearing the brunt of years of wrong fiscal policy. The
government almost settled into inaction. I don’t think global
investors are willing to bet on India in this scenario.”  New Governor  Raghuram Rajan  outlined a plan to give concessional swaps
for banks’ foreign-currency deposits when he took charge as the
23rd governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India on Sept. 4. That,
along with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision this month to
continue monetary stimulus that has buoyed emerging-market
assets, has helped the rupee pare some losses. Foreign funds
have bought a net $2.04 billion worth of Indian shares in
September and outflows from debt have slowed to $594.6 million.  The rupee has rallied 5.8 percent in September, after a 14
percent slide in the previous three months that was the worst
performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  of local shares has climbed 6.8
percent this month as Rajan’s measures and the Fed’s policy
boosted inflows. It fell 5.8 percent in the June-August period.  India’s smallest companies are trailing its biggest
corporations by the most since 2006 in the stock market. The S&P
BSE Small-Cap Index, a gauge of 431 companies with a median
market value of $91 million, has tumbled 26 percent this year,
compared with a 2.4 percent advance in the Sensex, where the
median value of 30 firms is $16.9 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Rate Surprise  Rajan unexpectedly raised the benchmark repurchase rate to
7.5 percent from 7.25 percent last week to rein in inflation and
eased some of the cash curbs the central bank, under his
predecessor  Duvvuri Subbarao , imposed to support the currency.  Investors remain skeptical whether the RBI alone can fix
the economy, which Goldman Sachs Group Inc. predicts will expand
4 percent in the fiscal year through March. While the rupee has
rebounded 11 percent from an unprecedented 68.845 per dollar on
Aug. 28, Goldman sees a decline to 72 by the first quarter of
2014. Macquarie Group Ltd. predicts a drop to 75.  “Investors, it seems, have some expectations from the new
governor, but India faces long-term issues and they can’t be
solved in a short period of time,” Kim Jin Ha, the Seoul-based
head of global fixed income at Mirae Asset Global Investments
Group, which managed $56.25 billion worldwide  as of  July 31,
said in a Sept. 17 interview. “Policy action not coordinated
with local government might bring another headwind.”  Corruption, Inflation  Weakened by corruption scandals and the loss of allies,
Singh’s government has passed the fewest bills ever by an
administration sitting a five-year term. That is allowing
imbalances to build in Asia’s third-largest economy.  The current-account  deficit  widened to a record 4.8 percent
of gross domestic product in the fiscal year ended March 31,
while the 4.9 percent shortfall in public  finances  was the
highest among the four largest developing nations. The  World
Bank  estimates more than 800 million people live on less than $2
per day in India, where  consumer-price  inflation has held close
to 10 percent for more than a year.  Data this month showed gains in  wholesale prices 
unexpectedly accelerated to a six-month high of 6.1 percent in
August. Every 10 percent decline in the rupee adds as much as 80
basis points, or 0.80 percentage point, to wholesale-price
inflation, Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates show.  Crisis Concern  The rupee’s tumble prompted comparisons with the balance of
payments crisis India faced in 1991, when the government
airlifted gold to pledge as collateral for an International
Monetary Fund  loan  as foreign-exchange reserves slid. India
won’t face a repeat of that situation as it has enough reserves
for about seven months of imports, compared with 15 days back
then, Singh said last month. The nation had a $247 billion
currency  stockpile  as of Sept. 13.  “In the near term, we are more cautious on India,” Roland Mieth, senior vice president of  emerging markets  at PIMCO Asia
Pte Ltd., a unit of the company that runs the world’s biggest
bond fund, said in an interview in  Singapore  on Sept. 16.
“Although an outright credit default remains unlikely, the
chance of a sovereign downgrade by one of the major credit
agencies is large in the next 12-18 months.”  Inverted Curve  A cash crunch created by the RBI to shore up the  exchange
rate  caused short-term  interest rates  to exceed long-term ones,
inverting the yield curve that gauges the length of investment
against returns. Three-month government debt costs jumped to as
high as 12 percent at the end of August, from 7.31 percent three
months earlier. Two-year bond yields exceeded 10-year rates by
as much as 272 basis points on July 31. Notes due in a decade
pay 8.72 percent, compared with 2.63 percent in the U.S., 0.69
percent in Japan and 3.98 percent in China.  Inverted yield curves typically reflect investors’ lack of
confidence in an economy and presaged bailouts in Europe in the
past three years. Greece’s two-year debt started paying more
than 10-year securities a month before the government sought
financial aid for the first time in 2010, while Portugal’s curve
inverted a week before it sought a rescue.  India aims to narrow the budget gap to 4.8 percent of GDP
in the fiscal year ending March 2014. That goal looks difficult
to achieve as government spending increases, according to UBS
AG. Singh’s administration has proposed a $21 billion-a-year
program to provide about two-thirds of India’s 1.2 billion
people with low-cost grains.  Falling Confidence  “I am quite surprised that the downgrade hasn’t
happened,”  Bhanu Baweja , the global head of emerging-market
cross-asset strategy at UBS in London, said in a Sept. 11
interview with Bloomberg TV India.  Standard Chartered Plc cut its forecast last month for
gains in India’s gross domestic product in the year through
March 2014 to 4.7 percent from 5.5 percent. CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets and Goldman Sachs have lowered their estimates twice
this quarter with CLSA now expecting 4.2 percent. Singh’s
economic advisory body reined in its growth forecast this month
and signaled interest rates wouldn’t fall until the rupee
stabilizes and inflation eases.  “With the right mix of reforms and improvements in
governance, GDP growth could stabilize in years to come provided
macro policy remains prudent,” PIMCO’s Mieth said.  Savings Pool  India’s domestic savings have helped cap increases in
public debt costs and the economy’s limited reliance on foreign
borrowings has made it less vulnerable to  currency risk ,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “Because of relatively high savings, the yields paid by
the government haven’t shot up so dramatically that its
repayment capacity is at risk,” Atsi Sheth, an analyst in New
York at Moody’s, said in a Sept. 18 interview. “The rupee
depreciation doesn’t significantly and immediately affect India
because foreign-currency debt is about 6 percent of its total
debt.”  Gross national savings as a percentage of India’s GDP stood
at 29.8 percent at the end of December 2012, International
Monetary Fund data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 13.1 percent in the U.S., 15.4 percent for Brazil, 28.5
percent for Russia and 49.5 percent for China.  SBI Downgrade  Moody’s, which rates India Baa3, said in a report last
month that expansion of food subsidies is credit negative as it
will exacerbate the government’s weak finances. The company cut
its senior unsecured debt and local-currency deposit ratings on
 State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, to Baa3 from
Baa2 on Sept. 23. It also changed the outlook on its D+
financial-strength ranking to negative from stable, citing the
worsening economy as a reason.  “The SBI downgrade may affect India through the equity
channel as outflows will affect the rupee,”  Vishnu Varathan , an
economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in Singapore said on Sept. 24.
“Some investors also perceive porous linkages between SBI and
the sovereign,” renewing concern that India’s credit rating may
be downgraded, he said.  Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds of the government-controlled  State Bank , a proxy for the sovereign, rose 106 basis
points last month to 365 in the biggest jump since 2008,
according to data provider CMA.  Rupee Swings  India may have to draw $9 billion from its reserves to fund
the current-account deficit, Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman
of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said in a
report released Sept. 13.  Options signal rupee swings will widen, boosting investors’
risk. The currency’s one-month implied volatility has jumped to
15.49 percent from this year’s low of 7.53 percent in April. The
gauge of expected swings in exchange rates is quoted as part of
options prices.  “India is not in a good place at all,” said UBS’s Baweja.
“Given that a downgrade hasn’t happened so far and the economy
is already on its knees, it’s difficult to know what the
incremental negative could be from here. It could be massive
capital flight from all the foreigners; that would certainly do
it for many of these rating agencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  