-- Polish Rail to Sell Cargo Unit in Biggest IPO This Year
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-09-25T08:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/polish-rail-to-sell-cargo-unit-in-biggest-warsaw-ipo-this-year.html
Polskie Koleje Panstwowe SA, the
Polish state railway, will sell a stake in its freight
transportation unit in the fourth quarter in the country’s
biggest initial public offering in almost a year.  The railway will keep a majority holding in PKP Cargo SA
after the IPO and give away a stake to its employees, Cargo said
in an e-mailed statement today. It may raise as much as 1.65
billion zloty ($526 million) from the sale of its most
profitable subsidiary, Puls Biznesu reported on July 11, without
saying where it got the information. The company, which is
Deutsche Bahn AG’s biggest competitor in the European Union,
didn’t comment on the value of the deal in the statement today.  “PKP Cargo may be the EU’s first rail freight company
operator to be floated,” PKP Chief Executive Officer Jakub Karnowski said in the statement. “Our strategically important
location at the crossroads of numerous railway routes and
planned massive modernizations of rail infrastructure should be
of particular interest.”  PKP has been selling subsidiaries and real-estate assets in
past years to reduce debt. Its biggest transactions included the
sale of a cable car operator this year and a rail-building
company in 2011. Cargo’s IPO will be the largest since Alior
Bank SA’s 2.1 billion-zloty offering in December.  Foreign Expansion  Warsaw-based Cargo had a 60.3 percent share in the Polish
market in 2012 and controlled 8.5 percent of total rail freight
in the EU, it said in the statement. That compares with DB
Schenker’s 28 percent and 5.4 percent shares in the EU and
Poland, respectively.  The company, which holds licenses to provide services in
Slovakia, the Czech Republic,  Germany ,  Austria , Belgium and
 Hungary , will continue expansion abroad and may consider
takeovers of foreign competitors to quicken growth, Chief
Executive Officer Lukasz Boron said in e-mailed responses to
Bloomberg questions today.  “Our share in the rail freight market abroad is rising
fast but the business is still too small to satisfy our
expectations,” Boron said. “We want to increase our share in
foreign freight markets.”  First-half net income slumped 44 percent to 76.8 million
zloty as revenue fell 9.2 percent to 2.29 billion zloty amid the
country’s economic slowdown, it said in the statement. Hard coal
shipping accounted for 43 percent and building materials for 14
percent of its total freight.  Employees’ Shares  Cargo may see its costs falling next year after Polish
railroad operator, PKP PLK SA, proposed cutting access fees by
20 percent. Cargo pays PLK about 1 billion zloty annually.  As part of a settlement deal with unions this month, Cargo
employees will get 165 million zloty of shares after the IPO
free of charge. They won’t be allowed to sell the stock for the
next two years, according to today’s statement. PKP also planned
to sell a stake in Cargo to  the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development , CEOKarnowski said in May.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley and PKO Bank
Polski SA are joint global coordinators and joint bookrunners in
the IPO. Ipopema Securities SA, Raiffeisen Centrobank AG and
UniCredit SpA are joint bookrunners, while Dom Inwestycyjny
Investors SA and Mercurius Dom Maklerski SA are acting as
domestic co-bookrunners.  Poland  this year sold to the public a stake in property
developer Grupa PHN SA and plans to offer power utility Energa
SA in the fourth quarter to help finance the budget deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  