-- Postal Board Recommends Above-Inflation Price Increases
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-25T17:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/postal-board-recommends-above-inflation-price-increases.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , after
failing to get congressional support to change its business
model, should raise postage rates beyond the rate of inflation,
its board said. A sponsor of postal legislation called the move
a “desperate cry for help.”  The service’s board said it wants to raise the price of a
first-class stamp three cents, or 6.5 percent, to 49 cents and
to increase rates for magazines, advertising mail and packages
more than is allowed without consulting the service’s regulator.  “Of the options currently available to the Postal Service
to align costs and revenues, increasing postage prices is a last
resort that reflects extreme financial challenges,” Postal
Service Board Chairman Mickey Barnett said in a  letter  sent to
postal customers today.  The board may reconsider if Congress passes postal
legislation, he said.  The price-increase plan, for which the board will seek
approval from the U.S. Postal Regulatory Commission, is the
latest volley from the service on how it plans to close its
budget gap. Earlier this year, it backed off its plan to defy
the law and end Saturday mail delivery.  The board met yesterday and today in a closed-door meeting
in  Washington . The service had said it would consider raising
rates as it expects a $6 billion loss this year following a
$15.9 billion loss last year. The rate increase would generate
an additional $2 billion in revenue annually, the board said.  Greeting Cards  The service, which is supposed to fund its operations
through postage sales, is allowed by law to raise most rates --
including those for the price of a stamp for a letter -- each
year by no more than the rate of  inflation .  A Washington-based trade group whose members include
Hallmark Cards Inc., the closely held greeting-card company,
said the postal regulator should stop the increase.  “Raising rates or cutting critical services will
exacerbate the Postal Service’s current predicament by driving
away much-needed mail volume to other competitors,” Rafe
Morrissey, vice president of postal affairs or the Greeting Card
Association, said today in an e-mailed statement. “Pursuing
both simultaneously, as some propose, is a recipe for
disaster.”  A group representing magazine publishers said a rate
increase will worsen the decline in mail volume.  “No private company would increase prices when sales are
already plummeting,” Mary Berner, chief executive officer of
the Association of Magazine Media, said in an e-mail. “The
board’s request -- if approved by the Postal Regulatory
Commission -- will cause significant declines in mail volume and
further job losses across the industry without addressing the
USPS’s core issues.”  ‘Serious Cost’  The trade association, based in  New York , includes
Bloomberg Businessweek among the 175 media companies
representing 900 titles that are members. Bloomberg Businessweek
is owned by Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  The top Democrat and top Republican on the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee, which oversees the Postal
Service, issued statements saying the postal board plan shows
Congress needs to act.  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
has sponsored legislation to change the Postal Service business
model, called the plan a “desperate cry for help.” Issa,
chairman of the House panel, said the board’s plan should
motivate Congress to pass legislation allowing the Postal
Service to cut costs in ways that include ending Saturday
delivery.  ‘Comprehensive Reform’  “I empathize with their decision, but this comes at a
serious cost,” Issa said in an e-mail. “If implemented,
today’s announcement may ease the financial burden on USPS in
the very near term. But this rate hike and the ones sure to
follow will only push more and more private-sector customers to
stop using the mail altogether.”  Representative  Elijah Cummings , the panel’s ranking
Democrat, said the Postal Service can’t solve its financial
problems alone.  “It is Congress’ responsibility to put the Postal Service
back on the path to solvency by passing a comprehensive reform
bill that encourages innovation and new product development,”
Cummings, of  Maryland , said in an e-mail.  The price increases would take effect Jan. 26, 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  