-- Prime Office Shareholders Approve Combination With Oaktree Unit
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-09-25T06:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/prime-office-shareholders-approve-combination-with-oaktree-unit.html
Prime Office REIT-AG (PMO)  shareholders
approved a plan to combine with  Oaktree Capital Group LLP’s (OAK) 
German Real estate unit, creating a company with about 2.2
billion euros ($3 billion) of office properties.  At a meeting in Munich yesterday, 79.8 percent of the Prime
Office investors present voted in favor of the deal, the company
said in a statement after the market closed. Oaktree’s OCM
German Real Estate Holdings AG will own 61 percent of the
combined company, which will raise as much as 175 million euros
by issuing new shares once the deal has closed.  The merger will help address Prime Office’s liquidity
shortage and improve measures, including the vacancy rate, that
have depressed its share price. OCM, widely known as German
Acorn Real Estate GmbH, the name of its operating unit, has a
vacancy rate of 13 percent compared with Prime Office’s 22
percent. That brings the average for the combined company to 16
percent, according to a presentation to shareholders published
in September.  Prime Office’s  shares  have dropped about 51 percent since
they were first listed in 2011. The stock rose 1.9 percent to
3.31 euros in Frankfurt trading yesterday.  OCM owns office buildings in cities including Dusseldorf
and Hamburg valued at about 1.5 billion euros, according to its
website. Prime Office owns buildings in Stuttgart and Frankfurt
worth 700 million euros.  “A combination makes sense,” Kai Klose, an analyst at
Berenberg Bank, said before the meeting. “Investors will have
their stakes diluted, but the entity created as a result will be
much more profitable.”  Prime Office didn’t raise sufficient cash in its 2011
initial public offering to “create a robust balance sheet” and
keep its debt ratio high enough to comply with German real
estate investment trust law, according to a company presentation
published in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  