-- Prokhorov’s Onexim Said to Weigh Bid to Acquire Uralkali Stake
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I r i n a   R e z n i k
-- 2013-09-25T10:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/prokhorov-s-onexim-said-to-weigh-bid-to-acquire-uralkali-stake.html
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s
Onexim Group is among potential bidders for billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s stake in potash producer OAO Uralkali, according to
three people with direct knowledge of the matter.  Prokhorov, who sold his 38 percent of  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PGIL)  to associates of Kerimov in February, hasn’t
made a formal offer, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the information is private. Kerimov is seeking a
price based on a market value of more than $20 billion for the
company as a whole, they said. That would be at least a 28
percent premium to today’s share price.  Kerimov, who controls 33 percent in Uralkali with two
business partners, began receiving offers from potential buyers
after Belarus arrested Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner on Aug. 26, a month after he pulled out of
a marketing joint venture that controlled 40 percent of the
global exports of the crop nutrient.  Uralkali has a market value of about $16 billion based on
today’s share price, down more than 6 percent in  London  from
July 29, the day before it exited the trading partnership and
said it would ramp up output, eroding potash prices. The stock
plummeted 19 percent on July 30.  Prokhorov’s company, which sold its Polyus stake for $3.62
billion, is the only potential bidder for Uralkali that has cash
for the deal, said Kirill Chuyko, BCS Financial Group’s head of
equity research in Moscow.  Kogan, Gutseriev  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President Vladimir Putin, is the leading bidder, people said on
Sept. 13. Other potential approaches may come from billionaires
 Mikhail Gutseriev  and Vladimir Evtushenkov, Forbes Russia
reported this month, citing people it didn’t identify.  “Kogan looks like the preferred bidder, given that he has
political backing,” Chuyko said by phone. “Prokhorov is just
studying the option, but is unlikely to proceed if Kerimov
insists on the premium.”  Anton Averin, a spokesman for Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva,
declined to comment, as did Andrey Belyak, an Onexim spokesman.  Onexim weighed a purchase of Uralkali in 2010, stepping
back to allow the purchase by Kerimov, who was Prokhorov’s
partner in Polyus Gold at the time.  Kerimov and his partners’ stake will rise to 38 percent
after Uralkali fulfills a pledge to cancel about 12.4 percent of
its shares held as treasury. Chengdong Investment Corp., a unit
of sovereign wealth fund China Investment Corp., which exchanged
bonds for a 12.5 percent stake in Uralkali yesterday, will hold
about 14 percent.  Baumgertner continues to be held in a Belarus KGB prison,
charged with abuse of office as chairman of the trading joint
venture, Belarusian Potash Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Reznik in Moscow at 
 ireznik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  