-- Qatar Petroleum Joins Gulf IPO Revival as Dubai Shares Surge
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-09-26T11:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/qatar-petroleum-sparks-ipo-revival-in-gulf-as-dubai-shares-surge.html
Qatar Petroleum  and Just Falafel
are leading companies in the  Persian Gulf  out of a four-year
drought in initial public offerings, tapping demand that pushed
Dubai’s equity index up the most in 2013 among major markets.  Qatar Petroleum, the state-run energy company, plans to
raise 3.2 billion riyals ($879 million) from a share sale in
unit Mesaieed Petrochemical Holding Co. next quarter, two people
with knowledge of the plan said this week.  Just Falafel , the
fast food chain that plans to expand its more than 40
restaurants, is considering the sale of a 25 percent stake this
year, two people aware of the matter said last week.  “There is significant pent up demand and if this next
cohort can raise at reasonable valuations and perform well, many
more may follow,” Emad Mostaque, a London-based strategist at
Noah Capital Markets, said by e-mail Sept. 23. “Companies need
cash for expansion and valuations are now reasonable again to
raise equity capital.”  The DFM General Index has surged 69 percent this year, more
than any benchmark measure in the 50 largest equity markets
globally, pushing valuations to near a five-year high, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Abu Dhabi  Securities Market
General Index, the next biggest gainer, is up 46 percent. Gulf
Cooperation Council companies raised an average $1.33 billion
through domestic IPOs in the four years to 2012, down about 80
percent from the previous four years, the data show.  Values Rise  Stocks across the region are rallying as economic growth
accelerates, spurred by  oil prices  that have risen above $100
per barrel and expansionary fiscal policies following protests
during the so-called Arab Spring. The gains are encouraging
companies to sell shares after trading volumes and valuations
plummeted following the global financial crisis.  Abu Dhabi’s benchmark has a  price-to-book  value of 1.4
after rebounding from a low of 0.95 in January, while the
measure is at 1.1 for Dubai.  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  has climbed 15 percent in 2013, with book
values up 12 percent from an April low. The index has declined
2.9 percent this week on news of Qatar Petroleum’s plans.  “There is weakness evident in Qatar as predominantly
locals investors trim positions in order to have cash ready to
deploy in the eagerly anticipated Mesaieed IPO,”  Julian Bruce ,
head of institutional trading at EFG-Hermes UAE Ltd. in Dubai,
said today in e-mailed comments.  MSCI Upgrade  Senaat, a government-owned holding company in Abu Dhabi,
hired banks for an IPO, two people with knowledge of the
appointments, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private, said this month. A Senaat spokeswoman didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  National Takaful Co. (WATANIA)  was the
last company to list in Abu Dhabi in November 2011.  The IPO of Just Falafel would be the first in Dubai since
 Drake & Scull International (DSI)  raised 1.2 billion dirhams ($327
million) in March 2009. A call and e-mails to Just Falafel
weren’t returned.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  said in June it will raise the  United Arab
Emirates  and Qatar to emerging market status from frontier
rankings in May 2014. The upgrade will bring in an estimated
$175 million from  exchange traded funds  to Qatar and $170
million to the U.A.E., Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a
research note Sept. 23.  “Getting the emerging market status will lower the cost of
equity,” Talal Touqan, the head of research at Al Ramz
Securities LLC, said by phone from Abu Dhabi Sept. 23. “Lower
cost of capital is the driver for a potential revival of IPOs.”  ‘Not Successful’  Some companies are choosing not to list locally. Gulf
Capital, an Abu Dhabi-based private equity house, hired
Rothschild to advise on a  London  IPO for its Gulf Marine unit,
Chief Executive Officer Karim El Solh said in a phone interview
Sept. 16. The Abraaj Group, a Dubai buyout firm managing $7.5
billion of assets, is also planning an IPO in the U.K. capital
for its Stanford Marine Group, a person familiar with the plan
said Sept. 15. A spokeswoman for Abraaj declined to comment.  Companies are encouraged by the success of  NMC Health Plc (NMC) ’s
listing overseas, Noah  Capital Markets ’ Mostaque said. The
U.A.E.-based health-care provider raised 117 million pounds
($188 million) selling 55.7 million shares in London at 210
pence each in April 2012. The shares were at 328.3 at 12:36 p.m.
in London.  IPOs in the region proved less attractive for investors in
recent years. Dubai-based  Depa Ltd. (DEPA) , which fits out building
interiors, sold stock on Nasdaq Dubai in 2008 at $1.55 a share.
The company now trades at 46 cents. DP World Ltd., the Dubai
company that operates ports from  Europe  to  Asia ,  consolidated 
shares in 2011 after they tumbled.  In the U.A.E., “people still think of the stories of Depa,
or DP World, which were not successful listings,” said Touqan.  ‘Anchor IPO’  Al Habtoor Group LLC, which includes hospitality, real
estate and automotive divisions and was valued at $6 billion by
accounting firm  Grant Thornton  last year, said last week it’s
unlikely to revisit IPO plans before 2016.  Doha-based Qatar Petroleum hired Qatar National Bank SAQ to
manage the sale of Mesaieed and Deutsche Bank AG as financial
adviser, the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public, said this week. A spokesman for Qatar
Petroleum didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Just Falafel hired HK Advisory Services Ltd. to manage the
potential listing on Nasdaq Dubai, according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  The regional markets just require one “anchor IPO” to
trigger a new wave of share sales, Al Ramz Securities’ Touqan
said. “We need to register one success story, then we might see
20 or 30 companies listing within one year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  