-- Trace Illuminating 144As Portends Broker Squeeze: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-09-25T15:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/trace-illuminating-144as-portends-broker-squeeze-credit-markets.html
Corporate-bond brokers may face a
squeeze on profits as regulators start publishing prices for
almost $1 trillion of privately sold debt, if the past is any
guide.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, seeking to
“foster more competitive pricing,” plans to start
disseminating trading levels for securities issued under a rule
known as 144a on its 11-year-old Trace system within the next
year. That means the notes, sold only to institutional
investors, will face the same price transparency as publicly
registered corporate bonds for which buyers demand half a
percentage point less in yield spreads. Brokers typically are
paid larger fees from higher-yielding debt.  Firms from Knight Capital Group Inc. to Gleacher & Co. and
Pierpont Securities LLC sold or shuttered credit units this year
as corporate-bond trading volumes fell to the lowest proportion
of the market on record and smaller  price swings  shrink
potential profit margins. In the 90 days after Trace started
disseminating prices of  junk bonds , trading in the securities
dropped 41 percent, according to  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  and Harvard University researchers.  Market Insecurity  “You get a certain amount of insecurity because of how
opaque this market has been,” Ari Gabinet, OppenheimerFunds
Inc.’s general counsel in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Without active market information, you don’t have a
good way of assessing your execution.”  Sprint Corp. and Tenet Healthcare Corp. are among companies
that have issued bonds under the 144a rule this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities have grown to
account for 33 percent of dollar-denominated  junk-bond trading ,
the greatest percentage on record and up from about 25 percent a
year ago, Barclays Plc data show.  There are as much as $300 billion of speculative-grade
notes in the U.S. filed under the rule, and about $670 billion
of dollar-denominated investment-grade corporate bonds,
according to Barclays.  Investors are demanding an average of 54 basis points, or
0.54 percentage point, more yield to own speculative-grade 144a
bonds, which require less financial disclosure than publicly
registered securities, Barclays data show.  Cost Savings  By selling bonds under Securities Act Rule 144a, corporate
borrowers can avoid filing financial disclosures as long as they
sell the notes only to qualified institutional buyers, saving
them money otherwise spent on regulatory compliance. That often
leads to higher yields to compensate investors for the reduced
transparency and liquidity that can make it tougher to sell the
bonds.  The change will “enhance pre-trade price discovery, foster
more competitive pricing, reduce costs to investors and assist
market participants in determining the quality of their
executions,” Finra said in a July 17 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, asking for approval to
expand Trace to include price dissemination on 144a bonds.  “The Trace expansion is coming at a time when dealers
already are dealing with increased legal, compliance and other
costs, including tightening capital regulation,” said Russell Sacks, a partner at law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP. “You can
see how small dealers especially, but dealers of any kind, would
see themselves as being under pressure from both sides.”  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  plans to
sell bonds in a two-part offering that includes its second 30-year securities this year. China National Offshore Oil Corp.,
parent of the nation’s biggest offshore energy explorer Cnooc
Ltd., signed $3 billion of syndicated loans with 11 banks.  The cost to protect against losses on U.S. corporate debt
was little changed. The Markit CDX North American Investment
Grade Index, a credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use
to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 0.3 basis point to a mid-price of 78.7 basis points as
of 11:55 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 0.2 to 97.7.  Verizon Bonds  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 2 basis points to 13.25 basis points,
reaching the lowest intraday level since Sept. 16. The gauge
typically narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 7.7 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, Trace data show. The New York-based telephone
carrier raised $49 billion on Sept. 11 in the largest corporate
 bond issue  ever.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,  intends to issue 
senior unsecured debt due in December 2018 and October 2043,
according to a person with knowledge of the sale, who asked not
to be identified because terms aren’t set. Wal-Mart has $44.2
billion of  bonds outstanding , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  China Offshore  The offering will be of benchmark size, typically at least
$500 million, the person said. Wal-Mart is rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and an equivalent AA at Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings.  China National Offshore Oil obtained $2 billion in a one-year term facility and $1 billion in a five-year term portion,
according to three people familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the details are private. The deal
was signed on Sept. 17, they said.  The company completed the loan as the oil and gas producer
seeks to raise even more debt. The company is considering
selling U.S. dollar-denominated bonds and has hired banks to
arrange meetings with investors in  Europe  and the U.S., a person
familiar with the matter said last week.  The lenders are  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Bank of America Corp., Bank of China Ltd., Barclays, China
Construction Bank Corp., Citigroup Inc.,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , HSBC Holdings Plc, Mizuho
Bank Ltd. and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., the people said.  Dissenting Opinion  Finra’s plan to publish trade information for 144a bonds,
the first expansion of Trace’s corporate-debt offerings since
2006, drew a dissenting opinion from the  Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association . Disseminating the privately sold
debt’s pricing “is not appropriate or necessary at this time,”
Sifma’s Chris Killian wrote in a Nov. 16 comment letter, citing
“concerns around changes in market liquidity and the impact of
many regulatory changes.”  The SEC approved Finra’s plan to publicly report trades of
144a corporate bonds this month. Finra has until Nov. 6 to
release a schedule for its implementation, which then must take
effect within 270 days of the publication of that regulatory
notice.  Trace reporting, which was introduced in 2002, has
contributed to a reduction in trading of corporate bonds while
cutting price volatility in the market, researchers at MIT and
Harvard said earlier this month in a study of Finra data. Junk-bond trading fell 41.3 percent and price dispersion shrank 24.7
percent in the 90 days after the final phase of Trace’s
implementation started, according to the study.  Trading Volumes  “As with all fixed income, you’re talking about an asset
class that’s thinly traded,” said Mark Hepsworth, president of
pricing and reference data for Interactive Data Corp. “The more
market color can be shared the better. We think it can be a
contributing factor in increasing trading liquidity.”  Trading volumes have dropped to 0.3 percent of the $5.4
trillion corporate-bond market in the U.S., about the lowest
proportion ever, as transactions fail to keep pace with
unprecedented issuance. After reaching a record-low 3.35 percent
on May 2, yields on securities issued by the riskiest to the
most-creditworthy borrowers are holding more than a percentage
point below the average of 5.18 percent since 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt instead of
similar-maturity Treasuries has plunged 586 basis points during
the same period to 218 basis points, reducing the potential
margin for broker profits.  Pierpont, Gleacher  The difference between prices at which brokers will buy and
sell bonds typically widens as yields increase and tighten as
they decline. The MarketAxess High-Grade Bid-Ask Spread Index,
which gauges liquidity in U.S. corporate bonds, plunged to 8.18
on Sept. 23 from 42.6 on Nov. 3, 2008. In that period, yields on
the debt dropped to 4.09 percent from 10.96 percent, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield
Index.  Stamford , Connecticut-based Pierpont, one of the dealers
started after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
decided to exit the high-yield bond and loan business this
month. New York-based Gleacher said in April that it was exiting
fixed-income trading and sales. Knight in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey , sold its credit-brokerage unit to Stifel Financial
Corp., according to a July 1 statement.  Capital Rules  Jefferies Group LLC, the investment bank owned by Leucadia
National Corp., said profit plunged 83 percent in the three
months ended Aug. 31 as trading revenue fell to the lowest since
the depths of the financial crisis.  “We’re in a more regulated world,” said Eric Gross, a
credit strategist at Barclays in New York.  As the 27-country Basel Committee for Banking Supervision
increased capital withholding standards for banks, the 21
primary dealers authorized to trade with  Federal Reserve  have
cut corporate-debt holdings 11 percent, to $16.6 billion on
Sept. 11, from $18.7 billion on April 3. That follows a 76
percent reduction in inventories from the peak in 2007 through
March, when the Fed changed the way it reported the data.  “It’s a balance between consolidation in the brokerage
industry and inefficient business models,” OppenheimerFund’s
Gabinet said. “When the balance gets out of whack in either
direction, those markets get squeezed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  