-- Rajoy Says He Knows Nothing of Evidence Tampering
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n ,   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-09-26T10:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/rajoy-says-he-knows-nothing-of-evidence-tampering-in-graft-probe.html
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said he has no knowledge of whether party officials
working for him destroyed evidence sought by the National Court
as part of a corruption investigation.  Speaking in an interview with Bloomberg Television, Rajoy
answered questions for the first time about a probe into a
possible cover up, after the party failed to hand over hard
drives required by a judge investigating graft allegations.  “I don’t know if they were there, if they had been there,
or if someone removed them,” Rajoy, 58, said in New York
yesterday. “I absolutely do not know.”  Rajoy is facing a slump in his popularity and calls from
the opposition to resign as the court investigates whether
officials from the governing People’s Party, including the
premier, received payments from a secret slush fund. He has
repeatedly refused to answer questions from lawmakers on the
main corruption probe since Aug. 1, when he denied the
accusations in Parliament.  Judge Pablo Ruz last week asked a lower court to begin a
separate criminal probe into the possible cover-up. Ruz is
leading the broader investigation, in which former party
treasurer Luis Barcenas, who is now in jail on remand, told the
National Court he helped run the slush fund.  Missing Drives  Barcenas said the computers he left at the party
headquarters contained evidence to bolster his allegations,
according to documents from the judge. When the court received
the laptops, their original hard drives were missing, the Sept.
18 document showed.  “There is gap between what can be legally proven and
common sense,” said Alejandro Quiroga, a senior lecturer in
Spanish history at Newcastle University in  England . “It’s quite
difficult to prove judicially that Rajoy was aware of the
destruction or disappearance of the hard drives.”  Rajoy also denied using funds illegally raised by Barcenas
to finance the election campaign that brought him to power in
2011.  “There hasn’t been any illegal financing,” Rajoy said.
“There are things that can’t be proven.”  Economic Recovery  The premier is trying to stave off corruption allegations
dragging down support for his government even as the economy
stabilizes and its  borrowing  costs, which in 2012 threatened to
push the nation into a sovereign bailout, decline. Exports are
surging and the government expects the economy to grow next
year, helping erode the 26 percent unemployment rate.  “Today the debate is no longer about whether Spain will be
rescued or if the euro has a future,” Rajoy said. “Spain is
coming out of the recession and next year there will significant
growth.”  “Rajoy’s strategy is to underestimate the corruption cases
while hoping to win people’s forgiveness by resolving the
economic crisis,” said Gonzalo Bernardos, an economics
professor at Barcelona University.  In testimony in July, Barcenas named Rajoy among PP
officials who benefited from the party slush fund. He gave the
National Court handwritten ledgers to back up his claims.  “We will do everything necessary to contribute so that the
truth can be cleared up as soon as possible,” Rajoy told
parliament on Aug. 1, testifying on the corruption allegations.
“The judge has not been refused anything that he has requested
up to this point.”  Most Spaniards said they didn’t believe him, according to a
poll for El Mundo newspaper conducted following his speech. The
main opposition Socialist Party edged ahead of Rajoy’s PP in a
poll this month for the first time since suffering its worst
ever election defeat in 2011.  Court officials inspected the two computers the PP handed
over on Aug. 19 and found the hard drive of one of them had been
removed and another had its original drive replaced with a
larger disc of a different brand, Ruz said in his ruling. PP
Deputy Party Secretary Carlos Floriano said on Aug. 29 the PP
acted as it does with all party computers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  