-- Rambus, Pfizer, Disney, Couristan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/rambus-pfizer-disney-couristan-intellectual-property.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , a designer of high-speed memory chips, won an appeals court ruling yesterday that
forces the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to reconsider the
validity of one of its patents.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said the agency erred in its analysis of whether the
patent was an obvious variation of earlier know-how and remanded
the case for further review. The court did uphold part of the
patent office decision. The  opinion  was posted on the court’s
website.  The patent at issue -- 6,260,097 -- was issued in July 2001
and was at issue in a patent dispute between Rambus and  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  of Santa Clara,  California .  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pfizer Complaint Triggers Raid on Fake Viagra in Philippines  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , maker of the erectile-dysfunction drug Viagra,
filed a trademark complaint that resulted in the seizure of 1
million Philippine pesos ($23,028) worth of fake Viagra pills,
the  Philippines ’ Freeman newspaper  reported .  After making a test buy, the country’s National Bureau of
Investigation arrested a Chinese citizen in connection with the
sale of the fakes, the newspaper reported.  In addition to the fake Viagra, law enforcement officials
found boxes of a fake version of another manufacturer’s drug
used to treat erectile problems, according to the Freeman.  Pfizer consultant Maximo Ocampo told the newspaper that the
product was being sold by street vendors who were getting their
stocks from the Chinese citizen, the Freeman reported.  University of Alabama Calls Foul on Houndstooth Mafia  The  University of Alabama  filed a trademark infringement
lawsuit against an  Alabama  company that creates goods for fans
of the school’s football team.  In the complaint filed Sept. 19 in federal court in
Alabama, the school accused Houndstooth Mafia Enterprises LLC of
infringing the university’s trademarks associated with its
former football coach, the late Paul “Bear” Bryant.  Bryant, who coached the team from 1958 to 1982, was known
for wearing a fedora in a houndstooth-patterned fabric.  Houndstooth Mafia, of Smiths Station, Alabama, sells
clothing that is similar to products sold by the university and
is likely to confuse potential buyers into thinking it has the
school’s endorsement, according to the complaint.  The school also objects to a website operated by the
company and to Houndstooth Mafia’s application to register the
term as a trademark.  The school was unsuccessful in opposing the application. On
July 23 an appeals board at the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
found that the school failed to show that the mark “closely
approximates the identity or persona of either Coach Bryant or
the university.”  The board  said  the mark doesn’t falsely suggest a
connection with the school and isn’t disparaging. The board
dismissed the opposition with prejudice, which means that the
school isn’t free to re-file it.  In the suit, the school asked the court to order the patent
office not to register the mark, and to vacate the board’s
opinion. Additionally, the school wants the court to to bar the
company’s use of the term “Houndstooth Mafia,” and to order a
recall of all allegedly infringing merchandise. The school asked
for damages, the company’s profits attributable to the alleged
infringement, and attorney fees and litigation costs.  The school is known for aggressive protection of its
 intellectual property  rights. Last September, it backed down
from its pursuit of a local bakery for selling cakes and cookies
featuring a red letter A. The school also engaged in lengthy
litigation with the artist who designed the U.S. postage stamp
honoring Bryant, objecting to the artist’s refusal to take a
license to make commercial prints of images he made of the team.  The new case is Board of Trustees of the University of
Alabama v. Houndstooth Mafia Enterprises, 7:13-cv-01736, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Alabama.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Disney Sues Pennsylvania Theater Company Over Live Performances  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Disney Enterprises unit sued a theater
company in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania , for copyright infringement.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, accused Entertainment Theatre Group of presenting
a stage production -- “Broadway: Now & Forever” -- that
infringes the company’s copyrights.  According to court papers, Entertainment Theatre Group,
which does business as American Music theater, is using content
from “ Mary Poppins ,” “The  Lion King ” and “Spider-Man”
without authorization.  Disney said in the complaint that American Music Theatre
advertises its “Broadway: Now & Forever” show as a re-creation
of “the greatest moments ever on stage.” Disney says the show
uses its trademarks, artwork, songs and other properties
deliberately and without permission.  The Burbank, California-based film company asked the court
to bar further infringement of its copyrights and to award at
least $1.65 million in damages, plus attorney fees and
litigation costs. Disney also seeks additional damages for what
it says is trademark infringement and asked that the amount be
tripled to punish the theater company.  Entertainment Theatre Group didn’t respond immediately to
an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. v. Entertainment
Theatre Group, 13-cv-05570, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Pennsylvania (Allentown).  Couristan Takes Issue With Rug-Pattern Camouflage Costumes  Couristan Inc., a rug manufacturer based in Fort Lee,  New
Jersey , sent a cease-and-desist letter to two participants at a
conference where attendees wear science-fiction, superhero and
fantasy costumes, the Daily Dot  reported .  The rug company objected to costumes worn by two attendees
that matched the carpeting at the Atlanta Marriott Hotel where
the  DragonCon  event was held, according to the Daily Dot.  The carpet-pattern camouflage costume was so popular with
conference attendees that the designer -- Atlanta-based  Volpin
Props  -- began offering similar costumes for sale and promoting
them on its  Facebook Inc. (FB)  social media page, the Daily Dot
reported.  Volpin Props commented on Couristan’s position that the
costumes infringed in a  statement  on the Facebook page, saying
that “the absurdity is palpable.”  Burmese Artists Say Unauthorized Work Hangs in Innwa Bank Lobby  Eight Burmese artists are seeking compensation from a bank
in that nation’s city of Yangon over what they say is
unauthorized use of a painting they jointly created, Myanmar’s
Eleven Media Group  reported .  The artists said they were hired to create a landscape
painting to be placed in the departure lounge of the Yangon
airport, according to Eleven Media Group.  The artists claim their painting was reproduced on vinyl
with a quarter of it cut out, and then hung in the lobby of the
Innwa Bank, Eleven Media Group reported.  The administrative manager of the bank told Eleven Media
Group that the bank is willing to negotiate with the artists.  Indian Director Wins Dismissal of ‘Fashion’ Copyright Suit  Bollywood director Madhur Bhandarkar persuaded a Mumbai
court to dismiss a copyright lawsuit brought over his film
“ Fashion ,” the Indian Express  reported .  He was accused of infringing the copyright to a book
written by Seema Seth, according to the newspaper.  In addition to Bhandarkar, Seth sued the film’s writer and
UTV Motion Pictures Plc, the newspaper reported.  Although given almost a year after the filing of the
initial complaint to present evidence of the infringement, Seth
failed to appear in court, according to the Express.  Denmark to Devote More Resources to Criminal Copyright Cases  Denmark  has begun a two-pronged attack on copyright
violators, the Copenhagen Post  reported .  Under a plan developed by the public prosecutor’s office,
the Statsadvokaten for Saerlig Okonomisk of International
Kriminalitet, Denmark’s so-called “fraud squad” would be
delegated to handle a “substantial number” of the criminal
copyright cases, according to the Post.  On the local level, each police district will have one
officer designated as the contact point for copyright-related
crimes, and the fraud squad will be available to local police
departments when needed.  Marie Fredenslund, head of  Rettighedsalliancen , an
association of copyright owners, hailed the changes and told the
newspaper that that a year ago, when content owners contacted
 law enforcement  about copyright crimes, “they wouldn’t have any
idea what we were talking about.”  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  