-- RBA Urges Banks Hold Loan Standards as Risk Appetite Grows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-09-25T01:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/rba-urges-banks-hold-loan-standards-as-risk-appetite-grows-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank of Australia  urged
the nation’s lenders to maintain loan standards as record-low
interest rates spur households’ investment appetite.  “There are some signs that households are taking on more
risk in their investment decisions,” the RBA said in its
semiannual financial stability review released in Sydney today.
It is important that banks “do not respond to pressures to
boost revenue by imprudently loosening their lending standards,
or by making ill-considered moves into new markets or
products.”  The RBA has lowered borrowing costs by 2.25 percentage
points in an almost two-year easing cycle to a record low of 2.5
percent, to help offset the drag on the economy from a high
currency and boost industries including construction as mining
investment wanes. The rate reductions have fueled the  property
market , with prices in Sydney, the nation’s biggest city,
jumping 8.3 percent so far this year.  “It is important that those purchasing property do so with
realistic expectations of future dwelling price growth,” the
central bank said. “The potential for a further increase in
property gearing in self-managed superannuation funds, SMSFs, is
a development that will be monitored closely by authorities for
its implications both for risks to financial stability and
consumer protection.”  Pension Funds  Australian employers must contribute 9.25 percent of
workers’ salaries to an authorized pension fund, driving growth
of the country’s retirement savings system to A$1.6 trillion
($1.5 trillion). Savers, some dissatisfied with the fees charged
by professional managers for the returns they deliver, have
pumped A$506 billion into Self-Managed Superannuation Funds, or
SMSFs, the largest piece of the pension pie.  “SMSFs allocate a relatively large share of their assets,
15 percent, to direct property holdings, both commercial and
residential,” the central bank said. “One risk of the increase
in property investment by SMSFs is that at least some of it is a
new source of demand that could potentially exacerbate property
price cycles.”  Australia ’s household debt-to-income ratio stands at 147.3
percent, compared with a record 153 percent in 2007, RBA data
show. That’s higher than the 133 percent Americans accumulated
at the peak of the U.S. subprime mortgage boom, according to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco .  Housing across Australia’s major cities could rise as much
as 11 percent on average in 2014, according to SQM Research Pty,
which assumes no more than one 25 basis-point rate cut. All of
Australia’s major cities will see increases, except Canberra,
which is expected to record declines of as much as 4 percent,
the Sydney-based property researcher said in its Housing Boom
and Bust Report.  Bank Earnings  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- named the so-called four pillar lenders
for a law that prevents them from buying each other -- reported
A$13 billion combined profit for their latest six-month results,
about 10 percent higher than the previous half, the RBA said.
Revenue growth of 4 percent was slightly lower than in recent
years, reflecting slower growth in net interest income.  “The relatively modest rate of growth in credit, and hence
bank balance sheets, poses a strategic challenge for Australian
banks,” the RBA said.  Banks’ cost-to-income ratio, at 40 to 45 percent, is at the
bottom end of the range of their global peers after they reduced
staff and moved some functions offshore. “While there is little
sign at this stage that the banks’ cost containment has strained
their risk management capabilities or controls, there is a
question as to how much further they can improve this measure of
efficiency without doing so.”  N.Z. Restrictions  The RBA said that Australian banks’ loan performance has
continued to improve in  New Zealand , as rural and housing market
conditions have continued to strengthen there. It noted the
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand’s decision to modestly increase
 capital requirements  on residential mortgages and restrict
banks’ new mortgage lending at higher loan-to-valuation ratios.  “However, actions to circumvent the RBNZ’s lending
restrictions or to relax lending standards for other borrowers
could pose problems once interest rates eventually rise, or in
the event of a downturn in economic and property market
conditions there,” the RBA said.  Risk Taking  In Australia, the central bank said that the risk profile
of new household borrowing remains reasonably sound. It said
anecdotal evidence suggests that around half of households have
not reduced their regular mortgage payments as rates fell.  Mortgage buffers remain near their highs at 14 percent to
outstanding mortgage balances, it said. That is equivalent to
around 21 months of total scheduled repayments at current
 interest rates , it said.  Australian households retain firepower for higher spending:
the savings rate has held above 10 percent of disposable income
in the 15 months through June, compared with a low of minus 0.1
percent in the first quarter of 2006.  “Survey data suggest that over the past year or so, the
share of households that believe that paying down debt is the
‘wisest’ use of their savings has decreased,” the central bank
said. “While increased financial risk-taking is an expected
outcome of lower interest rates, it is important that households
understand, and appropriately account for, the financial risks
they take.”  For business, while conditions are a little below average
and failure rates are higher than average, potential risks are
likely to be “mitigated by the low level of gearing and limited
appetite for taking on debt,” the central bank said.  “In the period ahead, market expectations are for
profitability to pick up, while the depreciation of the
Australian dollar since the beginning of the year should provide
support to some trade-exposed sectors,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  