-- Treasuries Remain Higher as U.S. Auctions $35 Billion of
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-25T17:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/treasuries-remain-higher-as-u-s-auctions-35-billion-of.html
Treasuries remained higher as the
U.S. sold $35 billion in five-year notes to the most demand in
four months.  The debt drew a  yield  of 1.436 percent, compared with a
forecast of 1.422 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of
the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover 
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount sold, was 2.67, the highest since the May auction.
Treasuries rose earlier amid bets U.S. budget talks risk a
government shutdown. The Fed declined last week to slow its bond
buying, saying it needs more evidence of economic gains.  “The auction seemed to be a decent, but not a blowout, sort
of auction,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York
of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “We continue
to see a market being driven by what’s going on in  Washington ,
the potential for the government to shut down. That angst in the
marketplace is driving Treasury prices higher.”  The yield on the  current  five-year note fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.41 percent at 1:28 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
benchmark 10-year  yield  declined two basis points to 2.64
percent after touching a six-week low of 2.63 percent earlier.  Five-year notes at last month’s sale yielded 1.624 percent.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 44.9 percent of the notes sold today,
compared with an average of 44 percent for the past 10 auctions.  Direct Bidders  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.8 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 15.6 percent at the past
10 offerings.  Five-year notes have lost 1.9 percent this year, versus a
loss of 2.6 percent for Treasuries overall, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The five-year securities returned
2.3 percent in 2012, while Treasuries overall rose 2.2 percent.  Today’s offering is the second of three note auctions this
week totaling $97 billion. The government sold $33 billion in
two-year debt yesterday at a yield of 0.348 percent, and will
sell $29 billion in seven-year securities tomorrow.  The sales this week, along with last week’s $13 billion 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities auction, will raise
$47.7 billion of new cash, as maturing securities held by the
public total $62.3 billion, according to the Treasury.  Investors bid $2.88 for each dollar of the $1.589 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  Federal Spending  The Senate is set to hold a test vote today on legislation
passed by the House of Representatives to cover federal spending
through Dec. 15. House Republicans are demanding the defunding
of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law as the price for a
temporary measure to keep the government open.  The deadline for action is Sept. 30, when the federal
fiscal year ends. Obama has said he won’t accept the condition,
setting up the possibility of a government shutdown if the issue
isn’t resolved on time.  Republicans also are imposing a series of conditions,
including concessions on government spending levels and a revamp
of the tax code, to raise the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt
limit, which U.S. Treasury officials say they expect to exhaust
as soon as mid-October.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday in New York
investor confidence a deal can be struck to raise the debt limit
is “a bit greater than it should be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  