-- Treasuries Little Changed Before $35 Billion Five-Year Auction
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-25T07:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-before-35-billion-five-year-sale.html
Treasuries were little changed
before the U.S. sells $35 billion of five-year debt today, the
second of three note auctions this week totaling $97 billion.  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index dropped for a 10th day yesterday,
reaching 74.82 basis points, the lowest level since Aug. 12. The
average over the past year is 68.66. Price swings are narrowing
after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly decided to maintain its
monthly bond purchases at a meeting last week. A Bloomberg News
survey of economists predicts the central bank will start
reducing them in December.  “We will not purchase at the current level,” said
Yoshiyuki Suzuki, who helps oversee the equivalent of $57.6
billion as head of fixed-income at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance
Co. in  Tokyo . “The Fed will taper this year. Yields will go up
to 3 percent.” Ten-year yields climbed to 3.01 percent earlier
this month ahead of last week’s Fed meeting, with Suzuki calling
it a “drill” for when policy makers eventually cut purchases.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year  yield  was at 2.65 percent at
8:38 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.
The price of the 2.5 percent note due August 2023 was 98 3/4.  The  Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index (BUSY)  has fallen 0.1
percent since the end of June, heading for a fourth quarterly
decline. It has climbed 0.8 percent in September, leaving it
down 2.5 percent for 2013.  Fed Stimulus  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasury and
mortgage debt a month to support the economy by putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs. It refrained from reducing the
purchases after its Sept. 17-18 meeting, saying it needs more
evidence of lasting improvement in the economy.  Treasuries rose yesterday amid mixed economic data. The
Conference Board’s index of U.S.  consumer confidence  fell to
79.7 in September from a revised 81.8 a month earlier. S&P/Case-Shiller said  property values  in 20 cities rose 12.39 percent in
July from a year earlier, the biggest gain since February 2006.  Government figures today will show new-home sales and
durable-goods orders excluding volatile transportation equipment
rose in August, based on Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Twenty-four of 41 economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Sept.
18-19 said the Fed won’t take the first step in slowing its bond
purchases until December.  Closed Bet  Yields are more likely to fall than increase, said Park Sungjin, who oversees $7 billion as head of asset management at
Meritz Securities Co. in  Seoul . He closed a bet on Treasuries
dropping earlier this month, he said.  “There isn’t much reason for yields to rise,” Park said.
“Market participants aren’t as focused on tapering as before.”  Ten-year yields will be between 2.50 and 2.70 percent for
the next few months, said  Jens Nordvig , managing director of
currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage.  “The housing market in the U.S. has been this source of
persistent strength throughout most of this year, and it’s
looking like the higher borrowing cost for mortgages is starting
to have some kind of impact,” he said in an interview at a
conference in  Singapore .  Mortgage Costs  The  average cost  on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages dropped to
a record low of 3.31 percent in November and has since risen to
4.50 percent, according to  Freddie Mac .  Building permits , a
gauge of future construction, fell in August, the Commerce
Department said Sept. 18.  The previous sale of five-year notes on Aug. 28 drew  bids 
for 2.38 times the amount of notes offered, down from 2.46 times
in July.  A $33 billion sale of Treasury two-year notes yesterday
drew a  yield  of 0.348 percent, less than the forecast of 0.354
percent in a Bloomberg survey of seven of the Fed’s 21 primary
dealers. Investors  bid  for 3.09 times the amount of securities
available, versus 3.21 in August.  The U.S. is also scheduled to sell $29 billion of seven-year notes tomorrow.  The sales this week, along with last week’s $13 billion 10-year auction of Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, will
raise $47.6 billion of new cash, as maturing securities held by
the public total $62.3 billion, according to the Treasury.  The market for  U.S. government debt  has yet to react to any
potential impasse over raising the borrowing ceiling. Most
federal operations would come to a halt when the fiscal year
ends Sept. 30 if President  Barack Obama ’s administration and
lawmakers can’t agree on a funding plan.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday investor
confidence that a deal can be struck to raise the debt limit is
“a bit greater than it should be” and the government probably
will have less than $50 billion in cash by mid-October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  