-- Treasury 5-Year Note Auction Attracts Most Demand in Four Months
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-09-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/treasury-5-year-note-auction-attracts-most-demand-in-four-months.html
The Treasury’s $35 billion sale of
five-year notes attracted the most demand in four months as
investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will remain accommodative and
lawmakers haggled over a possible U.S. government shutdown.  The bid-to-cover  ratio , which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount sold, was 2.67 yesterday, the highest
since the May auction. The debt drew a yield of 1.436 percent,
compared with a forecast of 1.422 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  Treasuries rose yesterday amid bets U.S. budget talks risk
a government shutdown. Five-year note  yields  have fallen from a
more than two-year high of 1.85 percent on Sept. 5, before a
government report that day showed slower-than-forecast jobs
growth, and the Fed’s unexpected Sept. 18 decision to refrain
from reducing the monthly debt purchases it uses to boost the
economy and damp borrowing costs. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said policy makers would await more evidence of sustained growth
before tapering debt purchases.  “With the background of a Fed that is going to keep to its
stimulus ways, uncertainty in regards to  Washington  brinkmanship
and economic data points that are coming in mixed, at best, it’s
clear the bias for Treasury yields remains to the downside,”
said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP
Securities LLC in New York. “The Fed has revealed its cards,
and investors are stepping up now that chances for rate hikes
have diminished.”  Demand Metric  The yield on the current five-year  note  fell two basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.39 percent in  New York 
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The
benchmark 10-year yield fell three basis points to 2.63 percent.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 44.9 percent of the notes sold
yesterday, compared with an average of 44 percent for the past
10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 11.8 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 15.6 percent at the past
10 offerings.  Five-year notes have lost 1.9 percent this year, versus a
loss of 2.6 percent for Treasuries overall, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The five-year securities returned
2.3 percent in 2012, while Treasuries overall rose 2.2 percent.  Budget Debate  House Republicans  are demanding the defunding of President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care law as the price for a temporary
measure to keep the government open.  The deadline for action is Sept. 30, when the federal
fiscal year ends. Obama has said he won’t accept the condition,
setting up the possibility of a government shutdown if the issue
isn’t resolved on time.  “We continue to see a market being driven by what’s going
on in Washington, the potential for the government to shut
down,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “That angst in
the marketplace is driving Treasury prices higher. We may test
2.5 on the 10-year.”  The offering was the second of three note auctions this
week totaling $97 billion. The government sold $33 billion in
two-year debt two days ago at a yield of 0.348 percent, and will
sell $29 billion in seven-year securities today.  Investors bid $2.88 for each dollar of the $1.589 trillion
in U.S. government notes and bonds sold at auction this year,
according to Treasury data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down
from the record $3.15 for the $2.153 trillion sold at last
year’s offerings.  Note Reopening  The sale of five-year notes turned into additional issuance
of seven-year notes sold in 2011, the second straight so-called
unscheduled reopening of the security.  With the five-year yielding 1.436 percent at yesterday’s
sale, the notes matched the 1.375 coupon interest payout on the
seven-year security issued in September 2011, with the same 2018
maturity date. The debt sold yesterday will be classified as a
five-year note, according to the  Treasury  Department.  “The big story that comes from the auction turning into a
reopening is that it underscores how little rates have moved in
the past couple of years with the Fed anchoring the yield curve
with purchases and a zero fed funds rate,” said  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond strategy at in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities, a primary dealer. “Some life has been breathed back
into fixed income of late, as there seems to be more than enough
demand to go around for the amount of seller that we have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  