-- Reynolds, Noble Energy Join Others in Donation Disclosure
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-09-25T17:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/reynolds-noble-energy-join-others-in-donation-disclosure.html
Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  and  Noble
Energy Inc. (NBL)  have joined a growing number of companies disclosing
their contributions to trade associations and other nonprofit
groups that legally can keep their donors from public view.  A study released today reports that 84 of the 195 largest
corporations in the  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index have agreed to
reveal their contributions to trade associations, an increase
from 70 companies a year earlier. In addition, 51 companies --
up from 31 -- have said they would disclose donations to other
nonprofits.  Even as some groups fight efforts to make their donors
public, companies are coming forward on their own, according to
the report by the Center for Political Accountability and the
University of Pennsylvania Wharton School’s Zicklin Center for
Business Ethics Research.  “Companies say this is just good governance,” said Bruce Freed, president of the Washington-based accountability center,
which encourages companies to disclose their political spending.  A spokeswoman for Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
Reynolds, Jane Seccombe, said the company’s disclosure policy
evolved from discussions with a shareholder she declined to
identify. The shareholder wanted “greater transparency,” she
said.  Noble Energy  is committed to doing “business with
integrity and transparency and applies this commitment to its
stakeholder interactions and public disclosures,” Arnold Johnson, the Houston-based company’s general counsel, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Court Ruling  The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering
whether to move ahead on a proposed rule requiring all publicly
traded corporations to reveal their political spending.  Spending by trade and other nonprofit groups on campaigns
has increased since the U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United
decision in January 2010 removed limits on independent corporate
and union spending.  Such expenditures grew to $311 million in 2012 -- 85
percent on behalf of Republicans -- from $69 million in 2008,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group that tracks campaign expenditures.  Senate Republicans have blocked legislation requiring all
groups spending money on campaigns to identify their donors. The
 Federal Election Commission , which has three Democratic and
three Republican members, has deadlocked along party lines on
whether to consider requiring such disclosure.  Boycott Threat  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business
lobby, also opposes rules that would force it to disclose
contributors.  “The idea here is to bring these companies’ political
spending -- which is free speech -- out into the open so they
can be targeted for harassment and boycotts,” Chamber President
 Tom Donohue  said in a Sept. 10 speech in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Donohue has been joined by  National Association of
Manufacturers  President Jay Timmons and Business Roundtable
President  John Engler  in urging companies to resist pressure to
disclose their contributions.  “The ultimate plan” by advocates of greater disclosure,
the three said in an April letter, is “to intimidate companies
into withdrawing from political engagement.”  Because of voluntary corporate disclosures and filings by
nonprofits with the  Internal Revenue Service , more of the
chamber’s donors are being publicly identified. They include
Noble Energy, which gave $82,500 last year, and Reynolds
American, which contributed $45,000, according to information
posted on both companies’ websites.  Koch Connection  Donating $3 million to the chamber, Internal Revenue
Service filings show, was Arlington, Virginia-based Freedom
Partners, a nonprofit linked to billionaire energy executives
Charles and  David Koch .  The chamber spent $35.7 million on the 2012 elections
primarily in support of Republicans, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  Freedom Partners’ president, Marc Short, has been the
Kochs’  Washington  liaison, according to the center. Board
members include Richard Fink, executive vice president of
Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc., and Kevin Gentry, a
vice president of Koch’s lobbying arm, according to Freedom
Partners’ website.  The group also gave $1.2 million to the National
Association of Manufacturers and $2.5 million to the National
Federation of  Independent Business , a trade group representing
small businesses.  Ad Spending  “If there is outside support that is aligned with the
positions that we already have, those positions that our members
have approved, then we will take advantage of that,” said Jean
Card, NFIB’s vice president of media and communications.  Freedom Partners contributed $32 million to another Koch-linked group, Americans for Prosperity, which is running ads
against President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. AFP, which
received $50,000 from Reynolds American, spent $36.4 million on
behalf of Republicans in 2012, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  Freed of the Center for Political Accountability said
disclosure may keep companies from funding nonprofits whose
political activities could anger consumers.  Target Corp. (TGT)  faced a
boycott by gay-rights groups in 2010 after donating $150,000 to
a business group backing a gubernatorial candidate in  Minnesota 
who opposed same-sex marriage.  “Target was viewed by companies as a reason for them to
adopt serious disclosure and accountability policies,” Freed
said. Companies can say, “we’d like to give but it’s going to
be disclosed. That’s a reason that they’re not going to give.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 