-- Ringgit Declines for Fourth Day as U.S. Budget Talks Curb Risk
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-09-25T05:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/ringgit-declines-for-fourth-day-as-u-s-budget-talks-curb-risk.html
Malaysia’s ringgit fell for a
fourth day, the longest losing streak in a month, as U.S. budget
talks damped demand for riskier assets. Bonds retreated.  The  U.S. Senate  will hold a test vote today on legislation
passed by the  House of Representatives  to cover federal spending
through Dec. 15 and choke off funds for President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law. Malaysia’s plan to seek approval for about $4.3
billion in extra spending could derail the government’s target
to reduce the  budget deficit  to 4 percent in 2013 from 4.5
percent last year, according to Hong Leong Bank Bhd.  “The U.S. still has the budgetary discussions which are
going on,” said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency strategist
at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. “There’s a pare-back in risk
appetite.”  The ringgit depreciated 0.7 percent to 3.2352 per dollar as
of 1:20 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , adding to a 2 percent loss in the
last three days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index rose 0.1 percent, after climbing 0.2
percent yesterday.  One-month implied volatility in the ringgit, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
increased eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 10.14
percent.  Malaysia’s Deputy Finance Minister Ahmad Maslan tabled a
parliamentary bill this week to request 14.1 billion ringgit
($4.3 billion) in additional spending to pay civil servants’
salaries, according to a Sept. 23 report in the local Edge
newspaper.  “The proposed supplementary bill has dented some of the
confidence that we’ll be able to meet the 4 percent budget-deficit target,” said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager for
fixed income and economic research at Hong Leong Bank. “All
this is not very positive for the ringgit.”  The yield on the 3.26 percent sovereign notes due March
2018 rose three basis points to 3.56 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 