-- Roku Steps Up Apple Competition With New Movie Store
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-25T17:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/roku-steps-up-apple-competition-with-new-movie-store.html
Roku Inc. the maker of set-top
boxes that connect TVs to the Internet, introduced new and
upgraded devices that make it easier for viewers to rent or buy
movies online.  The boxes provide access to an online store called M-GO,
letting consumers use a single sign-up and log-in to order films
and TV shows from different studios, Saratoga, California-based
Roku said today in a statement. Roku will also collect a cut of
the sales.  The company is adding features and content to stay ahead of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , its nearest competitor. The company also vies with
game consoles from Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp. and, more
recently, with Google Inc., which began selling its $35
Chromecast streaming device that connects TVs to YouTube and
other video services.  Roku makes the most popular streaming products used by
consumers to watch films and TV shows from subscription services
such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , according to researcher Parks Associates.
With M-GO, Roku is offering sales and rentals as well.  “We want to give our viewers a one-click access to
anything that’s available,” Anthony Wood, Roku’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview. Roku will get a cut of
video download revenue, as it does with other partners,
according to the company.  Market Share  Roku, which has sold more than 5 million boxes in the U.S.,
makes four  models  that retail for $50 to $100. It has 37 percent
of the market for such devices, according to Parks Associates,
compared with 24 percent for Cupertino, California-based Apple
and its Apple TV product, priced at $99.  “Roku users spend more time streaming content than owners
of other streaming boxes or video-game consoles,” Wood said.  The new devices feature an updated remote that delivers
one-press access to Netflix, the largest subscription streaming
service, the Instant Video service from online retailer
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Blockbuster on Demand  and M-GO. The companies
are paying Roku for the placement, Wood said.  M-GO is jointly owned by  Technicolor SA (TCH) , the majority
investor, and  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the studio run by
CEO  Jeffrey Katzenberg .  Movies and shows from seven studios are available from M-GO
the same day that DVDs and Blu-ray discs go on sale and can be
watched on a variety of devices. “World War Z” in high
definition can be rented for $4.99 for 24 hours or purchased for
$22.99, according to M-GO’s website. Last season episodes of
ABC’s “Modern Family” may be purchased for $1.99 each.  Purchases are stored online and can be watched an unlimited
number of times through the Roku player. With the new products,
Roku will also provide access to films that aren’t in M-GO’s
library.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  