-- Royal Mail Said Valued at as Much as $6.9 Billion in IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-09-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/royal-mail-said-to-be-valued-at-as-much-as-6-9-billion-in-ipo.html
Royal Mail  Group Ltd., the 360-year-old U.K. postal service, may be valued at as much as 4.3
billion pounds ($6.9 billion) when it goes public, said people
briefed on the estimates.  The British firm’s equity value, which excludes debt, could
range from 2.8 billion pounds to 4.3 billion pounds based on
research from the banks preparing the IPO, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private. The range
is wide because, at the top end, some of the analysts are using
more optimistic growth projections for the company’s earnings as
well as varying estimates on where Royal Mail should trade
relative to its peers, one of the people said.  The postal service’s sale would be the biggest U.K.
privatization since former Prime Minister  John Major  broke up
British Rail in the 1990s. Royal Mail, one of the country’s
largest employers, has shifted away from letters to more
lucrative package shipping amid competition from  TNT Express NV (TNTE) 
of the Netherlands and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL Express.  “If they didn’t have parcel, they would have an even lower
valuation,” Satish Jindel, president of SJ Consulting Group, a
logistics advisory firm, said in a telephone interview.
“Revenue for parcel is much higher than letters, and it doesn’t
take much more effort to deliver it. That is where the future
will be.”  A spokesman for Royal Mail declined to comment.  Higher Margins  Profit margins for package delivery are at least 25 percent
higher than for letters, Jindel said. This helped Royal Mail
double its profit in the year through March even as daily letter
volume dropped.  Royal Mail’s package-shipping business increased about 5
percent this year to 1.46 billion parcels, according to a
 company report  from May, while the number of daily letters
slipped 8 percent to 58 million. Operating profit for the 52
weeks ended March 31 was 403 million pounds, compared with 152
million pounds a year earlier.  The U.K. government said on Sept. 12 it would sell a
majority stake in Royal Mail “in the coming weeks.”  Companies have pursued listings in  Europe  this year to take
advantage of improving economic prospects and surging stock
markets. Both the Stoxx Europe 600 Index and the FTSE 100 Index
have gained more than 10 percent this year.  The share sale is being prepared even as postal workers
threaten to strike in protest of the listing. The  Communication
Workers Union , or CWU, is holding a ballot for employees on
whether to strike and the results of the vote will be announced
on Oct. 16, with the earliest possible strike on Oct. 23,
according to its  website .  The offering would follow the June listing of  BPost SA (BPOST) ,
Belgium’s former postal monopoly.  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , Barclays Plc and  Bank of America Corp.  are among banks on
the Royal Mail sale.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  