-- Rupiah Forwards Drop a Fourth Day on Dollar Demand for Payments
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-25T03:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/rupiah-forwards-drop-a-fourth-day-on-dollar-demand-for-payments.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards fell
for a fourth day on speculation importers boosted dollar
purchases to meet payments amid concern the U.S. will be unable
resolve its debt ceiling debate. Stocks and bonds dropped.  Local companies have  $33.8 billion  of external debt coming
due in August through December,  Bank Indonesia  data show.
Imports rose 6.5 percent in July from a year earlier, a period
that included part of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.
President  Barack Obama  won’t negotiate with Republicans on
raising the country’s borrowing allowance, Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew said yesterday.  “Dollar demand tends to peak in September, after importers
boosted their activity over Ramadan and are now fulfilling their
payments,” said Rully Nova, a foreign-exchange analyst at PT
Bank Himpunan Saudara 1906 in Jakarta. “If the debt ceiling
debate isn’t resolved, then the U.S. may default and Treasury
yields will rise, which will see funds retreating from  emerging
markets .”  Rupiah one-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.2
percent to 11,380 per dollar as of 10:14 a.m. in Jakarta, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts were 1.8 percent
stronger than the spot rate, after trading 1.8 percent weaker on
average in the past month. In the onshore market, the currency
slid 1 percent to 11,588 per dollar, the weakest level since
April 2009, prices from local banks show.  Borrowing Costs  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  of shares fell 0.6 percent to
4433.736 after dropping as much as 1.6 percent earlier. The
gauge has lost 5.1 percent in four days. Banking and property
stocks were among the biggest decliners, with PT Bank Mandiri
down 1.7 percent, PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia decreasing 1.3
percent and PT Lippo Karawaci, a real-estate developer, falling
2.5 percent.  Bank Indonesia has raised its benchmark  interest rate  by
1.5 percentage points to 7.25 percent since the middle of June
and next meets to review policy on Oct. 8. Stocks may have
fallen on concern the weakening rupiah makes the central bank
more likely to increase borrowing costs, said Syaiful Adrian, an
analyst at PT Ciptadana Securities in Jakarta.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 32 basis points,
or 0.32 percentage point, to 16.95 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A  fixing  used to settle the forwards was set at
11,171 per dollar yesterday, 3.7 percent stronger than the spot
rate today, according to the Association of Banks in  Singapore .  Trade Deficit  Indonesia’s trade deficit surged to a record $2.3 billion
in July as overseas purchases climbed, while exports contracted
for a 16th consecutive month. August data is due Oct. 1.  “The rupiah will stabilize and trend toward strengthening
as upcoming data will be positive,” said Leo Rinaldy, a
Jakarta-based economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of
Indonesia’s largest bank by assets. “The trade deficit should
fall significantly in August to less than $1 billion as imports
ease.”  The yield on the nation’s 5.625 percent bonds due May 2023
rose two basis points to 7.98 percent, according to prices from
the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  