-- Rusal Urges LME to Delay Rule Changes on Metal Withdrawals
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-25T14:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/rusal-urges-lme-to-delay-rule-changes-on-warehouse-withdrawals.html
United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, urged the London Metal Exchange to
postpone suggested rule changes aimed at speeding up withdrawals
of warehoused metals.  The current proposal risks distorting the aluminum market
further, Moscow-based Rusal  said  today in a statement. The
changes also would reduce transparency and make the LME less
relevant for industrial users, it said. The exchange, which
monitors more than 700 warehouses worldwide, is consulting
market participants on the plan until Sept. 30.  Regulators are scrutinizing the LME’s warehouses after
metals consumers including brewer MillerCoors LLC said
withdrawal delays distorted prices, even as aluminum stockpiles
tracked by the exchange rose to a record this year. At least six
lawsuits related to warehousing were filed in the U.S., where
the government subpoenaed some companies for documents.  “The intent of HKEx to accelerate the transfer into the
market of an additional 2 million tons of aluminum, accumulated
and stored since the financial crisis, is an unprecedented
intervention and one that Rusal strongly objects to,” Oleg Deripaska, the company’s billionaire chief executive officer,
said in the statement. He referred to  Hong Kong Exchanges and
Clearing Ltd. (388) , which bought the LME last year for $2.2 billion.  U.S. Leader  The LME will refrain from commenting on the proposal until
the consultation process is complete, spokeswoman Miriam Heywood
said today by e-mail. Alcoa Inc., the biggest U.S. aluminum
company, said this month the plan would harm producers without
aiding consumers.  The proposed changes would oblige warehouses where
withdrawals take more than 100 days to deliver out more metal
than they take in. The new rules will take effect April 1 if
they’re approved next month by the LME’s board. Aluminum
inventories tracked by the exchange were the highest since at
least 1979 at 5.49 million metric tons as of July 17.  “HKEx is addressing a poorly justified metal availability
issue,” Deripaska said.  Premiums for aluminum paid on top of LME prices fell in the
last few months as U.S. lawmakers focused on warehousing. Lower
premiums may mean smaller profits for producers and potential
shutdowns of output, according to Citigroup Inc. European and
North American producers would be most at risk if premiums were
to drop further, according to Barclays Plc.  Smelter ‘Lifeline’  “Producers appear to be against the proposals because of
the probability of premiums grinding lower, effectively reducing
the margin lifeline to many smelters that high premiums had
provided,” David Wilson, an analyst at Citigroup in London,
said by e-mail today.  Aluminum stocks monitored by the LME  surged  almost fivefold
in two years through 2009, helped by so-called financing
agreements. The accords typically involve buying the lightweight
metal for nearby delivery while making a forward sale to
capitalize on a market in contango, where prices rise for later
deliveries. Borrowing costs, warehouse rents and the size of the
contango affect the transactions’ profitability.  “The rule changes won’t increase prompt physical metal
availability to consumers,” Wilson said. “Metal will still be
tied up in financing deals, particularly with the contango as
wide as it is now. You will just see more deals taking place
outside the LME at significantly cheaper rental rates.”  Gap Widens  Aluminum for delivery in December traded last week at a
discount of as much as $130.25 a ton on the LME to the contract
for delivery in December 2014, the widest contango since at
least 2008. The benchmark contract for delivery in three months
fell 13 percent this year to $1,800 a ton.  The LME, the world’s biggest metals marketplace, should add
more warehouses and encourage new, independent operators, Rusal
said. Pacorini Metals, owned by Baar, Switzerland-based  Glencore
Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , now runs the most warehouses, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. also have warehousing units.  Rusal also urged the LME to add new aluminum contracts and
to adopt disclosure rules at least similar to those used by the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission to aid transparency.
Alcoa called for CFTC-like reports and introducing contracts to
hedge aluminum premiums.  “The penalty clauses in the proposed warehousing rules
would speed up the release of metals into the market, hence may
create unnecessary volatility, potentially disrupting the price-discovery mechanism,” Vanessa Lau, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report today. “Even if the proposed
rules were applied, it is unlikely that all the contango trades
will immediately unwind all at once. Thus, a sudden flood of
metals into the market is unlikely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  