-- Russia Sees Belarus, Ukraine Risking Currency Crises
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-09-25T13:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/russia-sees-belarus-ukraine-risking-currency-crises.html
Russia’s western neighbors  Ukraine 
and Belarus may face currency crises as their current-account
deficits swell after demand for exports has weakened, according
to Russia’s Economy Ministry.  Ukraine’s widening current-account gap may trigger a
further weakening of the hryvnia this year, while Belarus may
devalue its ruble by 37 percent against the dollar next year,
the Economy Ministry, which oversees macroeconomic forecasting
for the Russian government, said in a report dated Sept. 24.  “Supporting the managed exchange rate of the hryvnia is
putting more pressure on the gradually declining currency
reserves,” the ministry said. “Deflationary processes could
turn into inflationary already this year as a result of a
possible fall in the hryvnia along with the Ukrainian central
bank halving its  interest rate  to 6.5 percent.”  Banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have warned of an
impending devaluation in Ukraine as the economy stumbles amid
sagging demand for its industrial exports, with gross domestic
product shrinking 1.1 percent in the first quarter and 1.3
percent in the second from a year earlier. Neighboring Belarus
risks reigniting inflation and balance-of-payments pressures as
a result of slowing growth, Moody’s Investors Service said in
July, adding the country’s foreign-currency reserves are low in
relation to its annual debt obligations of about $2 billion
until 2015.  The hryvnia has depreciated 1.6 percent against the dollar
this year and the Belarusian ruble has lost 5.6 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
declines of less than 1 percent in the period for the Polish
zloty and the Czech koruna.  Russian Disputes  Russia ’s relations with its two neighbors have been roiled
by disputes over Ukraine’s plan to sign a free-trade agreement
with the European Union in November and Belarus’s arrest last
month of Vladislav Baumgertner, the chief executive officer of
OAO Uralkali, on charges of abuse of office as chairman of the
Russian company’s trading joint venture, Belarusian Potash Co.
Russia has disrupted the passage of Ukrainian goods across its
border and has tied requests from its neighbor for cheaper
natural gas imports to membership in the customs bloc it created
with Belarus and Kazakhstan.  Ukraine’s economy may shrink as much as 1 percent this
year, compared with the 3.4 percent forecast underlying the 2013
budget, according to the Russian ministry. Belarus’s economy may
expand 2.4 percent next year after 1.4 percent growth this year,
it estimates.  Belarus Devaluation  Belarus, which devalued its ruble by 64 percent two years
ago, risks excessive import growth due to accelerating credit
expansion, which may trigger a repeat of the 2011 crisis as the
country is forced to increase borrowing from abroad, the
ministry said. The current-account deficit is seen expanding to
4.6 percent of GDP this year, leading to a weakening of the
Belarus ruble against the dollar by 14 percent, according to the
report.  The Belarusian central bank expects a “gradual”
devaluation next year, Chairman Nadezhda Ermakova told an online
news conference on Sept. 18. The key refinancing rate will
probably be kept at an average level of 15 percent to 17 percent
next year, compared with the current 23.5 percent, while the
central bank would seek to avoid an abrupt devaluation to
protect the economy, she said.  Even so, a potential weakening of the hryvnia would improve
the competitiveness of Ukraine’s exports, according to the
ministry. A decline in imports will help its economy grow 2
percent to 2.4 percent next year, the ministry forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Moscow at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  