-- Ryanair Taps Amex Bookings to Counter EasyJet’s Corporate Appeal
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-09-25T14:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/ryanair-taps-amex-bookings-to-counter-easyjet-s-corporate-appeal.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s No.
1 discount carrier, is targeting a surge in corporate sales from
bookings made via  American Express Co. (AXP)  as it responds to
competitor  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ’s success in luring business flyers.  Ryanair today announced an acceptance agreement with Amex
following a “soft launch” of the service last week. Other
business-friendly measures such as issuing boarding passes via
mobile phones and fast-track security clearance are being
assessed, Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said today.  Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary said last week
Ryanair must boost service standards to help lure travelers put
off by the Dublin-based company’s notoriously abrasive approach
to its own clientele. While Luton, England-based EasyJet has
gained credibility among business passengers, flying 10 million
in 2012, Ryanair was the lowest scoring brand out of 100 in a
customer survey by consumer magazine Which? this month.  “EasyJet have stolen a significant march on us,” Millar
said at a press conference in  London . “They’re probably two
years ahead of where we are in terms of their product
development and website.”  Between 20 and 25 percent of passengers travelling with
Ryanair today are on business, drawn by services like reserved
seating and priority boarding, he said. Improvements over the
next 12 months -- a de-cluttered website, online chat, an
improved mobile app, twitter feed and real-time updates during
disruptions -- are all aimed at enhancing customer relations.  Faster Progress  “We’ve recognized that while we’ve won the fares war, we
haven’t invested enough in terms of our website technology or
digital marking or facilitating business passengers,” Millar
said, while adding that business passengers looking to move
swiftly through airports may not always favor EasyJet and full-service carriers like British Airways and  Air France-KLM Group. (AF)   Though Ryanair has a reputation for focusing on secondary
airports, it does fly to central locations in various cities,
including Madrid, Barcelona and  Rome , the executive added.  A Ryanair team that’s evaluating  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 737 Max model
will complete a report on the jet by the end of next month,
Millar said. The airline is still interested in buying a plane
with 200 seats, compared with 189 in the current -800 variant.  The Irish company is looking to seal terms on a Max order
by the end of this year after concluding a deal for 175 current-model 737-800s at the  Paris Air Show  in June. The deals could
swell the fleet to more than 500 jets from just over 300 today.  The Max offers fuel savings close to 13 percent, though the
plane is heavier, which could result in higher navigation and
landing charges, according to Millar, who added that Ryanair has
a “quite positive” view of the plane overall.  “We’ve also started to look at design features and certain
things we want onboard,” he said. “We expect to meet Boeing
shortly to discuss the next phase of this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  