-- Salzburg Appoints Pianist Hinterhaeuser as Artistic Chief
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-09-25T16:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/salzburg-appoints-pianist-hinterhaeuser-as-artistic-director.html
The  Salzburg Festival  today
appointed Markus Hinterhaeuser as artistic director after
Alexander Pereira, the current chief, announced he will leave
for La Scala in Milan.  Hinterhaeuser, a pianist, was responsible for the Salzburg
Festival’s concert program for several years and was interim
artistic director in the 2011 season. His five-year term will
begin on Oct. 1, 2016, according to a statement from the
Salzburg regional government.  The Salzburg Festival supervisory board was unanimous in
its view that Hinterhaeuser was the best qualified candidate for
the job, the regional government said.  “This is a wonderful and moving moment for me,”
Hinterhaeuser said in the statement. “Much in my life has been
influenced by Salzburg and the festival.”  Pereira will leave in 2014, two years before his contract
ends. Helga Rabl-Stadler, Salzburg Festival’s president, and
Sven-Eric Bechtolf, the director of theater, will take charge in
the interim.  Rabl-Stadler’s contract was also extended to 2017 at
today’s meeting of the Salzburg Festival’s supervisory board.
The board includes representatives of the Austrian government,
the state of Salzburg and the city tourism board.  Hinterhaeuser, born in 1959 in La Spezia in  Italy , studied
piano in Vienna and Salzburg. He remains in his position as
director of the Wiener Festwochen festival until July 2016.  Wilfried Haslauer, the premier of the state of Salzburg and
a member of the supervisory board, said he hopes the appointment
will bring “a long-term perspective and a stable artistic path
into the future.” Rabl-Stadler will have outserved six artistic
directors by the end of her term.  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on opera and
Martin Gayford on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 