-- San Leon Buys Turkish Assets, Sells Shares to Fund Polish Shale
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-09-25T07:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/san-leon-buys-turkish-assets-sells-shares-to-fund-polish-shale.html
San Leon Energy Plc (SLE) , a U.K.-listed
oil and gas explorer focused on shale in eastern Europe, bought
three-quarters of Alpay Enerji AS to support drilling in Poland.  The $4 million deal will give San Leon a stake in 16
conventional oil licenses in Turkey and should generate $3
million a month for the company from next year, it said in a
statement in London. Separately, the explorer is raising 31
million pounds ($50 million) in a share placement.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM)  have withdrawn from shale exploration in Poland after the
first wells failed to produce commercial finds. The country is
sitting on the European Union’s biggest shale-gas reserves,
enough to last at least 50 years and free the nation from
dependence on  Russia , the Polish Geological Institute says.  “San Leon can be the last man standing on Polish shale
plays, it won’t matter if it happens this year or later on”
thanks to the deal, Chairman Oisin Fanning said. “Turkey is a
very attractive market where we’ll have proven reserves and can
monetize them very quickly. We’ll get to where we’ll be properly
funded on our own cash flow and not be under pressure.”  The stock fell as much as 10 percent, the most since June
13, to 4.95 pence and slid 6.4 percent by 8:30 a.m. in London.  San Leon’s share placing was oversubscribed and the company
will soon announce new institutional investors backing it,
Fanning said. Placing shares will be sold at a 13.6 percent
discount to yesterday’s closing price of 5.5 pence and Fanning
will buy about 1 million pounds of the stock himself.  “We’re very pleased with the placing because it’s a
difficult market,” he said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  