-- Saudi Arabia OPEC Governor Mufti Said to Leave by End of 2013
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-09-25T16:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/saudi-arabia-opec-governor-mufti-said-to-leave-by-end-of-2013.html
Yasser Mufti,  Saudi Arabia ’s
governor to OPEC, is stepping down after more than a year in his
post at the producer group, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  Mufti, who serves as chairman of the board of governors for
the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is
leaving by the end of this year, the people said, declining to
be identified because Mufti’s departure hasn’t been announced
publicly. Officials in the media department of the Saudi
Ministry of Petroleum & Mineral Resources in  Riyadh  didn’t
answer phone calls for comment after normal business hours.
Mufti didn’t answer a call to his mobile phone.  Mufti, a Saudi Arabian Oil Co. employee who was seconded to
work at OPEC, will resume working at the state-run company,
known as  Saudi Aramco , after gaining a promotion to an
unspecified role there, the people said.  As governor to OPEC, he was the kingdom’s senior
representative for administrative and policy matters. Saudi
Arabia is the group’s largest producer, pumping 9.95 million
barrels a day of crude in August, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. OPEC, with headquarters in Vienna, supplies about 40
percent of the world’s oil.  Three other OPEC members have named new governors this
week, according to information posted yesterday on the group’s
website. Iran appointed Hossein Kazempour Ardebili, a former
governor to OPEC, to replace Mohammad Ali Khatibi.  Kuwait  named
Nawal al-Fezaia, and Nigeria appointed Danladi Kifasi, OPEC’s
website showed.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization’s next ministerial
conference will be held on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  