-- Scotiabank Seeks to Boost Wealth Earnings to 30% of Profit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-25T21:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/scotiabank-wants-wealth-earnings-to-reach-30-of-total-profit.html
Bank of Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s
third-largest lender by assets, seeks to generate 20 percent to
30 percent of total profit from its global wealth and insurance
unit in three to five years.  The goal was among four Scotiabank  disclosed  today during
an investor conference in Toronto, where the company is based.
The business accounted for 19 percent of the lender’s earnings
in the first three fiscal quarters, with 25 percent of that from
outside Canada.  The unit is also targeting “organic” earnings growth,
which excludes acquisitions, of more than 10 percent, and a
return on economic equity of at least 16 percent to 20 percent.
Scotiabank seeks to boost  contributions  from wealth operations
outside of Canada to at least 30 percent of the division’s
earnings.  “We’re expecting to achieve these through good markets or
bad markets,” Chris Hodgson, group head of global wealth and
insurance, said in a telephone interview. “But they’re not a
slam dunk by any stretch.”  Scotiabank joins Canadian lenders including Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
attempting to expand the share of profit from  wealth management 
as domestic  consumer lending  slows and investment demands from
an aging, affluent population increase.  ‘Growth Strategy’  “Wealth and insurance is a very significant growth
strategy for the bank,” Hodgson said.  The division can increase earnings in the short term by 10
percent to 15 percent, and more in the medium term, Hodgson
said. Additional growth could come through “opportunistic”
acquisitions, he said, though the priority is internal growth.
Scotiabank has spent more than C$6 billion ($5.8 billion) on
wealth acquisitions in the past five years.  Scotiabank seeks to expand in the institutional asset-management business in Canada, Hodgson said, building on its
purchase of a 37 percent stake in  CI Financial Corp. (CIX)  in 2008 and
the takeover of DundeeWealth Inc. in 2011.  Outside Canada, Scotiabank is interested in buying more
pension assets, such as last year’s purchase of a stake of
Colfondos AFP,  Colombia ’s fourth-largest pension-fund company,
and its April agreement to buy a stake in  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s pension-fund management business, AFP Horizonte,
in  Peru , he said.  ‘Eye Open’  “We’ll be keeping an eye open for other assets that may
come available, but we’d only do them in markets where we
already have a strong banking presence,” Hodgson said. “We’re
not going to do it in markets where we have no other presence.
It just doesn’t make sense from our perspective.”  Scotia’s global wealth business has C$139 billion of assets
under management, C$315 billion of assets under administration
and operates in 24 countries, the lender said. The business had
C$3.3 billion of revenue for the 12 months ended July 31.
Insurance accounted for about C$600 million of revenue for the
period, and operates in 30 countries.  Scotiabank President  Brian Porter  said during today’s
conference that he has an “appetite” for acquisitions to build
on the lender’s existing businesses.  “There are some markets where we’d like to have additional
scale and some product categories where we’re looking to be
bigger,” said Porter, 55, who becomes chief executive officer
on Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  