-- Second Danone Unit Starts Probe Into Chinese Bribery Claims
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-26T02:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/second-danone-unit-commences-probe-into-chinese-bribery-claims.html
Danone (BN)  said it will begin a probe
into allegations of bribery at a second baby-food unit in China,
where the French dairy company was fined for violating anti-monopoly laws and cut prices earlier this year.  Danone’s Nutricia China unit “has immediately launched an
internal investigation,” Ada Zhao, a spokeswoman for the
company, said by e-mail yesterday after 21st Century Business
Herald reported it  gave “improper advantages,” including
gifts and travel subsidies, to more than 100 doctors in 14
hospitals in Beijing.  Those allegations followed two separate reports this month
from a state broadcaster that claimed Danone’s Dumex brand made
payments to hospital doctors and nurses in China to drum up
sales. China has sought to crack down on corruption in the
country’s $350 billion health-care market, probing multiple drug
companies amid claims of doctors’ involvement in malfeasance.  Nutricia gave benefits that were worth about 300,000  yuan 
($49,000) to doctors in two Beijing hospitals between July 2010
and August 2013, the 21st Century Business Herald reported. The
newspaper cited an unidentified person who provided documents to
the publication.  Citing documents provided by an unidentified person, the
state-run  China Central Television  reported this week that Dumex
paid about 500,000 yuan to hospital staff in the cities of
Beijing, Tianjin, and five other Chinese provinces.  That followed a separate CCTV report last week that Dumex
paid hundreds of thousands of yuan annually in various forms of
“sponsorship fees” to doctors and nurses at hospitals in
Tianjin to sell its products amid fierce competition among baby-formula makers.  Dumex Investigation  Danone shares closed 1.2 percent lower at 56.75 euros in
Paris trading yesterday.  Dumex has started a thorough investigation and a report
will be available before Oct. 1, Athena Wang, a Shanghai-based
spokeswoman for Dumex’s  China  unit, said by e-mail this week.  Dumex last week said it was “extremely shocked” by the
initial Chinese media report on Sept. 16, which cited comments
and documents from an unidentified former sales manager. Dumex
adheres to Chinese laws and regulations and has set up a
“strict management system, including severe punitive measures”
for activities that violate Chinese laws and regulations, the
company said in a statement last week.  In August, Danone was fined 172 million yuan by China’s top
economic planning agency for fixing prices of milk powder. That
prompted it to cut prices for its products in the Asian nation
by as much as 20 percent.  China Crackdown  The French maker of Activia Yogurt and Evian water also
issued a precautionary recall of its milk formula products last
month after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said the items might
have been affected by a contaminated whey protein ingredient.  Danone’s baby-nutrition sales will fall in the third
quarter because the recalls had a “significant” effect on
sales in  Asia , the company said last month.  Danone is the third-largest baby formula company in China,
with a 9.2 percent market share last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International.  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. (MJN) 
ranked first with a 14 percent share and Hangzhou Beingmate
Group Co. was No. 2 with 10 percent, Euromonitor said.  China is cracking down on possible misbehavior by
companies. In July, four senior  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executives
were accused of crimes involving 3 billion yuan of spurious
travel and meeting expenses as well as trade in sexual favors.  Sanofi and Eli Lilly & Co. were among drugmakers that
subsequently said they were visited by Chinese regulators.  Alcon, the eye-care division of Novartis AG, said last week
it is probing reports that its China employees paid doctors to
boost sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  