-- Senate Measure to Fund 2010 Health Law Put Up for Debate
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r ,   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-26T01:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/senate-vote-set-on-spending-bill-after-cruz-ends-speech.html
The U.S. Senate is poised tomorrow
to begin debating legislation that would restore funding for
President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care law as part of a
spending bill to fund the government past Sept. 30.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid tonight proposed an
amendment to restore the health-care law funding and to pay for
government operations through Nov. 15, a month shorter than the
funding expiration date in a measure passed by House last week.  Reid acted after the Senate today unanimously voted to
advance the stopgap spending bill, accelerating a showdown with
House Republicans over the health law with a government shutdown
just six days away. The Nevada Democrat also moved to limit
debate on the measure, setting up a Sept. 27 vote on his
amendment and a final vote as late as the next day.  “Every hour we delay here is an hour closer to shutting
down the government,” Reid said following the vote.  The Senate vote after a 21-hour speech by Texas Republican
Ted Cruz protesting the 2010 health law. The chamber is on track
to pass a measure by the weekend to keep federal agencies open
when the next fiscal year starts Oct. 1 while funding the
president’s health initiative.  Democrats insist that they won’t accept changes to the
health law as a condition for government funding, putting
pressure on House Speaker John Boehner to accept the Senate bill
or offer more health-care changes his caucus is demanding.  Republicans sought to project unity after Cruz’s speech,
which emphasized an intra-party divide over the merits of trying
to use the spending fight to dismantle Obamacare.  Next Step  “Later this week, every Republican will unite to vote
against any amendment to add funding for Obamacare,” said
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky , who
yesterday expressed concern that Cruz’s tactics could leave the
House with little time to plan its next move.  The next step in the Senate will be a vote to end debate
Sept. 27. If the vote succeeds, Democrats who control the
chamber will move to strip from the Sept. 20 House measure
language that ends funding for the health-care law. The
legislative process probably will continue through the weekend.  Reid’s move tonight on limiting debate came after
Republicans -- notably Cruz --yielded back debate time on taking
up the bill. That sets up the final vote on Sept. 28 at the
latest.  The rare unanimous Senate vote shows that lawmakers of both
parties have an incentive to advance the legislation.
Republicans don’t want to oppose a bill that chokes off
Obamacare funding, while Democrats want to move the bill forward
so they they can restore the money for health care.  ‘Defunding Obamacare’  “I’m for defunding Obamacare,” said Senator John Cornyn,
a Texas Republican, referring to the next test vote on the
measure. “How do you vote ‘no’ on a bill that defunds
Obamacare?”  Democrats said the shorter stopgap period under Reid’s
proposal would give lawmakers time to resolve appropriations for
fiscal 2014 that contain automatic reductions known as
sequestration.  House Republicans are weighing their options for the
spending measure when it comes back from the Senate without
health-care defunding. Among them are eliminating the medical-device tax and scrapping subsidies that members of Congress
would receive to buy insurance on the exchanges under Obamacare.  “I imagine it will be repackaged with something else,”
said Senator Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican.
“They’ve got a full basket of things they can put in it.”  McCain Stance  Burr said he thought a one-year delay in the law could pass
the Democratic-controlled Senate.  Arizona  Senator John McCain said if the House alters the
Senate measure, he’d want to see a vote on repealing the
medical-device tax and delaying the health-care law for a year.  “All I know is how it ends,” McCain said today. “You
don’t defund Obamacare. I’ve seen the movie before.”  Senate Democrats rejected the Republican’s idea to attach
repeal of the medical-device tax to a bill to keep the
government open.  “That is not the strategy we’re pushing for this time,”
said Senator Amy Klobuchar of  Minnesota , an advocate for
repealing a tax that affects companies such as Minneapolis-based
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  “Right now, we just want to get the government
to continue operating.”  Klobuchar said advocates of a device-tax repeal are still
searching for a way to offset the $30 billion revenue loss over
the next decade that could be accepted by both parties.  ‘No Sense’  Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, said
lawmakers shouldn’t make major policy on a bill that just keeps
government open for six weeks.  “It makes absolutely no sense,” she said.  On another fiscal front, the House tomorrow could introduce
legislation to increase the U.S. debt limit.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told Congress today that
the extraordinary measures being used to avoid breaching the
 debt ceiling  “will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.” The
Congressional Budget Office today estimated the government will
be unable to pay its bills starting Oct. 22.  House Republicans will include a one-year delay of the
health-care law as part of its legislation on the borrowing
authority.  Cruz’s 21-hour, 19-minute speech -- the fourth-longest for
the Senate -- compared the fight to end the measure to the
nation’s battle for independence against Great Britain and the
fight to keep the U.S. unified after the Civil War. He stopped
talking at noon as the Senate began a new legislative day.  Cruz Speech  “I hope over the course of this filibuster the issues that
are at the heart of this debate were put front and center in
front of the American people,” Cruz said after leaving the
Senate floor. “Obamacare isn’t working. When you get outside of
Washington, Republicans agree on that, Democrats agree on that,
independents agree on that, libertarians agree on that.”  Cruz, Utah Senator Mike Lee, and Kentucky Senator  Rand Paul , chief critics of the health law in the Senate, voted today
with the majority.  “It’s time to vote,” Paul said, explaining his decision.
“The sooner we’re done with this, the better chance we have of
not having the government shut down.”  Reid called Cruz’s move “a big waste of time.”  “It’s a shame we’re standing here having wasted perhaps
two days, most of yesterday and a good part of today, when we
could pass what we need to pass very quickly and send it back to
the House,” Reid said after Cruz yielded the floor.  ‘Duck Dynasty’  In addition to railing against the health-care law, Cruz
killed time reading from Dr. Seuss’s “Green Eggs and Ham” and
referencing the reality TV show “Duck Dynasty.”  When Cruz wrapped up, Senator Charles Schumer of New York,
the chamber’s third-ranking Democrat, chided the Texan for
missing the moral of the Dr. Seuss story.  “Try something before you condemn it -- you might actually
like it,” Schumer said. In reference to Sam-I-Am, the book’s
main character, he added: “Maybe if he was a senator he’d speak
on the floor for 21 hours, and then when he tasted green eggs,
he’d actually like them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  