-- Senate Democrats Who Back Keystone Rebuff Debt-Limit Linkage
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-09-25T18:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/senate-democrats-who-favor-keystone-xl-rebuff-debt-limit-linkage.html
Some Senate Democrats who back the
Keystone XL Pipeline are rebuffing plans by House Republican
leaders to attach approval of the project to a measure
suspending the nation’s debt ceiling, a sign the Republican
strategy could falter.  House Republican leaders say they’ll introduce legislation
this week that suspends the U.S. borrowing limit for one year,
while attaching some spending cuts and policy provisions that
include authorization of the $5.3 billion pipeline project.
Treasury Department Secretary Jacob J. Lew told House Speaker
John Boehner in a letter today that measures to avoid breaching
the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling will be exhausted on
Oct. 17.  At least three Democratic senators who support the pipeline
-- Mark Begich of  Alaska , Max Baucus of  Montana  and Joe Manchin
of West Virginia -- said in interviews that language for a
project opposed by President  Barack Obama  has no place in a
debt-ceiling measure.  “I’ve supported Keystone, but we should have a clean debt-limit bill,” Begich said. “That’s been the traditional way,
and it’s been very successful.”  A battle over the pipeline proposed by  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  of
Calgary entered its sixth year last week, and has drawn in
lobbyists representing more than 50 different groups. The
pipeline would link  Alberta ’s oil sands to refineries on the
U.S. Gulf Coast.  Environmental Assessment  The State Department, which has to sign off because the
project crosses the international boundary, is conducting an
environmental-impact review.  The Keystone gambit by House Republicans has support among
many senators of their own party, with some arguing that the
risk of breaching the current limit gives them leverage on the
pipeline issue.  “The Keystone Pipeline is an important asset that we need
to be developing, and I’ve opposed the president’s opposition to
that,” Senator John Isakson, a Georgia Republican, said.
“Quite frankly, in the legislative game that we play, when you
have a must-pass piece of legislation that’s when you can make
your case. I don’t think it’s inappropriate at all.”  Yet the Keystone effort by House Republicans comes at the
same time both chambers are engaged in a tough game of
brinksmanship over the terms of a stop-gap spending measure to
keep the government operating past Oct. 1. House Republicans
attached a provision to a House-passed funding bill that would
repeal the 2010 health care overhaul, threatening a shutdown
unless they and Senate Democrats can agree on an alternative the
president will sign within days.  Obamacare Measure  Like the health care defunding provision, Obama opposes any
legislation forcing a decision on the pipeline project. And in
the case of both the government funding bill and the debt-limit
measure, Democrats can strip out the unwanted language from the
House-passed bill with just 51 votes. They also can introduce
their own debt-limit measure without reference to Keystone. The
party controls 54 votes in the Senate, including the two
independents that usually join their caucus.  Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, a Rhode Island Democrat and top
opponent of the Keystone project, said it is foolhardy for
Republicans to think they could prevail at any effort to push
the pipeline through the Democratic Senate on a debt-related
measure.  “It’s the same hostage-taking tactics for things they
can’t accomplish legislatively,” he said. “The chances it
would pass are pretty slim. I think the president has been
pretty clear that he wants a clean debt limit, and if they’re
going to start attaching stuff to it that’s a game two can
play.”  ‘Political Risks’  Senator Richard Burr, a North Carolina Republican, said he
rejects Obama’s refusal to negotiate about Keystone when the
debt measure begins to make its way through both chambers.  Asked whether there are political risks to Republicans
engaging in two rounds of brinksmanship within days or weeks of
one another, Burr said it’s a risk worth taking.  “There are political risks to not having the right policy
in place,” he said. “If you focus on economic growth, things
like Keystone are absolutely essential, whether the president
wants it or not. I think it’s important for the legislative
branch to initial pro-growth policies, and that’s one of them.”  House Republican leaders said on Sept. 20 that their debt
proposal will be put forth this week, and it could see a floor
vote as early as Friday.  House Bill  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin
Republican, said Republican leaders will seek to attach a number
of unrelated provisions to the debt legislation besides the
Keystone project, including a one-year delay of Obama’s health-care law, instructions for revamping the U.S. tax code, means-testing for Medicare and reductions in government regulations
and language blocking Environmental Protection Agency
greenhouse-gas and coal-ash regulations.  Obama called House Speaker John Boehner days ago to tell
him that he wouldn’t negotiate on the debt ceiling, the White
House and the speaker’s office said in separate statements. The
president urged Congress against a “self-inflicted wound,”
according to the White House, while Boehner was “disappointed”
by Obama’s stance against negotiation, the Ohio Republican’s
office said.  Manchin, who often parts ways with Democratic leaders on
environmental and budget matters, said that he’s sticking with
his party over the matter of keeping stray issues out of this
fall’s debt debate.  “I’m 1,000 percent for the pipeline, but let’s fix our
debt,” he said. “Let’s work on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  