-- Serial Defaulter Burnishes Taper-Proof Status: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-09-25T13:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/serial-defaulter-burnishes-taper-proof-status-argentina-credit.html
Argentina  is enriching debt
investors with returns that are  nine times  the average in
 emerging markets  this quarter, underscoring the nation’s status
as a haven against Federal Reserve policies that have whipsawed
developing-nation bondholders.  The government’s dollar-denominated notes have  returned 
16.3 percent since the end of June, second only to  Egypt  among
58 emerging markets tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co. The third-quarter advance has reversed losses on the country’s bonds this
year, with the securities returning 1.9 percent, compared with a
drop of 6.1 percent for sovereign debt from developing nations.  Argentine bonds  have split from  the rest of the developing
world as investors focus on whether  South America ’s second-largest economy will be able to stave off its seventh default
since independence in 1816. A delay in the enforcement of a U.S.
appeals court decision in August ordering Argentina to pay
holders of defaulted debt in full has spurred gains, even as
speculation the Fed may begin tapering bond-buying plan as soon
as next month roils markets from  Brazil  to  India .  “Argentina trades on its fundamentals, the perception of
legal risk from  New York  courts, its growth, its politics,”
Alejandro Urbina, who helps oversee $800 million at Silva
Capital Management LLC, said by telephone from  Chicago . “Some
people may be looking at Argentina opportunistically, seeing
legal matters on the sidelines right now.”  Downgrade Proof  The bonds rallied even after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the
nation’s credit rating one level to CCC+, or five levels from
default, citing increased risks to debt payments from the legal
proceedings.  While a U.S. appeals court on Aug. 23 upheld a district
court order that Argentina must pay holders of its defaulted
debt in full when it makes payments on performing bonds, the
enforcement of the decision was postponed until the Supreme
Court decides whether to review the case. That may not come
until the first quarter of 2014, according to Richard Samp,
chief counsel of the Washington Legal Foundation.  Vladimir Werning, an economist at JPMorgan, yesterday
raised his recommendation on Argentine bonds to overweight from
market weight, citing improving demand for risky assets and
prospects of a lengthier legal battle for Argentina.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  insists that she
can only offer holdouts from Argentina’s $95 billion default in
2001 the same terms as creditors who accepted losses of about 70
percent in debt restructurings in 2005 and 2010.  The nation has said it would never voluntarily obey an
order to pay holdouts in full, fueling speculation it would opt
to default when the orders are enforced.  ‘Serial Payers’  On Aug. 26, Fernandez said Argentina would be willing to
swap securities governed under New York law to local legislation
to allow restructured bondholders to continue receiving debt
payments regardless of the legal outcome.  “Instead of recalcitrant debtors, we are serial payers,”
Fernandez said last month. On Sept. 22, Fernandez said in a
televised interview that U.S. courts should let Argentina
continue honoring its obligations with current bondholders.  If the  Supreme Court  denies Argentina’s request, the stay
would be lifted, Samp said Sept. 16 at a seminar hosted by the
Emerging Markets Trade Association in New York. If the high
court decides to hear the appeal, the stay will remain in place
and the case will be scheduled for argument in October or
November of 2014, pushing out a decision until probably the
first half of 2015, he said.  Lifting Stay  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1,007 basis points at
8:40 a.m. in New York, JPMorgan index data show.  Argentina’s five-year credit-default swaps, contracts that
protect the nation’s bondholders against non-payment, climbed
nine basis points to 2,276 basis points, according to data
compiled by CMA Ltd.  Holdout creditors including NML Capital Ltd., a unit of
billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management
Corp., may still ask the Second Circuit Court of Appeals to lift
the stay on the order for Argentina to pay holders of defaulted
debt in full after Fernandez unveiled a plan to service the debt
under a different jurisdiction.  ‘Compelling Reasons’  “You need good grounds to lift that stay,”  Robert Cohen ,
an attorney at Dechert LLP who represents NML, said Sept. 16 at
the seminar. “The second circuit considered the comments that
Argentina’s counsel made at argument that Argentina wouldn’t
obey. Nevertheless, they imposed the stay, so if we move to lift
it we would have to have compelling reasons, and we may.”  The South American nation’s debt yields an average 12.82
percent, more than any emerging market globally, JPMorgan data
show.  “When you get into this legal running out the clock,
kicking the can down the road process, the earliest we will
likely see any news from the Supreme Court is March,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market strategist at Seaport Group LLC, said
in a telephone interview from New York. “That gives you a
number of coupon payments to be put under your belt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  