-- Shanghai Free-Trade Zone Plans Spark Surge in Residential Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/shanghai-free-trade-zone-plans-spark-surge-in-residential-prices.html
Home prices near an area that
 Shanghai  has designated as a free-trade zone have surged 30
percent amid expectations the development will boost housing
values, according to China’s second-biggest property brokerage.  Prices rose to 22,000 yuan ($3,595) per square meter (10.76
square foot) in Gaoqiao, in the city’s northeast, in the first
two weeks of September, said An Tao, a manager at  Century 21
China Real Estate.  Sales climbed about 50 percent from the same
period in August. The government said in an Aug. 22 statement
that the State Council had approved the special zone.  “Home prices have risen a bit out of control in just two
weeks,” said An, who has been working in the area for four
years and whose team sold about 20 existing homes during that
period. “Sellers raised prices as they saw news about the free
trade zone.”  The 29-square-kilometer (11-square-mile) proposed free-trade zone in China’s financial center may allow freer  yuan 
convertibility, liberalize interest rates and relax restrictions
on foreign investment as part of Premier Li Keqiang’s drive to
sustain growth by shifting the economy toward services and
consumption from investment and exports. The zone may be opened
officially by the end of the month, two people with knowledge of
the matter said Sept. 14.  “A number of residential purchasers whole-heartedly
believe something tremendous is going to happen,” Joe Zhou,
head of East China research at broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
said in an interview in Shanghai. “Just the expectation of what
may happen, not necessarily the policies, have already had an
impact on the property market in those locations.”  The asking price for a 60-square-meter two-bedroom home in
Gaoqiao is about 1.3 million yuan ($212,436), according to
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate website owner.  Freer Economy  China’s biggest cities, including Shanghai and Beijing,
have been driving a resurgence in home prices this year, as
property curbs have failed to damp demand for homes even as the
economy has been slowing. New-home prices in Shanghai jumped 15
percent in August from a year earlier, according to government
statistics.  The Shanghai zone was approved by the State Council headed
by Li on July 3. A draft plan seen by Bloomberg News shows the
free-trade zone may liberalize 19 industries from banking to
shipping and allow freer convertibility of the yuan, though the
government hasn’t published details.  Li and his cabinet are considering the Shanghai policies
ahead of a Communist Party meeting in November at which the
leadership may expand on its plan for reducing the government’s
role in the economy and financial system.  Trade Zone  The free-trade zone will cover four customs areas where
goods stored are exempted from tariffs and value added taxes:
Waigaoqiao bonded zone and logistics park, Pudong airport zone,
and Yangshan port zone, according to the government.  Gaoqiao is the closest residential area to downtown
Shanghai and has a Crowne Plaza hotel.  Most homes in Gaoqiao, near the Waigaoqiao free-trade
areas, were built in the 1990s, while the land inside the zone
has mostly warehouses, according to  Centaline Property Agency
Ltd. , China’s biggest real-estate brokerage. Lingang, near the
Yangshan port zone, has newly built government office buildings
for customs and taxation, and shopping centers.  ‘Key Beneficiary’  Home prices around the free-trade zone are lagging behind
the average for Shanghai. Prices in Lingang rose in August an
average 5.5 percent to 1,100 yuan per square meter, according to
Century 21. Home prices in Shanghai rose 7.7 percent in August
from a year earlier to 28,979 yuan per square meter, according
to SouFun.  “Property would be a key beneficiary thanks to surging
demand for offices and warehouses, which should drive the need
for residential and retail malls,” Jefferies Equity Research
Hong Kong-based analysts, led by Christie Ju, wrote in a
research report Sept. 20.  Mall developers such as  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. (CMA) ,  Hang Lung
Properties Ltd. (101)  and  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  are among the
stocks Jefferies favors, it said.  Office Market  Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Chartered
Plc are among financial institutions that have signaled interest
in the free-trade zone.  It is too early to say how big an impact the zone will have
on the city’s office market as no detailed plans have been
announced, according to Jones Lang and Savills Plc.  The vacancy rate for offices in Shanghai fell to 5.2
percent in the second quarter, compared with 6.1 percent in
first quarter, while rents for prime offices rose to 9.9 yuan
per square meter per day, according to Savills.  The impact of the Shanghai zone on the property market may
not be as clear as one-time events such as the Olympic Games in
Beijing in 2008 or the World Expo in Shanghai in 2010, Liu Yuan,
a Shanghai-based researcher at Centaline, said.  “The zone will be developed based on existing
developments, while the Olympics or the Expo have brought along
a lot of new infrastructure constructions,” Liu said.  China  already has a financial zone in the Qianhai district
of the southern city of Shenzhen, which borders Hong Kong. The
area was created by the State Council in 2010 and the government
said in June 2012 it would make Qianhai a test ground for freer
yuan usage and capital account convertibility.  “There’s a lot of hype about it, a lot of support for it,
and a lot of speculation that something great will come out of
the Shanghai zone, said James Macdonald, the Shanghai-based head
of China research at Savills. ‘‘It is definitely going to be
positive for the city, but the question is just how positive
will it be.’’  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  