-- Shell to Suspend French Guiana Drilling, Partner Says
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-09-25T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/shell-to-suspend-french-guiana-drilling-partner-says.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will suspend
exploration drilling off French Guiana until 2015 after three
unsuccessful wells, according to a partner in the project.  A Shell-led venture is still drilling the GM-ES-5 well, due
to be completed in November, Keith Bush, chief executive officer
at partner  Northern Petroleum Plc (NOP) , said yesterday by phone. The
partners may design a new drilling program in 2015, he said.  “Post this, there is going to be a lot of work done on the
integration from the well data,” Bush said. “Whether this well
is a discovery or not, we will need to look at where we want to
be once the work program’s being conducted next year.”  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  made the first oil find off the northeast of
South America with its Zaedyus well in 2011. Shell’s partners,
including  Total SA (FP)  and  Wessex Exploration Plc (WSX) , invested at least
$800 million to drill four further wells, with the first three
failing to find commercial resources, according to Bush.  Kirsten Smart, a spokeswoman in London at Shell, declined
to comment. Tullow and Total spokesmen also wouldn’t comment.  Shell took over the  Guyane Maritime  operation in February
2012 from Tullow, a month after they announced “a frontier
exploration partnership” in the Atlantic basin. Tullow plans to
maintain its frontier exploration leadership after its
experience in French Guiana this year, CEO Aidan Heavey told
analysts on July 31.  “If we were still in  French Guiana , operating there, I
think we would drill different wells,” Heavey said in July.
“We may not have any better results, but we will have a
different approach.”  Exploration is risky and many wells may be needed to prove
commercial reserves, Bush said. The company plans to maintain
its minority stake in the project until the study is completed.  “There’s been a consensus in the joint venture in terms of
the locations and things like that,” Bush said. “Until you
drill, you don’t know what you’ve got.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  