-- Simon Property Debuts Bonds in Europe as Discount to U.S. Widens
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-25T15:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/simon-property-debuts-bonds-in-europe-as-discount-to-u-s-widens.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the
largest U.S. mall owner, debuted euro-denominated bonds as the
yield discount to U.S. dollar notes approached the widest in
more than 4 1/2 years.  Simon sold 750 million euros ($1 billion) of seven-year
securities to yield 75 basis points more than swaps, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield difference
between investment-grade company bonds in euros and comparable
dollar notes widened seven basis points in the past week to 1.22
percent, near the biggest discount since 2008, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  While Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  holds off
from scaling back stimulus in the U.S., European Central Bank
policy makers signaled this week they may provide additional
loans to banks to keep borrowing costs low, even amid signs the
euro-area economy is strengthening. A report today shows
 consumer confidence  in  Germany  improved more than economists
predicted.  “The ECB still runs an accommodative monetary policy given
the economic challenges the  euro zone  still faces,” said Rik Den Hartog, a portfolio manager at Kempen Capital Management in
Amsterdam. “For Simon, it’s attractive to sell bonds in euros,
since yields are at low levels and it offers an opportunity to
match their funding better to their European exposure.”  Simon sold the securities through its Simon Property Group
LP unit to refinance a revolving credit facility and for general
corporate purposes, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Les Morris, a spokesman for the company in Indianapolis,
declined to comment on the sale.  Next Bonds  Investors demand an average 2.1 percent to hold euro-denominated high-grade notes compared with 3.3 percent for
dollar securities, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The yield premium over swaps for European company debt
fell 18 basis points this quarter to 98 basis points, according
to the data.  Also in credit markets today,  Next Plc (NXT) , Britain’s second-largest clothing retailer, priced 250 million pounds ($400
million) of 13-year notes to yield 147 basis points more than
U.K. government debt. It was the Leicester, England-based
company’s first bond sale in more than two years, Bloomberg data
show.  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-biggest luxury automaker,
issued 750 million euros of notes maturing in April 2020 to
yield 55 basis points more than swaps. The Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker also sold 500 million euros of three-year
floating-rate notes to yield 30 basis points more than the
three-month euro interbank offered rate.  In the high-yield market, Italian lender Veneto Banca SCPA
sold 300 million euros of notes due January 2016 to yield 4.375
percent. The Montebelluna-based bank is rated BB by  Standard &
Poor’s , two levels below investment grade.  -- Editors: Jennifer Joan Lee, Michael Shanahan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  