-- Singh Reverses India Ban on Convicts in Parliament Before Vote
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-25T04:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/singh-reverses-india-ban-on-convicts-in-parliament-before-vote.html
India Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s cabinet approved an executive order to negate a ruling
by the country’s top court in July that barred some lawmakers
convicted of crimes from holding office.  Lawmakers found guilty of offenses that carry punishments
of more than two years behind bars won’t lose their seats if
they appeal within 90 days and a court defers sentencing, Kapil Sibal, minister for Law and Justice, said in a telephone
interview. Lawmakers will not be entitled to vote or receive a
salary, he said.  The move comes after the ruling  Congress  party failed to
pass legislation in parliament last month to cancel the impact
of the court ruling. The ordinance will lapse if lawmakers fail
to support the measure in a vote within six weeks of the opening
of its next session, probably in November.  “It is a sad attempt at self-preservation,” said Jagdeep
Chhokar, a founder of the Association for Democratic Reforms and
a former professor at the Indian Institute of Management in
Ahmedabad. “This is a serious setback in attempts to reduce the
growing criminality in our politics.”  Lawmakers separately this month passed a similar bill
allowing politicians in jail or police custody to contest the
elections, overturning another Supreme Court ruling in July. The
lower house approved the legislation after a 15-minute debate.  Murder, Rape  The number of lawmakers charged with offenses has more than
doubled in the last fifteen years. Almost a third of federal and
state legislators face charges that include murder, rape and
kidnapping, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms,
which has campaigned for better governance since 1999.  The Supreme Court ruling would have immediately barred
lawmakers from office after a court finds them guilty. The
average criminal case lasts about 15 years, according to the
Ministry of Law and Justice.  Mukhtar Ansari, a lawmaker in the Uttar Pradesh state
assembly, has been elected three times from prison where he is
awaiting trial for ordering a rival’s murder by hitmen who
pumped 400 bullets into the victim’s car.  Raghuraj Pratap Singh was the food minister in Uttar
Pradesh until March even though he had cases pending against him
for attempted murder, kidnapping and armed robbery. He resigned
after he was accused of involvement in the murder of a local
policeman.  In the Jharkhand state assembly, 74 percent of lawmakers
face criminal charges, the highest of any state, the Association
for Democratic Reforms said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  