-- South Africa Consumer Confidence Plunges to Decade Low
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-09-25T15:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/south-africa-consumer-confidence-plunges-to-decade-low.html
South African  consumer confidence 
slumped to a 10-year low in the third quarter as strikes hit the
manufacturing and mining industries and gasoline costs soared to
a record.  The FNB/RMB  index  dropped 9 points to minus 8 as sentiment
across all income groups fell, Johannesburg-based  First National
Bank (FSR)  and the  Bureau for Economic Research  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The index climbed 8 points in the second
quarter as inflation stabilized and fears of power outages
failed to materialize.  “The consumer confidence index is presently at an even
more depressed level compared to the low of minus 4 registered
during the height of the 2008 global financial crisis,” FNB
said. The latest index number implies that confidence is “not
supportive of strong growth in  consumer spending .”  Thousands of workers in the construction and car-manufacturing industries downed tools in wage disputes in
August, followed by strikes by gas-pump attendants and workers
at auto-component dealers in September. Stoppages this year at
gold and platinum mines in  Africa ’s biggest economy have already
shaved 0.3 percentage point off economic growth, President  Jacob Zuma  said in June.  “Work stoppages do not only hamper production in the short
run, they also have the potential to dent fixed investment and
 job creation  prospects in the long run,” Sizwe Nxedlana, chief
economist at FNB, said. “Consumers are therefore understandably
concerned about the outlook for the South African economy.”  Rising Fuel  A slowdown in consumer spending, which makes up about two-thirds of expenditure in the economy, may undermine prospects
for economic growth and job creation. The  economy  is forecast by
the central bank to expand 2 percent this year, the slowest pace
since a 2009 recession. The  unemployment  rate rose to 25.6
percent in the second quarter.  “High unemployment levels, soaring fuel prices and lost
income during times of industrial action are impairing the
financial positions of low- and middle-income consumers in
particular,” Nxedlana said.  The gasoline price rose to a record 13.55 rand a liter
($5.22 a gallon) in August as the rand slumped to a four-year
low against the dollar. That’s adding to pressure on  inflation ,
which exceeded the  Reserve Bank ’s 3 percent to 6 percent target
band for a second month in August. Policy makers kept the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 5 percent on Sept. 19,
citing global uncertainties and downside risks to economic
growth. The currency lost 0.65 percent against the dollar and
traded at 9.9377 as of 5:04 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The confidence index is based on a survey of consumers’
views on the expected performance of the economy, future
financial position and the appropriate time to buy durable
goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  