-- Starbucks to Challenge Juan Valdez, Says Colombia Coffee Group
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-09-25T18:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/starbucks-to-challenge-juan-valdez-says-colombia-coffee-group.html
The arrival of  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in
Colombia next year will boost coffee bean sales to the U.S.
company and help improve the home-grown Juan Valdez cafe chain,
says Colombia’s coffee federation.  The federation is the largest shareholder in Colombia’s
Juan Valdez, founded 10 years ago and now with 170 branches in
Colombia and 63 abroad. Starbucks’ entry is a “challenge” that
will generate improvements in the management of Juan Valdez,
said Luis Munoz, the federation’s head.  “We think there is a large opportunity for growth in
Colombia,” Munoz said in an interview from his Bogota office
yesterday. “The arrival of Starbucks, rather than changing the
Valdez growth plan, clearly implies greater attention to
location, service and product innovation.”  Last month Starbucks said it plans to open its first stores
in the Andean nation in 2014, selling only Colombian coffee. The
Seattle-based company buys about 500,000 60-kilogram bags of
Colombia’s prized mild arabica coffee each year.  “We have discussed much higher growth targets,” Munoz
said. “Next year we will already have sales growth of 10 to 15
percent to the company, and in the medium term arrive at 1
million bags per year.”  Marketing Colombia  Munoz met with Starbucks Chief Executive Officer and
founder Howard Schultz when he visited Colombia last month, with
the two sides currently working on an agreement to help market
Colombian coffee in Starbucks chains around the world. The
federation promotes the interests of Colombian coffee producers.  “We want to build the map of Colombia within the Starbucks
market,” said Munoz, who hopes the accord will be signed this
year. “Not only from a regional supply perspective, but also
highlighting sustainable, environmentally friendly and organic
coffees.”  Colombian coffee output this year is set to beat previous
estimates and potentially reach 10.5 million bags, increasing
further in 2014, Munoz said.  “Starbucks’ entry generates challenges,” Munoz said.
“They have, like many big chains, many competitive
advantages.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  