-- Stemcor Restrained by Court on Planned Sale of Assets in India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-09-25T09:22:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/stemcor-restrained-by-court-on-planned-sale-of-assets-in-india.html
Stemcor Holdings Ltd., seeking to
sell its  iron ore  mine and pellet plant in India to repay about
$1.2 billion of debt, was restrained by a court from putting the
assets on the block.  The  Calcutta High Court  passed an order following a
petition filed by  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , which said the London-based
steel trader’s Indian assets are part of collateral for a 5.87
billion rupee ($94 million) loan, according to an interim order
published today on the court’s website. The next date of hearing
is Oct. 7.  Stemcor, which failed to repay a $850 million  credit line 
globally in May because of waning sales, won extra time from
banks until December to reorganize its debt. A delay in selling
the Indian business may jeopardize the plan and provoke action
from lenders including ABN Amro Bank NV,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Societe Generale SA.  “If the banks see that some progress has been made by
December, the standstill may be extended,” said Giriraj Daga,
an analyst at Mumbai-based Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. “If they
see the process has hit a wall, they might take over.”  ICICI Bank spokesman Sujit Ganguli didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Closely held Stemcor owns the mine and the pellet plant
through units  Aryan Mining & Trading Corp.  and Brahmani River
Pellets Ltd., according to a company presentation. Stemcor also
owns a slurry pipeline connecting the mine to the factory.  “This action was taken without any notification to the
company and we were made aware of it last Friday evening,”
 Charles Armitstead , a London-based external spokesman for
Stemcor, said in an e-mail. “Stemcor has every intention of
complying with its contractual obligations, which is all the
procedure asks us to do, and we believe that the matter will be
resolved quickly.”  The mine, situated in the eastern state of Odisha, can
produce 5 million metric tons of iron ore a year, while the
pellet plant has an annual capacity of 4 million tons.  The first round of bidding for the Stemcor assets closed
last week.  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  and  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  are
among companies that said they would bid for the assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indranil Ghosh in  New Delhi  at 
 ighosh@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  