-- Strauss-Kahn Puts N.Y. Case Behind to Chair Paris-Traded Bank
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-09-25T14:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/strauss-kahn-puts-n-y-case-behind-to-chair-paris-traded-bank.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , is buying a stake in a
Paris-traded financial-services firm and is set to become its
chairman.  Strauss-Kahn, 64, who quit the IMF under a cloud in May
2011, will help develop the investment-banking franchise of
Luxembourg-based  Anatevka SA (MLANA) , its current chairman Thierry Leyne
said. Anatevka, which went public in March in Paris, will be
renamed Leyne, Strauss-Kahn & Partners, Compagnie Financiere, or
“LSK,” according to a company statement.  Strauss-Kahn “is going to subscribe to a capital increase
and he will hold 20 percent of the capital,” Leyne said in a
phone interview from Luxembourg today.  The move is part of efforts Strauss-Kahn, or DSK as he’s
known in  France , has been making to rebuild his post-IMF life
after he was charged in 2011 of criminal sex, attempted rape,
sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching of a
chambermaid at the Sofitel hotel in  Manhattan . Strauss-Kahn
denied the charges, which were later dropped, and he settled the
maid’s lawsuit last year.  A former French Finance Minister and potential presidential
hopeful for the Socialist Party in the 2012 French elections,
Strauss-Kahn has been taking on consulting roles. In July, he
was appointed to the supervisory board of the Russia Regional
Development Bank, owned by oil producer OAO Rosneft. He is also
advising the Serbian and South Sudan governments.  Anne Hommel, a spokeswoman for Strauss-Kahn, said he wasn’t
available for comment on Anatevka.  LSK Role  Strauss-Kahn is slated to become LSK’s chairman on Oct. 18
after a  shareholders’ meeting , while Leyne will be chief
executive officer and will also be the chairman of the group’s
units, according to the firm’s statement.  Strauss-Kahn “desired to give a structure” to his
consultant and advisory missions, Leyne said. “We are going to
develop the investment-banking activity.”  Leyne declined to give details on the company’s capital
increase.  Anatevka rose  0.3 percent to 13.49 euros in Paris, giving it
a market value of 50.4 million euros ($68 million).  Anatevka has a staff of about 100 people in six countries:
Luxembourg, Belgium, Monaco, Israel, Switzerland and  Romania .
Anatevka has asset-management, corporate finance and insurance
units, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  