-- Stryker to Buy Mako for $1.65 Billion for Robotic Surgery
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-25T20:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/stryker-to-buy-mako-for-1-65-billion-for-robotic-surgery-1-.html
Stryker Corp. (SYK) , the second-largest
seller of orthopedic devices, agreed to buy  Mako Surgical Corp. (MAKO) 
for $1.65 billion to add technology for robot-assisted surgery.  Investors in Mako will receive $30 a share from Kalamazoo,
Michigan-based Stryker, the companies said today in a statement.
The offer carries an 86 percent premium over Fort Lauderdale,
Florida-based Mako’s closing price yesterday.  Mako, founded in 2004, pioneered the use of robotic-assisted surgery in orthopedics. It sells the Rio Robotic Arm,
which enables surgeons to precisely and consistently cut through
bone. The incisions are designed for the company’s Restoris
implants, including partial knee  resurfacing  in people with
early or mid-stage osteoarthritis. Mako recently added an
application for total hip replacements.  “The take-out price seems high, but strategically it makes
a lot of sense,” said  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York, in a note to investors today. “For
Stryker, the company takes a step forward into robotic surgery,
consolidates its orthopedic silo, and continues its M&A strategy
that it has been on for several years.”  Earnings Effect  The transaction, not including acquisition and integration
costs, will dilute Stryker’s  adjusted earnings  by 10 cents to 12
cents a share in the first year, be neutral in the second year
and accelerate growth thereafter. Stryker said it expects Mako
to issue another 3.953 million shares in connection to an
acquisition that Mako anticipates to complete.  Stryker fell 2.9 percent to $68.79 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York. The shares have gained 23 percent in the past 12 months.
Mako soared 82 percent to $29.46.  Stryker Chief Executive Officer Kevin Lobo said the
addition of Mako’s technology to his company’s established
position in operating rooms, joint reconstruction and surgical
instruments will spur the growth of robotic assisted surgery.  “Mako has established a compelling technology platform in
robotic assisted surgery which we believe has considerable long-term potential in joint reconstruction,” he said in a
statement. “Our combined expertise offers the potential to
simplify joint reconstruction procedures, reduce variability and
enhance the surgeon and patient experience.”  The deal is likely to signal the start of additional
industry consolidation, Wuensch said.  “We anticipate that the transaction will drive the other
M&A medtech targets’ stock prices higher, as the musical chairs
move in consolidation has begun,” she wrote.  Stryker got financial advice on the transaction from
Citigroup Inc. and legal counsel from Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP. Mako received financial advice from JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and legal counsel from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &
Katz and Foley & Lardner LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  