-- Swiss Stocks Little Changed Amid U.S. Budget-Deal Concern
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-09-25T16:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-before-u-s-durable-goods.html
Swiss stocks were little changed,
following a two-day decline, as investors assessed the
likelihood that U.S. politicians will fail to approve a  federal
budget  for the new financial year.  Swissquote Group Holding SA (SQN)  surged 13 percent after
agreeing to  buy  MIG Bank for an undisclosed price. Clariant AG
lost 1.6 percent after UBS AG removed the maker of specialty
chemicals from the list of its most preferred shares.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.1 percent to 8,055.23 at the
close in Zurich. The equity benchmark has climbed 4 percent this
month, extending its gain this quarter to 4.8 percent, as the
 Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing its monthly bond
purchases. The gauge has rallied 18 percent so far in 2013, the
third-best performance by a European developed market. The Swiss
Performance Index gained less than 0.1 percent today.  “The markets have much to pause and ponder over,” Daniel Weston, a portfolio manager at Aimed Capital GmbH in Munich,
wrote in an e-mail. “Taper or not to taper and the debt-ceiling
debate will come to the fore soon, but for now it is a good
reason to wait and take count of a strong year for stocks.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 13 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said that investors
should take more seriously the risk that politicians may fail to
pass a new budget. “I think that if you look at the calm out
there, which I think is a bit greater than it should be, there’s
a sense that 2011 was a terrible experience, and nobody would do
that again,” he said.  Lew’s Warning  Lew, who spoke at the Bloomberg Markets 50 Summit in  New
York  yesterday, repeated that Obama won’t negotiate with
congressional Republicans on increasing the $16.7 trillion limit
on the nation’s borrowing authority and said the government will
probably have less than $50 billion in cash by mid-October.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report showed that
 durable-goods  orders, excluding the volatile transportation
category, fell 0.1 percent in August. The median economist
forecast had called for bookings to climb 1 percent.  A separate release showed that  new house sales  increased
7.9 percent to a 421,000 annualized pace last month. The  median
forecast  of 77 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  had called
for 420,000 sales of new residential properties.  Swissquote Rallies  Swissquote surged 13 percent to 33.60 Swiss francs, its
biggest gain in two years. The provider of online trading and
banking services said its acquisition of MIG will expand its
foreign-exchange operations. Currency activities accounted for
about a quarter of net revenue in the first half of the year,
the company said in a statement.  Transocean Ltd (RIG) , the world’s largest supplier of offshore
oil rigs, posted the biggest gain on  the SMI , rising 1.4 percent
to 41.26 francs.  Clariant slid 1.6 percent to 15.57 francs, dropping for a
seventh day. UBS removed the company from its most preferred
list because of the shares’ recent rally.  Clariant (CLN)  has  surged 26
percent  this year, while the SPI has gained 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  