-- Swiss Court Denies ‘Baby Doc’ Dictator’s Appeal on Frozen Assets
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-09-25T16:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/swiss-court-denies-baby-doc-dictator-s-appeal-on-frozen-assets.html
A Swiss court rejected an appeal by
Jean-Claude Duvalier, ruler of  Haiti  from 1971 to 1986, who
earlier challenged the Swiss government’s 2002 decision to
freeze his assets.  The Federal Administrative Court ruled against Duvalier and
his fellow plaintiffs, who objected to the forfeiture of 5
million Swiss francs ($5.5 million) of the ex-dictator’s assets,
according to a  statement  published today on the  St. Gallen ,
Switzerland-based court’s website.  The 2002 freezing order and subsequent forfeiture
proceedings were valid “to preserve Swiss interests” because
the assets stashed in Swiss banks were obtained “illicitly,”
according to the statement.  “Jean-Claude Duvalier and his entourage did not
demonstrate that the increase in their assets had resulted from
activities unrelated to their role as public officials,” the
court said in the statement. “The level of corruption of the
Haitian state was notoriously high during the period in which
they had held public office.”  Duvalier, commonly called “Baby Doc,” succeeded his late
father, Francois Duvalier, known as “Papa Doc,” to the
presidency of Haiti. He returned to the Caribbean country in
2011 after a 25-year-exile. The Duvaliers oversaw the  killings 
of 20,000 to 30,000 civilians, according to New York-based  Human
Rights Watch .  Barring a possible appeal to  Switzerland ’s Federal Supreme
Court, the frozen assets may be repatriated to Haiti, the
Western Hemisphere’s poorest country, which suffered an
earthquake in 2010 that killed about 200,000 people.  Switzerland introduced legislation two years ago to enable
countries to obtain the restitution of funds banked offshore by
despotic former rulers, without producing a domestic court
conviction. The initiative was nicknamed the “Duvalier Law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  