-- U.K. Prosecutors Said to Plan More Libor Charges
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-09-26T11:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-k-prosecutors-said-to-plan-more-libor-charges-in-october.html
U.K. prosecutors may bring another
round of charges against traders and brokers linked to the Libor
scandal as soon as next month, according to lawyers familiar
with the investigation, now in its fifth year.  The  Serious Fraud Office  will probably file the additional
charges as soon as Oct. 21, when a court hearing is scheduled
for three men who have already been arrested in the U.K. probe,
said the lawyers, who asked not to be identified because
prosecutors’ plans haven’t been made public. About six people
may be charged with conspiring to rig the benchmark  interest
rate , the lawyers said.  Seven people have been charged in parallel U.S. and U.K.
probes into the rigging of the London interbank offered rate
after the U.S. Justice Department yesterday filed a criminal
complaint against three former  ICAP Plc (IAP)  employees, two of whom
are British. The SFO has been criticized for lagging behind its
U.S. counterparts in an investigation of a rate that is closely
associated with the country’s financial industry.  “The laying of charges against ICAP employees in the U.S.
will increase pressure on the SFO to act,” said Peter Lodder, a
former chairman of the Bar Council of  England  and  Wales  and a
barrister at 2 Bedford Row in London. “With a new director, and
a significant change of approach in favor of commencing criminal
prosecutions, the SFO will not wish to appear to be a step
behind the U.S. authorities.”  The SFO, which prosecutes white-collar crime and fraud,
said that its  Libor probe  is continuing.  Further Developments  “We have so far charged three people and further
developments are expected over the coming months,” the agency
said in a statement.  The next group of charges could come as soon as the week of
Oct. 21 when the hearing is scheduled in the previous cases, the
lawyers said.  Tom Hayes, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader who
became the first individual to be charged in the U.K. over
Libor, is scheduled to enter a plea on charges related to
manipulation of Libor on Oct. 21. Terry Farr and James Gilmour
two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd. brokers, are set to appear
for their next hearing the same day.  A lawyer for Gilmour, Sean Curran, declined to comment.
Farr’s lawyers at Bindmans LLP and Hayes’s lawyers at Fulcrum
Chambers LLP didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  U.S. Case  In the U.S. case filed yesterday, the former ICAP brokers
were charged with  wire fraud  and conspiracy to commit wire
fraud. ICAP was also fined $88 million by regulators in the U.S.
and U.K. as part of the five-year-old probe into Libor rigging.  Two former derivatives brokers and a former cash broker,
one of whom was referred to at ICAP as “lord Libor,” were
charged, according to the criminal complaint. They face as much
as 30 years in prison if convicted of the most serious counts.  “These three men are accused of repeatedly and
deliberately spreading false information to banks and investors
around the world in order to fraudulently move the market and
help their client fleece his counterparties,” Mythili Raman,
the acting assistant attorney general of the DOJ’s criminal
division, said in a statement.  Darrell Read, who resides in  New Zealand , and Daniel
Wilkinson and Colin Goodman, both from England, were charged by
the U.S. for allegedly helping Hayes rig rates, the DOJ said.  Wilkinson’s lawyer, Matthew Frankland in  London , said his
client denies the allegations and that any legal proceedings
should take place in the U.K.  No Justice  “I see no justice or common sense in the decision to
prosecute this man in the States”, Frankland, a lawyer at Byrne
and Partners LLP, said in an e-mail. “It would be surprising
and disappointing if the SFO simply caved in again to pressure
from the DOJ and allowed a separate prosecution to take place in
the U.S.”  Lawyers at Kingsley Napley LLP, who represent Read, and BCL
Burton Copeland Solicitors, who represent Goodman, declined to
comment.  Goodman, the cash broker, sent out a daily e-mail to his
contacts outside of ICAP, including derivatives traders at large
banks and people responsible for providing the  British Bankers
Association , with Libor submissions, the U.S. said in the
complaint.  Arrest warrants issued Sept. 13 for the men in London and
Wellington, New Zealand, remain unexecuted, according to court
records.  The Note  The note, where Goodman -- the ex-cash broker -- would
allegedly include his suggestions on where yen Libor would be
each day across eight borrowing periods, was used to disseminate
misinformation to help Hayes, the U.S. alleged.  London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Zurich-based UBS and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc have previously been fined as part of the
probe into Libor, the benchmark for more than $300 trillion of
securities from mortgages to  student loans . Firms including
Rabobank Groep, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG
are still under investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  