-- U.K. Utilities Blame Government Green Policies for Higher Bills
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-09-25T15:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-k-utilities-blame-government-green-policies-for-higher-bills.html
U.K. utilities said the
government’s clean energy policies are behind a surge in
consumer electricity bills, remarks aimed at shifting debate
away from a proposal to freeze prices until 2017.  Chief executive officers from  SSE Plc (SSE)  and RWE Npower Plc,
two of the country’s six largest generators, said it’s the cost
of wind and solar power along with the government’s ambition to
install high-tech meters in every household that have boosted
costs for consumers.  The remarks were meant at blunting the demands of Ed Miliband, who leads the opposition Labour Party, for the
industry to cap the cost of energy. The average household power
bill has risen 68 percent since 2008 even though the economy
suffered a recession that lifted unemployment.  “It’s the great unsaid in this debate that we’re all
paying for successive governments’ environmental and social
policies through our bills,” SSE Chief Executive Alistair Phillips-Davies said today.  About 85 percent of SSE’s costs are outside the utility’s
control, and most people don’t understand that’s the case, he
said. About half of a dual fuel bill is energy bought in from
global markets, a quarter is regulated costs for using and
upgrading energy networks, and about 10 percent are costs from
governments to fund low-carbon power and energy efficiency.  RWE’s View  “If the  Labour Party  can commit to reducing policy costs
on household energy bills, stopping the smart meter roll-out,
preventing commodity cost increases and accept that there won’t
be any investment in new power stations and infrastructure, then
we could freeze our prices,” Paul Massara, CEO of RWE Npower
said.  Earlier today, Miliband wrote to EON SE,  RWE AG (RWE) ,
ScottishPower,  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EDF and SSE urging them to work
with his party to “reset the energy market” to create
certainty and attract investors. He said Labour would cap prices
and pass laws to create a regulator that could reduce customer
bills if it wins the next election, due in 2015.  “You and I know that the public have lost faith in this
market,” Miliband said in the letter. “We can work together on
the basis of this price freeze to make the market work in the
future. Or you can reinforce in the public mind that you are
part of the problem and not the solution.”  Last night, the industry highlighted concerns a government-imposed freeze would dry up ambitions to invest in new  power
plants , which the energy regulator Ofgem says are necessary to
avoid blackouts toward the end of this decade. All except one of
the U.K.’s 23 nuclear plants are due to retire by 2023.  Price Controls  “If prices were to be controlled against a background of
rising costs it would simply not be economically viable for
Centrica, or indeed any other energy supplier, to continue to
operate and far less to meet the sizeable investment challenge
that the industry is facing,” Centrica said in a statement on
its website. “The impact of such a policy would be damaging for
the country’s long term prosperity.”  Today, the industry focused on the impact of the
government’s clean energy policies. Those include subsidies for
renewable energy that are paid for by increases on customer
bills. Labour has a target to take carbon produced by burning
fossil fuels out of the  energy industry  by 2030.  “When prices go up it’s for a simple, albeit painful
reason: the costs have gone up,” said Phillips-Davies from SSE.
“Here’s an alternative suggestion for  Ed Miliband : why doesn’t
Labour commit to removing the stealth taxes from customer
bills?” This would cut bills by more than 100 pounds, he said.  Capping power bills would reduce competition between
utilities by paring back the incentive to invest in new power
plants, said Trevor Green, head of institutional funds at  Aviva
Investors (AVGHYAU) , which owns shares in all of the big six utilities.  “There are a few dominant players in an industry with very
high barriers to entry, so price setting will just serve to
remove the market entirely,” Green said in an interview.
“There would be no competition, so essentially no free market,
which will deter new entrants and benefits no-one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  