-- U.K. Stocks Drop Amid U.S. Budget Concern as SSE Tumbles
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-09-25T15:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-k-stocks-drop-before-u-s-durable-goods-house-sales.html
U.K. stocks  fell as utilities
retreated and U.S. politicians discussed a budget to prevent
their government from shutting down next month.  SSE Plc and Centrica dropped more than 4 percent as
Citigroup Inc. said rising energy prices may lead to government
intervention.  Carnival Plc (CCL)  slid 6.7 percent as brokerages
including Morgan Stanley and Natixis downgraded the shares.  ICAP
Plc (IAP)  lost 1.8 percent after U.K. and U.S. authorities fined the
broker $88 million on charges of rigging key interest rates.  The FTSE 100 Index retreated 19.93 points, or 0.3 percent,
to 6,551.53 at the close in  London . The equity benchmark has
still risen 2.2 percent in September, extending its gain this
quarter to 5.4 percent, as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
reducing its monthly asset purchases. The gauge has rallied 11
percent this year. The FTSE All-Share Index also slipped 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.1 percent.  “The political debate over energy prices introduces
uncertainty about future prospects for suppliers should Labour
come into power,” said Richard Hunter, head of equities at
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in London. “The broader U.K. market is
affected by the political posturing that has started in the U.S.
about a potential shutdown of the government. In the absence of
specific company news, we may see the markets tread water in the
next few weeks.”  Energy Prices  SSE Plc (SSE)  slid 5.8 percent to 1,489 pence as Citigroup said
in a note that the supplier of gas and electricity would suffer
the most from price caps or other forms of government
intervention because it gets 97 percent of  revenue  from the U.K.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the biggest energy supplier to U.K. homes,
slipped 4.1 percent to 375.6 pence, the biggest drop since May
2010. Ed Miliband, the leader of the Labour Party, yesterday
pledged to freeze energy bills if he wins the next general
election. He added that rising prices have enriched power
companies at the expense of consumers.  In the U.S., lawmakers have until Monday to approve
emergency legislation to keep the federal government operating
from Oct. 1, the beginning of the 2014 fiscal year, through Dec.
15. Failure to pass the bill may lead to a government shutdown.  A Commerce Department report showed that  durable-goods
orders  gained 0.1 percent in August. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg  had projected  a drop of 0.2
percent. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
declined a revised 8.1 percent in July.  House Sales  A separate release showed that  new house sales  increased to
a 421,000 annual pace last month.  Economists had projected  that
sales of new residential properties would increase to 420,000,
according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Carnival dropped 6.7 percent to 2,106 pence as Morgan
Stanley lowered its recommendation on the shares to underweight,
which is similar to a sell rating, from equal weight. The
world’s largest cruise-ship operator has tumbled 12 percent
since the close on Sept. 23, the biggest two-day decline since
January 2012, after it unexpectedly forecast that it may report
a loss in its fiscal fourth quarter.  “Carnival’s early 2014 guidance implies a sluggish yield
recovery and a step up in costs,” Morgan Stanley analysts led
by Jamie Rollo wrote in a note. “A major restructuring and/or
cash return look unlikely as supports to the stock.”  Separately, Natixis downgraded Carnival to reduce from
neutral and Numis Corp. lowered its rating to hold from add. The
company yesterday said fourth-quarter earnings excluding some
items will range from a loss of 3 cents a share to a profit of 3
cents.  Analysts on average  had projected 9 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ICAP Fine  ICAP, the world’s biggest broker of transactions between
banks, slipped 1.8 percent to 388.4 pence as U.S. prosecutors
charged three former employees with fraud in a five-year
international investigation into interest-rate manipulation.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission asked the
company to pay $65 million, while the U.K. Financial Conduct
Authority fined it 14 million pounds ($22.5 million).  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  dropped 3.5 percent to 360.9 pence. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut its rating on the shares to underweight from
neutral, meaning that investors should hold less of the shares
than are represented in benchmark indexes. The brokerage cited
weak same-store sales and said that initiatives such as ‘Double
Clubcard Points’ in 2010 and the  ‘Price Promise’  in 2013 have
had limited success.  Travis Perkins Plc gained 2.3 percent to 1,661 pence. UBS
AG raised its recommendation on the shares to buy from neutral,
citing the company’s high exposure to the U.K.’s economic
recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  