-- Asiana Crash Response to Families Prompts U.S. Agency Review
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-09-26T14:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-s-reviews-asiana-s-aid-to-families-after-july-fatal-crash.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  is under
review by the U.S. Transportation Department on whether the
South Korean carrier met its legal obligation to assist
passengers’ families after a July crash in San Francisco.  The review, prompted by the  National Transportation Safety
Board , is the first time the board has raised concerns with the
department over an airline’s assistance, said Keith Holloway, an
NTSB spokesman. A 1996 law requires airlines to provide aid such
as posting toll-free numbers and providing lodging and
transportation for family members after an accident.  “We didn’t feel that Asiana was providing that information
in a timely fashion to the families as they should have, so we
notified the DOT about that,” Holloway said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Bill Mosley , a DOT spokesman, confirmed
that the department is conducting a review.  The July 6 crash occurred when one of Seoul-based Asiana’s
planes, carrying 291 passengers and 16 crew members, struck a
seawall short of the San Francisco airport, resulting in three
deaths and dozens of injuries. The pilots’ manual flying skills
and cockpit teamwork are part of an NTSB investigation into the
cause of crash, which has prompted the carrier to increase pilot
training and begin an outside review of safety standards.  Kiwon Suh, an Asiana spokesman in South Korea, declined to
comment.  The NTSB raised its concerns with the department
immediately after the crash, Holloway said. Asiana’s  aid plan ,
filed with the Transportation Department, was last updated in
2004, he said.  Associated Press  reported the U.S. review earlier on
Sept. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  