-- U.S. Said to Probe 16 Financial Institutions Over RMBS
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-09-25T00:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-s-said-to-probe-16-financial-institutions-over-rmbs.html
Sixteen financial institutions are
being investigated by government officials as part of their
scrutiny of bank actions in the years before the financial
crisis, according to a court filing by Wall Street’s largest
mortgage due-diligence firm.  Clayton Holdings LLC, objecting today to a July 1 subpoena
seeking documents related to the firm’s work on residential
mortgage-backed securities, said the U.S. Justice Department was
engaged in a “fishing expedition” aimed at collecting massive
amounts of data on almost 200 clients. Clayton didn’t identify
the 16 institutions being probed by the RMBS working group, a
group of federal and state officials that includes the Justice
Department.  “Rather than seek documents for those clients who are
actually the subjects of its investigation, the government is
seeking to seize every document and communication for all 193
clients and for almost 5,000 e-mail custodians, in violation of
Clayton’s rights under the Fourth Amendment,” Marc Rothenberg,
a lawyer for Clayton at Blank Rome LLP, said in the filing today
in federal court in Connecticut.  The Justice Department’s financial fraud task force has
increased its activity in RMBS cases, suing  Bank of America
Corp.  last month as New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
disclosed criminal and civil investigations. Bank of America,
based in  Charlotte , North Carolina, has denied wrongdoing and
said it will fight the suit.  Identical Subpoenas  Clayton said two other third-party firms received identical
subpoenas -- LPS Credit Risk Solutions and LPS Valuation
Solutions. Frank Morreale, a lawyer at Holland & Knight LLP who
represents the LPS companies, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on Clayton’s filing.  Clayton, based in Shelton, Connecticut, said it cooperated
with government demands for information during the past six
years and previously aided the working group of federal and
state officials investigating the pooling and sale of mortgage-backed securities.  In the filing, the firm said that several members of the
working group expressed disagreement with the Justice Department
subpoena, which seeks due diligence reviews performed by
Clayton, as well as all communications between its employees and
clients for whom it performed the reviews from 2005 to 2007.
Clayton didn’t identify those members.  Adora Andy Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on Clayton’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Clayton Holdings LLC, 13-mc-00116, U.S.
District Court, District of  Connecticut  (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 