-- U.S. Carmakers’ Aluminum Usage Seen by Novelis Outpacing Europe
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-25T09:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-s-carmakers-aluminum-usage-seen-by-novelis-outpacing-europe.html
U.S. carmakers’ consumption of
aluminum may surpass European counterparts in the next 12 months
as new models using the metal come to market, according to
Novelis Inc.  Ford Motor Co. is among manufacturers rolling out new cars
that substitute aluminum for heavier steel. Use of the
lightweight metal in vehicles is rising about 5 percent a year,
according to Barclays Plc. Making car bodies consumes about
350,000 metric tons of aluminum sheet a year, of which Atlanta-based Novelis produces 250,000 tons, according to Erwin Mayr,
president of Novelis Europe.  U.S. vehicles are incorporating more aluminum because of
Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards that limit fuel usage
and consumer demand for cars that are more economic and cause
less pollution, Mayr said in an interview. European
manufacturers including Volkswagen AG’s Audi unit and Daimler AG
were leaders in the past five years, he said.  “Now the trend is being completely taken over by the big
carmakers in  North America ,” Mayr said in Geneva on Sept. 18.
“Americans tend to drive big cars, so they need to make them
lighter. You need a lot of aluminum.”  Ford’s F-150 truck, containing more than 1,000 pounds of
the metal, may raise the average content in vehicles to 650
pounds, according to Bloomberg Industries estimates. Aluminum
usage per car will average 160 kilograms (352 pounds) by 2020,
against 140 kilograms last year, according to slides in a
presentation last week by Werner Stelzer, a former executive at
Canadian producer Alcan who is an auto and aluminum consultant.  Aluminum Frame  Chevrolet’s 2014 Corvette Stingray has a frame made
entirely of aluminum, according to the  website  of the unit of
Detroit-based General Motors Co.  The U.S. government is requiring carmakers to achieve a
fleetwide fuel-economy average for light-duty vehicles of 35.5
miles a gallon of gasoline by the 2016 model year and 54.5 miles
a gallon by 2025. Average prices for regular gasoline gained 5.1
percent in the U.S. this year, according to American Automobile
Association  data  on Bloomberg.  Global vehicle sales will rise 2.7 percent to a record 83.2
million units this year and another 4.7 percent to 87.1 million
in 2014, according to LMC Automotive, a research company based
in Oxford,  England . Car and light-truck sales in the U.S.
advanced 17 percent in August to the highest since May 2007,
according to Autodata Corp.  Novelis still expects global carmakers’ aluminum demand to
gain at a combined annual rate of 25 percent over the next five
to eight years, Mayr said. Transportation accounts for about 42
percent of the metal’s use in mature economies, according to
Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest producer.  Hindalco Subsidiary  Novelis, which buys about 3 million tons of aluminum
annually, counts Ford, Audi and the Jaguar Land Rover division
of Tata Motors Ltd. as customers, according to its website. The
U.S. company is a unit of  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) ,  India ’s
largest producer of the metal.  Aluminum for delivery in three months fell 13 percent this
year to $1,802 a ton on the London Metal Exchange. Prices are
headed for a second annual retreat in three amid prospects for a
surplus of the metal in 2013 estimated at 600,000 tons by
researcher Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  