-- U.S. Cites Renewed Terror Threat in Global Travel Warning
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/u-s-cites-terror-threat-in-issuing-global-travel-warning.html
Americans traveling abroad should
beware of potential terror attacks aimed at them in Europe,
Asia,  Africa  and the Middle East by al-Qaeda or its affiliated
groups, the U.S. State Department said in a global travel alert.  “Extremists may elect to use conventional or
nonconventional weapons, and target both official and private
interests,” the department said yesterday. Potential targets
may include high-profile sports events, residences, businesses,
hotels, clubs, restaurants, schools, places of worship, shopping
malls and tourist destinations where Americans congregate.  Two U.S. officials familiar with the warning said that
while it’s a routine renewal of the department’s worldwide
caution, it also reflects mounting intelligence that suggests
Islamic terrorist groups loosely affiliated with what remains of
al-Qaeda’s core leadership in  Pakistan  may be planning a new
series of attacks against Western targets.  The officials, who spoke on the condition that they not be
identified because the intelligence is classified, said the
renewed caution also is an indication that, despite the 2011
death of Osama bin Laden, his radical ideology has been
spreading to new areas, making it more difficult to detect and
contain threats. They declined to discuss specific warnings.  Ideal Conditions  In addition, the officials said, rather than ushering in
new democracies, the collapse of some authoritarian regimes in
the Mideast and North Africa has created ideal conditions for
radical groups to recruit and train new adherents.  Public transport systems may be particularly vulnerable to
attacks, the State Department said, citing past incidents in
Moscow,  London ,  Madrid , New York and Glasgow,  Scotland .  In Europe, there is a continuing threat “from unaffiliated
persons planning attacks inspired by major terrorist
organizations but conducted on an individual basis,” the State
Department said.  In the Mideast and North Africa, there is “credible
information” that terror groups continue to target U.S.
interests, the department said.  The warning refers to the rising violence in  Iraq  “not
seen since 2007” and says al-Qaeda in Iraq “is increasingly
resurgent.”  The Obama administration’s reference to al-Qaeda gaining
strength in Iraq “is a pretty significant statement for an
administration that says they ended the war” there, said David
Kilcullen, a former State Department counterterrorism adviser
and author of “Out of the Mountains: The Coming Age of the
Urban Guerrilla.”  Syria Effect  “What we are seeing in Iraq is a level of violence not
seen since 2006, including kidnappings and inter-communal
violence,” Kilcullen said yesterday by telephone. “The war in
 Syria  is giving al-Qaeda in Iraq a new lease of life.”  The department named al-Qaeda and its affiliates, including
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, as well as Al-Shabaab, the Somali-based Islamist
group, as posing threats. Al-Shabaab claimed responsibility for
the Sept. 21 attack on a shopping mall in Nairobi,  Kenya , that
left at least 67 civilians and security personnel dead.  The Nairobi attack already has led the largest U.S.
shopping mall to raise security measures. The  Mall of America  in
suburban  Minneapolis  said yesterday that it has implemented
additional precautions. In early August, the U.S. suspended or
closed several embassies in the Mideast after receiving
information on security threats.  Al-Shabaab, once seen as defeated, is “hitting back in
three different ways,” Kilcullen said. The group is mounting
terror attacks in big cities while also “going into the bush”
as a rural strategy in Somalia, and expanding regionally to
target nations whose troops are fighting them there, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  