-- Lufthansa Turns Around European Short-Haul With Germanwings Help
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lufthansa-turns-around-european-short-haul-with-germanwings-help.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said it’s
managed to turn around most of its European routes as the German
airline narrows its focus on the profitable legs and cost
reductions bear fruit, the regional head of sales said.  “This year, Lufthansa has been extremely successful with
its European network,” Goetz Ahmelmann said at an event in
Seeheim close to Lufthansa’s main Frankfurt hub. European
services using Frankfurt or Munich, where three-quarters of
passengers pass through, have been making money as the business
experienced “a significant lift,” he said without elaborating.  Lufthansa’s Germanwings subsidiary will become the operator
for all its routes within  Europe  that don’t use Frankfurt and
Munich. Operations outside the two hubs accumulated losses of
almost 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in the past 10 years, said
Germanwings Chief Operating Officer Oliver Wagner. Germanwings
plans to be profitable by 2015 and is seeing higher load factors
on routes taken over from Lufthansa, while ancillary sales,
yields and profit all rose.  Turning its European home market around is a key part of
Lufthansa’s plan to lift operating profit to 2.3 billion euros
by 2015. The company placed its largest-ever order for new
aircraft this month to rejuvenate its fleet and better compete
against carriers from the  Middle East  and  Asia . It’s also
spending 3 billion euros on new seats and lounges.  Air France  Air France KLM-Group (AF) , Europe’s largest carrier, on Sept. 18
said it scrapped a plan to break even at its main French unit
this year, prompting management to deepen job cuts and retire
planes to pare costs.  Lufthansa’s traffic in Europe improved as the company
reduced the number of plane types for regional routes and used
bigger aircraft with more seats, Chief Executive Officer
Christoph Franz said. The executive, who on Sept. 16 said he
won’t extend his contract when it expires in May, said cost-cutting will have to continue beyond the current program, which
runs through the end of next year.  “Working on the bottom line will continue, whether in the
form of a new program or a continuous effort,” Franz said.
“Our focus going forward is very clear: We’ll profitably grow
in the markets where we see growth. Not growing in a growing
market means you lose market share, and this industry is driven
by market share and size.”  Joint Ventures  While foreign ownership rules limit scope for mergers and
acquisitions in the industry, and joint ventures within Europe
face scrutiny by antitrust authorities, international joint
ventures beyond Europe may provide an attractive option, said
Lufthansa executives who attended the event.  The company in May won approval from European Union
regulators for its A++ trans-Atlantic venture with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , and it has a similar agreement with
All Nippon Airways Co. for Japan-Germany flights.  Lufthansa may end up engaging in “a handful” of such
ventures, and is in talks with its Star Alliance partner  Air
China Ltd. (601111)  and  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  about closer cooperation,
executives at the event said, without being more specific.
Lufthansa also seeks to expand its catering and maintenance
activities in Asia, said Sadiq Gillani, the company’s strategy
chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  