-- Lufthansa Premium Economy Class Debuts on Airbus A380 Next Year
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-09-25T15:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/lufthansa-premium-economy-class-debuts-on-airbus-a380-next-year.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
second-largest airline, will debut a premium economy offering on
its Airbus SAS fleet of A380 aircraft next year, adding a fourth
class of service.  The offering, for which Lufthansa ordered 3,000 seats from
ZIM Flugsitz GmbH, will be presented at a trade show in Berlin
in March, Jens Bischof, who is responsible for sales at
Lufthansa’s passenger airline, said yesterday. The Cologne,
Germany-based carrier plans to upgrade about 10 percent of
standard economy seats on its long-haul flights.  “It’s going to be wider, with more seat pitch, and we’ll
provide additional benefits on board and on the ground,”
Bischof told journalists in the southern Germany municipality of
Seeheim-Jugenheim, declining to provide further details. “It’ll
fly on the A380 from summer 2014. We’ll address economy
passengers and ultra price sensitive business customers.”  The announcement coincides with  Air France (AF)  saying it will
spend 500 million euros ($674 million) on improved services
including the first makeover of its aircraft seats in more than
a decade. Lufthansa said six months ago that it will sell first
class tickets with less booking flexibility to tourists at about
half the full fare, another indicator that the airline is
looking for ways to make its classes attract more travelers.  Lufthansa had ten A380’s in service as of June 30, with
another five on order, making it the largest airline customer
for the world’s biggest passenger aircraft in Europe. The
airline also claims to offer the largest number of business and
first class seats in the industry.  Space-Consuming  The size of its premium offering means Lufthansa has to
take extra care when introducing space-consuming changes,
Bischof said. The company is equipping its long-haul fleet with
full-flat beds in business class. British Airways announced both
a premium economy class and flat beds in business class in 2000.  The main reason for introducing a variant of its economy
class is to wrestle back customers from competitors, Bischof
said. The new service will also allow the airline to wring extra
revenue from tourists willing to pay for a more comfortable
trip, he said.  Lufthansa took four years and questioned more than 3,000
customers to develop its new business-class flat-bed seat, and
is undertaking similar efforts for the premium economy seat,
Bischof said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  