-- UN Security Council Said to Agree on Syria Weapons Issues
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/un-security-council-members-said-to-agree-on-syria-resolution.html
The United Nations Security
Council’s five permanent members have agreed on the most
important elements of a draft resolution requiring  Syria  to
surrender its chemical weapons, according to a UN diplomat.  The Security Council expects to settle remaining details
and vote on adopting the resolution as soon as this week, said
the diplomat, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are confidential.  Envoys from the five veto-wielding Security Council members
-- the U.S., U.K., Russia,  France  and  China  -- reached an accord
on the most contentious issues during a lunch yesterday hosted
by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, said a second UN diplomat
who also asked not to be identified.  An accord on terms of a Security Council resolution has
been complicated by disagreements between the U.S. and Russia
over including the threat of punitive measures, up to military
force, against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime if it
fails to give up its chemical weapons for eventual destruction.  Russia  has used its veto to block previous Security Council
attempts to censure the Syrian regime for actions during a 2
1/2-year civil war that has left more than 90,000 dead and
displaced millions of people.  Progress Made  Negotiators are making progress, though all the details of
a final resolution haven’t been hammered out, said a U.S.
official who asked not to be identified. The official said a
resolution should be ready for a vote this week.  The executive council of the Organization for the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons must decide on a road map for
eliminating Syria’s stockpile before the Security Council acts.
The OPCW may meet as early as tomorrow in The Hague to make a
decision, according to the first diplomat.  U.S. and its European allies have sought, in a Security
Council resolution, to include an enforcement provision under
Chapter 7 of the UN Charter because of doubts that Assad will
fully comply. Russia has resisted those demands, arguing that
the use of force in other Mideast and North African nations,
such as Libya, has caused more chaos in the region, not less.  A framework agreement reached this month in Geneva between
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov said that, if Syria violates the disarmament plan,
the Security Council should impose penalties, without specifying
the actions to be taken.  Lavrov Comments  “We also agreed in Geneva with John Kerry that we will
initiate a Security Council resolution which will support and
reinforce the decision of the Chemical Weapons Convention,”
Lavrov said in an interview with the Washington Post yesterday.
“We will be very serious about any use of chemical weapons by
anyone in Syria and those issues will be brought to the
Security Council under Chapter 7” of the UN charter, he said.  The agreement with Russia averted a U.S. military strike
against Syria to punish the regime for an Aug. 21 chemical
weapons attack that killed more than 1,400 people, U.S.
officials say. Russia and the Assad regime continue to insist
that rebel groups were responsible for the attack, a claim that
President  Barack Obama  dismissed as “fantasy” in remarks to
the UN yesterday.  Lavrov told the Post he gave “a compilation of evidence”
to support Russia’s position to Kerry yesterday. He described
the materials as “reports by journalists who visited the sites
and talked to the combatants who said they were given some
unusual rockets and ammunition by some foreign country and they
didn’t know how to use them.”  Nuns’ Evidence  “There is also evidence from the nuns living in the
monastery nearby who visited the site,” Lavrov said in the
interview. “You can read the assessments by the chemical
weapons experts who say that the images shown do not correspond
to a real situation if chemical weapons were used.”  The Russian minister said his nation’s goal is to keep
Syria intact, secular and independent, not keeping Assad in
power. “We are not wedded to anyone in Syria,” he said.  Assad has provided the chemical-weapons organization with
an initial inventory and must allow inspectors starting next
month to verify, secure and then eliminate the munitions under
the U.S.-Russia timeline.  Kerry and Lavrov spent 90 minutes on Sept. 24 going over
the language of a UN resolution. U.S. officials say the OPCW
plan and the UN document must be closely matched to reduce the
possibilities of friction and misunderstandings and make clear
the procedures to be followed in the event Assad doesn’t comply.  Lingering Issues  Kerry told French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius yesterday
that only three or four issues remained to be resolved on the
resolution after the meeting with Lavrov.  Asked if the American and French ministers discussed the
use of force, a State Department official who spoke on condition
of not being identified said the discussion focused on the need
for strong language in a UN resolution to enforce the Syrian
regime’s compliance on turning over its chemical weapons.  The official said the debate, in the U.S. view, isn’t about
the use of force and that Obama reserves the right to use force
without UN approval, as do the French.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bob Drummond at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  