-- Unilever Tops Locals With Non-Dairy Ice Cream in India
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2013-09-25T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/unilever-tops-locals-with-non-dairy-ice-cream-in-india.html
Real ice cream contains milk.
That’s the message  India ’s biggest dairy producer is trying to
hammer home as it loses ground to  Unilever (ULVR)  in the country’s
booming frozen-treats market.  Ice cream without milk is like cricket without world-beating batsman  Sachin Tendulkar , Diwali without firecrackers,
or a wedding without dancing,  Gujarat Co-operative Milk
Marketing Federation Ltd.  claims in radio ads. The campaign
seeks to highlight the lack of a key input in most of its global
rival’s Indian products: cream, or any other dairy fat.  “Let the consumer decide and make an informed choice that
‘Yes, I’m buying frozen dessert which has got vegetable oil,’”
said R.S. Sodhi, managing director of Gujarat Co-operative, with
3.2 million dairy farmers as members.  Indian consumers have decided they’re happy with frozen
desserts using cheaper fats such as  palm oil . In the five years
to 2012, Gujarat Co-operative’s share of the market for frozen
treats fell to 31 percent from 35 percent while Unilever’s rose
to 21 percent from 17 percent, according to researcher
Euromonitor.  Chocolate Cornetto  “Unless there is greater awareness among consumers that
frozen desserts don’t contain milk, Unilever will continue to
grow,” said Swati Gupta, an analyst at AC Choksi Share Brokers
Pvt. in Mumbai.  Sales of the desserts more than doubled from 2007 to 2012
and will do so again in the five years to 2017, reaching 68.6
billion rupees ($1.1 billion), Euromonitor predicts. There’s
ample room for growth: Euromonitor says Indians eat an average
of 200 milliliters of ice cream each year, versus 14 liters in
the U.S. and 2.2 liters in  China .  Since March, Gujarat Co-operative has been urging consumers
to check labels for the words “ice cream” before they buy.
They won’t find them on the Double Chocolate Cornetto sold in
New Delhi by Unilever. Described on the wrapper as a medium-fat
frozen dessert, it contains ingredients including water, sugar,
edible vegetable oil, milk solids, liquid glucose, and vegetable
protein -- but no dairy fat.  Sensory Appeal  Frozen desserts are similar to ice cream in their taste and
sensory appeal,  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the multinational’s
local unit, said in an e-mail.  “It is unfortunate that some competitors are trying to
misguide consumers by sharing incomplete facts about frozen
desserts,” the company said.  The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India in 2011
specified minimum amounts of milk fat and milk protein for ice
cream. Last year, Gujarat Co-operative lodged a complaint with
the Advertising Standards Council of India over Unilever ads
that claimed its products were ice cream. The industry self-regulatory body ruled that the ads were misleading.  The ruling hasn’t stopped Unilever and Ahmedabad-based
 Vadilal Industries Ltd. (VDI)  from gaining market share with their
non-dairy frozen desserts. Last year, Unilever introduced
Fruttare “ice candy,” and in May, Vadilal started selling Ice-trooper frozen treats targeted at children.  Lecturing Teachers  Gujarat Co-operative’s advertising, focused on a few
cities, hasn’t had a significant impact, said Naveen Vyas, an
analyst at brokerage Microsec Capital Ltd. in Kolkata.  The ads “sound like lectures given by a school teacher --
eat this because it contains milk,” said Vyas. “Young people
are not going to be influenced by that sort of thing.”  One reason producers have developed recipes without cream
is that milk fat is about five times as expensive as fats
derived from palm oil and coconut oil. The wholesale price of
 milk  rose 23 percent in the three years through August, while
crude palm oil in  Malaysia  declined 6.5 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Another advantage is that dairy-based frozen desserts tend
to melt faster than those made from plant oils, according to
Doug Goff, a food scientist at the University of Guelph in
Ontario. That’s important in a country as hot as India.  Consumers often don’t realize the difference between ice
cream and frozen desserts with little or no milk fat, according
to Rajesh Gandhi, joint managing director at Vadilal. He said
the company gets as much as 40 percent of its revenue from
vegetable oil-based products, and using low-cost ingredients
helps keep the goods affordable.  That’s a view echoed by Tuntun Prasad, a 27-year-old vendor
who sells frozen treats from a hand cart near  New Delhi ’s
Connaught Place.  “People don’t ask what’s inside” Prasad said as he hawked
his desserts on a hot September afternoon. “They just want the
cheapest thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  