-- Urban Compass Valued at $150 Million After Funding Round
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-25T18:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/urban-compass-valued-at-150-million-after-funding-round.html
After selling two Internet startups
to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc., Ori Allon plans to announce a
$20 million funding round today for a company that sifts through
another kind of complex data:  New York  apartment rentals.  The investment in  Urban Compass  -- started by Allon and
Robert Reffkin, a veteran of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  -- values
the company at $150 million, according to a person with
knowledge of the terms. That’s five times the value of the
company at its $8 million seed round in November 2012, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private.  Urban Compass uses its photo-rich website and a team of
“neighborhood specialists” to lead people to apartments,
charging less than one month’s rent if a deal is signed. With
the new investment, which includes backers such as Founders Fund
and  Conde Nast , Urban Compass will hire more local
representatives and build a network of businesses to offer users
services after they’ve moved in.  “We are really focused on the after-market right now --
what happens once you move in and how we can help you,” Allon
said in an interview at the company’s headquarters in New York’s
SoHo neighborhood. “We are the first ones to know you have a
new address.”  The company is in discussions with investors that may
increase the funding round to $25 million in the coming months,
the person with knowledge of the terms said. Revenue is
approaching $1 million a month.  Allon has spent most of his career developing and
perfecting search algorithms, with one startup that was wrapped
into  Google search  and another that became the basis for
Twitter’s Discover tool. Now, he’s moved on from the world of
interest graphs and targeted content to a more concrete goal:
knowing where his customers live and what they might need.  Real World  “I can get a great algorithm going, but we still haven’t
fixed ways to connect technology to the real world,” he said.
The company is forging partnerships with businesses and
developing a product that will generate local deals and content,
with plans to introduce the service in the next few months. The
idea is to create a digital hub to help businesses and residents
in a neighborhood interact, he said, without providing further
details.  Urban Compass debuted four months ago with much fanfare,
including a speech by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , because finding
an apartment has become more difficult. In  New York City , the
vacancy rate for apartments hovers between 1 percent and 2
percent, according to  Jonathan Miller , president of appraiser
Miller Samuel Inc. New Yorkers have endured 26 consecutive
months of rising rents as employment improves, he said.  M&A Moves  Zillow Inc. (Z)  purchased StreetEasy last month for $50 million
to expand in New York and compete with  Trulia Inc. (TRLA)  and other
real-estate listings providers. Meanwhile, broker groups such as
Citi Habitats have improved their websites, Miller said. Urban
Compass’s neighborhood consultants, who give customers apartment
tours like brokers do, aren’t paid on commission, Allon said.  Allon said his site will be able to compete because of its
map-based design and the services it ties to the move. Besides
Founders Fund and Advance Publications Inc., the parent company
of Conde Nast, his backers include Salesforce.com Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  and Thrive Capital. Goldman Sachs
has also provided funding in the past. Before expanding to other
cities, Urban Compass is focusing on adding the new features in
New York.  Sweaty Room  The background of the founders may have raised the stakes
for the team and helped push Urban Compass’s valuation higher.
Allon’s co-founder Reffkin was previously chief of staff for
Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn , after working in the firm’s
private-equity arm for five years. He founded a New York
philanthropic organization that has helped connect the company
to influential people.  It’s a stark contrast with Allon’s first startup, which he
developed in a small, sweaty room of computer servers while
working on a computer-science doctorate in Sydney.  “After you’ve been successful, people assume your ideas
are right,” said Allon, who was born in  Israel . “But you have
to work hard to keep up the reputation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  