-- Vale Says Accord on $13 Bln Claim Would Require New Law
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-25T21:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/vale-says-accord-on-13-bln-claim-would-require-new-law.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the mining company
fighting more than $13 billion in back-tax claims over profits
from foreign units, expects Brazil to alter legislation to avoid
future charges before settling the dispute.  The government’s proposal to scrap fines, interest and
legal charges on companies agreeing to settle the levies on
 overseas profits  is ‘not enough,’ Vale General Counsel Clovis
Torres said in an interview in  Belo Horizonte  today. Vale
believes it doesn’t owe anything and has merits to win the case
in court, he said, adding the “numbers” are being assessed and
a final decision on whether to settle will come from
shareholders.  “What they are offering is not enough for us to take part
in this,” Torres said. “They need to come up with a new law
that is consistent and better than the one in place.”  Brazil’s biggest exporters including Vale, beermaker Cia.
de Bebidas das Americas and steelmaker  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  are fighting a
total of 86 billion reais ($38 billion) in tax claims over
foreign units’ profits, the  Finance Ministry  said in March.
Congress this month approved a bill scrapping fines, interest
and legal costs if companies pay outstanding claims in one
tranche and offering a 50 percent reduction for those opting to
pay in installments.  Vale  rose  1.1 percent to 32.61 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, extending its rally in the past three months to 19
percent.  Additional Claims  The country is asking Vale, the world’s  third-largest 
mining company, to pay 30.5 billion reais in taxes for overseas
profits between 1996 and 2008, the company said April 2 in a
U.S. regulatory filing. Vale expects  Brazil  to file additional
tax claims for the years after 2008.  “They need to come up with a better outlook for the
future, not the same that we’ve been questioning in the past,”
Torres said. “You continue to accrue debt in a way we think
isn’t correct. Giving up everything and continuing to be taxed
in a way we consider incorrect is not going to happen.”  The company is discussing a possible settlement with
 shareholders  and no decision has been made yet, Torres said,
adding that the advantage of a settlement would be to “trade an
uncertainty for a certainty.”  Vale’s potential liability may amount to as much as 45
billion reais if penalties and tax claims the government hasn’t
filed yet for profits after 2008 are included, Torres said.  The company has been fighting the claims for more than a
decade. The dispute may be extended after Brazil’s  Supreme Court 
decided in April to reassess a similar case used as a precedent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  