-- VietJet Said to Plan $10 Billion Airbus Order to Expand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-25T07:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/vietjet-said-to-plan-10-billion-airbus-order-on-travel-demand.html
VietJet Aviation Joint Stock Co.,
 Vietnam ’s only privately owned carrier, plans to sign an
agreement today to procure 100 planes from Airbus SAS, with
deliveries starting next year, a person familiar with the plan
said.  The planes are valued at between $8 billion and $10 billion
based on list prices and the type of aircraft to be delivered
over the next 10 years, the person said, declining to be
identified as the information isn’t yet public. VietJet is
getting the A320 family of single-aisle jets, and some of them
will be leased from the Toulouse, France-based planemaker, the
person said.  The budget airline is considering an initial share sale to
fund its expansion, Managing Director Luu Duc Khanh said in an
interview last month, as a surge in Asia-Pacific  travel demand 
prompts carriers such as  AirAsia (AIRA)  Bhd. and PT Lion Mentari
Airlines to buy new aircraft. Airbus yesterday predicted
airlines globally will buy planes valued at $4.4 trillion in the
next two decades, driven by demand in  India  and  China  and growth
among low-fare airlines.  “VietJet is signaling that they are ambitious and want to
break into the region, not just focus on their domestic
market,” said Brendan Sobie, Singapore-based chief analyst at
CAPA Centre for Aviation. The market is “very competitive,
although it’s growing.”  Agreement  VietJet plans to sign an initial agreement with Airbus as
early as today, coinciding with Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s
visit to  France , the person said. The person declined to say how
many of the orders will be on a firm basis or options.  “We do not comment on commercial discussions related to
potential aircraft orders,” Sean Lee, an Airbus spokesman in
 Singapore , said in an e-mailed statement. A phone call to Pritam
Singh, the airline’s vice president of business development,
wasn’t answered.  Reuters, citing officials it didn’t identify, reported
yesterday the airline planned to get between 92 and 100 Airbus
aircraft, of which 60 would be firm orders and 30 would be
options.  VietJet may hold an IPO within 18 months to 42 months,
Khanh said in an interview last month. The airline posted pretax
profit of about 120 billion dong ($5.7 million) in the seven
months ended July, Khanh said. The Hanoi-based carrier lost
money in 2012, he said, declining to give figures.  Overseas Routes  The budget airline, which started operations in December
2011, began flying overseas in February. VietJet is planning
more  overseas  routes, with passenger growth in the Asia-Pacific
region to surpass that in  Europe  and  North America  through 2016,
according to a forecast by the  International Air Transport
Association .  VietJet increased its share of capacity in Vietnam’s
domestic aviation market to 20 percent as of late August from 14
percent in mid-July by adding frequencies on routes with new
aircraft, Sobie said earlier.  The market share is ahead of Jetstar Pacific Airlines
Aviation Joint-Stock Co.’s 12 percent, according to data from
the CAPA Centre for Aviation. Jetstar Pacific is a unit of
state-owned Vietnam Airlines Corp., which controls 68 percent of
the market, according to data from CAPA.  Across Southeast Asia, budget airlines including AirAsia,
Jetstar Asia Airways Pte. and Lion Air are winning fliers as
spending ability increases, enabling more people in the region
to travel.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  