-- Why a Chinese Teenager Was Locked Up for His Tweets
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-09-25T22:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/why-a-chinese-teenager-was-locked-up-for-his-tweets.html
On Sept. 17, Yang Hui was summoned
from his afternoon math class by his junior high school’s vice-principal, according to an account the student provided to the
state-owned  Beijing News  newspaper that was published on
Tuesday. The 16-year-old quickly learned that he was in serious
trouble. Three plainclothes and a uniformed police officer were
waiting in the principal’s office. They asked for his phone,
interrogated him, conveyed him to the police station for further
questioning and then locked him up in a local detention center.
His apparent crime?  He was re-tweeted.  This is a novel transgression.  Two and half weeks ago ,
officials announced new regulations meant to rein in the
allegedly rampant rumormongering that the government  claims 
disrupts the harmonious development of  China ’s Internet. Few
here believe that the new rules are much more than the latest,
and most heavy-handed, attempt to check online dissent and re-assert government control over how China thinks, talks and
tweets about its leaders. The terms stipulate that anyone whose
message is re-tweeted more than 500 times on Chinese microblogs
or is seen by more than 5,000 online users can be subject to
jail for up to three years if the original post turns out not to
be true. As tools of repression go, this is a powerful one, and
Yang’s experience -- and the public outcry that followed it --
highlight its strengths and limitations.  Yang’s adventure began Sept. 12 in Zhangjiachuan, a remote
county in  Gansu province . That evening, a man’s body was  found
below a karaoke club . (In China, such locales are strongly
associated with prostitution and organized crime and are often
believed to operate with the tolerance, if not support, of local
governments.) The local government claimed that the man had
committed suicide by jumping from the club’s upper floors (a
suspicious story, considering the karaoke club was housed in a
two-story building,  according to the Los Angeles Times ). In   
the interview with the Beijing News , Yang said that he heard
from witnesses that the man had died after being beaten by
police.  Five years ago, Yang might have simply kept such mumblings
to himself. But the young man came of age with microblogs, and
two days after the death in front of the karaoke club he  sent
out  the first of his  now deleted  (almost certainly censored)
posts on China’s QQ and Sina Weibo  microblogging services . The
messages called into question the government’s account of the
death,  claimed  that the owner of the karaoke was a local court
official (apparently that wasn’t true and the karaoke club
belongs to the wife of another official) and made an impassioned
call for  protest  (there was a gathering, though it’s not clear
whether it was initiated by Yang’s appeal).  “It’s been three days and two nights since the 9.12
Zhangjiachuan murder and still the police don’t act, the media
don’t report, and the people don’t know the truth,” one of the
QQ tweets said,  according  to the state-run but highly
independent Southern Metropolis Daily. “He who died can rest in
peace, we will seek justice for you!”  As of Sept. 20, that post had been re-tweeted 962 times,
according to the Southern Metropolis Daily.  Sometime during this sequence of events -- itself blurred
by conflicting interpretations and deleted online activities --
Yang’s conduct put him at odds with the anti-rumormongering law,
at least in the eyes of the Zhongjiachuan government. And so
began the trip to the principal’s office and what looked to be a
one-way ticket to  administrative detention  -- the murky system
that allows police to  lock up  low-level offenders for up to 15
days without judicial review.  The local authorities may have believed that their actions
wouldn’t draw much attention. They were wrong. Almost from the
moment of Yang’s arrest, the news spread online, sparking
outrage so great that by Sunday night it largely  overshadowed 
discussion of the  life sentence  given to ousted Politburo member
Bo Xilai that morning (discussion of that verdict was heavily
censored on microblogs).  Much of the anger was directed at the  anti-rumormongering
law  and the perceived bullying of a 16-year-old. The uproar
became so intense that some search terms associated with the
case -- including “administrative detention” -- were blocked on
Sina Weibo.  Perhaps most significant were those tweets that dug into
the excesses and perceived corruption of the local government
that persecuted Yang. Many users pointed out that Zhangjiachuan
has been designated a  state-level poverty-stricken county ,
entitling it to extensive government aid that -- based on online
searches -- has been wasted on vanity projects. Some netizens
circulated  an image  of a vast, posh conference room that they
claimed belonged to the local party secretary.  “Who says Zhangjiachuan is a poverty-stricken county?”
 asked  a Sina Weibo microblogger in Wenzhou on Sunday night.
Another Weibo user, also  posting Sunday evening , tweeted five
specific allegations against the local government, including a
suggestion -- based on old documents uncovered by microbloggers
-- that the local police chief had bribed his way into his job.
That post garnered more than 14,900 re-tweets and 5,600 comments
but it was neither deleted nor has it generated any form of
prosecution.  Instead, these tweets seem to have produced results. Early
Monday morning, Yang was released from detention. Shortly after,
the earnest looking young man posed  for a photo  making a defiant
“V” for victory sign. Later that day, the local government’s
website announced that Zhangjiachuan’s police chief had been
 suspended . Court records that have turned up show that the
police chief gave the equivalent of about $8,000 to his boss
over 10 years -- no explanation was given for the bribes, though
the boss was sentenced to 12 years in jail for taking them  back
in April .  As progress for online free expression goes, this is minor.
Zhangjiachuan is a small, unimportant locality far from Beijing.
Punishing its officials -- and freeing its junior-high students
-- means almost nothing to national leaders who have spent the
last two months tightening their control of the Internet.
Arguably, Yang’s freedom actually enhances the government’s case
for the rules by suggesting that they’ll be applied reasonably,
contrary to widespread fears.  There should be no question about the Communist Party’s
determination to keep up its anti-rumormongering campaign. Major
state-owned newspapers have expressed  support  for upholding the
rules, regardless of the age of the accused. And even young
Yang, triumphant as he left detention, seems to have developed a
better appreciation for the government’s bottom-line on
information control. According to an official statement by the
 Zhangjiachuan government , he confessed his offenses before his
release. In the interview with the  Beijing News , Yang was asked
how his experiences may have changed him. “I’ll continue to
follow microblogs, but my posting will be more cautious, based
on verifiable evidence, and devoid of foul language,” he
answered, no doubt delighting his jailers.  For now, there doesn’t seem to worry about: As of
Wednesday, Yang’s microblogging accounts remain deleted.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.)  To contact the author of this article:
Adam Minter at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Zara Kessler at  zkessler@bloomberg.net  