-- Why France Shrugs at NSA Eavesdropping Revelations
-- B y   P e t e r   G u m b e l
-- 2013-09-25T16:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/why-france-shrugs-at-nsa-eavesdropping-revelations.html
At the United Nations General
Assembly yesterday, Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  condemned
the surveillance of electronic communications around the globe
by the U.S. National Security Agency as a breach of individual
rights and national sovereignty. Her comments echo the heated
reaction in  Germany , where the spying program was an  issue  in
this month’s elections; in the U.K., where the  Guardian 
newspaper broke many of the major stories; and at the European
Parliament, which has held a series of  hearings  on the matter.  One nation, however, has been conspicuous for its almost
total silence: France.  The uproar in Paris has been limited to an off-the-cuff
remark by President  Francois Hollande  in July about how spying
on partners and allies was “ unacceptable .” In late August, the
prime minister’s office quietly circulated a memo reminding top
officials that they shouldn’t use personal smartphones for
official business.  This  muted reaction  can be chalked up to a mixture of
embarrassment, experience and perhaps even a touch of envy.  The French are expressing little surprise or outrage
because their government is no slouch at official surveillance,
legal or otherwise. There’s a long tradition of Gallic snooping,
starting with the word espionage itself, which comes from the
medieval French “espier.”  Louis XIV  famously created a
ruthlessly efficient secret police force, and the terror methods
developed by some French revolutionaries in the late 18th
century were later deliberately copied by the Soviet Cheka, the
forerunner of the KGB.  Actress’s Phone  More recently, during President  Francois Mitterrand ’s first
term in the 1980s, the phones of dozens of private citizens,
including some well-known journalists and, inexplicably, the
actress Carole Bouquet, were tapped; seven officials in
Mitterrand’s administration were tried and convicted for the
intrusions.  Intelligence officials everywhere are tight-lipped about
their activities, but France’s top spooks have dropped
occasional clues, especially during and after a revamp of the
intelligence agencies’ organization in 2008. The picture that
emerges is of a security apparatus equipped with advanced
cybersurveillance tools, but which nonetheless sees itself as
playing catch-up with the U.S. and the U.K.  A reckoning arrived five years ago with the publication of
a “ white paper ,” a government strategy document on defense and
intelligence, which highlighted a gap in  France ’s technological
ability to carry out comprehensive surveillance. While the U.S.
and some other countries had invested heavily in advanced signal
intelligence, France’s “services have not benefited on the same
scale,” the report said. What was needed was “a qualitative
and quantitative leap” that would allow French agencies to
maintain a high standard and “be able to dialogue with the few
countries who are our principal intelligence partners.”  Early this year, Erard Courbin de Mangoux, the director of
the main external intelligence agency, the  Direction Generale de
la Securite Exterieure , reported to a parliamentary commission
that France had caught up.  “We have been able to develop an important capacity to
intercept  Internet traffic ,” Courbin de Mangoux said. “We are
also working heavily on imaging.”  In July, shortly after the disclosures about U.S. spying by
former NSA contractor Edward Snowden, the daily Le Monde
published a front-page  article  under the headline: “Revelations
about the French Big Brother.” The  newspaper  alleged that the
DGSE systematically spied on e-mails,  text messages , phone calls
and social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. These
communications were subsequently stored for years, outside any
political control or oversight, in computers in the basement of
the agency’s building in Paris.  Specific Permission  The government dismissed Le Monde’s suggestions of
overreach, pointing to a 1991 law that allows surveillance of
individuals suspected of terrorism or other specific illegal
activities, but only after an independent security committee has
signed off. More revealing was the reaction of  Jean-Jacques
Urvoas , a Socialist Party lawmaker and vice president of the
Parliamentary Intelligence Committee, who said it wasn’t true
that French citizens were subject to a huge and permanent
surveillance program that is beyond political control. He drew a
curious distinction between French and U.S. spying. The NSA “is
like a trawler,” he said, while France’s DGSE “fishes with a
harpoon.”  Whatever the truth, French intelligence operates with some
evident disadvantages. France is not part of the Echelon
network, which links the NSA to intelligence agencies in
 Australia ,  Canada ,  New Zealand  and the U.K. Its intelligence
operations are smaller and less well-funded than in the U.K.,
and are minuscule compared with the NSA. Courbin de Mangoux, the
DGSE director, put his agency’s staffing at about 5,000 and its
budget this year at 655 million euros ($870 million). Britain’s
Government Communication Headquarters has about 1,000 more staff
members and twice the budget; the NSA has more than 100,000
employees and contractors and the  U.S. intelligence budget 
exceeds $50 billion, according to documents leaked by Snowden to
the  Washington Post .  France also doesn’t have the privileged access to Google
Inc., Facebook Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and other U.S. Internet
companies that, according to Snowden, the NSA has. The DGSE has
acknowledged that it can access a range of communications meta
data, such as listings of telephone numbers dialed. But as
Urvoas has pointed out, that’s not the same as being able to
systematically listen in to conversations. (The NSA says it
doesn’t listen in to Americans’ conversations; that’s little
consolation to Brazilians and others.)  More Oversight  As for the delicate question of oversight, after years of
putting up with fast and loose practices, there are growing
signs that France is trying to rein in its security services.
The Parliamentary Intelligence Commission was set up in 2007,
and publishes an annual report. Its president,  Patricia Adam ,
insists that she “cannot allow it to be said that the activity
of the intelligence services escapes parliamentary control.”  And there are signs of a crackdown on abuses. A trial is
scheduled in February for Bernard Squarcini, the former director
of internal intelligence, who is alleged to have requisitioned
telephone records of a Le Monde correspondent, in breach of the
1991 law on data interceptions. Squarcini acknowledges he
received the records but says he was acting within the law.  With such high profile cases making headlines, it’s perhaps
little surprise that France is just “shocked, shocked” by
Snowden and the NSA revelations that have so upset its
neighbors.  (Peter Gumbel, a Paris-based journalist, is the author,
most recently, of “France’s Got Talent: The Woeful Consequences
of French Elitism.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Gumbel at  Petergumbel@orange.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 