-- Why China Will Disappoint the Pessimists Yet Again
-- B y   J i m   O ’ N e i l l
-- 2013-09-25T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/why-china-will-disappoint-the-pessimists-yet-again.html
China ’s eagerly anticipated “hard
landing” hasn’t happened yet, and recent indicators make me
wonder (not for the first time) if it ever will. In the past two
months, the Chinese economy has actually shown signs of
accelerating.  Constant pessimism in financial markets about the country’s
prospects is only partly guided by economic analysis. There’s
also the faith-based view that growth as rapid as China’s simply
can’t go on -- and that a non-democratic country really
shouldn’t expect to prosper. Many skeptics have been
highlighting China’s impending collapse for almost as long as I
have been following the country. Maybe the skeptics should be
viewed a little more skeptically.  By the end of this year,  China’s gross domestic product 
will be roughly $9 trillion, making its economy comfortably more
than half the size of the U.S., and half as big again as  Japan .
I recall once projecting that China might be as big as Japan by
2015. The country’s far ahead of that optimistic schedule.  China’s economy is already more than three times the size
of  France  or the U.K., and half as big again as  Brazil ,  Russia 
and India combined. Of the four BRIC countries, China is the
only one to have exceeded my expectations. The other three have
done less well than I’d hoped.  As I mentioned in a  previous column , China is in effect
creating another  India  every two years -- making a mockery of
those who’ve argued that India’s democratic model is more likely
to deliver long-term economic success. China is already more
than four times bigger than its southern neighbor. India’s
economy won’t rival China’s for a very long time, if ever.  One Trillion  With GDP growth of 7.5 percent, inflation running about 3
percent, and a currency that’s rising gently against the dollar,
China is adding about $1 trillion a year to global GDP, easily
boosting its share of the total.  For many analysts, none of this is enough. According to a
popular refrain, China might have staved off disaster in 2013
and papered over the cracks yet again in the short term -- but
next year (or maybe the year after), the crunch will come.
Supporting this notion is a question I’m asked all the time: If
China’s doing so well, how come everyone always loses money
investing there? Let me explore both issues a bit further.  It isn’t clear to me why China’s economy must deteriorate
next year. China’s slowdown to its current 7.5 percent growth
rate was well signposted by a sharp slowdown in leading
indicators. Those measures, including monetary growth and
electricity usage, are no longer flashing red. Coincident
indicators such as the monthly purchasing managers’ index have
picked up. Unless you believe that China is somehow doomed to
fail, these signs are encouraging. They suggest that the rest of
this year and the first part of 2014 might see slightly stronger
growth.  The more resourceful pessimists next argue that the better
growth signals are coming from parts of the economy where growth
is unsustainable -- such as the urban housing market and
government-directed investment -- from excessive growth of
credit extended by shadow banks, and not from a broadly based
expansion of consumer spending. If this were clearly the case,
I’d be a pessimist, too, because a buoyant China needs consumers
to take the lead.  Data for monthly  retail sales  suggest that consumption has
held up well despite the fall in the trend of industrial
production. I closely follow the trend of retail sales, adjusted
for inflation and relative to the trend of industrial
production, and though not moving in a straight line, this
indicator has been generally rising for three years. This is a
pretty good sign that the rebalancing China needs is happening.
Another is the decline in the  current-account surplus  to about 3
percent of GDP.  Adjustment Achieved  Reducing the external surplus from more than 10 percent of
GDP before 2008 to about 3 percent now -- while limiting the
fall in growth from 10 percent to about 7.5 percent -- is quite
an achievement. In my view, the “unsustainable” component of
China’s economic prospects was the current-account surplus, not
the growth rate, and the needed adjustment in the surplus has
been achieved.  What about investors losing money in China? How can that
be, if the economy is doing pretty well? It depends on how you
measure investors’ returns. True, passive investors in the
 Shanghai index  have suffered since 2007, despite a big rally
from late 2008 through late 2009. But how many investors invest
that way? More important, the Shanghai index is dominated by
past winners in the China growth story. If China is rebalancing
-- moving away from exports, improving the quality and
sustainability of its growth, depending less on government-backed companies -- then the winning investments will be quite
different than before.  It’s revealing that the  Shenzhen index  is performing much
better than the Shanghai index, thanks to its greater exposure
to newer, smaller, private companies. There’s a more general
point here: When a country is embarking on a significant
compositional change to its economy, stock-pickers rather than
index-trackers have the upper hand. The same logic applies to
foreign companies trying to benefit not just from China’s
ongoing growth but also from its new drivers of growth. No doubt
this is a little simplistic, but  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , say, are likely to benefit more in this economic
environment than  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)   If you ask me, China’s economy hasn’t finished impressing
the world with its strength. The changing foundations of that
strength may make the prospects harder to read -- but the fact
that the underpinnings of Chinese growth are indeed changing is
all to the good.  (Jim O’Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jim O’Neill at  joneill62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Clive Crook at   ccrook5@bloomberg.net . 