-- Wison Unit Asked for Loan Repayment from Agricultural Bank
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-09-25T01:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/wison-unit-asked-for-loan-repayment-from-agricultural-bank.html
Wison Engineering Services Co.,
formerly the largest supplier to  PetroChina Co. (857) , said a Chinese
state bank asked one of its units to repay loans representing
about 10 percent of total borrowings.  Agricultural Bank of China  Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest
by market value, requested Winson Engineering Ltd. repay 186
million  yuan  ($30.4 million) and interest, according to a filing
today to the Hong Kong stock exchange. Repayments on all the
group’s borrowings are up to date, the company said.  Wison’s shares have been suspended since Sept. 2 and the
company and its chairman and founder Hua Bangsong are assisting
authorities in unspecified investigations.  China  is
investigating PetroChina’s former Chairman Jiang Jiemin and four
senior executives for graft. The nation’s largest oil producer
was Wison’s biggest customer before 2012.  Wison ’’has not breached any term of the relevant borrowing
agreements relation to the ABC loans,’’ it said in the
statement. “The two parties are currently engaged in dialogue,
seeking a mutually-acceptable solution.”  Regulators questioned Wison about “certain projects,”
took records and froze bank accounts, the company said on Sept.
19. Wison said on Sept. 3 that chairman Hua was helping in
unspecified investigations, and the company’s business operated
as normal.  PetroChina shares fell 4.4 percent in Hong Kong, the most
in two years, on August 28, after the four senior managers were
removed. Former chairman Jiang was dismissed from his post as
head of the state assets regulator and is under investigation,
the official Xinhua News Agency said Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  