-- Twitter’s Williams Said to Own 15% Stake as IPO Nears
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-25T18:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/twitter-s-williams-said-to-own-15-stake-as-ipo-nears.html
Twitter Inc. co-founder Evan Williams is the company’s biggest shareholder with about 15
percent, said people familiar with the matter, leaving him in
position to become a billionaire after the initial share sale.  Williams owns a bigger stake than co-founder Jack Dorsey,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because
ownership stakes haven’t been disclosed. Twitter said earlier
this month that it confidentially filed for an initial public
offering with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Should Twitter achieve a market capitalization above its
$10.5 billion private-market valuation, Williams’s stake would
top $1.5 billion. A higher listing price or an opening-day pop
could put the 41-year-old serial entrepreneur in an elite class
of technology multibillionaires that includes Microsoft Corp.’s
Bill Gates, Facebook Inc.’s  Mark Zuckerberg , Oracle Corp.’s
 Larry Ellison , Amazon.com Inc.’s  Jeff Bezos  and Google Inc.
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin .  “It’s a testament to his belief in the company that he’s
held on as long as he has,” said Maha Ibrahim, a partner at
venture firm Canaan Partners in Menlo Park,  California , which is
not a Twitter backer. “There’s been so much opportunity to sell
on the secondary market.”  Williams didn’t respond to a request for comment, nor did
 Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter.  Other Twitter shareholders who own stakes that currently
would be valued at close to $1 billion include Dorsey, who also
has a large ownership in his mobile-payments company Square
Inc., and investment firm Union Square Ventures.  Fred Wilson , a
partner at Union Square, led the first institutional financing
of the microblogging service in 2007, when Twitter was worth $20
million.  Self-Financed  Williams, who previously sold the site Blogger to Google in
2003, built his stake in San Francisco-based Twitter by self-financing the project in its early days. Odeo, the podcasting
startup Williams created in 2005, went bust, leading him to team
up with Dorsey and Biz Stone. The result was a site that lets
anyone post messages about anything in 140 characters or less.
Twitter now has more than 200 million users.  Williams was Twitter’s chief executive officer from 2008 to
2010, the site’s fastest years of user growth. In October of
that year, he stepped down, handing over the reins to Dick Costolo, the company’s operating chief. In 2011, Williams left
Twitter to work on a new startup that became Medium, a
publishing service for long-term articles.  Facebook’s IPO last year minted at least four
multibillionaires, including CEO Zuckerberg, co-founders Dustin Moskovitz and Eduardo Saverin and former president Sean Parker.
LinkedIn Corp. co-founder Reid Hoffman is also a newcomer to
that group after his company went public in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  