-- Twitter Clinches Deal With NFL for Football Replays Ahead of IPO
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-09-26T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/twitter-clinches-deal-with-nfl-for-football-replays-ahead-of-ipo.html
The  National Football League  is
teaming up with Twitter Inc. to post video highlights of games
on the microblogging site and share the advertising revenue.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  will be one of the sponsors for
clips of game highlights featured on Twitter, said Hans
Schroeder, the NFL’s senior vice president of media strategy and
development. The videos will range from replays to expert advice
on fantasy football, he said.  Twitter has been striking deals with video-content owners,
seeking to attract users and advertisers. The site, where anyone
can post messages about anything in 140 characters or fewer, is
targeting $1 billion in sales for 2014 and said earlier this
month that it confidentially filed for an initial public
offering. The NFL deal follows a pact with the  National
Basketball Association  in May to feature game highlight clips.  “This is a big splash for us in the social-media space,”
Schroeder said yesterday in an interview. “We know our fans
want to do more things while watching games.”  Schroeder and Will Stickney, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Twitter, declined to discuss specific terms of the deal.  Twitter, which is seeking to tap into spikes in traffic
generated by people sending messages while watching television
shows, is forging deals with video-content owners while
bolstering its appeal with marketers. The site also has deals
with  Viacom Inc. (VIA)  to host stand-up comedy clips from Comedy
Central, weather forecasts from Weather Channel LLC and college
basketball clips from Turner Broadcasting, a unit of  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)   Twitter and CBS said this week they’re  tying up  to sell
promotions in posts and video clips.  The NFL has more than 5 million followers on its official
Twitter  account , and players from J.J. Watt to Troy Polamalu use
the site to interact with fans and post photos from games on a
regular basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  