-- Won Falls Most in a Month on Intervention Concern; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-25T07:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/won-snaps-two-day-gain-on-korea-intervention-concern-bonds-rise.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in
more than a month on concern authorities will intervene to slow
gains after global demand for local shares boosted the currency
to an eight-month high.  Government bonds  remained steady.  Short-term volatility in financial markets has increased
and authorities will respond “flexibly” to instability if
needed, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in Seoul
today. The won has gained 6 percent this quarter, Asia’s best
performance, as global funds added almost $9.2 billion to their
holdings of equities in the period, exchange data show.  The won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,077.23 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest decline since Aug. 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,072.31 yesterday,
the strongest level since Jan. 25. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, rose 49 basis points, or 0.49 percentage point, to 7.47
percent.  “Authorities seem determined to slow the pace of the won’s
gains,” said Hong Seok Chan, a currency analyst at Daishin
Economic Research Institute in Seoul.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s tapering of its stimulus is a
“matter of timing,” central bank Governor Kim said today. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  said after its Sept. 17-18 meeting
that it wants to see more evidence of an economic recovery in
the U.S. before reducing its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases that have spurred flows to  emerging markets .  Dollar Demand  “Offshore demand in haven currency, the dollar, was strong
on external risks such as the U.S. budget talk deadlock,” said
Choi Sung Hyun, a currency trader at  Woori Bank  in Seoul.  The  U.S. Senate  will hold a test vote today on legislation
passed by the House of Representative to cover federal spending
through Dec. 15 and to cut funds for President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent notes due June 2016
remained unchanged at 2.83 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  