-- World Bank Urges Russia to Favor Startups Over Small Businesses
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-09-25T08:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/world-bank-urges-russia-to-favor-startups-over-small-businesses.html
Russia  should focus on supporting
its startup companies instead of small and medium-sized
businesses to achieve the goal of diversifying its economy as it
expands slower than previously estimated, the World Bank said.  Russian manufacturers, prone to more volatility in economic
slumps than their counterparts in other countries, would benefit
as government support to new firms will make the industry more
competitive and viable, the Washington-based lender said in a
report today. The bank also cut its forecast for Russia’s
economic growth to 1.8 percent from 2.3 percent in 2013 and
reduced it to 3.1 percent from 3.6 percent next year.  Faced with the slowest economic growth since 2009,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s government has sought to make loans
more readily available to small and medium-sized businesses and
stimulate investment in the world largest energy exporter. Putin
wants to raise Russia’s standing in the World Bank’s Doing
Business survey to 20th place in 2018 from 112th last year.  “If Russia is going to rely on new firms doing new things
in new markets as a source of economic diversification, there
will be a need to address volatility, competition and a too-heavy public policy and programmatic focus on small and medium-sized enterprises rather than on young, infant and productive
firms,” the World Bank said in the report.  Russia’s new manufacturing companies are more likely to
stay in business than their less-efficient peers during economic
booms, according to the lender. During downturns, their relative
productivity doesn’t help young Russian companies to survive, in
contrast with more competitive economies, the  World Bank  said.  Manufacturing, which expanded 4.1 percent last year and 6.5
percent in 2011, contracted in August for a fourth month from a
year earlier, the bank said. Manufacturers reported worsening
conditions for a second month in August, HSBC Holdings Plc said
Sept. 2, citing data compiled by London-based Markit Economics.  Putin has pledged during an electoral campaign last year to
increase the share of small businesses to at least half of all
employment from the current 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Moscow at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  