-- Yankees on Brink of Missing MLB Postseason After Losing to Rays
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-09-25T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-25/yankees-on-brink-of-missing-mlb-postseason-after-losing-to-rays.html
The  New York Yankees  are on the
brink of missing the Major League Baseball playoffs for the
second time in 19 years after a 7-0 loss to the Tampa Bay Rays,
who solidified their hold on an American League wild-card spot.  With five games left in the regular season, the Yankees
(82-75) are six games behind the Rays (88-69) and cannot catch
Tampa Bay for one of the wild-card spots that go to the two
teams in each league with the best non-division-winning records.  The Rays are one game ahead of the Cleveland Indians (87-70), who scored two runs in the bottom of the ninth inning last
night to defeat the Chicago White Sox 5-4 and currently hold the
AL’s second wild-card spot. The Indians are one game ahead of
the Texas Rangers (86-71), who won 3-2 against the Houston
Astros.  Tampa Bay and Cleveland both have five-game winning streaks.
The Yankees will be eliminated from postseason contention if
they lose one more game or the Indians win one more.  At Yankee Stadium,  Matt Joyce  led off the game with a home
run for Tampa Bay, David DeJesus added a pair of run-scoring
doubles and James Loney had a two-run double.  Matt Moore  pitched five scoreless innings for the Rays to
improve to 16-4, while  Hiroki Kuroda  (11-13) allowed five runs
in 5 2/3 innings for the Yankees.  In the National League, St. Louis is two games ahead of the
Pittsburgh Pirates in the Central division and pushed its margin
to three games over the Cincinnati Reds.  Cardinals rookie pitcher Michael Wacha came within one out
of a no-hitter, allowing an infield single to Ryan Zimmerman
with two outs in the ninth inning, as  St. Louis  (93-65) won 2-0
against the Washington Nationals.  The Pirates (91-67) won 8-2 at the Chicago Cubs, while the
Reds (90-68) lost 4-2 to the  New York  Mets. The two teams that
fail to win the Central division title will grab the NL’s two
wild-card spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  