-- AMR Urges Unions to Step Up Pace of Talks to Cut $1.25 Billion in Costs
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/amr-urges-unions-to-step-up-pace-of-talks-to-cut-1-25-billion-in-costs.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines (AAMRQ)  urged
its unions to speed up talks to secure $1.25 billion in labor
cost reductions or put a successful restructuring in bankruptcy
at risk.  American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, said union
leaders should recognize the urgency of the situation and the
need to reach agreements “in a matter of weeks.” The company
made the comments yesterday in an update posted on a
 negotiations  website.  “Our challenge is clear -- work quickly to restructure our
contracts, achieve the targeted cost savings and begin
implementing the changes so we can emerge from restructuring in
the near term,” American said. Remaining on the current path
will “jeopardize our business plan and ultimate success.”  If the  Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier fails to reach
agreements with the unions, American can ask the court to void
current contracts and impose the new terms, which it outlined on
Feb. 1.  American yesterday also rejected proposals from two unions
that were designed to reduce 13,000 planned job cuts, saying
incentives for workers to leave early would boost spending and
not provide savings for the bankrupt carrier.  “As currently structured, these early-out incentives would
significantly increase costs and do not address the company’s
need for sustainable cost savings and efficiency,” American
said in a response to early out plans offered by the  Association
of Professional Flight Attendants  and the  Transport Workers
Union .  Voluntary Retirements  The APFA had estimated that as many as 3,000 members would
retire under its proposal. American said it was willing to
consider other plans to reduce the number of involuntary
terminations if they don’t worsen the carrier’s cost structure.  American wants to place some jobs with third-party vendors,
freeze pensions, extend work hours and make other changes to
reduce labor costs that it has said are $800 million above those
of its peers.  The APFA program would have provided full pensions and
medical coverage to workers retiring early and allowed American
to immediately begin hiring 500 new workers at lower salaries.
The airline wants to cut 2,300 jobs from among the 16,000
attendants represented by the union.  The TWU, which represents mechanics, baggage handlers and
other airport ground workers, proposed a one-time payment of
$75,000 and certain health and other benefits for members who
chose to leave. American’s plan calls for 8,800 job cuts within
the union, which represents more than 23,000 workers. AMR filed
for bankruptcy on Nov. 29.  The carrier also is in talks with the  Allied Pilots
Association , whose board has said it wants American to freeze
pensions instead of terminating them.  American’s plan to secure $1 billion in new annual revenue
after leaving bankruptcy is built upon securing the $1.25
billion in labor cuts and $750 million in other cost reductions,
Chief Commercial Officer Virasb Vahidi said on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  