-- Apollo Global Chases KKR in Energy With $7.15 Billon Deal
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/apollo-global-chases-kkr-in-energy-with-7-15-billon-deal.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ,
seeking to catch up with KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in
the buyout industry’s race for energy assets, agreed to acquire
 El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil- and gas-exploration unit for $7.15 billion.  The only similar deal by New York-based Apollo was its $483
million acquisition of Midland, Texas-based Parallel Petroleum
Corp. in 2009, which it sold last year for $771.5 million. KKR,
by comparison, executed one of its first oil and gas
transactions in 1985 and last year undertook the biggest
leveraged buyout in the industry’s history.  LBO firms such KKR and Blackstone are snapping up energy
assets as the price of oil climbs and the world’s largest energy
companies unload mature oil and gas fields to finance new
exploration. The value of private equity deals in the  energy
industry  almost doubled last year to $32.2 billion from $16.5
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Apollo is motivated by seeing the potential returns,”
said Colin Blaydon, director of the Center for Private Equity
and Entrepreneurship at  Dartmouth College ’s Tuck School of
Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire . “The fact that other major
players see that same possibility makes it not surprising that a
number of them are pursuing it.”  The El Paso deal rivals last year’s $7.2 billion takeover
of Samson Investment Co. by New York-based KKR in what was the
largest corporate leveraged buyout since 2007. Kinder Morgan
Inc., whose owners include  Carlyle Group , a Washington-based
buyout firm, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of  New York , agreed to
purchase El Paso for $21.1 billion in October with plans to sell
the oil and gas unit to help finance the takeover.  Trumpeting Records  Apollo is leading a group that includes Riverstone Holdings
LLC and Russian-born billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Access
Industries Holdings Inc. of New York in purchasing El Paso’s
assets. They are planning $5.5 billion of debt financing for
the purchase, said four people with knowledge of the transaction,
who asked not to be named because the information is private.
The deal includes $3 billion of equity, one of the people said.  The financing will feature $3.5 billion of bonds and a $2
billion loan, about a $1 billion of which will be funded at
closing, said the people.  Private equity  firms have been trumpeting their energy
track records in an effort to attract capital from clients who
are clamoring for more opportunities to invest in the industry.
Blackstone is seeking to raise as much as $3 billion for its
first energy-focused fund. If successful, New York-based
Blackstone would surpass both Apollo’s and KKR’s efforts to
attract capital to dedicated energy pools.  Kosmos Energy  During a conference call with analysts in July,  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s co-founder, offered Kosmos Energy LLC
as an example of a successful energy investment. The Dallas-
based oil- and gas-exploration company, whose assets include a
stake in West Africa’s biggest offshore discovery in a decade,
went public at a price equal to six times Blackstone’s initial
cost in 2004, Schwarzman said.  Apollo, after hiring Greg Beard in 2010 from Riverstone, a
New York-based private equity firm that specializes in energy
investing, has been more active in the sector. In August, it
announced a partnership with Vancouver-based Athlon Energy Ltd.
to acquire mature oil and gas assets. The firm is also trying to
raise as much as $1.5 billion for a fund that will invest in
natural resources, said a person familiar with the matter.  Marathon Oil  The pool will make long-term bets on metals, mining and
energy prices. Apollo is touting its record running companies
such as Noranda Aluminum Holding Corp., Metals USA Holdings
Corp. and Parallel Petroleum in its pitch to prospective
backers, the person said.  KKR did one of its first oil- and gas-production deals in
1985, buying a 50 percent stake in Allied Corp.’s Union  Texas 
Petroleum unit for about $250 million, according to “The New
Financial Capitalists” by George Pierce Baker.  In June, KKR and Hilcorp Energy Co. reached a $3.5 billion
agreement to sell oil and gas leases in southern Texas to
Marathon Oil Corp. The deal almost tripled the value of KKR’s
$400 million investment in a year.  Barclays Plc and Evercore Partners Inc. are advising
 Kinder Morgan  on the transaction. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is
advising Apollo.    To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  