-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania City Council Seeks to Reinstate Bankruptcy Appeal
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/harrisburg-pennsylvania-city-council-seeks-to-reinstate-bankruptcy-appeal.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) , Pennsylvania’s city
council asked a federal appeals court for permission to
challenge the dismissal of its bankruptcy case.  Attorney  Mark Schwartz  yesterday asked the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Philadelphia to overturn a lower-court ruling that
blocked the city, the state’s capital, from appealing the
dismissal. Two lower-court judges denied the council the chance
to appeal, saying Schwartz missed a deadline.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in Harrisburg
dismissed the bankruptcy on Nov. 23, saying it wasn’t authorized
by state law. She later refused to let Schwartz challenge her
ruling, saying that he waited too long. Her decision was upheld
by U.S. District Judge Sylvia H. Rambo, who called the effort to
appeal to district court “potentially frivolous.”  Harrisburg, a city of 49,500, faces debt greater than its
general fund, in part because of an overhaul and expansion of an
incinerator that doesn’t generate enough revenue. Guaranteed
debt is about $242 million, with $65 million overdue, according
to the bankruptcy petition.  The receiver appointed by the state to help fix
Harrisburg’s financial problems is set to appear in a
 Pennsylvania  court March 1 to seek approval of a preliminary
recovery plan. David Unkovic, chief lawyer for the Pennsylvania
economic development department, filed the plan this month as
part of a process set up by the state legislature.  In an e-mail, Schwartz said he also filed papers seeking to
participate in the state court hearing.  Court Protection  France dismissed the bankruptcy case, finding that the
council violated a state law barring Harrisburg and similar-
sized cities from seeking federal court protection from
creditors until after June 2012. France also ruled that the
council didn’t follow the city’s procedures for filing a court
case.  Under the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , states are allowed to set
rules regulating when their cities can file bankruptcy.  The council has been fighting with Mayor  Linda Thompson 
over how best to fix the city’s financial problems. Thompson
opposed the bankruptcy and didn’t oppose the appointment of the
receiver.  Beverly Weiss Manne, an attorney for the mayor, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment yesterday on the request
for an appeal.  Receiver Power  State law gives the receiver the power to impose his plan
on city officials without their consent after winning approval
from a state judge. The law doesn’t let him break union or other
contracts.  Unkovic’s plan, unlike previous proposals rejected by the
city, doesn’t say which assets may be sold. He’s asking for bids
on parking, water and sewer systems, and the waste-to-energy
incinerator run by a  Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA)  unit. Once he has
bids in hand, he would enter “serious negotiations” with
creditors on any debt that wouldn’t be covered by sales or
leases, he told residents in a meeting. He said he would also
seek talks with municipal unions.  The council’s case is City of Harrisburg v. AFSCME District
Council 90, 12-cv-00130, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg). The bankruptcy case is In re City of
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 1:11-bk-06938,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  