-- Berkshire Selects Future Buffett Replacement
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-26T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/berkshire-says-board-has-decided-on-buffett-s-successor-as-chief-executive.html
Warren Buffett, the chief executive
officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  since 1970, told  shareholders 
that the board has decided on his eventual replacement.  Directors are “enthusiastic about my successor as CEO, an
individual to whom they have had a great deal of exposure and
whose managerial and human qualities they admire,” Buffett said
yesterday in his annual  letter , without identifying the person.
“When a transfer of responsibility is required, it will be
seamless.”  Buffett, 81, is under pressure to demonstrate Berkshire is
prepared for a transition. The stock trailed the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index last year as Buffett was pushed to apologize
for his oversight of  David Sokol , a former manager. Sokol, once
considered a possible successor, left the company in April and
was accused by Berkshire of violating its insider trading
policies.  “After the Sokol disaster, he had to settle that issue,”
said  Jeff Matthews , a Berkshire shareholder and author of
“Secrets in Plain Sight: Business and Investing Secrets of
 Warren Buffett .” It was “painfully obvious they needed to have
that locked down.” Berkshire declined 4.7 percent last year,
compared with little change in the  S&P 500 .  Berkshire relies on Buffett, also the chairman and head of
investments, to oversee a $77 billion  stock portfolio  and
operating units with more than 270,000  workers . He runs the firm
from Omaha,  Nebraska , with a staff of 24 people and consults
with Vice Chairman Charles Munger, 88, about investments. The
quality of Berkshire’s businesses and managers will give the new
CEO “a running start,” Buffett said.  ‘Excellent Health’  “Do not, however, infer from this discussion that Charlie
and I are going anywhere,” Buffett said. “We continue to be in
excellent health, and we love what we do.”  Howard Buffett, a Berkshire director, said in October his
father wasn’t considering retirement, and plans to lead
Berkshire until his death. Warren Buffett, who spent $26.5
billion on a railroad takeover in 2010 and more than $10 billion
on stock in  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  last year, has
said it is the  board’s job  to tell him to leave if his mind
deteriorates or if he is no longer able to do the job.  Buffett owns more than $40 billion of Berkshire stock and
has committed most of his wealth to charity. Berkshire is valued
at about $198 billion.  Berkshire hired former hedge fund managers Ted Weschler and
Todd Combs since the end of 2009 to help Buffett with
investments and said last year that it had identified four
company executives capable of being CEO. One had board approval
to step in “should a replacement be needed currently,”
according to a passage in a 2011 regulatory filing.  ‘Superb’ Back-Ups  Yesterday, Buffett said that in addition to the designee,
there are “two superb back-up candidates as well.” The comment
was on the first page of his letter.  “It’s more of a commitment, clearly,” said  Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball, Warren Buffett and the
Business of Life” and a Bloomberg View columnist. “This is not
the if-I-get-hit-by-a-bus plan. This is the  succession plan .”  Buffett didn’t immediately return a message left with an
assistant seeking comment. Weschler and Combs, who are
responsible for portions of the securities portfolio under
Buffett, will have a role helping the next CEO evaluate possible
acquisitions, the billionaire said.  Sokol, who previously ran energy operations for Berkshire
and was seen by Buffett biographer  Andrew Kilpatrick  as a top
candidate for CEO, bought stock in Lubrizol Corp. weeks before
suggesting Buffett acquire the company. Buffett told
shareholders in April he made “a big mistake” by not pressing
Sokol about his trades before making the offer. Sokol has denied
any wrongdoing.  Jain, Abel  Howard Buffett  said in May that his father’s circle of most
trusted managers, like insurance executives Tony Nicely, 68, and
Ajit Jain, 60, will expand to include railroad head  Matthew Rose . Howard Buffett, a 57-year-old farmer and philanthropist,
joined the board in 1993 and would preserve the firm’s culture
as non-executive chairman, his father has said.  “It would be wise when I am no longer CEO to have a member
of the Buffett family serve as the non-paid, non-executive
chairman of the board,” Buffett said in Berkshire’s annual
report, which was published with the letter. “At my death, the
Buffett family will not be involved in managing the business
but, as very substantial shareholders, will help in picking and
overseeing the managers who do.”  Rose, 52, joined Berkshire in 2010 after selling Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe , which he runs as CEO. Buffett has overseen
Nicely, CEO of car insurer Geico, since 1996 when Berkshire
acquired full control of the unit. Buffett hired Jain more than
20 years ago to run a reinsurance business for Berkshire.  Gregory Abel , 49, who joined Berkshire in 2000, replaced
Sokol as chairman of MidAmerican Energy Holdings. Buffett
introduced Abel to Berkshire shareholders in the billionaire’s
annual letter published in 2003, calling the manager Sokol’s
“key associate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  