-- Berkshire Profit Declines 30% as Gains Narrow on Derivatives
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-25T14:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/berkshire-profit-declines-30-as-gains-narrow-on-derivatives.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  said fourth-
quarter profit fell 30 percent on smaller gains from  Warren Buffett ’s portfolio of derivatives.  Net income declined to $3.05 billion, or $1,846 a share,
from $4.38 billion, or $2,656, a year earlier, Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire said today in its annual report.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer,
is investing in stocks and  acquisitions  as Berkshire generates
earnings. The derivatives bets, made in prior years on long-term
gains in stocks and the solvency of borrowers, produced more
than $2 billion of profit in the fourth quarter of 2010.  “These are contracts that don’t expire for another 10 or
15 years and might fluctuate a lot every quarter,” said  David Kass , a professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H.
Smith School of Business. Buffett is “not really bothered by
the volatility short term,” said Kass, in an interview before
results were released.  Berkshire has slumped 4 percent in  New York  in the last 12
months, compared with a gain of 4.6 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The gain from equity index puts slipped to $350 million in
the last three months of 2011 from $2.49 billion a year earlier.
The contracts are tied to four stock indexes including the  S&P
500 , which rose 11 percent in the period, and the Nikkei 225
Stock Average, which fell 2.8 percent. Liabilities narrow when
equity benchmarks rise, and the fluctuations are recorded each
quarter in Berkshire’s income statement.  Credit-Default Contracts  Losses from credit-default contracts, in which Buffett bets
on the ability of borrowers to repay debt, widened to $216
million from $157 million a year earlier. Some fourth-quarter
results were calculated by subtracting figures for the first
nine months from the full-year data provided today.  Berkshire’s cash hoard increased to $37.3 billion on Dec.
31 from $34.8 billion three months earlier. Buffett, 81, drew
down funds in the third quarter to purchase engine-additives
maker Lubrizol Corp. for about $9 billion and accumulate an
equity stake in International Business Machines Corp. Berkshire
had $38.2 billion in cash at the end of 2010.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose in
the last three months of 2011 to $164.9 billion from $160
billion on Sept. 30, and $157.3 billion at the end of 2010.
Full-year net income slipped to $10.3 billion from $13 billion
in 2010.  Burlington Northern  Acquisitions have given Berkshire more than 70 operating
units that produce energy and chocolate, operate planes and
trains, and insure against car wrecks and earthquakes.
Berkshire’s investment portfolio generates income by collecting
dividends and bond coupons. The firm is the biggest stock
investor in Coca-Cola Co. and Wells Fargo & Co.  Buffett’s biggest takeover, railroad Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe , was completed in 2010 in a $26.5 billion transaction.
The business contributed $909 million to quarterly earnings,
compared with $644 million a year earlier. Auto, mineral and
chemical shipments have fueled gains in Burlington Northern’s
traffic.  “Our major businesses did well last year,” Buffett said
in a letter in Berkshire’s annual report today.  “each of our
five largest non-insurance companies -- BNSF, Iscar, Lubrizol,
Marmon Group and MidAmerican Energy -- delivered record
operating earnings.”  Buffett, who doesn’t pay Berkshire investors a dividend,
started his first share buyback last year as the stock slid. He
is also seeking to use Berkshire’s cash to fund takeovers and
new equity investments.  ‘Dangerous’ Bonds  Bonds and other bets tied to currencies are “among the
most dangerous of assets” because of the risk of inflation and
low  interest rates , Buffett said in the letter. His comments are
read by investors around the world for insights into his views
on the economy and markets.  Buffett, who built Berkshire over four decades, is
preparing the company for his eventual departure. He hired
former hedge-fund manager Ted Weschler last year to join Todd Combs in overseeing portions of the company’s investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 