-- Berlusconi Charges in Bribery Case Dropped Owing to Statute of Limitations
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-25T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/berlusconi-s-charges-in-mills-case-dropped-milan-court-rules.html
Charges against Italian former Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in connection with bribes allegedly
paid to U.K. lawyer  David Mills  to lie on his behalf under oath
have been dropped.  Berlusconi was accused of paying Mills, his former tax
adviser and ex-husband of former U.K. Cabinet minister Tessa Jowell, to give favorable testimony in another corruption trial.
The charges have been dropped because the statute of limitations
has expired, according to a televised court ruling in Milan
today.  Berlusconi, whose party provides vital parliamentary
support to Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government, had denied
any wrongdoing. On Feb. 22, a Milan appeals court rejected a
request by Berlusconi’s lawyers to recuse the judges hearing the
Mills case.  Mills was sentenced by a Milan court in February 2009 to
four-and-a-half years in jail for accepting $600,000 in exchange
for giving false testimony in two previous trials about an
alleged offshore network of companies controlled by Berlusconi’s
holding company, Fininvest SpA.  The British national initially told the court in July 2004
that he had received money as “recognition” for his testimony.
He later retracted that testimony. Criminal charges against him
were thrown out in February 2010 when a higher court ruled that
the statute of limitations had expired. The court upheld the
civil charges against Mills along with a 250,000-euro ($325,825)
fine for damages.  Berlusconi has called himself “the biggest legal defendant
in history.” The former premier spent about $430 million to
defend himself and his companies against judicial action since
he entered politics in 1994, he said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 