-- Brewer Plans to Skip National Governors Association Dinner at White House
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-25T22:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/brewer-plans-to-skip-national-governors-association-dinner-at-white-house.html
Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer, who
faced off with President  Barack Obama  on an airport tarmac last
month, won’t attend the National Governors Association annual
black-tie dinner at the White House tomorrow.  Brewer said in an interview today that she had a scheduling
conflict.  “I’ve just decided I wasn’t going to be going because I
had some other commitments I had to attend to,” Brewer said.  On Jan. 25, Brewer, a Republican, greeted the Democratic
president in Phoenix with a letter asking for a meeting on
Arizona’s economy and suggesting they visit the U.S.-Mexico
border. The two talked closely for several minutes and Brewer
was photographed with her finger pointing in Obama’s direction.
She later said she habitually talks with her hands.  “The tarmac issue was a little distorted rather than
reported probably the way that it actually happened,” she told
reporters today.  The National Governors Association dinner is a highlight of
its annual winter meeting, said Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a
Republican.  “When the president of the  United States  invites the
governors to come to a formal dinner, you don’t turn him down,
OK?” Branstad said. “My youngest son is going with me. It’s a
nice honor. I’m not going to deny that for my son.”  Florida ’s Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican who is a
frequent Obama critic, will fly into Washington tomorrow for the
dinner after skipping the NGA’s meetings on  job creation , health
care and other topics.  The White House didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on Brewer’s absence.  Brewer, who dined at the White House last year and will
attend a policy discussion with other governors and Obama on
Feb. 27, laughed when asked to identify her scheduling conflict.  A spokesman, Matthew Benson, declined to say whether the
conflict was state business or personal.  “We’re not going to get into our schedule,” Benson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Washington at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  