-- Canadian Currency Reaches Four-Month High Amid Increased Demand for Risk
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/canadian-currency-reaches-four-month-high-amid-increased-demand-for-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to the
highest level since October against its U.S. counterpart as
increased demand for higher-yielding assets bolstered stocks and
currencies of some commodity-exporting nations.  The Canadian currency traded within a two-cent range this
week as retail sales fell while employment data improved in the
U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner. The nation’s economic
growth slowed in the fourth quarter, data next week may show.
The loonie, as the currency is called, slid versus the euro on
bets an international bailout deal will save Greece from
default, easing concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  “No news is good news for the Canadian dollar,” Michael O’ Neill, vice president of foreign-exchange trading at RJOFX
Canada, a unit of RJ O’Brien & Associates Inc., said, referring
to news headlines on  Europe . He spoke yesterday by phone from
Toronto. “In the medium term, it’s grinding higher.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, declined 0.3 percent to 99.93 cents per U.S.
dollar yesterday in Toronto, from 99.68 cents on Feb. 17. It
touched 99.07 cents on Feb. 20, the strongest level since Oct.
28, and depreciated to C$1.0020 on Feb. 20, the weakest since
Feb. 16. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0007.  O’Neill recommended buying the Canadian dollar on weakness.  U.S. Household Spending  Canada’s currency weakened even as crude oil, its biggest
export, climbed. The loonie fell against 14 of its 16 most-
traded peers amid speculation that higher  oil prices  will crimp
American household consumption. That might weaken Canada’s
exports, about 75 percent of which go to the U.S.  Crude oil for April delivery gained 5.4 percent to $109.71
a barrel in  New York  this week and touched $109.95 yesterday,
the highest level since May 4.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major trading
partners, including Canada, fell 1.3 percent this week. It was
the biggest decline since January. The South African rand and
the Norwegian krone were among the best-performing major
currencies. Both countries export commodities.  “The U.S. dollar is generally weak, and that tends to drag
the Canadian dollar down on the crosses as well,” said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in  London , referring to trades
with currencies other than the greenback.  Volatility Drops  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback touched 6.90 percent yesterday, the
lowest level on an intraday basis since June 2007. It closed at
as high as 15.6 percent in September. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of swings in the underlying currency. It averaged about 10
percent over the past decade.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent in a
second weekly advance, and the MSCI World Index of equities in
developed countries increased 0.9 percent in its second straight
five-day gain.  The Canadian currency dropped for a seventh day versus the
euro, the longest losing streak since April, on bets officials
are succeeding in containing the European debt turmoil. Euro-
area finance ministers reached agreement Feb. 21 on a 130
billion-euro ($175 billion) aid package for  Greece , where the
crisis began two years ago. The loonie dropped as much as 0.9
percent to C$1.3454 versus the common currency, the weakest
since December.  The  currency pair  “looks set to test back toward C$1.35 as
investors continue to close out euro shorts, perhaps in the
misguided assumption that Europe is now saved by recent
events,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. A short position
is a bet that a currency will depreciate.  Bonds Gain  Most Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing benchmark  10-
year note  yields down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.02 percent. Yields reached 1.837 percent in
December, a record low. The 3.25 percent securities due in June
2021 increased 17 cents to C$110.33. Two-year yields were little
changed at 1.07 percent before the government auctions C$3.5
billion ($3.5 billion) of the maturity on Feb. 29.  The  difference  between two- and 10-year government bonds,
known as the yield curve, narrowed to 95 basis points yesterday,
from 97 a week earlier. It shrank to 92 basis points on Feb. 1,
the flattest since September 2008. A flatter yield curve
generally indicates a worsening economic outlook.  Losing Year  The loonie weakened 3.2 percent over the past year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a
gauge of 10 developed-nation currencies. The  U.S. dollar  has
lost 1 percent and the euro has fallen 3.4 percent.  Central banks in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  will probably
add further extraordinary stimulus by expanding the size of
their balance sheets, which already equal 25 percent of their
gross domestic product, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said
in a speech he gave yesterday in New York.  Carney will keep his  key interest rate  at 1 percent through
this year to aid the recovery, and the currency will trade at
close to parity with the U.S. dollar, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists. Last month, the central bank predicted
economic growth of 2 percent this year, with risks from global
demand and household spending.  Canadian  gross domestic product  increased at an annualized
1.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to the
median of 23 forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. It gained at a 3.5
percent pace from July through September.  Statistics Canada  will
release the data on March 2 in Ottawa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  