-- Chelsea Victory Over Bolton Ends Winless Run in Premier League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-25T20:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/chelsea-victory-over-bolton-ends-winless-run-in-premier-league.html
Chelsea defeated Bolton 3-0 to end
its four-match winless run in English soccer’s Premier League,
as first-place  Manchester City  extended its lead with a 3-0 win
over Blackburn.  David Luiz , Didier Drogba and Frank Lampard all scored
after halftime as Chelsea jumped above Arsenal into fourth
place. Manchester City’s victory moved it five points ahead of
defending champion Manchester United.  Wolverhampton Wanderers rallied to tie Newcastle 2-2 and
move out of the three relegation places at the bottom of the
standings. West Bromwich routed Sunderland 4-0, Fulham defeated
10-man QPR 1-0 and Wigan and  Aston Villa  tied 0-0.  Chelsea’s home victory may take pressure off coach Andre Villas-Boas, who’s been criticized by fans and media for his
team’s run of poor results. The Blues failed to seriously
threaten in the first half with owner  Roman Abramovich  in
attendance.  Chelsea took the lead three minutes into the second half as
Luiz curled a shot past goalkeeper Adam Bogdan. Luiz then put a
header off the post and Drogba hit the crossbar.  Drogba made it 2-0 in the 61st minute when he headed in
Lampard’s corner. Lampard then put in a cross from Juan Mata in
the 79th to close the scoring.  Mario Balotelli ,  Sergio Aguero  and  Edin Dzeko  scored as
Manchester City continued its home dominance. City, which has 63
points, has won all 13 of its league matches at the Etihad
Stadium this season by a 40-6 combined score.  Matt Jarvis  and Kevin Doyle scored in the second half to
give Wolves a draw at Newcastle, which got goals from Pappa
Cisse and Jonas Gutierrez in the opening 18 minutes.  Relegation Zone  Wolves was playing its first match under Terry Connor, who
was yesterday named manager for the rest of the season in place
of Mick McCarthy, who was fired Feb. 13. Wolves jumps up two
places to 16th in the standings, two points ahead of Blackburn,
which dropped into the relegation zone.  Peter Odemwingie scored twice and James Morrison and Keith
Andrews had one each as West Brom won its third home game of the
season and handed Sunderland a second straight league loss.  Pavel Pogrebnyak’s goal in the seventh minute gave Fulham
its second win in 13 away league matches. QPR’s Samba Diakite
was sent off in the 33rd minute for a second yellow card.  Wigan made it 11 straight home games without a win after
its draw with Aston Villa. The Latics match Bolton with 20
points but still remain in last place on goal difference.  Arsenal hosts Tottenham,  Manchester United  visits Norwich
and Swansea is at Stoke in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  