-- China’s Growth May Slip to 8.6% This Year As Europe Slows, Report Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-25T05:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/china-s-growth-may-slip-to-8-6-this-year-as-europe-slows-report-says.html
China ’s economic growth may slip to
8.59 percent this year due to slowing in  Europe , while inflation
will ease to 3.3 percent, according to a Xiamen University and
 National University  of Singapore joint forecast.  Growth may bottom out in the second quarter, slowing to
8.35 percent before picking up again, according to the forecast
released today at a forum in Beijing. Expansion in first quarter
may be 8.42 percent, down from 8.9 percent in the final three
months of 2011.  China’s growth is decelerating as Europe’s sovereign-debt
turmoil hurts exports and Premier  Wen Jiabao  continues trying to
cool his nation’s property market. Last month’s decline in
overseas sales and weaker-than-forecast lending raised concerns
that the world’s second-biggest economy may see a sharper
slowdown.  “There are many external uncertainties out there,” Wang
Yida, a deputy director at the Ministry of Finance, said today
at the forum. “We should be wary about the downward pressure on
economic growth brought about by sluggish external demand,
although the nation’s economic fundamentals remain sound.”  Wang said today the government will further improve the
policy of “structural tax cuts” and boost spending in areas
including energy conservation, education and technology to help
spur domestic demand.  ‘Fine-Tuning’  Wen said earlier this month that policy “fine-tuning”
needs to start this quarter. The central bank announced a half-
percentage-point reduction in banks’ reserve requirements on Feb.
18, the second cut in three months, to boost lending and sustain
growth.  The central bank may cut  interest rates  in both second and
third quarters, by 25 basis points each time, trimming the one-
year benchmark lending rate to 6.06 percent, the forecast said.  China’s manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month in
February, according to a preliminary reading of the purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
released this week, adding to signs growth is weakening.  Gross domestic product expanded 9.2 percent last year, down
from a 10.4 percent gain in 2010. Wen will target an expansion
of less than 8 percent in his report to the National People’s
Congress in Beijing on March 5, the equivalent of the U.S.
President’s State of the Union address, according to eight of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.  Inflation to Ease  Inflation rebounded to a three-month high of 4.5 percent in
January as a week-long holiday boosted spending and pushed up
prices. Inflationary pressure will ease “significantly” this
year as domestic economic growth moderates, the yuan continues
to appreciate and external demand weakens, today’s forecast said.
Inflation rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier in 2011,
exceeding government’s target of 4 percent.  Pace of the yuan gains will decelerate this year as a
narrowing trade surplus and slowing capital inflow ease pressure
on yuan appreciation, the forecast said. China’s currency may
trade at 6.23 to the  U.S. dollar  by the end of this year, it
said.  The nation’s trade surplus is expected to continue
narrowing this year as growth in imports will probably outpace
that of exports, Zhang Yansheng, a researcher at China’s top
economic planning agency, said at the same forum.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  