-- Europe Should Learn From Mexican ‘Tequila Crisis,’ G-20 Host Tellez Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-02-25T21:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/europe-should-learn-from-mexican-tequila-crisis-g-20-host-tellez-says.html
European nations, struggling to end
their sovereign debt crisis, should look for guidance from Group
of 20 president  Mexico ’s swift action to resolve its own
financial troubles in the 1990s, officials here said.  “While  Europe  took years to make decisions, we made
decisions with the U.S. and the  International Monetary Fund  in
two months,”  Luis Tellez , chief executive officer of Bolsa
Mexicana de Valores SAB, the nation’s stock exchange, said in an
interview on the sidelines of meetings with Group of 20 finance
officials today in Mexico City.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy shrank 6.2 percent
in 1995, when the government used a $50 billion IMF bailout to
avoid default after floating the peso against the dollar. The
December 1994 devaluation ignited inflation that peaked at 52
percent and sparked capital outflows across the region in what
became known as the Tequila Crisis. Tellez was chief of staff at
the time to then-President  Ernesto Zedillo .  From that experience, part of a string of boom to bust
cycles in  Latin America  dating back to the 1970s, policy makers
from Brazil to Mexico enacted tight spending limits that remain
in force today.  In contrast, European nations are still trying to halt
contagion more than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
 Greece . While Greece yesterday formally asked investors to
exchange their government debt holdings for new securities in
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history, economists from
Citigroup Inc. to Commerzbank AG say Greece may still default
amid a fifth year of recession.  Mexican Advantages  Angel Gurria , Secretary General of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development, joked
that the debate in Mexico’s Congress last year was over whether
to approve a deficit equal to 0.2 percent of gross domestic
product or 0.5 percent.  “Well, we have some of the largest countries in the world
whose deficit is still up to double digits,” Gurria, a former
Mexican finance minister, said at a press conference yesterday
at the G-20 meetings.  Greece lacks advantages Mexico had in stemming its decline,
Tellez said. Greece is part of the 17-nation  euro zone ; the
peso’s 50 percent devaluation in 1995 made Mexico’s exports more
competitive. Greece’s debt ballooned last year to about 160
percent of gross domestic product, while Mexico began its fiscal
tightening prior to the crisis. A strong  U.S. economy  also
helped drive Mexican  growth  of 5.5 percent in 1996.  Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to the U.S. and its
growth is tightly linked to that of its northern neighbor.  Stabilizing Expectations  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, a former
IMF Deputy Managing Director, said Latin America learned tough
lessons from successive debt crises dating back to the 1970s
that are now applicable to Europe.  “First, during financial crises, expectations must be
stabilized as soon as possible,” said Carstens, who worked in
the central bank’s economic research department during the
Tequila crisis. Then, when tensions ease, nations must be
“focused on creating institutional arrangements capable of
preventing and avoiding the reemergence of those crises.”  In the case of Mexico, those arrangements include a law
that caps deficit spending.  Brazil , after it devalued its currency in 1999, enacted an
even tougher fiscal responsibility law that put a ceiling on
borrowing at all levels of government and threatened public
officials with jail sentences if they don’t meet strict spending
limits. As a result, the country’s debt fell to 36.5 percent of
gross domestic product today, compared with 63 percent in 2002.  Chile , the world’s largest copper producer and the region’s
highest-rated borrower, enacted laws requiring it to boost
savings during periods of fast growth.  ‘Brutal Intrusion’  The European Union’s 130-billion euro debt bailout,
approved this week, will probably fail because it is
“fundamentally poorly designed and poorly implemented,” said
Guillermo Ortiz, chairman of Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and
Carstens’ predecessor at  Banco de Mexico .  “The program is a brutal intrusion,” said Ortiz, who was
Mexico’s Finance Minister during the Tequila crisis. “There’s
no light at the end of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan  in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 