-- Gillard Seen Prevailing Over Rudd in Australia’s Labor Leadership Ballot
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-26T01:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/gillard-seen-prevailing-in-australian-labor-leadership-ballot.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has the support of two-thirds of Labor lawmakers heading
into tomorrow’s leadership contest with predecessor  Kevin Rudd ,
even as opinion polls show the party’s election chances are
better under him.  “She will win comfortably,” John Uhr, director of the
Centre for the Study of Australian Politics at the  Australian
National University  in Canberra, told Bloomberg Television.
“The governing party is saying actually the problem with Kevin
is not his popularity or lack of popularity, it was his style of
government.”  While Rudd, who resigned last week as foreign minister, had
a 23 percentage-point advantage over Gillard in a Newspoll
survey published yesterday, a tally of lawmaker’s voting
intentions compiled by the Australian and Age newspapers showed
the prime minister holding onto a 2-to-1 margin.  If Gillard prevails, she will have to unite her party and
rebuild public support as the government moves to implement
mining and  carbon emissions  levies that the Liberal-National
opposition says it would scrap. Labor under Gillard, the
country’s first female prime minister, trails the conservatives
in the polls ahead of an election due in 2013.  ‘Unequivocal Support’  “If Julia is returned on Monday, then she will have my
unequivocal support between now and the next election,” Rudd,
54, said in an interview with Channel 9 television today.  “If I get mown down by a bus tomorrow, political or
physical, the bottom line is this. The party and the government
and the country is much bigger than me,” said Rudd. “It is
time for us to unite rather than to divide.”  Gillard, a 50-year-old former labor lawyer, said the party
would come together following the vote and focus on beating
opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition at
the next election.  “What people will be talking about after Monday’s ballot
will be our program for reform, our vision for the future and
why it is at risk under Tony Abbott,” she told reporters in
 Melbourne  today.  Gillard ousted Rudd as prime minister in a June 2010 party-
room coup amid complaints about his autocratic style and concern
about his slumping poll ratings. Treasurer and Deputy Prime
Minister  Wayne Swan  and Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  said last
week that Rudd was ineffective at pulling his administration
together and that his government suffered from paralysis.  Rudd’s Pitch  Rudd’s pitch to oust Gillard hinges on convincing Labor
lawmakers that he’s popular enough with the Australian public to
win an election. He has 53 percent support as Labor leader to
Gillard’s 30 percent, a Newspoll survey published yesterday in
the Australian newspaper showed.  Rudd leads Abbott 48 percent to 40 percent as the preferred
prime minister, according to the survey of 346 people conducted
Feb. 23-24, with a margin of error of 5.3 percentage points.  Labor’s 103 members of the two houses of parliament are
scheduled to vote at 10 a.m. in Canberra tomorrow. The Age
newspaper yesterday counted about 70 favoring Gillard, and
Rudd’s total in the low 30s. Senator Mark Bishop, a Rudd
supporter, estimated in an interview on  Sky News  that the former
prime minister had as many as 38 votes in the party caucus.  Confidence Vote  The victor will need to hold together a government that
relies on support of independent and  Green party  lawmakers after
a 2010 election that left neither Labor nor the Liberal-
Nationals with a majority.  Abbott, 54, a former amateur boxer who once studied for the
priesthood, yesterday urged the independents to call a
confidence vote that may derail the government if successful.  Australia ’s dollar traded at $1.0726 as of 6 p.m. in Sydney
Feb. 24, little changed from the previous week’s close. The
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  of stocks advanced 2.6 percent for
the week, part of a global rally in equities on signs the  U.S.
economy  is gaining strength and after Europeans agreed on a
second bailout for  Greece .  Labor’s lower house leader Anthony Albanese endorsed Rudd
yesterday, while conceding he expected Gillard to prevail in the
vote. After a week of party infighting, he implored Rudd and
Gillard to resolve the leadership row and unite behind the
greater cause of defeating Abbott and his plans to unwind
Labor’s major policy achievements.  “I have despaired in recent days as I have watched Labor’s
legacy in government be devalued,” Albanese told reporters in
Sydney as he choked back tears. “We have a good record in
government, we have a good story to tell.”  Rudd’s Popularity  As prime minister, Rudd won status as the nation’s second
most-popular leader, after Labor’s  Bob Hawke  in the 1980s,
according to a March 2009 Nielsen poll. Support for his
leadership among voters surged to a record 73 percent after he
garnered plaudits for offering the nation’s first apology to
Aborigines for past injustices.  His government steered Australia’s economy through the
global financial crisis, boosting spending on schools and roads
and distributing more than A$20 billion ($21 billion) in cash to
households. The country avoided a recession, helped by what the
central bank has termed a “once-in-a-century investment boom,”
led by Chinese demand for the nation’s coal and iron.  The support eroded after Rudd shelved his plan for a
carbon-trading system and proposed a 40 percent tax on “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia. In the run-up to
his ouster, dissatisfaction with the Chinese-speaking former
diplomat had climbed to 55 percent, an Australian newspaper poll
showed in June 2010.  Carbon Talks  Gillard brought  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and
other iron-ore and coal producers into negotiations on a
revamped mining levy with the government, and won passage for
legislation in the lower house in November. The Senate, where
the Green party holds the balance of power, still has to vote on
the measure, which is designed to take effect July 1.  The administration also in November won final passage of
legislation making polluters pay for their carbon emissions
starting in July. The legislation will see about 500 companies
charged A$23 a ton, before a so-called cap-and-trade system is
introduced three years later. This month, the lower house passed
legislation to introduce means-testing of rebates for private-
health insurance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  