-- Hillary Clinton Urges Patience With Pace of Change in Tunisia
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-25T15:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/hillary-clinton-urges-patience-with-pace-of-change-in-tunisia.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged patience with the pace of change in Tunisia and
warned that the needs of young people in North Africa and the
 Middle East  must be met by providing economic opportunity.  Clinton’s second visit in a year to Tunisia, where the Arab
Spring protests first began more than a year ago, marked the
second phase of U.S. support for the movements that have toppled
long-entrenched leaders here as well as in Libya, Yemen and
 Egypt .  In meetings with Tunisia’s president, prime minister and
young people, Clinton emphasized the Obama administration’s
message that economic opportunity must be a priority if those
revolutions are to succeed. The breakdown of economic systems
and a lack of opportunity is “a recipe for frustration and
instability that can be exploited by extremists and criminals
around the world,” Clinton said.  “We are making progress politically but more needs to be
done economically,” Clinton told students in Tunis. “Young
people around the world are bearing the brunt of the global
economic crisis -- but you also can help lead the recovery.”  The U.S. has announced several trade, investment and
entrepreneurship programs, as well as expanded English language
training, as part of an aid package to help support the Arab
Spring. One program involved sending business leaders to
Tunisia, Algeria and  Morocco  last year to advise young
entrepreneurs.  Clinton was in Tunisia for a ‘Friends of  Syria ’ meeting to
seek ways to oust President Bashar al-Assad, whose forces have
killed more than 8,500 people, according to the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. She will visit Algeria and
Morocco today and tomorrow for talks with leaders.  Youth Bulge  Clinton noted the “youth bulge” of more than 3 billion
people worldwide under 30 years old, 90 percent of them in the
developing world. She cited estimates that North African and
Middle Eastern countries will have to create 50 million jobs
over the next decade to meet the demands of young people.  “Just as you led the way in the revolution here in
 Tunisia , so too must young people lead the way in building
vibrant economies,” said Clinton.  She also urged the students gathered at Baron d’Erlanger
Palace, a center dedicated to musical conservation and Tunisia’s
musical heritage, to be the “guardians of your democracy.”  The Islamist parties that won elections in Tunisia have
“promised to embrace freedom of religion and full rights for
women,” Clinton said. “Tunisians will have to hold them to
their word.”  Clinton urged the crowd to show that Islam and democracy
are compatible. “That means not just talking about tolerance
and pluralism, it means living it,” Clinton said.  Distrust of U.S.  Asked by one audience member about deep distrust of the
U.S. and its intentions among young people of the U.S., Clinton
said she and President  Barack Obama  are aware and “regret” it.  “The  United States  has spent an enormous amount of blood
and treasure trying to secure other people’s freedoms,” Clinton
said in making the case for her country’s commitment to the Arab
Spring. She mentioned U.S. support for democracy movements
across the world, including in the  Soviet Union  and  Indonesia ,
another Muslim democracy.  Noting that her questioner was a lawyer, Clinton told him
she used to practice law as well. “I think we can make a very
strong case and that’s one of the reasons I’m here to do it in
person,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Tunis at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at  at  jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  