-- N.Y. to Appeal Judge’s Latest Ruling Against School-Worship Ban
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/n-y-to-appeal-judge-s-latest-ruling-against-school-worship-ban.html
New York  City will immediately
appeal a Manhattan federal judge’s refusal to unblock the city’s
ban of worship inside public school facilities, a city lawyer
said.  U.S. District Judge Loretta Preska yesterday again granted
a request from the Bronx Household of Faith to allow its members
to continue meeting in a city public school on Sundays. The
order may also affect religious groups that have previously
requested permission from the city to worship in schools.  Preska temporarily halted the city’s ban on Feb. 16 for 10
days. A federal appeals court in New York narrowed that ruling
on Feb. 17, saying that only the Bronx Household of Faith could
worship at a public school in the Bronx.  “The City plans to take an immediate appeal,” Jane
Gordon, a lawyer for the  New York City  law department, said in a
statement after yesterday’s ruling. “We believe that this
court’s decision is inconsistent with the recent Second Circuit
order and that court’s prior decision on the case’s merits.”  Last year, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan,
overturning Preska’s 2007 decision in favor of the church, ruled
that the city may prohibit religious groups from using school
facilities outside of regular school hours for worship services.  First Amendment  The legal battle dates to 1995, when the church sued the
city. The church argued the city was violating the First
Amendment by denying it use of a school while allowing other
community groups access to campuses for their activities.  Preska has since issued orders allowing churches to worship
at public schools, finding on other legal grounds that they have
a right to do so. The latest ruling came yesterday in a 51-page
opinion.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December refused to consider the
appeals court’s ruling reversing Preska’s decision. Lawyers for
the church returned to argue before Preska that the city’s ban
violates the First Amendment’s free-exercise clause, which
forbids government interference in religious activities.  Religious groups that have pending applications will have
their requests for worship evaluated subject to the preliminary
injunction, the city said in its statement. Groups that haven’t
applied or whose applications were denied before Preska issued
her ruling today, won’t be given access to city schools this
weekend, the city said.  The case is Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of Education
of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  