-- Natural Gas ‘Fracking’ Ban Upheld in Second New York Town
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/natural-gas-fracking-ban-upheld-in-second-new-york-town.html
Bans on  natural gas  drilling in two
New York towns were each upheld by state judges this week.  Middlefield, New York’s 2011 ban on gas drilling, including
hydraulic fracturing, was upheld by State Supreme Court Judge
Donald Cerio Jr. yesterday, according to Tom West, an attorney
representing Cooperstown Holstein Corp., a dairy farm that
challenged the ban. On Feb. 21, State Supreme Court Judge
Phillip Rumsey said the Town of Dryden’s ban on drilling wasn’t
preempted by state law.  The local bans target hydraulic fracturing for gas, a
process in which chemically treated water is forced underground
to break up rock and free trapped gas. Environmental groups say
the process threatens drinking water supplies.  “This is really the kiss of death for drilling in  New
York ,” West said in an interview. “No prudent operator is
going to invest in leases in New York if those leases are at the
mercy of a zoning ban.”  New York placed a moratorium on the drilling process known
as fracking in 2010 while state regulators developed
environmental rules. Since then, about 20 towns in the state
have adopted laws to ban drilling, according to Karen Edelstein,
a geographic information-systems consultant in Ithaca.  The Dryden ban was challenged by Denver-based Anschutz
Exploration Corp., which sued in September seeking to overturn
the ban on oil and gas exploration. West, who also represents
Anschutz, said he expects both decisions to be appealed.  Yesterday’s ruling couldn’t be independently confirmed with
the court.  Marcellus Shale  New York sits on the northern edge of the Marcellus Shale
formation, which may hold enough natural gas to supply the U.S.
for about seven years, according to the U.S. Energy Department.
U.S. states from  Wyoming  to  West Virginia  with shale are
encouraging so-called fracking even as the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency studies the effects on drinking water and may
adopt nationwide regulations.  David J. Clinton, Middlefield’s town counsel, said members
of the town’s board are “elated and delighted” by the
decision.  “There’s a very strong belief here in upstate New York
that home rule should trump in most cases and that’s what we’re
seeing so far,” Clinton said in an interview. “There’s clearly
going to be disappointed people. It’s a tough issue.”  Cheryl Roberts, an attorney who represented Middlefield,
said the decision wasn’t a surprise after the Dryden ruling.  ‘Move Somewhere Else’  “At this point, the oil and gas companies would be wise to
just leave the decision where it stands,” Roberts said,
referring to a possible appeal. “For communities that think
fracking is something they would like to have or communities
that would welcome fracking, then those companies can operate in
those communities. But for others like Middlefield who have
decided for good and valid reasons to ban fracking,  oil
companies  should move somewhere else.”  In  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and West Virginia, drillers tapping
the Marcellus Shale contributed to a boost in fracking that
helped increase U.S. natural-gas supplies and cut prices 32
percent last year. A public comment period on draft regulations
in New York ended Jan. 11.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, said Jan. 4 he would
wait for state regulators to finish the guidelines before making
a decision on how to proceed.  The case is Cooperstown Holstein Corp. v. Town of
Middlefield, 1700930/2011, New York State Supreme Court
(Cooperstown.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  