-- No Silver Bullet to Resolve Europe Debt Crisis, World Bank’s Zoellick Says
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-02-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/no-silver-bullet-to-resolve-europe-debt-crisis-world-bank-s-zoellick-says.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said there is no “silver bullet” to resolve Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and every country has a common interest in
seeing the region succeed as they debate chipping in more cash
to bailout funds.  “The real big issue going forward here will be the success
of Spain and Italy,” he said in a Bloomberg television
interview in Singapore yesterday. “The good news is we’ve got
some very reformist governments in both countries. They are not
only undertaking fiscal discipline but they have started
undertaking structural reforms.”  Officials from the Group of 20 and central bank governors
are meeting this weekend in Mexico City, where U.S., Chinese and
Japanese officials say they will press euro-area countries to do
more to merit outside help to end the region’s sovereign debt
crisis. The  International Monetary Fund  has  warned  concerns
about debt sustainability could drag the world into another
recession.  The focus on Spain and Italy comes after euro-area
governments sanctioned a 130 billion euro ($174.8 billion) aid
package for  Greece  to avert a March bankruptcy. While China,
 Japan ,  Brazil  and Mexico said they are willing to help, Europe
“must make more efforts to create a bigger firewall,”
according to Japan’s Finance Minister  Jun Azumi .  Common Interest  “There’s been rolling discussions what other resources
Europe should put up” apart from the European Stability
Mechanism, Zoellick said yesterday. “That’s understandable
because it’s a form of insurance policy. It’s understandable
that other countries want to see Europe put up their own
resources first but I think everybody understands there is
common interest in having  Europe  succeed.”  European leaders will meet in Brussels March 1-2 to review
the mechanics of the 500 billion euro permanent rescue fund,
known as the European Stability Mechanism. The fund, which is to
be implemented in July, one year earlier than originally planned,
was set up to aid European Union member states that need help
meeting debt payments.  Europe’s debt problem may undermine banks’ capital and one
of the reasons why ending Europe’s problem is difficult is
“because there is not a silver bullet solution,” Zoellick said.  China’s Economy  Zoellick said he is cautiously optimistic on global
economic growth, as the U.S. economic recovery has momentum and
is moving in the right direction.  China , the world’s second-
largest economy, is likely to face a “soft-landing,” he said.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, said it
expects the region’s economy to shrink this year. A euro-area
composite index based on a  survey  of purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing dropped to 49.7 from 50.4 in January,
London-based Markit Economics said on Feb. 22. In contrast, U.S.
manufacturing grew in January at the fastest pace in seven
months.  Zoellick said financial stability in Europe and energy
prices caused by “political insecurity” in the Persian Gulf
are the big threat to the global economy.  Oil prices  have
climbed 11 percent this year to $109.77 per barrel.  Zoellick, who was nominated by President  George W. Bush  in
2007, said this month he will leave the institution when his
five-year term ends June 30.  “I had good opportunities in my life and I hope I will
find some more,” he said. “I have been involved in public
service in different respects, so we will have to see what
happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  