-- Obama Says U.S. Energy Strategy Must Include More Than Drilling
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-25T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/obama-says-u-s-energy-strategy-must-include-more-than-drilling.html
President  Barack Obama  said that
rising gas prices can’t be reduced by drilling alone and that
the U.S. must develop every available source of energy to lessen
dependence on foreign oil.  In his weekly address today on the radio and the Internet,
Obama faulted “some politicians” for “dusting off” election-
year plans for $2 a gallon of gasoline and more drilling.  “You know that’s not a plan -- especially since we’re
already drilling,” Obama said. “It’s a bumper sticker.”  Republicans have vowed to make the make the price at the
pump an issue in the 2012 campaign. Republican presidential
candidates have called for more U.S. oil drilling.  In the address, Obama said the U.S. “can’t just drill our
way to lower gas prices” and that technology that makes
vehicles and manufacturing plants more fuel efficient is the
“only real solution to this challenge.” He called for the
development of a variety of sources of energy, including oil,
wind, solar and nuclear.  Oil for April delivery rose $1.94, or 1.8 percent, to
settle at $109.77 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as escalating tension with  Iran  threatens supplies.  The average  price  for regular gasoline at the pump rose to
$3.65 a gallon, according to AAA data yesterday.  Obama repeated the message he delivered on Feb. 23 in
Miami, touting higher levels of domestic oil production under
his administration than during the previous eight years.  “While there are no short-term silver bullets when it
comes to gas prices, I’ve directed my administration to look for
every single area where we can make an impact and help consumers
in the months ahead,” he said.  Oil Subsidies  Obama said billions in subsidies for the oil industry are
“outrageous” and “inexcusable” and called on Congress to put
an end to them.  He also called on Congress to renew clean energy tax
credits that he said will help create U.S. jobs and reduce
dependence on foreign oil.  “It’s time to end taxpayer giveaways to an industry that’s
never been more profitable, and use that money to reduce our
deficit and double-down on a clean  energy industry  that’s never
been more promising,” Obama said.  In the Republican address, Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of
Texas said the president should step up exploration of domestic
oil and gas and approve  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s permit for the
Keystone XL pipeline to transport oil from  Canada  to the U.S.
Gulf Coast. Obama has already denied the permit because of
environmental concerns.  Hutchison said families and businesses will be
“devastated” if gas prices go above $4 a gallon this summer as
some analysts have predicted.  Global Demand  “We can’t slow down global demand for oil and gas, but we
can do a lot more here at home to assure that we have the energy
we need and to halt skyrocketing costs,” she said in the
address, noting that the average price for a gallon of gasoline
this month is higher than it was in February of last year.  Hutchison said Energy Secretary Steven Chu’s 2008 comment
that “Somehow, we have to figure out how to boost the price of
gasoline to the levels in  Europe ,” shows that the Obama
administration is not doing enough to lower gas prices. Chu was
trying to make the case that higher gas prices would spur
consumers to buy more fuel efficient vehicles.  She also called on the president to get the Democratic-led
Senate to pass a bipartisan jobs bill and she highlighted four
bills already passed by the Republican-led House that she said
would help smaller businesses expand.  Obama has endorsed the bills “in concept” she said, yet
they remain “bottled up for months in the Democrat-controlled
Senate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  