-- Oil Caps Longest Rally in Two Years as Iran Tensions Spur Supply Concern
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-25T13:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/oil-caps-longest-rally-in-two-years-on-iranian-supply-concern.html
Oil capped its longest rally since
January 2010 as escalating tension with  Iran  threatens supplies
and on signs of a global economic recovery.  Futures advanced above $109 a barrel for the first time in
almost 10 months as sanctions against the Persian Gulf nation
make it more difficult to sell oil. Iran dismissed UN atomic
inspectors’ concerns that nuclear-weapon work is occurring, a
document acquired by Bloomberg News showed. U.S., French and
South Korean consumer confidence gained, reports showed
yesterday.  “Everyone is looking at $110 oil,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “The
tension between Iran and the West has risen to an incredible
level. We’re trading on fear that this will deteriorate into a
new war in the  Middle East .”  Crude oil for April delivery rose 6.3 percent in its
biggest weekly rally since Dec. 23. Crude’s seven-day advance
was the longest since the period ended Jan. 6, 2010. The front-
month contract increased $1.94, or 1.8 percent, to $109.77 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on Feb. 24, the
highest settlement since May 3.  Brent oil for April settlement gained $1.85, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $125.47 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
since April 29.  Iran “dismissed the agency’s concerns” about its nuclear
program, the International Atomic Energy Agency said yesterday
in the 11-page restricted document. The Persian Gulf nation
tripled its quarterly rate of producing 20 percent-enriched
uranium, according to the report from the IAEA, the  United
Nations ’ nuclear arm.  Nuclear Program  While Iran has said its nuclear program is for civilian
purposes, the U.S. and its allies have alleged Iran is
developing the capacity to produce nuclear weapons. Iran, the
second-biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, pumped about 3.5 million barrels of oil a
day last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank that handles
payments for Iranian oil, may stop processing transactions for
supplies to  Turkey  starting in July, according to an official at
Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS, which operates four
plants. Tupras won’t be able to use the bank after June 30
without a U.S. waiver, the official said yesterday.  “There’s an undercurrent of fear about the Iranian nuclear
situation and what that will mean for global supplies as people
scramble to replace Iranian barrels,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Financial Sanctions  The U.S. has offered to help  India , which also uses Halk
for payments to Iran, get alternative oil supplies, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  U.S. sanctions against financial institutions that deal
with Iran take effect at the end of June, while the European
Union plans to ban imports of Iranian oil from the beginning of
July. Swift, the global bank-transfer service, said last week it
is prepared to impose sanctions against Iranian financial
institutions once the EU sets out implementation rules.  “If Swift imposes sanctions on Iran, the country will be
squeezed,” Schork said. “There’s a risk they will lash out.”  Israel  and the U.S. have said all options are on the table
in ensuring Iran doesn’t acquire atomic weapons. The Islamic
republic has threatened to block shipments through the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit route for about 20 percent of globally traded
crude, if its exports are blocked.  Goldman Projection  “Iran is a bullish factor that isn’t going away anytime
soon,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company
Cameronhanover.com in New Canaan,  Connecticut . “We’re waiting
for a resolution of some kind, be it negotiations or an attack
by Israeli planes.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on Feb. 22 that West Texas
Intermediate oil will rise this year even as the highest U.S.
oil output level in nine years threatens to increase stockpiles.  Sales of  new homes  in the U.S. slipped 0.9 percent to an
annual pace of 321,000 in January from a rate of 324,000 the
prior month that was stronger than previously reported, Commerce
Department figures showed. The  median  estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was 315,000.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
 consumer sentiment  for February rose to 75.3 from 75 in January.
A measure of French  consumer sentiment  rose to 82 from 81 last
month, national statistics office Insee said Feb. 23.  South
Korea ’s sentiment index rose to 100 in February from 98.  IMF Warning  Group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors
meet in Mexico City today after euro-area governments sanctioned
a 130 billion-euro ($175 billion) aid package for  Greece  this
week and the  International Monetary Fund  warned debt concerns
could drag the world into another recession.  “Downside risks from a complete macroeconomic meltdown are
receding fast,” said  Paul Horsnell , London-based head of
commodities research at Barclays Plc. “However, geopolitical
risks are on the rise, with the escalating tension about Iran
manifesting itself in a series of proxy wars.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 733,577
contracts as of 3:38 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 739,188
contracts yesterday, 24 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  