-- Paulson Said to Tell Clients Gold Fund Will Top Others
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/paulson-said-to-tell-clients-gold-fund-will-beat-others.html
John Paulson , the hedge fund manager
seeking to rebound from record losses in 2011, told investors
his Gold Fund will outperform his other strategies over five
years, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The billionaire, at a meeting yesterday at the Metropolitan
Club in New York, said the metal is the best hedge against
currency debasement as countries inject money into their
economies, said the person, who attended the event and asked not
to be named because the information is private. Paulson also
cited  gold  as a hedge against the euro currency, as a breakup
may occur, and an eventual increase in inflation.  The manager told clients his own money comprises 55 percent
of the Gold Fund’s $1.2 billion in assets, the person said. The
fund, which can buy derivatives and other gold-related
securities, declined 11 percent last year after the metal
slumped 14 percent in the final four months.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis may continue to affect
bullion in the near term, Paulson, whose firm manages $23
billion, said this month in a year-end letter to investors. The
metal serves as the best long-term alternative to paper
currencies, he said.  “We remain excited about the outlook for the Paulson Gold
Funds over the next few years,” he said in the letter. “We
would argue that the potential upside in gold outweighs the
potential downside.”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the meeting with investors.  ETF Stake  Paulson & Co. is the biggest investor in the  SPDR Gold
Trust (GLD) , the largest exchange-traded product backed by bullion,
with a stake valued at about $2.9 billion, a Securities and
Exchange Commission filing Feb. 14 showed. Paulson investors can
choose between dollar- and gold-denominated versions for most of
the firm’s funds. Paulson created the gold share class in 2009
and the Gold Fund in 2010, according to the firm’s third-quarter
letter to investors.  Paulson, 56, became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the U.S. subprime mortgage market. Last year, he lost 51
percent in one of his largest funds amid failed bets on a U.S.
economic rebound.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  