-- U.S. Treasuries Halt Three-Week Downturn on European Debt Crisis Concerns
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/treasury-30-year-bonds-rekindle-haven-status-halt-a-three-week-downturn.html
Treasuries rose, with 30-year bonds
halting a three-week slide, amid concern Europe’s rescue package
for  Greece  won’t fully resolve the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  U.S. 10-year yields  reached  the lowest in a week yesterday
as  Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s credit rating and said a
default is highly likely, fueling refuge demand. The U.S. sold
$99 billion in notes while the  Federal Reserve  bought $3.8
billion in longer-term Treasuries. The  difference  between the
yields on 10-year notes and inflation-indexed securities was
close to the highest since August before a report that is
forecast to show U.S. manufacturing output expanded in February.  “We started the week with optimism that an agreement was
in place in Greece that would take some pressure off that
European crisis, but any selloff was met with buyers as it turns
out nothing has really changed,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in  New York  of government trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “There is still a lot of uncertainty, and the Fed is
still buying, which is giving support to Treasuries.”  Yields on 30-year bonds fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, this week to 3.10 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent securities
maturing in February 2042 increased 30/32, or $9.38 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 1/2.  Yield Range  The 10-year note yield reached 1.97 percent, the least
since Feb. 16. It fell three basis points for the week and has
traded in a range of 1.79 percent to 2.16 percent since the
start of November as  Europe ’s debt crisis sustained demand for
the safest securities.  Volume (ICPTVOL)  in the Treasury market remained below the one-year
average of $275 billion. About $186 billion of Treasuries
changed hands yesterday through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed Feb. 23 at 77.1 basis
points, near the lowest level since July 2007. The five-year
average is 112 basis points.  Treasuries rose Feb. 23 after a U.S. sale of $29 billion in
seven-year notes drew stronger-than-average demand on concern
Europe’s debt crisis hasn’t been contained.  Auction Demand  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
orders to buy with the amount of securities offered, was 3.11,
compared with an average of 2.81 for the previous 10 sales. The
auction was the last of three note offerings this week totaling
$99 billion.  “It looks like a good one,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “Treasuries are what people want to own because they think
it’s the safest thing out there. It’s fear of Europe falling
apart.”  A $35 billion U.S. five-year auction Feb. 22 drew a yield
of 0.9 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.901 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of seven primary dealers, while a two-year note
auction of the same amount on the previous day drew a yield of
0.310 percent, matching pre-auction trading.  The central bank purchased long-term securities yesterday
and Feb. 22, according to the New York Fed  website . The Fed is
replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity Treasuries in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs under a
program it plans to conclude in June.  Fed View  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
additional asset purchases, or quantitative easing, aren’t
needed with inflation including food and fuel higher than the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  “I wouldn’t take QE3 off the table ever,” Bullard said in
a CNBC interview, referring to a third round of purchases. “We
should use it only if the economy deteriorates and especially if
the inflation numbers start to drift down into disinflation or
deflation. Headline inflation is above target.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, widened this week to as much as 2.34 percentage
points, close to the most since August. It has averaged 2.14
percentage points during the past decade.  Debt Buying  “Bullard said he wouldn’t take QE3 off the table so that
brought in some buying into the market,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
reached 54.5 in February from 54.1 the previous month, according
to a survey of 55 economists conducted by Bloomberg News before
the March 1 report from the Tempe, Arizona-based group.  Greece agreed upon the biggest debt restructuring in
history as it seeks to reduce national debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last year, and
to meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($175 billion)
international bailout. An agreed debt swap, known as private-
sector involvement, will slice 100 billion euros off more than
200 billion euros of privately held debt if all investors
participate.  Greece’s debt restructuring may trigger credit-default
swaps insuring $3.2 billion of bonds if the government uses
clauses designed to mop up investors unwilling to take part.  Trigger Words  Greece published yesterday the formal offer document for
its agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with
investors taking a haircut of 53.5 percent. The restructuring
uses so-called collective action clauses to discourage holdouts,
the use of which would trigger credit-default swap insurance
contracts on the nation’s debt, according to the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  “The focus has been on what’s going on in Greece,” said
 Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-based fixed-income
strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. The agreement
“didn’t represent a final solution to the problem.”  U.S., Chinese and Japanese officials say they will press
euro-area countries to do more to merit outside help when Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors gather in
Mexico City today for a meeting dominated by Europe’s sovereign-
debt woes, days after Greece secured its second bailout.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said “there are
no guarantees” that the second financial bailout for Greece
will work.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Feb. 21, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices
will fall, outnumbered long positions by 65,285 contracts on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 20,885
contracts, or 47 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-
based commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Treasuries have lost 0.4 percent this year, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, after gaining 9.8 percent
last year, the most since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net 
USGG10YR <Index> CN 