-- Santorum Says Mitt Romney Tax Proposals Echo Message of Occupy Protesters
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-26T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/santorum-and-romney-exchange-criticisms-in-michigan-before-feb-28-primary.html
Republican presidential primary
hopeful  Rick Santorum  said rival Mitt Romney’s promotion of tax
proposals that limit deductions of top income earners is echoing
the message of Occupy Wall Street protesters.  “We have a Republican running for president who’s
campaigning as an Occupy Wall Street adherent,” Santorum said
yesterday, referring to protesters who have camped in  New York ,
Washington and elsewhere and argue that the top 1 percent of
income earners should pay more in taxes.  Santorum’s comments came before two primaries this week in
Michigan and  Arizona  that may reshape the race. Both men
received friendly welcomes at a forum in Troy, Michigan,
sponsored by Americans for Prosperity, an organization aligned
with the Tea Party, a grassroots group that opposes new federal
government taxes.  Romney highlighted Santorum’s support for former
Pennsylvania Senator  Arlen Specter , a Republican who switched to
the  Democratic Party  in 2009.  “He supported the pro-choice candidate, Arlen Specter,”
Romney said. “This taking one for the team -- that’s business
as usual in Washington. We have to have principled, conservative
leadership and I have demonstrated that through my life and
demonstrated it as a governor.”  Santorum, 53, told about 150 people in St. Clair Shores
that Romney “doesn’t understand how America works.”  Trust Issue  Romney, 64, ran for the  U.S. Senate  in  Massachusetts  as a
liberal, for governor in the same state as a moderate and now as
a conservative for president, Santorum said.  “This is an issue of trust,” he said. “If you can’t
trust him to campaign on what he did, imagine what he’s going to
do when he’s in the general election.”  Santorum called U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas ,
another presidential candidate campaigning in  Michigan  this
weekend, the “wing-man” for Romney and suggested that the two
were coordinating attacks against him in the Feb. 22 Arizona
debate.  At a stop in Flint, Romney took a swipe at Santorum over
something he said during the debate in Arizona.  “Senator Santorum said something that I think jarred a lot
of people,” Romney told a crowd of several hundred gathered in
the recreation center of Kettering University. “He had
mentioned that he voted for something that he didn’t agree with
and he said he did it because now and then you have to take one
for the team in Washington.”  Romney added: “And I thought, ‘No, it’s about time we have
someone go to  Washington  that takes one for the American people,
not the partisan team.’”  Wall Street Bailouts  Santorum, in Troy, said Romney supported government
bailouts for Wall Street banks while opposing them for
automakers, as he presented himself as a more consistent
politician.  “What you see is what you get, as opposed to, well, what
you see today may be something different than what you get
tomorrow,” he said. “I will be the strong, consistent
conservative.”  Polls show a close race between the two in  Michigan (BEESMI) , while
Romney leads in  Arizona (BEESAZ) , which will also hold a Feb. 28 primary.
A Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his boyhood and where
his father,  George Romney , served as governor and an automobile
company chief executive, would be a blow to his candidacy.  The two contests will help determine who has the momentum
heading into so-called Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states
will hold primaries. More than 400 of the 1,144 delegates needed
to win the nomination will be at stake.  Principled Conservative  In Troy, Romney used Santorum’s own words against him, as
he pointed to how the former Pennsylvania senator endorsed his
2008 presidential campaign and called him the “clear
conservative” candidate in the race.  “He’s right,” Romney said. “I’m the conservative
candidate and what we need in the White House is principled,
conservative leadership.”  Romney also criticized Santorum for votes he cast that sent
federal funding to Planned Parenthood and funded a family
planning program for low-income women, as well as his support
for parochial projects attached to congressional spending bills.  “He was opposed to Planned Parenthood funding and Title X
funding, but he voted for it,” he said. “He stood and
described how he favors earmarks.”  Auto Industry  Romney spoke in Lansing on government bailouts for  General
Motors (GM)  Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, a topic that’s especially
sensitive in the state that is home to both. He said the federal
rescue is an example of “crony capitalism” that overly
benefited the United Autoworkers Union. He linked that to the
Obama administration’s federal loans to failed solar panel
manufacturer Solyndra LLC and electric carmaker Fisker
Automotive Inc.  “The right course for America is not to have a president
to take your money to give it to his friends, but instead to let
the free market choose those that have the greatest prospect for
success,” Romney said in Lansing.  Santorum mocked Obama during his appearance in Troy.  “President Obama once said he wants everybody in America
to go to college. What a snob,” he said to cheers and applause.  Obama “wants to remake you in his image,” he said. “I
want to create jobs so people can remake their children in their
image not his.”  Tea Party Forum  Later yesterday, Santorum spoke in a mostly full church
auditorium that sat 3,200 as part of a  Tea Party  forum in
 Tennessee , a Super Tuesday state. He said in Chattanooga that
the party needs to pick someone who will provide a stark
contrast with Obama, something he said Romney wouldn’t do.  Santorum said Romney’s proposed tax plan, including
limiting charitable deductions for wealthy Americans, was
“exactly the proposal that  Barack Obama  put forward.” Santorum
accused both Romney and Obama of robbing churches, nonprofit
groups, schools and hospitals of a substantial source of income.  “Both of them now want to take the incentive to give to
the organizations that allow these community institutions to
survive,” he said.  In  California , former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich 
campaigned ahead of that state’s June 5 primary.  “If you would rather have a paycheck instead of  food
stamps , you want to be with us,” he said at the California
State Republican Party Convention outside  San Francisco .  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  