-- Santorum Joins Romney in Final Michigan Push
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/santorum-joins-romney-in-final-michigan-push.html
Mitt Romney  and  Rick Santorum 
campaigned across  Michigan (BEESMI)  yesterday in a final push ahead of
the state’s primary election next week, a contest that could
reshape the Republican presidential race.  During a campaign stop last night in Kalamazoo, Romney was
forced to defend his credentials on abortion after a woman in
the audience said he’d been inconsistent. In Lincoln Park,
Santorum described his priorities, including eliminating
regulations and simplifying corporate tax codes to a flat rate
of 17.5 percent.  Polls show a close race in  Michigan (BEESMI)  between the two, while
Romney leads in  Arizona (BEESAZ) , which will also hold a Feb. 28 primary.
A Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his boyhood and where
his father,  George Romney , served as governor and an automobile
company chief executive, would be a blow to his candidacy.  The two contests will help determine who has the momentum
heading into so-called Super Tuesday on March 6, when 11 states
will hold contests where more than 400 of the 1,144 delegates
needed to win the nomination are at stake.  During the Kalamazoo event, Romney responded to the
abortion question by invoking former Republican President  Ronald Reagan .  “Ronald Reagan was pro-choice before he became pro-life,”
he said. “I’m a pro-life person. I’ll be a pro-life
president.”  Abortion Rights  Romney had said he would protect abortion rights when
running for the  U.S. Senate  in Massachusetts in 1994.  He used the question as an opportunity to criticize
Santorum for votes he cast as a U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania 
that sent federal funding to Planned Parenthood and funded a
family planning program for low-income women.  “I will not fund Planned Parenthood or Title X, and
Senator Santorum voted for Planned Parenthood and Title X,”
Romney said.  Romney shared fond memories of his father, including his
legendary frugality as he explained why he was buried on the
opposite side of the Detroit metropolitan area from where they
lived.  “He checked all over for where the best deal was for a
grave site,” Romney said.  In Lincoln Park, Santorum said Romney hasn’t been
consistent on opposing federal bailouts.  “You may not like my positions on bailouts, but I’ve been
consistent and principled unlike other people,” he said.  Housing Prices  Santorum, noting that his own home is worth less than what
he paid, also talked about a need to help housing prices and
suggested a tax deduction for homes sold at a loss.  At an earlier stop, Santorum, 53, visited a Catholic church
in Walled Lake, where more than 500 people ate fried-fish
dinners served by children in the gymnasium. Santorum is
Catholic and is trying to boost turnout among  Michigan ’s large
Catholic population.  Earlier yesterday, Romney, 64, told Michigan business
leaders at the Detroit Economic Club that he would revive the
state’s economy and the nation’s as a whole by lowering taxes
and lessening the role of the federal government.  Speaking to an audience of about 1,000 people on the field
of a stadium that seats about 65,000 and where the Detroit Lions
football team plays, Romney criticized unions and management for
the decline of the U.S. automotive industry, as well as federal
fuel economy standards that he said hurt domestic car companies
while providing benefits to some overseas competitors.  Wife’s Cadillacs  In remarks at the stadium, Romney highlighted his love of
American-made cars by saying he owns a Ford Mustang and a
Chevrolet pickup, while his wife, Ann, drives “a couple of
Cadillacs.”  Cadillacs retail for $36,000 to $74,000, according to
Edmunds.com., an online auto market.  The comments about his family’s cars reignited media
coverage that Romney is a rich man out of touch with most
Americans. The Romneys own homes in  Massachusetts ,  California 
and  New Hampshire .  Romney was forced to defend a Feb. 1 comment on CNN that,
as he offers proposals to help the middle class, he isn’t “very
concerned about the very poor” because they have a “safety
net” of government programs to aid them.  In January, Romney told voters that he likes “being able
to fire people who provide services to me.” The comments
sparked criticism, though he was referring to health-insurance
providers, not employees.  Bet With Perry  And he also faced questions after saying he would make a
$10,000 bet with then-presidential rival  Rick Perry , the
governor of  Texas , to settle an issue dispute during a Dec. 10
nationally televised debate. Romney later said in a Fox News
interview that he had offered “an outrageous number to answer
an outrageous charge.”  Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts and a co-
founder of Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC,
estimated his wealth to be as much as $250 million on financial
disclosure statements. He earned $21.6 million in 2010, mostly
from investments, according to tax returns he released in late
January.  Romney’s focus on improving the economy and his criticism
of the Obama administration as a “failed presidency” came as
 unemployment  in Michigan has declined from a peak of 14.1
percent in August 2009 to 9.3 percent last December, the latest
available. The national  unemployment rate  in January was 8.3
percent.  Obama Campaign Response  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign said Romney would have
let the  auto industry  go bankrupt, referring to his opposition
to the federal bailout of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC. Obama’s campaign also said Romney is paying “lip service”
to the middle class.  “Mitt Romney has proposed a fiscally irresponsible plan
that would increase the deficit by $5 trillion over the next
decade” and “provide millionaires with tax breaks 800 percent
larger than those for the middle class,” Obama campaign
spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in an e-mail after Romney spoke.  While the audience inside the stadium was supportive of
Romney, the atmosphere outside was hostile.  The United Auto Workers union had  called  on its members to
stage a protest, drawing attention to Romney’s continued
criticism of the $82 billion federal automotive bailout.  Several Democratic UAW members gathered in freezing rain
and snow outside Ford Field said they’re planning to vote in the
Republican primary to oppose Romney.  ‘It’s Our Jobs’  “It’s personal to us,” said Gail Lavigne, 43, a member of
UAW Local 600 and employee of Ford Motor Co. “He didn’t want to
try to help the auto companies, so it’s very personal -- it’s
our jobs.”  While Lavigne said she voted for Obama in 2008 and will do
so again in November, she’s planning to cast a ballot in the
Michigan primary for either Santorum or Representative Ron Paul
of Texas “to show Mitt that just because he’s from Michigan
that we’re not going to support him.”  UAW member Jeff Hodges, 45, another Obama supporter, said
he also plans to vote against Romney in the primary.  It sends “a strong message if he loses his own state,” he
said. “If you’re no good in your own state, how can you be good
anywhere else?”  UAW member Rachael Siemen, 41, said she plans to vote for
Santorum.  ‘Clown Show’  “If we drag this clown show out as long as we can, it’s
just going to help us in the long run,” she said.  Democrats will account for about 10 percent of voters in
the Republican primary, according to a recent poll by Lansing-
based EPIC-MRA. Those Democrats are evenly divided between
Santorum, Romney and Paul, said Bernie Porn, EPIC-MRA president.  The poll of 400 likely primary voters, conducted Feb.
18-21, showed Santorum leading Romney, 37 percent to 34 percent.
Almost half the respondents -- 45 percent -- said they would
consider changing their minds before the primary. Other recent
polls have shown Romney slightly ahead.  In Michigan’s 2000 Republican presidential primary,
Democrats and independents were credited with helping Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  defeat then-Texas Governor  George W. Bush . Exit polls showed about 18 percent of those who voted in
that primary were Democrats and they chose McCain over Bush by a
4-to-1 ratio.  Michigan Spending  “If only Republicans had voted, Bush would have won,”
Porn said.  Spending in Michigan on commercials by Romney’s team and a
political action committee backing him has outpaced comparable
expenditures on behalf of Santorum by a ratio of about 3-to-2,
according to data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  The Romney campaign and the super-PAC Restore Our Future,
which independently promotes his candidacy, spent $2.29 million
to air ads 4,341 times on Michigan broadcast television stations
through Feb. 23, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red White and
Blue Fund spent $1.49 million to air ads 3,721 times. The two
super-PACs paid for 4,678 of the 8,062 ads, or 58 percent.  Super-PACs can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money
on campaign activity, as long as they don’t coordinate with
candidates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Kalamazoo, Michigan at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Lincoln Park, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  