-- SEC Staff Prepares Price Curb Recommendations, Shillman Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-25T00:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/sec-staff-prepares-price-curb-recommendations-shillman-says.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission staff members are preparing recommendations on how to
revise curbs that limit price swings or halt trading in markets,
an agency official said today.  The SEC implemented the constraints after the May 6, 2010,
plunge that briefly erased $862 billion in U.S. equity values.
They include circuit breakers for individual equities and
marketwide curbs that halt all securities and futures trading
during larger slumps. The SEC must issue a final rule for any
new regulation to go into effect.  “We’ll be in a position to make recommendations to the
commission in the next month or so,” David Shillman, an
associate director at the SEC, said at a Washington securities-
law conference today. The SEC has been working with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority on modernizing the
limits that apply across all markets, Shillman said. The staff
will present the two recommendations together, he said.  While the circuit breakers that pause trading when a
company’s shares move 10 percent in five minutes have worked
“relatively well,” since they were adopted, about half were
triggered by trades deemed erroneous, Shillman said. The new
plan will prevent errant trades from halting shares, he said.  “We need to develop a more sophisticated mechanism,” he
said. He added that the current halting mechanism has been a
“blunt instrument.”  NYSE, Nasdaq  The New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market and other
venues are working with regulators on the project to switch from
individual curbs that immediately halt trading when shares move
rapidly to a so-called limit-up/limit-down plan that prevents
trades outside a moving price band based on a security’s average
level in the past five minutes. The SEC announced the proposal
by the exchanges and Finra in April. That program also includes
a provision that halts stocks for five minutes, like the current
circuit-breaker system.  Proposals for curbing volatility in individual shares and
changing the halt mechanism that applies to the broader market
were recommended by advisers to the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission in February 2011. They included  Joseph Stiglitz , an economist who won the  Nobel Prize ; David Ruder, a
former SEC chairman; Brooksley E. Born, who was chairman of the
CFTC; and John J. Brennan, chairman emeritus and senior adviser
at Vanguard Group Inc.  Regulators and exchanges are overhauling rules adopted a
quarter century ago to shut down the equity market and related
futures trading during periods of volatility. The marketwide
circuit breakers didn’t halt trading on May 6, 2010, when the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  dropped  dropped  9.2 percent in what
came to be known as the flash crash.  S&P 500, Dow  Exchanges have suggested that the curbs be triggered when
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  falls 7 percent. The circuit
breaker is currently set off when the Dow drops 10 percent. The
proposal also shortens the length of most halts.  Changes to the marketwide volatility curbs and the planned
shift from individual-stock circuit breakers to a system that
limits price moves without immediately halting trading should
work together, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association said in a letter to the SEC in October.  The group said the new standards should also “be
coordinated with trading halts in the  futures markets .” If not,
the changes to the marketwide circuit breakers “will be
seriously undermined,” Sifma said.  CFTC commissioner  Bart Chilton  told the SEC in a letter in
October that he was “apprehensive” about how a market plunge
would affect the interaction between the curbs for individual
stocks and the broader market. The interplay of those restraints
may fuel uncertainty, make it harder for investors and brokers
to manage risk and “cause liquidity providers to leave the
market when they are needed the most,” he said.  Keeping Records  The SEC may also extend the deadline for brokers to comply
with a rule requiring them to track data on transactions by
large traders, Shillman said at the conference today. The
regulation, approved in July, calls for securities firms to
maintain records and report and monitor the activity of large
traders using identification codes starting on April 30.  Robert Cook , the SEC’s director of trading and markets,
said in an interview that discussions about extending the
deadline are under way.  Large traders are those that transact at least 2 million
shares or $20 million of securities in a day, or 20 million
shares or $200 million in a month, according to the SEC rule.
The single-day share figure represents less than 0.03 percent of
the average daily U.S. equities volume of 7.8 billion shares
last year, data compiled by Bloomberg data show.  Consolidated Audit Trail  The framework for another SEC effort, which would implement
a marketwide surveillance system to track equity trading
activity, “are being finalized,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro 
said today. She added that the system, called a consolidated
audit trail, “should eventually be expanded to include fixed
income, futures and other markets.”  Schapiro last week backed away from the SEC’s aim to
require live reporting of trading data as part of the audit
trail. Nester said in a statement on Feb. 9 that Schapiro though
the benefits of the market-surveillance system could be gained
“without incurring the costs and risks of real-time
reporting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 