-- SEC Reviewing U.S. Trading Practices After Decade-Long Shift to Automation
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J o s h   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-25T17:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/sec-reviewing-u-s-trading-practices-after-decade-long-shift-to-automation.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is examining equity trading practices that gained
dominance in the past decade amid a shift to automation,
according to an official in the agency’s enforcement division.  Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse unit, said at an
event yesterday that the SEC is looking into techniques such as
co-location, in which exchanges let traders place computers
close to the market’s systems to shave time off executions. He
said other practices under examination include the rebates that
venues pay to spur transactions, direct  market access  where
brokers let investors send orders to venues themselves, and
whether the types of orders exchanges offer are being misused.  Regulators are evaluating U.S. markets after rules since
the 1990s boosted competition and spread  stock trading  across 13
exchanges and dozens of private, broker-run venues. While the
shift cut investors’ costs, it made trading more complex, and
scrutiny increased after a May 2010 rout erased $862 billion
from equities in less than 20 minutes. Several practices Hawke
highlighted are used by firms engaged in high-speed trading.  “No one’s been able to prove whether high-frequency
trading is good or bad,”  Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of
research firm Tabb Group LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “They don’t have a consolidated audit trail, clean
access to good data or the quantitative analysts to really
analyze data, so they’re doing it through the resources they
have -- which is through enforcement.”  Majority of Market  About 55 percent of U.S. equities volume comes from firms
using high-frequency trading strategies,  Adam Sussman , a partner
and director of research at Tabb Group, said in December. More
than half of that -- 32 percent of total stock volume -- is from
market makers supplying bids and offers, he said.  “Given a large enough regulatory staff and deep forensic
analysis, the SEC can find anything,” Tabb said yesterday.
“Will this completely change the way market making or liquidity
provision is done? I don’t know.”  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said yesterday that plans for a
marketwide surveillance system, called a consolidated audit
trail, are being finalized. She added that the system should
ultimately include markets such as fixed income and futures.  The SEC also is examining whether the self-regulatory
organizations that operate exchanges are complying with and
enforcing their own rules, Hawke said. Alternative venues that
aren’t exchanges are operated by broker-dealers and must
register with the agency. These include dark pools, or private
venues that match orders without displaying order information.  Bats Filing  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , owner of
the New York Stock Exchange, declined to comment on Hawke’s
statements, as did Robert Madden of New York-based  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  Randy Williams  of Bats Global Markets Inc. in
Lenexa,  Kansas , and Jim Gorman of Direct Edge Holdings LLC in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey . The four companies own 10 of the 13
U.S. stock exchanges, and five options markets.  Bats, the third-largest U.S. exchange operator, said on
Feb. 23 that it got a request from the SEC for information on
how different types of orders were developed for its venues.
Hawke said at the event yesterday that possible industry misuse
of order types is being reviewed.  Several of the SEC’s investigations developed from the
agency’s review of the May 6, 2010, crash in which the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  plunged 9.2 percent, said Hawke, who
commented at a securities-law conference in Washington where
Schapiro also spoke. A mutual fund company’s automated sale of
futures without regard to price set off the drop, according to a
report from the SEC and Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Exacerbating Losses  Some automated trading firms, which execute orders in
fractions of a second, widened the difference between their bids
and offers or withdrew from the market entirely during the
decline, the SEC and CFTC said. The report said that exacerbated
losses.  The enforcement division appears to be focusing on
practices related to high-frequency trading, Edward Fleischman,
a former SEC commissioner, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “The high-frequency traders who make a big virtue of their
adding volume and liquidity to the market can simply walk away
as quickly as they came,” Fleischman said. “This reflects the
SEC’s concern with practices that they’re still trying to
understand and get under control.”  The SEC’s focus raises the “philosophical question of
whether regulators should be able to control markets,”
Fleishman said.  Stub Quotes  Since the rout almost two years ago, U.S. regulators have
banned unsupervised trading, or “naked” access to markets that
brokerages offered clients who wanted to trade faster, and
required securities firms to conduct credit and other checks on
all orders before they’re sent to exchanges. They also banned
so-called stub quotes, which were placeholder bids and offers at
prices far from prevailing levels.  The SEC has also approved plans to track activity by large
traders through identification codes, enacted circuit breakers
that stop trading in individual stocks when their prices move
too quickly, and created a uniform system for canceling errant
transactions.  Bats said Feb. 23 that the request from the SEC’s
enforcement division, which the company disclosed in a
regulatory filing, sought information about how order types have
evolved at the firm. Bats said regulators asked for documents
“related to the development, modification and use of order
types, and our communications with certain market
participants,” including some of company’s owners.  Order Cancellations  The SEC is also examining the level of order cancellations,
or buy and sell requests that are withdrawn before they execute,
Hawke said. The ratio of canceled orders to completed trades,
particularly for  New York  Stock Exchange-listed companies, began
increasing at a faster pace about five years ago in the run-up
to new SEC rules.  The commission  said  in January 2010 that proprietary
trading firms may use strategies in which more than 90 percent
of submitted orders are canceled.  David Shillman, associate director at the SEC’s division of
trading and markets, said in September that regulators were
considering whether to urge exchanges to impose a fee on brokers
when their orders exceed a ratio to executions, or for sending
messages including quotes, updates, cancellations and
executions. Higher message traffic imposes a cost on brokerages
and other participants by requiring them to be able to process
more data, he said.  ‘Essential Tool’  Restrictions around the level of canceled orders would
affect the prices market makers publish when they provide orders
against which investors can trade, James Overdahl, a vice
president at NERA Economic Consulting and a former chief
economist at the SEC and CFTC, said in an e-mail yesterday. The
reduction of the bid-offer spread enables investors to purchase
shares for less and sell at higher levels, he said.  “The ability to quickly cancel and replace orders in
response to new information is an essential tool for electronic
market makers to manage their open order risk,” wrote Overdahl,
who is also an adviser to the  FIA-PTG , the Futures Industry
Association’s Principal Traders Group, which includes 36 U.S.
proprietary trading firms. Inhibiting their use by market makers
“means that the open order risk will be managed instead by
widening bid-ask spreads,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  