-- Senior Coalition Soldiers Die in Afghan Ministry Shooting
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-25T13:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/senior-coalition-soldiers-die-in-afghan-ministry-shooting-1-.html
Two coalition service members,
reported to be a U.S. colonel and a major, have been killed in a
shooting incident in the Afghan capital, NATO’s  International
Security Assistance Force  said.  “Initial reports indicate an individual turned his weapon
against International Security Assistance Force service members
in Kabul City today, killing two service members,” the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation said in an e-mailed statement.  The incident happened at the Interior Ministry, the
 Associated Press  said.  An unidentified westerner killed the two American service
members inside a room at the ministry used by foreign advisers,
AP said, citing two Afghan officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity because they were not authorized to disclose details
of the shooting.  The Interior Ministry issued a statement saying that two of
the ministry’s international colleagues were killed, and that an
investigation was under way, AP reported.  The incident comes as demonstrations in  Afghanistan 
protesting the burning of the Koran at a U.S. base intensified
despite repeated American apologies for the mistreatment of the
Islamic holy book.  The Ministry of Interior reported that nine protesters were
killed and 16 demonstrators and 12 Afghan National Police were
wounded yesterday in stone-throwing and exchanges of gunfire in
13 of the country’s 34 provinces.  Two U.S. soldiers were shot Feb. 23 by a man in an Afghan
army uniform, said Ahmed Zia Abdulzai, the government spokesman
in the eastern province of Nangarhar.  NATO spokesman Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson said he
could not confirm reports that the victims of today’s attack
were killed by a westerner or comment on if the deaths were
linked to the Koran burnings.  “It is too early to say who is responsible for these
deaths,” Jacobson told the British Broadcasting Corp. “We are
investigating the incident.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  