-- Syria’s Assad Holds Referendum on Constitution Amid Escalating Violence
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-25T23:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/syria-s-assad-holds-referendum-on-constitution-amid-escalating-violence.html
Syria  holds a referendum today on a
new constitution after almost a year of violence against
protesters by President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces.  The charter promises political pluralism and democratic
elections, and limits presidents to two seven-year terms,
according to a draft published by the official Syrian Arab News
Agency. Assad’s Baath Party has had a monopoly in politics since
seizing power in a 1963 coup. Opposition groups say they will
boycott the vote.  Assad promised constitutional changes last year as he
sought to placate opponents by freeing some political prisoners,
changing the Cabinet and lifting a 48-year-old emergency law.
The measures failed to end protests, and about 8,500 people have
been killed in the government’s crackdown, according to the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. The death toll yesterday was 107,
Al Jazeera television reported, citing activists.  The referendum is “a stalling tactic that won’t change
anything,” said Rime Allaf, associate fellow of the London-
based  Chatham House ’s  Middle East  and North Africa program. It
“doesn’t have any bearing on the future of Syria.”  Syria’s army has intensified attacks since a resolution
supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a transitional
government, to be followed by elections, was vetoed at the
 United Nations Security Council  by Russia and  China  on Feb. 4.
Syrian forces killed at least 28 people yesterday, including
nine in Homs, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an
e-mailed statement.  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar have urged arming the Syrian
opposition, raising the prospect of a widening conflict after
the “Friends of Syria” group met in Tunis on Feb. 24 to
pressure Assad to step down.  The two Arab nations backed a plan to send weapons to
rebels fighting the Syrian regime, a call echoed by prominent
U.S. Republican lawmakers, while the Obama administration and
officials from Morocco, Tunisia and Bahrain said they are
against further militarization of the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  