-- Murdoch Says First Sun on Sunday Sells 3 Million, Topping News of World
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-27T16:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/murdoch-prepares-to-launch-sun-on-sunday.html
Rupert Murdoch  said News Corp.’s
first  Sunday  edition of the Sun sold 3.26 million copies,
topping the circulation of its News of the World predecessor
that he closed in the wake of a phone-hacking scandal last July.  Murdoch announced the final sales figures on his Twitter
page, after earlier saying the tabloid had sold 3 million
copies. The newspaper, featuring an interview with “Britain’s
Got Talent” judge Amanda Holden, went on sale yesterday for 50
pence (79 cents), half the price of the News of the World.
Murdoch said Feb. 24 he would be “very happy” at a circulation
of “substantially” more than 2 million.  The News of the World closed after 168 years as advertisers
pulled out following an outcry against reporters who had hacked
into mobile phones, including that of a murdered schoolgirl.
 News Corp. (NWSA)  sold all the advertising space for the Sun on Sunday
as the furor that surrounded the phone-hacking has died down.  The 92-page tabloid also offered pictures of  David Beckham 
and an editorial by model Katie Price. The Sun announced a
“reader’s champion” who will correct errors. Journalists will
be expected to adhere to the News Corp. code of conduct and the
Press Complaints Commission’s code, the article said.  Murdoch, 80, flew to  London  earlier this month to oversee
the Sun’s expansion and appease reporters angered by a spate of
arrests relating to a police investigation into bribery.  Since the News of the World closed in July, more than 1
million customers disappeared from the Sunday market, according
to data from the Audit Bureau of Circulation. When the News of
the World closed, it controlled 2.67 million readers out of a
total Sunday circulation of 9.66 million, making it the most
popular U.K. newspaper. Its readers dispersed to competing
tabloids or stopped buying Sunday papers altogether, ABC said.  ‘Injection of Life’  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  decided to cut the price of the Sunday
Mirror to 50 pence from 1 pound in response to the Sun’s
pricing. The Mail on Sunday costs 1.50 pounds. The two are the
Sun’s biggest Sunday rivals with 44 percent of readers and
similar stories on sports and celebrities.  “What the Sunday newspaper needs is an injection of
life,”  Martin Sorrell , CEO of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s biggest
advertising company, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word” in an interview with Louise Beale on Feb. 24. “The
consumer will have more choice, they’ll have more choice at
lower price points, and advertisers will have more choice.”  The new Sun had a pull-out about soccer matches called
Super Goals, fashion advice from  Nancy Dell’Olio , a contestant
on TV show “Strictly Come Dancing” and former girlfriend of
soccer coach Sven-Goran Eriksson, and an extra day of the Sun’s
Bizarre show-business column.  Bribery Arrests  The absence of the News of the World initially helped News
Corp.’s rivals. The circulation of the Sunday Mirror and the
Mail on Sunday jumped by double digits in July. The  Daily Mail
and General Trust Plc (DMGT) ’s Mail on Sunday got a 17 percent boost to
2.26 million, becoming the largest Sunday tabloid in the U.K.,
according to the ABC. Trinity Mirror’s Sunday Mirror tabloid saw
circulation jump 64 percent to 1.79 million.  By January, many of those readers had disappeared, and the
Mail on Sunday’s circulation was down to 1.92 million.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Murdoch started the new newspaper before a report from U.K.
lawmakers that is expected to reprimand News Corp. executives
who were in charge of newsrooms that bribed public officials and
hacked into voicemails.  Following the News of the World’s closing, Murdoch and his
son James, the former head of the News International publishing
unit and now deputy chief operating officer of News Corp., had
to appear before U.K. Parliament to explain how much they knew.  ‘Just Cynical’  News International also faces a judge-led inquiry into
press ethics and three police probes into phone and computer
hacking and bribery of police officers, which have resulted in
about 30 arrests, including 10 journalists at the Sun.  The closing of the News of the World was “just cynical,”
said  Chris Bryant , a lawmaker from the opposition  Labour Party ,
who had sued the News of the World over phone-hacking.  Tom Watson , the lawmaker who is helping prepare the report into News
Corp. executives, said “this will not draw a line under the
crisis faced by News Corp. in the U.K.”  Murdoch’s reply is that having an influential newspaper is
the key to prevailing in the crisis.  According to a memo obtained by Bloomberg News, Murdoch
told Sun employees on Feb. 17: “Having a winning paper is the
best answer to our critics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  