-- Vedanta to Combine Its Sterlite Industries Unit With Sesa Goa to Cut Debt
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-26T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/vedanta-to-merge-sterlite-industries-sesa-goa-in-all-share-transaction.html
Billionaire  Anil Agarwal 's
 Vedanta (VED)  Resources Plc will combine its publicly-traded
Indian units in a new company, cutting debt after its
$8.67 billion purchase of oil producer Cairn India Ltd.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) , India’s largest iron-ore exporter, will
absorb  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  in an all-share deal,
London-based Vedanta said Feb. 25 in a statement. Investors
will get three Sesa Goa shares for five shares of Sterlite.
Vedanta will transfer for $1 its 38.8 percent holding in 
Cairn India, including a debt of $5.9 billion, to  Sesa
Sterlite , the new company that will hold 58.9 percent of
Cairn India.  Vedanta, with no previous experience in oil and gas
projects, is trying to boost its finances and ratings after
buying Cairn  India  and gaining access to the nation’s biggest
onshore oilfield. Moody’s Investors Service on Jan. 12 cut
Vedanta’s bond rating and maintained a negative outlook
following the acquisition, which pushed the total debt of the
group to $9.65 billion.  “This will help Vedanta improve its debt profile as the
loans taken to buy Cairn will be transferred to Sesa Sterlite,”
said Abhisar Jain, an analyst at Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.
“This will be a positive since Cairn has a good cash flow.”  Vedanta Aluminium Ltd., the Indian aluminum unit in which
Vedanta owns a 70.5 percent stake, and Madras Aluminium Co. will
also be consolidated into the new company, according to the
statement. The transfer of Cairn India shares won’t be
conditional on the merger of Sesa, Sterlite, Vedanta Aluminium
and Madras Aluminium, according to the statement.  Interest Cost  Vedanta’s debt  will fall 61 percent to $3.8 billion and the
debt-service cost will be reduced by $300 million for the year
ending March 31, 2013, the company said in a presentation after
announcing the merger. Cairn India’s debt, which bears an annual
interest cost of 5.2 percent, will continue to be guaranteed by
Vedanta, Group Chief Financial Officer Tarun Jain said Feb. 25
at a media conference in Mumbai.  Vedanta is seeking coal assets in  Latin America  and all
future acquisitions will be made by Sesa Sterlite, Deputy
Chairman Navin Agarwal said at the conference. The group’s
reorganization is outside the purview of the competition
commission, Jain said.  Sterlite rose 3.1 percent , the most in a week, to 118.60
rupees in Mumbai on Feb. 24, while Sesa dropped 0.2 percent.
 Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  was almost unchanged at 381.35 rupees. The
benchmark Sensitive Index fell 0.9 percent.  Capital Spending  Sesa Sterlite will have a net debt of $7.5 billion and an
average interest cost of 8 percent, Jain said.  Capital spending 
will be $6 billion in the next three years, he said.  Cairn India will announce a  dividend  based on fixed payout
and will also give one-time payout in the next two to three
months, Chief Executive Officer Rahul Dhir said Feb. 25 on a
conference call. The transaction was valued by Grant Thornton
LLP and KPMG LLP, which used discounted cash flows, market value
and asset value to determine the swap ratio. Citigroup Inc.
provided a fairness opinion to Sesa Goa, while Bank of America
Corp. did the same for Sterlite.  The merged entity, in which Vedanta will hold a 58.3
percent stake, will help save $200 million annually, Navin Agarwal said on the conference call. The merger will probably be
completed this year, he said.  Simplified Structure  “Sesa Sterlite will be one of the largest global
diversified natural resources majors,” Chairman Anil Agarwal
said Feb. 25 in the e-mailed statement. “This transaction is a
natural evolution, leading to simplification of the group’s
structure.”  Sterlite, which is seeking to buy the Indian government’s
remaining stake in  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ)  and Bharat Aluminium Co.,
may complete the transaction this year, Anil Agarwal said.
Sterlite bought 51 percent of Balco in 2001 and a majority stake
in Hindustan Zinc a year later.  Vedanta Aluminium, whose proposal to expand its alumina
refinery in the eastern state of Orissa sixfold to 6 million
metric tons, was rejected by a court, is running its smelter at
30 percent capacity, Anil Agarwal said Feb. 25 at the conference.
The company is “confident” of getting a bauxite mine, he said.
The court had said Vedanta’s plant could be sourcing bauxite
from mines without environmental approvals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  