-- Walker Says Obama Has Edge Over Romney in Wisconsin (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2012-02-25T03:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/walker-says-obama-has-edge-over-romney-in-wisconsin-transcript-.html
Wisconsin’s Republican governor,
 Scott Walker , said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
Mitt Romney will “do very well” in Wisconsin if he wins the
Republican presidential nomination, although President  Barack
Obama  has the edge heading into the November election.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome back. Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker is
in our studio. Thank you for joining us, Governor.  SCOTT WALKER: Al, great to be with you.  HUNT: Let’s talk jobs in Wisconsin first.  WALKER: Yes.  HUNT: You pledged to create 250,000 jobs. You’ve been in
office only a little over a year, but employment in Wisconsin is
the same as it was when you took over. Is that a little
disappointing for you?  WALKER: Well, we had three years prior to my taking office
of losing 150,000 jobs. We gained jobs, had a net gain, although
certainly not 250,000 we talked about, but that was over four
years.  HUNT: Right.  WALKER: So it’s kind of like - we talked about  Vince
Lombardi  before. It’s kind of like taking over a team that’s
1-15 and promising -  HUNT: So you’re going to still gain those 250,000?  WALKER: Well, you get them to the  Super Bowl . You don’t get
them the next year. You get over four years. That’s what
Lombardi did, got to a championship -  HUNT: So three more years to go, you’re going to get there?  WALKER: Well, think about it. Our  unemployment rate ’s down
from a year ago. It’s actually down, lower than it’s been since
2008. We’re definitely heading in the right direction.  HUNT: Let’s talk about the presidential race. The Wisconsin
primary isn’t until April, but as of today, who would be the
stronger general-election candidate in your state, Santorum or
Romney?  WALKER: I haven’t picked a candidate, but I think in the
end, conventional wisdom in our state is still  Mitt Romney  will
be the nominee and that he’ll do very well in Wisconsin.  HUNT: And are you going to endorse before April?  WALKER: No.  HUNT: You’re not?  WALKER: I’ve got a recall coming up, hasn’t been
established -  HUNT: So you have to focus on your own.  WALKER: - late May or June, 100 percent focused.  HUNT: But Romney would be the stronger candidate. The
latest Wisconsin polls - you said he would do quite well - but
the latest polls show Barack Obama with a double-digit lead out
there. Isn’t it going to be uphill for Mitt Romney or anyone
else to beat Barack Obama in the fall?  WALKER: Well, I think you saw this four years ago.
President Obama is from neighboring Illinois. There’s a
Midwestern connection there. But I think, in the end, the closer
it gets to the election, the closer it gets to the definition.
If this race is defined as the difference between a president
who currently defines success in government as putting more
people on government benefits, particularly  unemployment
benefits , versus a nominee who says he’s going to do more to get
people off of unemployment and onto the private-sector payrolls,
I think that’s the real test. If that message resonates, then I
think whoever the Republican nominee is can ultimately succeed.  HUNT: Has a shot. Would you agree that, as of today,
Obama’s the favorite?  WALKER: Oh, yeah, I think there’s no doubt. I think anytime
you have an incumbent, it’s always an uphill battle. Certainly,
he’s got a lot of money, a lot of resources, a lot of money
collected that he said four years ago he wasn’t going to
collect. But that aside, he’ll have it.  Now, the question mark will still be not only unemployment
itself, but I think in a larger context, where do Americans feel
we’re headed? If they feel like we’re headed towards greater
prosperity not only in  Wisconsin , but across the country, then I
think the president’s going to continue. If they feel like
that’s a question mark and we need somebody else to turn things
around, then I think the challenger has it.  HUNT: You’ve had huge battles with unions in your state.
That’s really what a lot of the recall is about.  WALKER: Well, it’s entirely about it.  HUNT: Let me - yeah, well, turn to that in a minute - let
me just ask you - this is a separate question. Both at debates
and the campaign commercials among the Republican presidential
candidates, there’s a lot of union-bashing, talking about labor
bosses. Is this a winning line that resonates, because people
are really angry at unions, or do you worry it goes too far and
could be divisive and counterproductive?  WALKER: We’re not about bashing. We’re about fixing things.
And in our case, there’s a big difference -  HUNT: No, I’m not talking about you. I’m talking about the
presidential race.  WALKER: No, well, and I think, in the end, what people want
- it’s what inspired me three decades ago to get into public
service was President Reagan, and he was tough and strong and
definitive, but he had an optimistic view. He believed in the
American people. I think we need more optimism. I don’t think we
need to target who the bad guy is. I think we need to more talk
about the future (inaudible) not just in terms of bashing big
government employee unions, but in any regard, even going after
the president. If the nominee’s going to win, it’s got to be
about optimism and the belief that there’s a positive vision the
Republicans offer, not just how bad the Democrats are.  HUNT: Are the Republican presidential candidates striking
that right balance? Or are they going too far towards bashing?  WALKER: I think too far right now, but I think that’s
partly a product of the primary process. When you have, you
know, all these different debates and forums, it skews towards
trying to define things as to how can you appeal to the primary
base. I think in the general election, the candidate focuses on
- not just on jobs, but I think in the larger issue of freedom,
which candidate is more likely to put more ability to have
freedoms in the hands of the American people will be the one
that succeeds.  HUNT: Same thing, Governor, with a question of immigration.
 Jeb Bush , the former governor of  Florida , has worried the
 Republican Party  is positioning itself as the anti-immigrant
party and that’s a mistake.  WALKER: We’re not at all. I mean, I look at - again, what
drew me into people like President Reagan and others, we’re the
party about living the American dream. Now, I think that means
there’s rules and there’s standards, and certainly saying there
should be a legitimate way for people to gain access to
citizenship in America is right, and I don’t think you can
disregard that. But there’s got to be a balance between the two,
and I think unfortunately the media has unfairly portrayed at
least some Republicans as being anti-immigrant.  HUNT: Let me ask you about the recall, which you mentioned
earlier. You have noted there’s a lot of out-of-state money
coming in to try to beat you, but is that any different than the
$700,000 that the Koch brothers are putting in the Badger State
to support you?  WALKER: Well, you look at any of the money, any groups like
that, you look at the money I’ve raised on my own, I wouldn’t
have to spend a penny - wouldn’t have to spend a penny, wouldn’t
be raising a penny, there wouldn’t be any money on TV right now
if it wasn’t for the out-of-state unions and the money they’re
not only spending now, but what they spent last year at this
time to fight the legislation that we passed that reformed our
state government and reformed our local governments. We wouldn’t
have this fight if it weren’t for the tens of millions of
dollars that were spent in the recall election. I mean, $44
million in total was spent, the majority against the six
Republicans -  HUNT: Are you going to win the recall?  WALKER: I believe so.  HUNT: You do?  WALKER: I believe in the end the truth is our most powerful
tool in this election. When people see that things like our
schools and our local governments are the same or better, when
they see that property taxes after five years of going up $220
million actually went down last year by $47 million for the
school levy, when they see that the bogeyman didn’t happen, the
things that those unions, those public employee unions talked
about didn’t happen, and instead our state is better off because
of it, and particularly if it contrasts with  Illinois  - I mean,
my goodness. Illinois is a prime example of what will happen if
the recall wins. You’ll go back to the days of double-digit tax
increases, $1 billion budget deficits, and record job loss.  HUNT: One question on the Koch brothers. As you know,
they’re very controversial.  Koch Industries  has been involved in
improper payments overseas. They went and they sold millions of
petrochemical equipment to  Iran . Are the Koch brothers good
corporate citizens?  WALKER: You know, for me, I mean, that’s not for me to
judge one way or the other. One of their companies employs
almost 3,000 people in  Green Bay . Certainly that’s important to
us. But they’re one of thousands of people out there. I mean,
you look at -  HUNT: And you don’t know them, do you?  WALKER: No, I mean, I literally just this year for the
first time at a function in passing met with them, but I had
never met them before, for all the hype out there. But I’m not
here to judge pro or con. The bottom line is, this is one of the
many groups. It’s a fraction - a fraction of the money that’s
been spent by the big government unions out of Washington and
Wisconsin. And it’s interesting the media spins the hype on
that, instead of all the money that these unions are pouring,
much of which is not disclosed.  HUNT: This Milwaukee investigation of former aides of
yours, this isn’t going to touch you?  WALKER: No. I mean, in the end, you know, we’ve had a very
clear policy when I was in the legislature, when I was county
executive, now as governor, that we don’t use public resources
for political purposes, either county time or county money in
the past.  HUNT: Governor Scott Walker, thank you so much. And next
year, the Pack will be back.  WALKER: Absolutely. We’re going to bring the Lombardi
trophy back where it belongs, back to Lambeau.  HUNT: Thank you very much, Governor.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 