-- Two Midwestern Governors Predict Romney as Nominee
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-02-25T19:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-25/two-midwestern-governors-predict-romney-as-republican-nominee.html
Two Midwestern Republican governors
said  Mitt Romney  presents the party’s best candidate for
president, while saying that Democratic President  Barack Obama 
has an edge in their states.  Michigan’s  Rick Snyder  predicted Romney, whom he endorsed,
would win his state’s primary Feb. 28 in a “close” race.
“He’s made a lot of progress off the last week or so, in terms
of polling,” Snyder in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Later in the show,  Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker  said he
wouldn’t endorse before the state’s April 3 primary, while
allowing that “conventional wisdom in our state is still Mitt
Romney will be the nominee and that he’ll do very well in
Wisconsin.”  Both governors said Obama, who prevailed over Republican
candidate  John McCain  in their states in 2008, remains the
favorite to carry them in November. Obama won Michigan by 16
percentage points in 2008 and Wisconsin by 14 points.  How voters view the economy come the Nov. 6 election will
be “the question mark,” Walker said.  Economy’s Health  “If they feel like we’re headed towards greater prosperity
not only in Wisconsin, but across the country, then I think the
president’s going to continue,” he said. “If they feel like
that’s a question mark and we need somebody else to turn things
around, then I think the challenger has it.”  Snyder said the presidential candidates would face what he
found in his own election in November 2010: “The two things
that are on people’s minds are more and better jobs for the
future, and a brighter future for the kids.”  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index shows
 Michigan ’s economic health compared with other states fell 1.3
percent between the first quarter of 2009, when Obama took
office, and the third quarter of 2011, the most recent data
available. Even so,  Michigan’s economic health  fared better than
any other state except for  North Dakota .  Wisconsin’s (BEESWI)  economic health declined 9.3 percent in that
same time period, about in the middle of the pack of 50 states
plus the  District of Columbia .  Michigan Primary  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum ’s rise in
Michigan polls over the past two weeks put the state of Romney’s
birth in play. A Detroit Free Press/WXYZ survey of 400 likely
voters conducted Feb. 18-21 showed Santorum with a 3 percentage
point edge over Romney. A Mitchell/Rosetta Stone survey of 430
likely voters Feb. 23 showed Romney ahead of Santorum by 3
percentage points.  Indiana ’s Republican Governor  Mitch Daniels , who decided
against running for president, said today in an interview that
he has no interest in getting into the race should the
nominating fight drag on. Asked whether he would reconsider, he
said “no.”  In addition to polls swinging back toward Romney, Snyder
said, the former Massachusetts governor’s campaign events in the
state in recent days have influenced voters.  “He’s getting an opportunity now to get around Michigan
and talk about what he’s achieved and where he wants to head,
and that’s the important thing,” he said.  Auto Rescue  Snyder, 53, supported the federal rescue of Detroit’s
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, which have both since
become profitable. Romney, who made his fortune as a turnaround
artist for struggling companies, said the government shouldn’t
have propped up the  auto industry .  Romney instead proposed in a New York Times essay a
“managed bankruptcy” that would have relied on an outside
entity providing money to the companies -- something Republicans
and Democrats involved in the industry said wasn’t feasible at
the time.  Asked whether Romney’s stance was an obstacle for him in
Michigan, Snyder replied, “He had a different solution, and
that might have worked, but we’ll never know.”  Snyder also said the candidates should focus on cutting
unemployment , not on “hypotheticals” about past events.  Walker, 44, said he wouldn’t endorse in the Republican
presidential race because he is focused on defeating a recall
effort prompted by his pushing through legislation restricting
collective bargaining for most public employees.  Union-bashing, and other negative rhetoric, won’t play well
in the presidential race, Walker said, adding that the
Republican White House contenders were doing too much of it, a
reflection of the primary process.  ‘Positive Vision’  “If the nominee’s going to win, it’s got to be about
optimism and the belief that there’s a positive vision the
Republicans offer, not just how bad the Democrats are,” he
said.  Walker predicted he would win the recall election, saying
voters would “see that the bogeyman didn’t happen, the things
that those unions, those public employee unions talked about
didn’t happen, and instead our state is better off because of
it.”  On the issue of budget shortfalls in  Detroit , Snyder said
he hopes to avoid appointing an emergency manager to run the
city.  “We’re making progress, working with the city, the mayor,
the City Council on a consent agreement, which is basically an
agreement between the three parties to say, ‘Let’s work out way
out of this in a more positive way,’” Snyder said.  He said he’d revisit the possibility of an emergency
manager in 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  