-- 
Air Raids Destroy Libyan Satellite Television Dishes in Tripoli, NATO Says

-- B y   E d   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-07-30T05:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/air-raids-destroy-libyan-satellite-television-dishes-in-tripoli-nato-says.html
Fighter aircraft destroyed three
satellite transmission dishes in the Libyan capital, Tripoli,
used by state television to broadcast government propaganda, the
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization  said.  The air strikes will reduce Muammar Qaddafi’s ability to
mobilize supporters and intimidate the Libyan people, while
preserving “broadcast infrastructure that will be needed after
the conflict,” NATO said in a statement on its website today.  As the alliance’s military campaign in  Libya  enters its
fifth month, the conflict remains at a stalemate, with Qaddafi
retaining control of Tripoli, and rebel offensives in recent
weeks failing to capture Brega in the east or Zlitan, near
Misrata, in the west.  The rebels’ Transitional National Council is recognized by
about 30 nations as Libya’s legitimate governing authority. The
council is investigating the death of rebel military chief Abdel
Fattah Younis, who was shot dead earlier this week along with
two of his aides.  Al-Qaeda was behind the assassination, proving the rebels
have no power even in their stronghold of Benghazi, Sky News
cited Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for Qaddafi, as saying
yesterday.  The situation behind the death is “still unclear,” U.S.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner said yesterday. The U.S.
envoy in Benghazi is talking to the TNC and “trying to get a
clearer idea of what happened,” Toner told reporters in
 Washington .  Ties to Qaddafi  Rebel security officers had arrested Younis along with two
of his aides and brought them back from the front lines at the
oil town of Brega to Benghazi to be questioned about suspicions
his family still had ties to Qaddafi, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head
of the TNC, said in a televised statement on July 28.  Jalil declined to answer questions and provided few details
in the statement, which left unclear whether the killings were
the work of Qaddafi supporters or the result of a rift among the
rebels.  A native of Benghazi, Younis announced he was switching
sides on Feb. 22, a few days after street protests broke out
against Qaddafi’s leadership.  The appointment of Younis as chief of staff of the
opposition forces, which gave him day-to-day control over the
fighting, provoked controversy among the rebels because he had
been a key aide to Qaddafi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ed Johnson  in Sydney at 
 Ejohnson28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  