-- 
Bunds Soar on Safety Bid; Italian, Spanish, Greek Bonds Slump

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-30T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/bunds-soar-on-safety-bid-italian-spanish-greek-bonds-slump.html
German 10-year bond yields sank the
most in more than three years amid concern that the U.S. credit
rating may be cut and as the euro-region debt crisis spread,
boosting demand for the safest assets.  Italian 10-year securities slumped for a third week in
four, as the nation’s borrowing costs rose at a bond sale,
spurring concern that debt-crisis contagion is infecting the
larger euro-area nations. Spanish debt fell as traders
questioned the clarity of  Europe ’s support measures for its
larger nations. U.S. lawmakers reached an impasse over raising
the nation’s debt ceiling, boosting the odds of a downgrade and
default.  “It’s a tale of two debt crises,” said  John Davies , a
fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “Bunds have
been benefiting again from the safe-haven bid from the U.S. debt
ceiling debate and the ongoing euro-crisis, which are clear
supportive factors.  Italy  and Spain are right back under
pressure, because the market thinks there are still questions
about how a wider plan for the euro-region crisis will work.”  German 10-year yields dropped 29 basis points over the week
to 2.54 percent as of 5:01 p.m. in London yesterday. That’s the
biggest weekly drop since the five trading days ending December
19, 2008. Two-year yields declined 23 basis points to 1.16
percent.  Germany ’s 10-year yield difference over similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries widened to 33 basis points on July 27, the most
in five months amid concern the U.S. impasse won’t be resolved.  Bailout Fund  Portugal ’s 10-year bonds advanced for a third week, the
longest streak of five-day gains since March 2010. Ireland’s 10-
year bonds rose, pushing the yield down more than one percentage
point to 10.85 percent amid speculation Europe’s latest set of
crisis measures will benefit the region’s smallest and most
indebted nations.  European leaders boosted the flexibility of their bailout
fund on July 21 after contagion from the sovereign-debt crisis
that engulfed  Greece , Ireland and Portugal spread to the bigger
economies of  Spain  and Italy. While it can now buy bonds on the
secondary market and lend to countries not already in a bailout
program to help recapitalize their banks, its lending capacity
remains at 440 billion euros.  “The EU measures announced last week have lead to a more
sustainable positive move in the bailed-out nations’ debt,”
Davies said. “Italy and Spain haven’t been helped because
there’s been no indication that the size of the bailout fund
will increase and there are still question marks about how it
will operate.”  Spanish Bonds Fall  Spain’s 10-year bonds declined, with yields ending the week
above 6 percent for the second time this year after Moody’s said
it is reviewing the nation’s Aa2 classification.  Ten-year Spanish yields climbed 31 basis points to 6.08
percent. They have added more than 60 basis points this month.
The nation plans to sell 3.4 percent securities maturing in
April 2014 and 4.4 percent bonds maturing in 2015 at an auction
on August 4.  Italian 10-year bond yields advanced 46 basis points to
5.87 percent. Two-year Italian note yields added 67 basis points
to 4.32 percent.  German  government securities  may fall next week as the
 European Central Bank  decides on  interest rates  and gives a
press conference about the outlook. The Frankfurt-based ECB will
hold its key rate at 1.5 percent, according to all 34 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. It will increase rates to 1.75 percent by
the end of the year, a separate survey shows.  German  government bonds  have handed investors 2.4 percent
this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
Italian bonds have lost 3.3 percent and Spain’s have returned
0.2 percent. Greek bonds have lost 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 