-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls Amid Slowing U.S. Economic Growth, Debt-Limit Delay

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/canadian-dollar-falls-amid-slowing-u-s-economic-growth-debt-limit-delay.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened on concern
that the  U.S. economy , the main destination for Canadian
exports, is losing momentum amid political-stalemate delays to
raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, fell versus 12 of
its 16 most-traded counterparts last week as a report yesterday
showed the U.S. economy grew less than forecast in the second
quarter. A  Statistics Canada  report showed that the Canadian
economy unexpectedly contracted in May by the most in two years.
A report next week may show the nation’s employers added fewer
jobs in June.  “External shocks are driving the Canadian dollar lower,”
said Martin Autotte, managing director and head of capital
markets for  Quebec  at  CIBC World Markets  in Montreal, in a
telephone interview. “The loonie is seen as a peripheral
currency that is closely correlated to commodities. In times
like these, people are looking for safe havens such as the Swiss
franc, and that’s not good for the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.8 percent to 95.52 cents
per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto, from 94.80 cents on July 22. It
touched 94.07 cents on July 26, the strongest since November
2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0469.  The loonie strengthened 0.9 percent in July against the
greenback.  Cross Border  Political issues in the U.S., which takes in about three-
quarters of Canada’s exports, also weighed on the currency, as
did a drop in commodities such as oil. U.S. lawmakers have
failed to agree on the nation’s debt limit, which must be lifted
by Aug. 2 to avoid default, according to the Treasury
Department.  Crude oil futures slipped 4 percent for the week to $95.85
a barrel. Copper gained 0.2 percent to $4.4795 a pound on the
Comex in  New York . Commodities are Canada’s biggest export.  Canada’s economic output shrank 0.3 percent in May to
C$1.26 trillion ($1.32 trillion) on a seasonally adjusted basis,
after being little changed in April and gaining 0.3 percent in
March, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey forecast the economy would grow 0.1 percent,
based on the median of 24 responses.  ‘Pressure Off’  The GDP report “takes the pressure off the Bank of Canada
to raise rates,” said Rahim Madhavji, president of
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc., in a telephone interview
from Toronto. “Higher rates are inevitable, but the report
allows the Bank to pursue a more stimulative policy for now.”  Bank of Canada  Governor Mark Carney said July 20 the
central bank won’t be “mechanical” in raising rates during the
recovery, because of the risks posed by a strong currency and
slow U.S. growth. The central bank published a note that day
that said interest rates can remain below their long-run average
even after the economy recovers, if economic “headwinds” are
slowing growth.  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell 10 basis
points to 1.39 percent for the week, pushing the price of the 2
percent note due in August 2013 up 19 cents to C$101.19. The
yield on the 10-year note fell 15 basis points to 2.78 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.3 percent annual
rate following a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was
less than previously estimated, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent increase.  Economic Ties  “What we saw with the U.S. GDP numbers is a shock to the
system,” Madhavji said. “The Canadian and U.S. economies are
tied at the hip, and the drop in the loonie is really evidence
of this.”  The impasse between U.S. President  Barack Obama  and House
Speaker  John Boehner  spurred some investors to predict the U.S.
will lose its AAA credit rating.  Julian Jessop , chief
international economist at Capital Economics Ltd., predicted in
a research note yesterday that a one-level downgrade of the U.S.
rating to AA is “the most likely outcome.”  “People are lumping Canada and the Canadian dollar with
the U.S., and right now there’s a negative connotation to
anything connected with  North America  as long as the situation
in  Washington  hasn’t been resolved,” said CIBC’s Autotte.
“Even if you assume that the debt ceiling problem is resolved,
there are other issues waiting to come to the forefront, such as
the U.S. credit rating. So as long as the U.S. uncertainty is
there, the Canadian dollar will remain weak.”  The nation’s employers added 15,000 jobs in June, down from
28,400 jobs in May, according to the median of forecasts by 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Canada’s dollar has declined 3.3 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations in the second-
worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 7.9 percent and the
Japanese yen has lost 2.1 percent of its value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  