-- 
Caribbean Airlines 737 Crash Lands in Guyana; No One Killed

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-07-30T16:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/caribbean-airlines-737-crash-lands-in-guyana.html
A  Caribbean Airlines Ltd.  Boeing
737-800 aircraft carrying 157 passengers and crew crashed upon
landing in  Guyana  early today. No one was killed, though some
people on the plane were injured, the airline said.  Passengers are receiving medical attention, the airline
said in a  statement  posted on its website. The plane, operating
as Flight No. 523 from  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International
Airport to Georgetown, Guyana, crashed at 1:32 a.m. local time,
the statement said. Calls placed to the airline for further
comment weren’t immediately returned.  The Associated Press reported that the aircraft overshot
the 7,400-foot (2,200-meter) runway at Cheddi Jagan
International Airport in Georgetown in rainy weather. AP said
the Boeing 737 broke in two, and missed going into a 200-foot
ravine.  According to the airline, the flight had stopped in Port of
 Spain , Trinidad, en route and was completing its journey to
Georgetown when the incident occurred.  Guyanese President  Bharrat Jagdeo  told AP he asked the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board to aid in the accident
investigation. The NTSB didn’t immediately respond to Bloomberg
News telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  A message with Guyana’s Government Information Agency
seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Caribbean Airlines is based in Trinidad, with flights from
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida; Miami; New York; Philadelphia and
Toronto. The carrier travels to the Caribbean islands of
Antigua, Barbados, Grenada, Trinidad and Tobago, as well as
Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela in South America.  Venezuela borders Guyana to the west, Suriname is to the
east and  Brazil  to the south. The country has a population of
744,768, and is a former Dutch colony, according to the CIA
World Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  