-- 
Spain Will Have to Go Through France to Qualify for 2014 World Cup Soccer

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-30T21:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/champion-spain-to-play-france-in-world-cup-soccer-qualifying.html
Defending champion  Spain  must
overcome former winner France to be guaranteed a place at the
2014 soccer World Cup in  Brazil .  The two were paired as the qualification draw for sport’s
most-watched event took place in Rio de Janeiro today. They’re
joined in European qualifying Group I by Belarus, Georgia and
Finland.  Spain, which won its first World Cup by beating the
Netherlands in last year’s final in South Africa, is among 165
teams trying to seal the 31 available places for the monthlong
championship. Record five-time winner Brazil automatically
qualifies as host.  The draw marked the first official event in the three-year
build-up to the tournament. Brazil has pledged to spend more
than $20 billion on improving its transit infrastructure and
building 12 new stadiums as it hosts the World Cup for the
second time after staging it in 1950.  France , the 1998 champion, was the team the nine top-
seeded European countries wanted to avoid. With the French
already placed in Group I, there was a murmur in the Marina de
Gloria conference center when Spain was drawn by record World
Cup goal-scorer Ronaldo.  Tough Group  Italy was paired with  Denmark  and the Czech Republic in
one of the toughest groups, while England will meet both 2012
European Championship co-hosts Ukraine and Poland.  France coach Laurent Blanc hit out at FIFA’s ranking
system, which meant his team wasn’t among the top nine seeds.  “I don’t understand why France was put in the second
group and why Greece, Norway or Croatia are ranked higher,”
Blanc told reporters after the draw.”  The teams that top the nine European pools, as well as the
best second-placed nation, will make it to Brazil. The other
runners-up face a playoff.  England  coach  Fabio Capello  will step down before European
teams begin World Cup qualifiers in September 2012. His
successor hasn’t been named.  Not Easy  “It is not an easy draw,” the Italian said. “You have
to be really, really focused and play every game like a final,
but that will be another manager’s job. I’m focused on my job
now to qualify for Euros.”  Europe  will send 13 teams to Brazil, more than any other
continent. Africa has five qualifying slots, while a minimum of
four teams from both  South America  and  Asia  and three from the
North, Central America and Caribbean region (CONCACAF) are
guaranteed positions.  Each of those regions can get one additional spot through
a playoff. The fifth-best South American team will face off
against its equivalent from Asia and the team that finishes
fourth in CONCACAF plays the top team from Oceania, which is
the only region not guaranteed a berth.  Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff , soccer idol Pele and
national team coaches including England’s Fabio Capello were in
attendance at the draw, which was met by protests from around
300 people. They complained about the removal of residents in
order to prepare the country for the tournament as well as
FIFA’s regulations restricting street vending.  “You will find a country totally prepared to host the
World Cup,” Rousseff said before the draw.  Brazil lost to the Netherlands in the quarterfinals in
 South Africa , and was eliminated at the same stage from this
month’s Copa America championship after losing to  Paraguay  in a
penalty kick shootout. Pele described the failure as a
“disaster.”  Still, Mario Zagallo, who won three World Cups as a player
and coach with Brazil, feels the host is going to be the team
to beat.  “Sorry to the other nations but Brazil will win it for a
sixth time,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Oliveira in Rio de Janeiro at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  