-- 
Colts’ Peyton Manning Signs Contract; Report Says Deal Matches Brady’s

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-31T00:49:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/colts-peyton-manning-signs-contract-report-says-deal-matches-brady-s.html
Indianapolis Colts quarterback
 Peyton Manning , the  National Football League ’s Most Valuable
Player four times, signed a new contract ESPN said matched his
salary with that of  Tom Brady ’s.  The team declined to discuss details. ESPN said Manning
agreed to a five-year, $90 million contract which, at $18
million per year, matches the New England Patriots quarterback’s
as the highest in the NFL.  Colts Chief Executive Officer Jim Irsay had said he wanted
to make Manning, 35, the highest-paid player in the NFL. League
owners and players agreed this month to a salary cap of $120
million per team under the new Collective Bargaining Agreement
that ended the 4 ½-month lockout.  “Signing Peyton was a top priority for this organization
and we are thrilled that the deal is complete,” Irsay said in a
statement. “We feel that it is a salary-cap friendly deal and
it allows us more flexibility.”  In May, Manning underwent surgery to repair a bulging disc
in his neck and his goal is to be ready for the start of the
regular season. He’s started 208 straight games, the longest
among active players.  While he recovers from the surgery, Manning will start
training camp at Anderson University on the so-called physically
unable to perform list. That allows the player to be removed
from the designation at any time before the regular season.  Progressing Steadily  Manning has daily rehabilitation sessions to prepare him to
resume workouts.  “There is every medical indication that he is progressing
steadily,” Dr. Hank Feur, the team’s neurosurgeon, said in a
statement. “While he looks fine, he still has some
rehabilitation to go. Recovery from disc surgery is
unpredictable and it is not a medical concern that he is not
ready at this time.”  In his 13 seasons, Manning has been picked for the Pro Bowl
11 times. He has completed 4,682 of 7,210 passes for 54,828
yards and 399 touchdowns.  On his next touchdown pass, Manning will join  Brett Favre 
and  Dan Marino  as the only players with more than 400 touchdown
passes. Manning has set franchise seasonal records in
completions (450), attempts (679) and yards (4,700) in 2010, and
his completions also set the NFL seasonal mark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  