-- 
U.S. House of Representatives Rejects Senate’s Debt Plan in Symbolic Vote

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-07-31T02:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/congress-heads-into-weekend-deadlocked-on-debt-limit-plan-to-avert-default.html
Renewed negotiations on raising the
U.S. debt ceiling caused Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
tonight to postpone a scheduled vote on his plan to avoid a
threatened government default.  “There are negotiations going on at the White House now,”
Reid said on the Senate floor, and those involved in the talks
wanted more time before a vote was held on whether the Senate
moved ahead with his measure.  A planned 1 a.m. vote was pushed forward 12 hours, to 1
p.m. Reid said the Senate would convene at noon tomorrow.  “There are many elements to be finalized and there is still
a distance to go before any arrangement can be completed,” Reid
said of the talks involving Obama and congressional leaders.  Reid’s plan, which the House symbolically rejected earlier
today, would lift the $14.3 trillion debt limit by $2.4
trillion.  Earlier in the day, Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  had said a deal can be reached in the “near future”
to raise the U.S. debt limit, while Reid said negotiators aren’t
closer to agreement.  “The answer is no,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat, after
he and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, met with President  Barack Obama  at the White House.
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, and House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio  Republican, had separate phone conversations
with Obama.  ‘Fully Engaged’  “We are now fully engaged, the speaker and I, with the one
person in America out of 307 million people who can sign a bill
into law,” McConnell said at a news conference with Boehner
after the Senate and House had rejected each other’s plans and
three days before a threatened U.S. default.  Pelosi said she and Reid talked with Obama about “what our
priorities are.”  Earlier, Senator  Kent Conrad  said senators of both parties
drafted alternative plans for raising the limit fashioned by
bipartisan groups of senators.  McConnell said he was “confident and optimistic that we’re
going to get an agreement in the very near future and resolve
this crisis in the best interests of the American people.”  ‘What He Will Sign’  The president “needs to indicate what he will sign,” he
said. “We’re in discussions now.” McConnell said he spoke with
Obama by telephone today, while a Republican aide said Boehner
talked with the president by telephone last night. Boehner of
Ohio also voiced confidence an agreement could be reached.  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. will breach its
borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding default if
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling isn’t raised by Aug. 2.  Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the
Senate Budget Committee, said a few bipartisan groups of
senators have drafted three alternative plans to supplement a
proposal offered by Reid. The Republican-run House today
defeated Reid’s plan.  The alternative plans include possible new revenue as part
of their formula for cutting the federal deficit, according to
Conrad. Republican leaders have said from the start of
negotiations that a net increase in  tax revenue  is unacceptable.  “All three involve the possibility of revenue,” Conrad
said. McConnell wasn’t among the Republicans involved in the
alternative bipartisan plans, according to Conrad.  McConnell spoke multiple times today with Vice President
Joe Biden as part of the search for a deal, said John Ashbrook,
a spokesman for McConnell.  House’s Symbolic Vote  The House’s rejection of Reid’s plan to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling was symbolic.  “We’re going to get a result,” McConnell told a news
conference after the House rejected the Senate’s plan.  “We’re dealing with reasonable, responsible people who
want this crisis to end as quickly as possible,” Boehner said
at the news conference, “and I’m confident we will.”  Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s second-ranking Republican,
said lawmakers are making more progress on increasing the debt
limit than it may appear, while raising the possibility that any
agreement may not be signed into law by Aug. 2.  Lawmakers may instead find a way to assure financial
markets that an agreement is on track even if they can’t
surmount all the procedural hurdles in Congress needed to get a
bill to Obama’s desk in the next three days, said Kyl of
 Arizona .  ‘End of the Rope’  “It would be nice if a bill could be sent to the president
by or on the second of August -- that would be the ideal, and we
know enough about the procedure here to know we’re about at the
end of the rope to make that happen even if there’s an agreement
today,” Kyl said.  Alaska Senator  Lisa Murkowski , a Republican, said she
hadn’t seen any changes to the Reid bill that would win her
support.  The House voted 246-173 today against Reid’s proposal to
lift the $14.3 trillion debt limit by $2.4 trillion. This
mirrored the Senate’s rejection of Boehner’s plan the night
before.  No Tax Increases  Reid said his plan aims to attract bipartisan support
because it includes no tax increases and would cut spending by
the same amount as the debt-limit boost. As the Senate prepared
for a vote scheduled for early tomorrow on moving forward with
the plan, McConnell said Republicans would thwart the effort.  Republicans said the Democrats’ plan is unacceptable in
part because it doesn’t ensure long-term deficit reduction,
including cuts to entitlement programs. They also said it relies
on a budget “gimmick” by counting as deficit reduction plans
to bring troops home from Iraq and  Afghanistan , while the
 Congressional Budget Office  has counted the drawdown in its
scoring of the financial impact of the plan.  “We need to come up with a compromise,” said House Rules
Committee Chairman David Dreier, a  California  Republican. The
Reid bill “is not the plan that can gain broad support in the
House and Senate.”  House Republican leaders brought up the Reid plan under a
procedure that requires a two-thirds vote for passage, unlike
the chamber’s simple-majority handling of its own bill. No
Republicans voted for Reid’s plan, and 11 Democrats voted
against it.  ‘A Joke’  “This process has become a joke,” said Representative Jim McGovern, a Massachusetts Democrat.  “It’s time for us to end this theater of the absurd,”
said Pelosi of California before the House’s vote. “It’s time
to get real.”  The Senate is debating Reid’s proposal before a scheduled 1
a.m. vote tomorrow, even as talks continue on a bipartisan debt
deal that can pass both chambers before the Aug. 2 deadline. A
Senate vote on Reid’s plan could be held about 7 a.m. on Aug. 1
if he wins the procedural vote. McConnell has said he has more
than the 40 votes needed to thwart the procedural vote.  The Senate yesterday rejected the debt-limit legislation
that the Republican-led House had passed hours earlier with no
Democratic support. That measure would have required
congressional approval of a constitutional amendment to balance
the budget and forced another debt-limit vote by lawmakers in
about six months to continue the nation’s borrowing authority
beyond early 2012.  Reid, who offered modifications to an initial Democratic
plan that he said were designed to attract Republican support,
accused Republican leaders of rebuffing his efforts to
negotiate.  Holding America ‘Hostage’  “Republicans have in effect taken America by hostage,”
demanding policy changes they would never get in legislation,”
he said.  Financial markets were restrained in reacting to the
Washington impasse yesterday.  Treasuries rallied, sending yields on 10-year notes to the
lowest level since November. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes
declined 15 basis points to 2.79 percent in  New York .  Stocks fell as economic growth trailed forecasts. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent and tumbled 3.9
percent this week for its worst slide in a year.  Lagarde Comments  Christine Lagarde , the new chief of the  International
Monetary Fund , said confidence in Treasuries is “slightly
eroded” as politicians continue to squabble over the debt
limit. “There was a positive bias toward the  United States of
America , toward Treasury bills,” Lagarde said in an interview
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” to be broadcast tomorrow.  “The current crisis is probably chipping into that very
positive bias,” she said, according to a CNN transcript.  The modifications Reid proposed in his plan yesterday bring
it closer to one McConnell proposed earlier this month.  Borrowing authority would be provided in two separate $1.2
trillion installments, one immediately and one in several months
as the nation again nears its borrowing limit.  All but the first $416 billion could be blocked through a
joint resolution of Congress, though opponents would have to
muster supermajorities in both chambers to override a veto.  The new plan would yield debt savings of $2.2 trillion --
about the same as the total borrowing authority extended -- and
call on a 12-member bipartisan congressional committee to draft
legislation to lower the deficit to 3 percent or less of gross
domestic product.  Democrats control the Senate with 53 votes, and would need
the support of at least seven Republicans to push Reid’s
proposal closer to passage in the vote early tomorrow morning.
McConnell said Democrats are short of the supermajority they
need because 43 Republicans have signed a letter opposing it.  ‘Rough Agreement’  Obama said with Democrats and Republicans in “rough
agreement” on plans to raise the nation’s debt limit within
days of a threatened default, the time for compromise is
“now.” The president and the Republicans used their weekly
addresses on the Internet and radio to continue the debate.  The House-passed plan was “unacceptable” and would mean
another debt-ceiling extension in less than a year, Obama said
today. “There are plenty of ways out of this mess,”  he said ,
noting the parties aren’t that far apart on spending or how to
tackle entitlements and the  tax code . “But there is very little
time.”  The Treasury is preparing contingency plans to pay the
government’s obligations should Congress fail to raise the
borrowing limit in time. White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said Treasury officials may reveal the plans this weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  