-- 
Economy in U.S. Vulnerable With GDP Short of Pre-Recession Peak

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/economy-in-u-s-vulnerable-to-relapse-with-gdp-short-of-pre-recession-peak.html
The world’s largest economy has yet
to regain the ground it lost during the recession and may be
vulnerable to a relapse.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in the
prior period, the worst six months since the recovery began in
June 2009, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.
Economists said the slowdown leaves the recovery susceptible to
being knocked off course by shocks at home or abroad.  “We are in a fairly risky situation,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts , the only firm polled by Bloomberg News to
correctly forecast last quarter’s figure. “Growth is weak and
there are some possible problems out there: our own fiscal
situation,  Europe ’s debt crisis, and there is always a risk that
 oil prices  could shoot up.”  The slow recovery left GDP at $13.27 trillion in the second
quarter, below the $13.33 trillion peak of the fourth quarter of
2007, after a recession that was about 25 percent deeper than
previously reported. That puts pressure on Federal Reserve
policy makers to explore additional steps to boost the economy,
including another round of bond purchases.  “This raises some very difficult issues for the Fed,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in New York. “They will certainly have to put all
options on the table and see what they can do. One more shock
and we could tip over into recession.”  Debt Ceiling  Congress may deliver that shock. With three days left until
the Treasury Department runs out of borrowing authority,
Republicans and Democrats are still at odds over what budget
cuts they should make before raising the $14.3 trillion debt
ceiling.  The squabbling is a “confidence hit” for both U.S. and
international businesses and casts a pall over the economy in
the second half, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer
of Pacific Investment Management Co.  “We have signaled that we can create a crisis out of thin
air,” said El-Erian, whose  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco runs the world’s largest bond fund. “This will create a
headwind to growth.”  Congressional agreement on budget cuts could cause troubles
of its own. Less spending by the Federal government would be “a
real problem” for the economy, Guy LeBas, chief fixed income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said
in a July 29 interview on Bloomberg Television.  Recession Risk  “We could see a growing risk of recession in the fourth
quarter, early 2012, if in fact the federal government gets it
together and makes aggressive budget cuts,” LeBas said.  Economists are lowering forecasts for second-half growth in
the wake of the latest GDP numbers and the stalemate in
Washington. Behravesh of IHS said growth would at best reach 2
percent this quarter and could come in as low as 1 percent. In
early July, he was projecting 3.4 percent.  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank
Securities in  New York , reduced his estimate by 1 percentage
point to 2.5 percent for the third quarter, and trimmed it to 3
percent from 4.3 percent for the final three months of 2011.  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New
York, cut his projections by a full percentage point for this
quarter and the following five. He expects GDP to grow 2 percent
from July through September and 2.5 percent in the fourth
quarter. Maki also wrote in a note that the Fed will keep
 interest rates  near zero through the end of 2012.  Stocks Decline  Treasuries rallied, sending yields on 10-year notes to the
lowest level this year, and stocks fell as economic growth
trailed forecasts amid speculation lawmakers will reach a
compromise to avoid a government default.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note decreased to 2.79
percent at 4:21 p.m. yesterday in New York from 2.95 percent on
July 28. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,292.28.  Revisions to GDP figures going back to 2003 showed the
2007-2009 recession took a bigger bite out of the economy than
previously estimated and the recovery lost momentum throughout
2010. GDP shrank 5.1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007 to
the second quarter of 2009, compared with the previously
reported 4.1 percent drop.  Growth in the first quarter of 2011 was revised down from a
1.9 percent prior estimate, reflecting fewer inventories and
more imports, the Commerce Department’s report showed.  Consumers Pull Back  Much of the weakness last quarter came from a pullback in
 consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy. Household purchases rose 0.1 percent, the smallest gain
since the April-June quarter of 2009. The slump reflected a 4.4
percent plunge in purchases of durable goods like automobiles.  Higher expenses for food and energy may have curtailed
spending on less essential items. The cost of a gallon of
regular gasoline climbed in May to about $4 a gallon, the
highest in almost three years, according to AAA, the nation’s
biggest auto group.  The absence of faster job growth is also weighing on
Americans. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 9.2 percent in June
while payrolls grew by 18,000, the fewest in nine months, Labor
Department figures showed on July 8.  Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest
snack-food maker, said profit this year will increase more
slowly than it previously projected because of rising commodity
costs and cooling customer demand.  “It’s the consumer and competitive picture that has become
more difficult than we expected,” Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  said on a July 21 conference call.  Employment Outlook  The employment outlook remains dim.  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck & Co., the second-largest U.S. drugmaker,
said yesterday that it plans to cut an additional 12,000 to
13,000 jobs by 2015. Earlier this month, announcements showed
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  will trim about 6,500 jobs worldwide; Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. may reduce staff by about 1,000, and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  will offer a voluntary separation plan to 6,500
employees.  Other reports yesterday indicated a weaker start to the
second half. Business activity cooled in July from the prior
month, and consumer sentiment tumbled to the lowest reading
since March 2009.  “The risk is that you’ve slowed down to the pace where the
economy stalls,” said Michael Carey, chief economist for North
America at Credit Agricole CIB in New York. “Frankly, that’s a
bit of a scary prospect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Rich Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  