-- 
Mellanox Options Signal Shares to Advance: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-31T14:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/mellanox-options-signal-semiconductor-to-rise-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are raising bets to
the highest since October that  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the
maker of data-center adapters and software part-owned by  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) , will extend a 115 percent rally on demand for cloud
technology.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy the New York-traded
shares versus puts to sell has almost doubled in the past month
to 3.1-to-1 and increased on July 19 to a nine-month high of
3.4-to-1. The shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company rose
17 percent to $34.85 on the Nasdaq Stock Market this month after
touching a record $35.07 on July 28. They offer the biggest
premium among the largest Israeli companies that are also traded
in Tel Aviv, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mellanox reported adjusted second-quarter net income of
$10.3 million on July 20, topping the $8.1 million median
estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company,
which supplies communication links to International Business
Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., trades at 35.1 times
2012 earnings, compared with 16 for the  Nasdaq  Composite Index.  “When you’re looking into Mellanox, you’re looking into
the opportunity, and you have to believe that the opportunity is
much bigger,” said Joseph Wolf, an analyst at  Barclays Capital 
in Tel Aviv. “You’re counting on the fact that Mellanox
products will become more adoptive in the network. If you agree
with that, then the stock is very attractive.”  Mellanox will climb 15 percent to $40 in the next 12 months
in  New York , Wolf wrote in a report dated July 28, raising his
share-price estimate from $33. The shares gained 2.1 percent to
118.90 shekels, or or the equivalent of $34.76, at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  Tel Aviv  today, after an increase of 12 percent last
week. The New York-traded stock almost doubled over the past 12
months.  Cloud Computing  Outstanding calls on the New York shares jumped 14 percent
to 5,206 contracts in the past month, while existing puts
decreased 37 percent to 1,685.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  Mellanox Gains  The global market for  cloud computing , which allows
consumers to access programs and applications stored on remote
computers without downloading them, is expected to increase to
$241 billion in 2020 from $40.7 billion in 2011, according to
Forrester Research Inc.  Israel , whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 57 companies traded on the Nasdaq, the most
of any country outside the U.S. after  China . It is also home to
the largest number of startup companies per capita in the world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  Mellanox was the second-biggest gainer this month after
 SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25
Index of the largest Israeli companies traded in New York.  The measure fell 2 percent in July after worse-than-
forecast second-quarter results from  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  led
Allot Communications Ltd. and EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. lower
and has lost 4.9 percent this year. Israel’s benchmark TA-25
Index is up less than 0.1 percent this month at 1,224.14. The
Tel Aviv measure has lost 7.7 percent this year, or 4.4 percent
in dollar terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Juniper Falls  While Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper, the second-
largest maker of Internet networking equipment, posted the
biggest weekly drop in nine years after reporting last week
sales and profit that missed estimates, Mellanox said second-
quarter revenue climbed to $63.3 million from $55.1 million in
the same period last year. Third-quarter sales will probably
rise to $68 million from $37.78 million in the year-earlier
period, according to the company.  Beating Expectations  “When we look back at these past weeks of earnings, the
fact is that the company has been able to outperform the rest of
the market,” said  Rajesh Ghai , an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in
 San Francisco , who recommends buying shares of Mellanox. “There
aren’t that many companies that were ahead of expectations.”  Mellanox’s technology enables cost-effective networking for
high-performance computing, financial services, database, Web-
2.0, virtualized  data center  and cloud computing, Eyal Waldman,
Mellanox’s chief executive officer, said in the conference call
following the earnings release.  The cloud will become as important as the Internet in
maintaining U.S. competitiveness, according to a report that 71
of the nation’s largest technology companies submitted to U.S.
President Barack Obama’s administration last week.  “The industry trend towards scalable low power and
economical data centers in the fast-growing data center market
requires more efficient connectivity of compute and storage,”
Waldman said. “Starting in the third quarter, we expect to see
a rapid pace of adoption of these new products.”  Customer Concentration  Redwood City, California-based Oracle, the largest maker of
database software, owns a 10 percent stake in Mellanox,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mellanox derived 15 percent of its revenue from  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest computer
maker, and 13 percent from Armonk, New York-based IBM, the
biggest computer-services provider, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  “Customer concentration is high,” Harlan Sur, an analyst
at JPMorgan in New York, wrote in an e-mailed report dated July
21. “Any weakness in just a small handful of these customers’
performance could adversely affect the company’s growth
performance.”  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  The shekel gained for the first time in three days on July
29, rising 0.1 percent to 3.4210 against the dollar in Tel Aviv.
The currency rose 11 percent versus the dollar over the past 12
months, the third-best performer among 10 emerging markets in
 Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  SodaStream Gains  SodaStream, the Israeli producer of homemade soda machines,
gained 3.6 percent to $73.35, the highest level in two weeks.
The company was rated new “buy” at Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co
with a 12-month price estimate of $90.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic pharmaceuticals, advanced 0.2 percent to
$46.64. The Tel Aviv shares closed at 157.10 shekels, or the
equivalent of $45.92 on July 28. The 72-cent difference was the
biggest in two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares gained 2.2 percent to 160.50 shekels today.  Eli Lilly & Co., the world’s biggest maker of psychiatric
drugs, won an appeals court ruling in its effort to block
generic versions of attention-deficit treatment Strattera.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  overturned last week a judge’s decision that Lilly’s
patent on the medicine was invalid and remanded the case to the
lower court for further proceedings. The patent expires in 2017.  The company had won an order that prevented drugmakers
including Mylan Inc. and Teva from entering the market with a
generic version until this appeal was decided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 