-- 
Franc Rises to Record as U.S. Budget Impasse, Europe Debt Spur Refuge Bid

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/franc-rises-to-record-as-u-s-budget-impasse-europe-debt-spur-refuge-bid.html
The Swiss franc rallied to records
against the dollar and euro and extended its stretch of monthly
gains versus the greenback to the longest in 17 years as the
U.S. budget impasse and  Europe ’s turmoil spurred refuge demand.  The euro was the biggest loser among the most-traded
currencies in July after Moody’s Investors Service said it may
cut  Spain ’s credit ranking and the nation’s prime minister
called an early election, renewing concern Europe’s fiscal
crisis is spreading. The dollar approached a postwar low against
the yen as the  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast.  “In the safe-haven mode, you’re seeing the Swiss franc and
yen strengthen,” said  Brian Taylor , chief currency trader at
Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo, New York. “There’s a
lot of negativity toward the U.S. right now, and we’re seeing
the GDP numbers exacerbate the idea that the U.S. is in trouble
if we get downgrade in a bad economy.”  The Swiss franc rose this month versus all of its most-
traded counterparts, appreciating 7.8 percent to 1.1312 versus
the euro, from 1.2189 on June 30, after touching 1.1298
yesterday, the strongest level since the European currency’s
1999 debut. The franc gained for a sixth month against the
dollar, appreciating 7 percent to 78.55 centimes in the longest
winning streak since June 1994 and touching a record 78.54
centimes.  The dollar dropped 4.7 percent to 76.77 yen after touching
76.73, the lowest level since touching a post-World War II
record of 76.25 on March 17. The dollar fell 0.7 percent to
$1.4399 versus the euro, from $1.4502. The 17-nation currency
slid 5.4 percent to 110.54 yen, from 116.61.  Safety Rally  The franc and yen rallied this month versus their major
counterparts as U.S. stocks tumbled, discouraging demand for
higher-yielding assets. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled
1.2 percent. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes fell yesterday to
the lowest level this year.  “There is a lot of gloom out there,” said  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-exchange group in
 Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon, the world’s largest custodial
bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration. “It is quite firmly risk-off.”  New Zealand’s dollar gained 6 percent to 87.93 cents versus
the U.S. currency after the  Reserve Bank  said this week it would
likely remove a 0.50 percentage point “insurance” cut in the
target lending rate made after a February earthquake. The kiwi
touched 87.95 yesterday, the highest level since the currency
was freely floated in 1985.  Record Aussie  The Australian dollar surged to a record $1.1081 on July 27
after a government report showed consumer prices rose in the
second quarter more than economists forecast. The Aussie climbed
2.5 percent to $1.0993 in July.  Turkey ’s lira, the biggest loser among more than 20
emerging-market currencies this month, fell yesterday after NTV
reported the military’s chief of staff and commanders of the
three main military forces resigned. The currency slid 4.1
percent to 1.6885 per dollar in July. Prime Minister Erdem Basci
indicated this week that he’s ready to take steps to halt the
currency’s retreat  The euro weakened this month versus all of its major
counterparts after Spain’s Aa2 ratings were placed on review for
possible downgrade by Moody’s yesterday.  Spain’s Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, whose
ruling Socialist Party has been losing support as he embarked on
austerity measures, said yesterday at a news conference in
 Madrid  that elections will be held Nov. 20 instead of March to
“project political and economic certainty.”  Greece  Aid  Euro-area leaders announced last week 159 billion euro
($229 billion) in new aid for Greece, with bondholders agreeing
to contribute to the package. They also expanded the role of the
440-billion euro rescue fund to buy debt across distressed
nations, assist troubled banks and offer credit lines.  “General fears are still high regarding the euro zone,”
said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy at Commerzbank
AG in  Frankfurt . “There’s every reason to trade the euro
weaker.”  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday Republicans and
Democrats are in “rough agreement” on their plans to raise the
U.S. debt limit with just days before a threatened default. An
administration official said this week that the Treasury will
give precedence to making interest payments on  government bonds .  Slower U.S. Growth  Gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 1.3
percent in the second quarter, the Commerce Department reported
yesterday. The median forecast of 85 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 1.8 percent advance.  Japan ’s currency stayed higher versus the dollar this week
after Jiji Press reported that Economy Minister  Kaoru Yosano 
indicated intervention to weaken the yen was unlikely before the
outcome of the U.S. deficit debate.  Group of Seven nations jointly sold the yen on March 18
after it surged to a record versus the dollar on the previous
day, saying in a statement they wanted to reduce “excess
volatility and disorderly movements.”  Volatility implied by one-month dollar-yen options
increased yesterday to 11.25 percent, the highest level in more
than two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in  New York  at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  