-- 
Gilts Advance as U.K. Consumer Sentiment Declines, U.S. Debt Concern Grows

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-30T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/gilts-advance-as-u-k-economy-u-s-debt-woes-spurs-haven-bids.html
U.K. government bonds rose, pushing
10-year yields down by the most in a week since March last year,
as showing faltering economic growth and concern over the U.S.
debt ceiling fueled demand for a haven.  Gilts outperformed both German bonds and  U.S. Treasuries 
this month as Spain was faced with the prospect of a further
credit rating downgrade and U.S. politicians failed to reach an
agreement to help the country avoid default. Data this week
showed the U.K. economy slowed in the second quarter and
 consumer confidence  declined. The pound rose from last week
against the dollar and the euro and declined the most against
the Swiss franc since December 2008.  “Gilts are supported by demand from the flight to quality
buyers,” said Mohit Kumar, the head of U.K. and euro-area
fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “Gilts are
looking expensive at these yield levels, but people in the
market are not comfortable with recent U.K. economic data and
the situation in the U.S.”  The yield on 10-year gilts fell 25 basis points in the week
to 2.86 percent as of 5:10 p.m. yesterday. That’s the biggest
weekly decline since March 2009. Two-year yields fell eight
basis points to 0.63 percent.  The pound rose 0.9 percent to $1.6453. It strengthened 0.7
percent against the euro to 87.49 pence. The pound fell 3
percent against the Swiss franc this week, the biggest decline
since September 2009.  Growth Outlook  Sterling has fallen 7.7 percent in the last 12 months,
making it the second-worst performer among 10 developed-market
currencies after the  U.S. dollar , according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  U.K. consumer confidence fell in July as Britons became
more pessimistic about the economic outlook, adding pressure on
the  Bank of England  to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low.  A sentiment index dropped to minus 30, the lowest since
April, from minus 25 the previous month and minus 22 a year
earlier, London-based GfK said yesterday. The report followed a
survey by the Confederation of British Industry on July 28 that
showed a measure of retail sales reached a 13-month low in July.  The economy expanded 0.2 percent in the second quarter
after stagnating over the previous six months, the  Office for
National Statistics  said on July 26. Even with the economic
recovery under pressure, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the same day he’ll stick to his deficit-reduction
program, the biggest since World War II.  BOE Rates  The Bank of England will keep its benchmark rate on hold
for the rest of the year, according to a weighted average of 20
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank next meets to
decide on rates on Aug. 4.  Gilts also gained as a solution to a budget stalemate in
the U.S. eluded politicians. U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner ,
falling short of the votes within his own party needed to
increase the nation’s debt limit after a night of one-on-one
appeals to members, yesterday canceled a vote on a plan that
Senate leaders pledged to defeat.  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may cut  Spain ’s
credit rating further as the country’s region’s struggle to cut
budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  