-- 
John E. Anderson, Billionaire Benefactor of UCLA, Dies at 93

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/john-anderson-benefactor-of-ucla-dies-at-93.html
John E. Anderson, who parlayed his
profits as a Los Angeles beverage wholesaler into real estate
and financial services, making him a billionaire with his name
on UCLA’s business-management school, has died. He was 93.  He died July 29 at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center,
according to the school. The cause was pneumonia, the Los
Angeles Times reported, citing a family spokesman.  A $15 million donation in 1987 from Anderson and his wife,
Marion, helped the Graduate School of Management at UCLA build a
new academic complex, which  carries Anderson’s name . The school
administers the  Gerald Loeb Award  for business and finance
journalists. The couple gave another $25 million to the school
this year.  “John loved doing business and had a remarkable work
ethic,” Judy Olian, dean of the Anderson school, said in a
 statement . She said he was at his office at Topa Equities Ltd.
just a day before his death.  Forbes magazine  estimated  Anderson’s net worth to be $2.4
billion in March 2011.  The “antithesis of fast money,” as the Los Angeles
Business Journal called him in 2004, Anderson accumulated more
than 40 businesses in real estate, insurance, beverage
distribution and automobile sales. He oversaw most of them
through Topa Equities, his family holding company, offering his
executives incentives for top performance.  “If you have really good people, they like to run their
own show,” he told the Business Journal. “I am not a mini-
manager.”  Commercial Properties  One subsidiary, Topa Management Co., manages about 4
million square feet of commercial properties in California and
 Hawaii , according to its website. Another,  Topa Properties Ltd., 
is a leading retail-business landlord in the  U.S. Virgin
Islands . Anderson co-founded the Los Angeles-based investment
management firm  Kayne Anderson Rudnick  in 1984.  John Edward Anderson was born on Sept. 12, 1917, in
 Minneapolis , the son of a barber. He was high school
valedictorian and an Eagle Scout, and then played ice hockey and
made Phi Beta Kappa at UCLA.  He earned a master’s degree in business administration from
Harvard Business School and a law degree from Loyola Law School.
He also became a certified public accountant and served in the
U.S. Navy.  The  law firm  he co-founded in 1953 represented
distributorships, among other companies, and Anderson jumped at
the chance in 1956 to become the exclusive Los Angeles
distributor of Anheuser-Busch Co.’s Budweiser, long before it
became one of the most popular beers in America.  Right Place  Anderson told Forbes that his formative success with
Budweiser boiled down to being in the right place at the right
time. “Even with a  Harvard Business School  education, it was
hard to screw it up,” he joked to the magazine in 1988.  Over the years he expanded the distributorship, Ace
Beverage Co., to other states and with other beverages,
including wine and soda. Beverage World magazine in 2010  ranked 
Topa as the ninth-largest beer wholesaler in the U.S. by cases
sold, 24.7 million, and eighth-largest by dollar sales, $460.3
million.  Anderson had five children with his first wife, Margaret,
who died in 1965. He married Marion, his second wife, in 1967.
Together they ran the Marion and John E. Anderson Foundation.  One of his daughters, Deborah, died in a car accident.
Survivors include daughters Susan and Judy, sons John and
William, 15 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  