-- 
New Zealand Beats South Africa 40-7 in Tri-Nations Rugby Test

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-30T11:31:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/new-zealand-beats-south-africa-40-7-in-tri-nations-rugby-test.html
New Zealand  beat South Africa 40-7
to open its Tri-Nations title defense as  Dan Carter  overtook
Jonny Wilkinson as the leading points scorer in Test rugby.  Zac Guildford and Cory Jane each touched down twice for the
top-ranked All Blacks at Wellington’s Westpac Stadium. Fly-half
Carter kicked two penalties and two conversions to lift his
career tally to 1,204 and pass  England ’s Wilkinson, who has
1,195.  Wyatt Crocket and Colin Slade added tries for New Zealand,
which is seeking its 11th title in the 16 editions of the
southern hemisphere’s annual championship. The series has been
truncated this year because of the Rugby  World Cup  in September
and October.  The All Blacks joined  Australia , which beat the Springboks
39-20 in the tournament opener, atop the standings with five
points ahead of their meeting in Auckland next week. The Tri-
Nations then switches to South Africa for two matches.  The All Blacks, Springboks and Wallabies, the top three
teams in the International Rugby Board’s  rankings , face each
other home and away, giving coaches four matches to fine-tune
their combinations before the World Cup starts Sept. 9.  The Springboks left 21 players at home for the game, citing
injuries and the need to rehabilitate them before they begin the
defense of their world championship.  Carter’s penalty and tries from Crockett and Guildford gave
the All-Blacks a 13-0 lead after 14 minutes.  South Africa 
captain John Smit went over in the 29th minute, with Morne Steyn
converting, before Jane’s try three minutes later made it 18-7
at halftime. Jane, Guildford and Slade then added tries as New
Zealand outscored South Africa 22-0 in the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  