-- 
Nursing Homes' Lost Lobbying Fight to Cost Industry $3.87 Billion in 2012

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/nursing-homes-lost-lobbying-fight-to-cost-industry-3-87-billion-in-2012.html
U.S. nursing homes’ lost lobbying
battle with Medicare will cost the industry $3.87 billion, as
the health program tries to recover overpayments it says it made
to companies such as  Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND)  and  Sun Healthcare
Group Inc. (SUNH)   The 11.1 percent Medicare  rate cut  for next year is meant
to stop overbilling by for-profit homes including Sun, Kindred,
and  Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. (SKH)  The change follows Medicare’s
finding that, under a new payment system put in place this year,
the companies drove up reimbursements for patients.  The new rates “correct for an unintended spike in payment
levels and better align Medicare payments with costs,”
according to a statement by Medicare, the U.S. health plan for
the elderly and disabled. The American Health Care Association,
the industry’s Washington lobby group, said Medicare is moving
too fast, and that the sudden cuts won’t give nursing homes time
to adjust.  The program “makes reductions beyond what is necessary,”
Mark Parkinson, chief executive officer of the association, said
in an e-mail. “This drastic reduction will be especially
challenging for skilled nursing facilities to manage.”  To stop the cuts, or at least make them smaller, nursing
homes lobbied Medicare regulators and Congress. Acknowledging
the industry was overpaid, the American Health Care Association
urged Medicare put off the cuts and wait to collect more data.  Lobbying Failure  News of the rate reductions sent shares of the companies
plummeting in after-market trading yesterday after the 4:15 p.m.
announcement.  Sun Healthcare, based in  Irvine ,  California , dropped as
much as 21 percent at 4:46 p.m. New York time in trading after
the close of the Nasdaq Stock Market,  Foothill Ranch ,
California-based Skilled Healthcare was down 16 percent.
Kindred, of Louisville,  Kentucky , fell 14 percent. That capped a
steady decline in the shares ever since the cuts were proposed
in an April 28 draft regulation.  Nursing homes say Medicare has gone too far. “We are
appalled,” said Larry Minnix, chief executive officer of
Leading Age, the Washington lobby group for not-for-profit
homes. A cut “of this magnitude is unprecedented,” he said in
a statement. The group had pushed Medicare to close what Minnix
called billing loopholes instead of make a broad cut.  The  Service Employees International Union  wanted to limit
cuts to for-profit nursing home companies that Medicare said
were driving the billing. The across-the-board cuts will
unfairly penalize not-for-profit homes, the group said in a
statement. “Its rate reduction fails to solve the real problem
and instead punishes all nursing homes for the bad actions of a
few,” said President Mary Kay Henry.  Draft Rules  In draft rules released on April 28, Medicare proposed
cutting payments to nursing homes by $3.94 billion. A billing
provision in Medicare’s new payment system brought the companies
$2.1 billion in overpayments, according to a July report by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services inspector general.  In a June 24 letter to  Donald Berwick , the head of the U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, 152 U.S. House
representatives asked the agency to delay cuts and study the
issue further.  Medicare wanted to clamp down on a practice allowing
nursing homes to categorize patients as getting the most intense
services that the program will pay for. This year’s new payment
system left a billing code open that allowed nursing homes to
bill for higher rates while providing the same amount of
service. Companies used that process to avoid lower revenue,
according to Medicare.  The regulation issued yesterday shuts down that billing
method, according to Medicare. It will also require nursing
homes to report in more detail the therapies Medicare pays them
to provide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 