-- 
Obama Pressing Republicans on Debt-Ceiling Debate in 140-Character Bursts

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-30T17:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/obama-uses-twitter-to-turn-up-pressure-on-republicans-over-debt-ceiling.html
President  Barack Obama  is pressing
Republicans to change their minds on the debt debate 140
characters at a time.  The president has put his political organization to work on
the social network, mobilizing supporters on Twitter Inc. for
the Washington wrangling over raising the federal debt ceiling.  With 9.4 million followers, @barackobama, the president’s
campaign Twitter feed, is the third most followed on the
service, sandwiched between pop music stars Lady Gaga and Justin
Bieber and  Britney Spears  and Katy Perry, according to
 fanpagelist.com .  As the  House of Representatives  was heading toward a vote
yesterday on a Republican plan to raise the debt ceiling that he
already had threatened to veto, Obama went before White House
microphones to urge voters to “let your members of Congress
know” how they feel. “Make a phone call. Send an e-mail.
Tweet,” he said. “Keep the pressure on  Washington .”  Over the course of the day, Obama’s campaign aides posted
more than 100 Twitter messages giving out the Twitter addresses
of more than 230 Republican lawmakers. Obama’s followers were
urged to contact the Republicans in support of legislation from
the Democratic-controlled Senate to raise the government’s
borrowing authority and take a slice out of the deficit.  Obama is not alone in the capital contest of 140 characters
or less: House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , in advance of a
House vote today on a Senate plan to raise the debt ceiling,
issued this Twitter message: “DOA: @SenatorReid’s bill a non-
starter in the House (and the Senate?)”  Loss of Followers  Not everyone was a fan of the president’s message blitz.
Obama’s campaign Twitter feed lost 33,243 followers yesterday,
according to  Twitter Counter , a website that tracks statistics
for more than 10 million Twitter users. By 10 a.m. Washington
time today, the site had gained 1,336 followers. No Twitter
messages had been posted for 15 hours.  “Tweet at your Republican legislators and urge them to
support a bipartisan compromise to the debt crisis,” said one
Obama campaign message yesterday. “Massachusetts voters: Tweet
@USSenScottBrown and ask him to compromise on a balanced deficit
solution,” said another.  The House bill passed later in the day solely on the basis
of Republican support, 218-210. The Senate later killed it,
continuing the impasse in the debt-ceiling debate.  While the directives to contact Republican lawmakers came
from Obama’s campaign Twitter account, White House
communications director  Dan Pfeiffer  has been using Twitter for
days to engage and debate lawmakers, pundits and voters on the
issue.  ‘Silly Little Gimmick’  Representative Trent Franks, an Arizona Republican and one
of the targets of the Twitter campaign, called the move a
“silly little gimmick.” He said Obama should have spent more
time engaging directly with  House Republicans  and putting
deficit-cutting specifics on paper.  “I wish the president would tweet us,” Franks said. “He
is AWOL in this discussion.”  The Obama campaign’s Twitter blasts set off a series of
retaliatory broadcasts.  “President Obama is no  Ronald Reagan ,” Representative Joe Walsh, an Illinois Republican, said in a Twitter message.  Senator  Dan Coats , an Illinois Republican, told his
followers in a Twitter message: “Hoosiers: Tweet @BarackObama
and ask him what his plan is.”  According to Rachael Horwitz, a spokeswoman for the biggest
U.S. microblogging service, San Francisco-based Twitter posts
about 200 million messages each day and has more than 200
million registered users.  30.6 Million Users  Twitter Inc. was No. 4 in June in the U.S. among social
networks, with 30.6 million users, according to ComScore Inc.
That was up 14 percent from the previous month and a 31 percent
increase from a year earlier, ComScore said.  “What’s exciting about Twitter is it’s another way to have
an ongoing dialogue between many Americans across the country,”
said Macon Phillips, the administration’s director of digital
strategy, who manages @WhiteHouse, the official White House
Twitter page, which has 2,306,503 followers.  Ronald Yaros, a professor of new media and mobile
journalism at the University of  Maryland  in  College Park , said
as Twitter becomes a mass medium it could play a significant
role in mobilizing voters and that how successful Obama is in
using it in the debt ceiling debate will be watched by other
campaigns.  For the president’s campaign staff and White House
advisers, Yaros said, the aim is not only for Obama supporters
to mobilize “but that the followers will pass the word and use
this as just one stage of the networking process.”  “It’s a very effective, efficient way to get the word out,
and to let the network of existing followers be the disciples
for, without waiting for the television camera to turn on,”
Yaros said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  