-- 
Hollywood Figures, Unions Give to Democratic Political Groups

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-30T18:21:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/hollywood-figures-unions-give-to-democratic-political-groups.html
Hollywood producer Steve Bing was
the biggest donor to two political groups raising money to elect
Democrats to Congress and keep President  Barack Obama  in the
White House next year.  Bing gave $250,000 to the Majority PAC, which supports
Democrats for the  U.S. Senate , and $150,000 to American Bridge
21st Century, which is supporting other like-minded groups with
opposition research. He is a longtime friend of former President
 Bill Clinton , father of a child with actress Elizabeth Hurley
and founder of Los Angeles-based Shangri-La Industries, which
develops real estate and makes films.  Bing joins other Hollywood figures, unions and some
investors in giving to the pro-Democrat independent groups in
the first half of the year, according to filings with the
 Federal Election Commission .  The groups, only some of which disclose their donors, have
raised more than $10 million to help re-elect Obama and to add
to the Democratic ranks in Congress. Majority PAC raised $1.25
million in the first half of 2011, while American Bridge 21st
Century and its affiliated foundation raised $3.07 million.  Two other pro-Democrat groups -- Priorities USA Action,
founded by  Bill Burton , a former White House spokesman, and Sean Sweeney, a former senior White House adviser -- and the House
Majority PAC haven’t filed their mid-year reports with the FEC.  J.J. Abrams, who produced the television series “Lost,”
gave $37,500 to American Bridge. Sandor Straus, an investment
manager at Merfin LLC, wrote the group a check for $50,000.  Labor Support  The Service Employees International Union donated a
combined $300,000 to the two groups, and the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees contributed $100,000 to
American Bridge.  Priorities USA Action, which discloses its donors, and
Priorities USA, an affiliate that keeps its contributors’ names
secret, have raised a combined total of more than $5 million
since April, the group said in a release yesterday. They set a
combined goal of raising $100 million for the 2012 campaign
season to counter similar efforts by Republicans including
billionaire brothers Charles and  David Koch , owners of Koch
Industries Inc., who spent millions in the 2010 midterms to
elect Republicans.  The Democratic organizations, operating independently of
individual campaigns and the  Democratic National Committee , will
copy the tactics used by Republican strategist  Karl Rove  and his
allies last year when the  Republican Party  won control of the
 House of Representatives  and gained six seats in the Senate. The
Democratic groups will meet regularly to share information and
resources and to target their political advertising at races
where it would have greatest impact.  American Crossroads, the group advised by Rove, said in
June that it raised $3.8 million in the first half of the year.
That doesn’t include the money raised by its sister non-profit,
Crossroads GPS, which is spending $20 million on television ads
criticizing Obama’s economic policies and the $14.3 trillion
 U.S. debt . Rove has set a goal of taking in $120 million for
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  