-- 
Pakistan's Rate Cut Shows Government Pressure to Reduce Borrowing Costs

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-08-01T05:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/pakistan-cuts-rates-after-kardar-quit-citing-policy-differences.html
Pakistan’s unexpected  interest-rate 
cut, almost three weeks after a governor resigned blaming state
spending for inflation, shows the pressure the central bank
faces from the government to reduce borrowing costs.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan lowered the discount rate to
13.5 percent from 14 percent, Acting Governor Yaseen Anwar said
at a news conference in Karachi on July 30, citing a slower
inflation forecast for the move. None of the 11 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision.  Anwar said the government has committed to “zero
borrowings” from the central bank and its access to funds from
commercial lenders needs to be “monitored closely to assess
potential risks.” Growing public debt and living costs have
fanned Pakistan’s 10-year government bond yields to the highest
level after  Greece , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There can be political pressure on the central bank since
it is still not empowered by law to make independent
decisions,” said Saad Khan, a Karachi-based economist at
brokerage Arif Habib Ltd. “The government wanted  interest rates 
to come down which was contradictory to the central bank’s
stance throughout the last fiscal year.”  Pakistan’s 10-year government bond yields have climbed 1.04
percentage points in the past year to 13.95 percent, compared
with 14.12 percent in Greece, according to Bloomberg data. The
currency, which has weakened 1 percent in the period, fell 0.1
percent to 86.65 against the dollar at 10:40 a.m. in Karachi.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government named Anwar,
a deputy governor since March 2007, as the central bank’s acting
chief after Shahid Kardar resigned on July 12.  Inflation Forecast  Average inflation in the year that began July 1 is forecast
to be 11 percent or 12 percent, Anwar said, compared with 13.92
percent in the previous year. Consumer prices in Pakistan
climbed 13.1 percent in June, the most after  Vietnam , among the
17 nations in the Asia Pacific tracked by Bloomberg.  Kardar blamed increased government borrowing for inflation
and kept the central bank’s policy rate, one of the highest in
the world, unchanged since January this year after raising it in
September and November by half a percentage point.  Kardar said his differences with the government were
impeding the central bank’s autonomy and ability to ensure
“prudent” monetary decisions. Moody’s Investors Service said
his exit underscores the “discord” in policy leadership.  ‘Zero Borrowings’  The government has “expressed its commitment to continue
with a stance of zero borrowings from SBP in yearly flow terms
in FY12, which bodes well for anchoring inflation
expectations,” according to a statement from the central bank.
Even so, the “the developments related to expected financial
inflows and pattern of government borrowings from scheduled
banks will need to be monitored closely to assess potential risk
for macroeconomic stability,” the statement showed.  The government didn’t borrow from the central bank in the
year ended June 30, 2011 and relied on commercial banks for
funds, according to the central bank statement.  Government borrowing  from commercial lenders more than
doubled to 589 billion rupees ($6.8 billion) in the last fiscal
year, from the previous 12 months, according to the central
bank.  While Gilani’s coalition has pledged to narrow the  budget
deficit  to a seven-year low of 4 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending June 30, 2012, it hasn’t yet enacted
a law that would limit borrowings.  ‘Fiscal Reforms’  Anwar “underscored the need to accelerate the
implementation of fiscal reforms currently being considered by
the government,” according to the monetary policy statement.
“Broadening of the tax base” is “urgently required,” it
said.  Gilani wants lower borrowing costs to help spur Pakistan’s
economy, which probably expanded 2.4 percent in the year ended
June 30, slower than an earlier target of 4.5 percent.  Honda Atlas Cars Pakistan Ltd. (HCAR) , the nation’s third-biggest
carmaker, said July 26 sales fell 18 percent last quarter, a
sign that consumer demand remains weak in the South Asian
nation.  “A higher interest-rate environment increases the cost of
doing business,” Imran Anwar, chief financial officer of Engro
Foods Ltd., Pakistan’s biggest maker of packaged milk, said in a
July 29 e-mail in response to questions from Bloomberg News.
“We certainly want to see interest rates going down.”  IMF Loan  Prime Minister Gilani is also counting on resumed
disbursements from the  International Monetary Fund  to help
finance spending.  The Washington-based fund stopped disbursing money to
Pakistan in May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions
attached to an $11.3 billion loan first issued in 2008. The IMF
told Pakistani officials in May that the government needs to
keep cutting the deficit to take pressure off monetary policy
and allow more credit to companies.  Pakistan’s $162 billion economy is lagging behind emerging
markets including India and  China , which helped lead the global
economic rebound from the deepest postwar recession. Pakistan’s
expansion has also been weakened by a Taliban insurgency and
record floods in 2010.  The floods destroyed $3.3 billion of crops, according to
government estimates. The nation’s military has stepped up its
fight against insurgents in the northwest after al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden was killed by U.S. troops in Abbottabad on May
2. At least 35,000 Pakistanis have been killed in terrorist
attacks in the last decade, according to the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad,  Pakistan  at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net 
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  