-- 
PSEG Units Lose Bid to Halt Dynegy Restructuring Transaction Over Leases

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-07-30T00:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/pseg-units-lose-bid-to-halt-dynegy-restructuring-transaction-over-leases.html
Two  Public Service Enterprise Group
Inc. (PEG)  units lost a bid to halt Dynegy Holdings Inc. from pursuing
a restructuring that they claim will violate guarantees on lease
obligations they hold.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons Jr. denied the
PSEG units’ request for an injunction barring Dynegy from
following through with the restructuring transactions, saying
their claims were unlikely to succeed.  “The plaintiffs have failed to show either a probability
of success” on breach of contract claims or the existence of
“imminent irreparable harm” before a trial, Parsons Jr. said
in a 57-page opinion released today in Wilmington.  PSEG’s indirect subsidiaries, Roseton OL LLC and Danskammer
OL LLC, had about $270 million in investments at risk as of
March 31, according to a July 22 statement. The units bought two
power plants from Dynegy in 2001 for about $920 million and
leased the facilities back to the Dynegy units under long-term
agreements. About $790 million in lease payments remain
outstanding, lawyers for the PSEG units said in the complaint.  The PSEG units claim they received guarantees from Dynegy
for the lessee’s obligations.  Kevin Brady, an attorney for Roseton OL and Danskammer OL,
and Samuel Nolen, a lawyer for Dynegy, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment on the ruling.  Refinancing Debt  Houston-based  Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the third-largest independent
U.S. power producer, said July 10 that it is seeking to
refinance debt and change its corporate structure to avoid
defaulting on its existing loan facility.  Under the restructuring two units would be formed, one
owning a portfolio of eight primarily natural gas-fired power
generation facilities and another owning a group of six coal-
fired facilities. The units would be “bankruptcy remote,”
insulating them if affiliates become insolvent.  The proposed transfer “is a violation of the DHI
guaranty,” PSEG said in the statement. PSEG’s units argued that
the assets of the transferred gas and coal plants backed
Dynegy’s guarantee.  The Roseton and Danskammer generating stations lessee
interests would be transferred to a unit under Dynegy Holdings
that isn’t “bankruptcy remote,” PSEG said in its statement and
in the complaint.  The case is Roseton OL LLC vs. Dynegy Holdings Inc., 6689,
 Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 