-- 
Qaddafi Forces Assault Rebel Stronghold of Misrata With Tanks, Artillery

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n s
-- 
2011-07-30T15:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/qaddafi-forces-use-tanks-in-assault-on-rebel-stronghold-misrata.html
Armed forces loyal to the regime of
Muammar Qaddafi assaulted the Libyan city of Misrata, a rebel
stronghold, using tanks and artillery as the siege for control
in the North African country enters a fifth month.  Government forces attacked the line around the village of
Dafniya west of Misrata, in the heaviest attacks in a month,
said Sedek Shalbad, commander of the rebel Hatin Brigade.
Misrata’s Mujema Aleiadat hospital reported 10 rebel fighters
dead and more 50 wounded by 3 p.m. local time and said it had
also treated a wounded government soldier.  “There is a big war now between Qaddafi forces and the
rebels,” Shalbad said. “There are tanks, there are infantry,
they are attacking our lines.”  Artillery and rocket detonations from the direction of the
western front line could be heard by residents of Misrata
throughout the morning and again in the late afternoon. The
attack comes after relative quiet on the front line at Dafniya,
and 15 days after rebel units advanced from Dafniya to build
trenches close to the government-held town of Zlitan.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has supported the
rebel fighters with a campaign that has lasted since March. The
conflict remains at a stalemate, with Qaddafi retaining control
of Tripoli, and rebel offensives in recent weeks failing to
capture Brega in the east or Zlitan, near Misrata, in the west.  The rebels’ Transitional National Council is recognized by
about 30 nations as  Libya ’s legitimate governing authority. The
council is investigating the death of rebel military chief Abdel
Fattah Younis, who was shot dead earlier this week along with
two of his aides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  