-- 
Treasury Yields Tumble to 2011 Lows Amid Deadlock, Slowing Economic Growth

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-30T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/treasury-yields-tumble-to-2011-lows-amid-deadlock-slowing-economic-growth.html
Treasuries surged, driving 10- and
30-year yields to the lowest levels this year, as U.S. lawmakers
deadlocked over raising the debt limit and the economy grew more
slowly than forecast.  Benchmark 10- and 30-year debt rose in July the most in
almost a year, and Treasuries’ returns recouped all of their
June losses. At the same time, rates climbed on bills maturing
just after the Aug. 2 debt-cap deadline. The economy added
fewer-than-average jobs this month, a report next week is
forecast to show.  “People have been stockpiling cash on the inability of
 Washington  to agree on the debt ceiling,” said Dan Mulholland,
a Treasury trader in New York at  RBC Capital Markets , the
investment-banking arm of  Canada ’s biggest bank, one of 20
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve .
“We’ve gotten weak economic numbers, and the GDP forced people
to come into the market.”  Yields on 10-year notes tumbled 17 basis points to 2.80
percent yesterday in New York, from 2.96 percent on July 22,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 2.77
percent, the lowest level since Nov. 30. Yields dropped 38 basis
points this month, the most since August. The 3.125 percent
securities due in May 2021 gained 1 13/32, or $14.06 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 25/32.  Thirty-year bond yields fell 14 basis points to 4.12
percent and reached 4.10 percent, the least since Nov. 30. They
slid 25 basis points on the month, also the most since August.
Two-year note yields fell three basis points to 0.36 percent.  ‘Going to Slow’  “The low bond yields are the result of investors believing
that the economy is going to slow,” said  David Coard , head of
fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors. “The uncertainty is
driving everything.”  U.S. payrolls added 90,000 jobs in July, from 18,000 the
previous month, according to the median forecast of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department reports
the data on Aug. 5. That compares with an average monthly
increase of 126,000 from January through June.  The spread between two- and 10-year yields shrank to 2.43
percentage points yesterday, the narrowest since Dec. 3, as the
government said GDP grew at a 1.3 percent annual rate from April
through June after a 0.4 percent first-quarter gain that was
less than previously estimated. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 1.8 percent increase.  ‘Economic Bulls’  “This puts all the economic bulls back into the bull
pen,” said George Goncalves, head of interest rate strategy at
the primary dealer Nomura Holdings Inc.  Treasuries returned 1.8 percent this month as measured by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. They declined 0.3 percent
in June.  Rates on the $90 billion in six-month bills due Aug. 4 rose
yesterday to 0.3 percent, the highest since they were issued in
February, in a signal investors were concerned Congress wouldn’t
raise the $14.3 billion debt ceiling by the deadline.  The Treasury Department met with bond dealers yesterday in
 New York  to discuss next month’s quarterly auctions of notes and
bonds and the debt ceiling.  The U.S. would consider selling cash-management bills if
there’s no deal on the debt cap before next week’s note-and-bond
sale announcement, Morgan Stanley said in a client note after
the session. The Treasury would sell $51 billion of three- and
six-month bills on Aug. 1 as scheduled, said the firm, a primary
dealer.  ‘Keep Rolling Them’  “They’ll delay the auctions and issue short-term cash-
management bills and just keep rolling them,” said James Caron,
head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New
York. “It’s one market where rates can’t get much lower.”  The Treasury sold $99 billion in notes in three daily
auctions this week: $35 billion of two-year debt at a yield of
0.417 percent, an equal amount of five-year securities at a
yield of 1.58 percent and $29 billion in seven year notes at a
yield of 2.28 percent.  Treasuries fluctuated this week as the standoff between
President  Barack Obama  and  House Republicans  threatened
America’s top credit rating. House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  pushed competing proposals to
lift the debt cap and reduce the  budget deficit .  Standard & Poor’s  placed the U.S. AAA rating  on
“CreditWatch” July 14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it
would be cut within 90 days even if an agreement is reached by
the deadline. S&P said it needs to see “a credible solution to
the rising U.S. government debt burden.”  ‘Significant Differences’  “We always expected it would be contentious; maybe it’s a
bit more than we had expected, but we had expected significant
differences between the two parties,”  Steven Hess , the senior
credit officer at Moody’s Investors Service in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “The smaller the actual reduction, the
more likely a negative outlook.”  Rates for borrowing and lending securities in the
repurchase-agreement, or repo, market increased to the highest
level in five months amid the stalemate.  The average level of overnight general collateral repo
rates traded through ICAP Plc was 0.21 percent at 10 a.m.
yesterday in New York, when most trading takes place, the
highest since Feb. 2.  CUSIPS and due dates of  U.S. debt  due in August  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  