-- 
Tropical Storm Don Predicted to Brush Texas

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-30T00:29:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/tropical-storm-don-predicted-to-brush-texas.html
Tropical Storm Don was expected to
reach  Baffin Bay  on the  Texas  coast by 8 p.m. Houston time
and move inland across the southern part of the state before
dissipating in about 48 hours, the U.S.  National Hurricane
Center  said.  Don was about 50 miles south-southeast of  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, with maximum winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
according to a hurricane center advisory issued just before 7
p.m. local time.  “Steady weakening is expected after landfall and Don is
forecast to dissipate over southern Texas by Sunday,” the
advisory said.  At its height, Don forced the shutdown of more than 11.9
percent of oil production and 6.2 percent of gas output from the
 Gulf of Mexico , the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  said today.  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Personnel were evacuated from 56 oil and gas platforms and
four rigs in the Gulf, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
said.  Tropical storm warnings north of Port Connor, Texas, have
been canceled. Warnings from the mouth of the Rio Grande
River to Port Connor are still in effect, the center said.  Less Than Forecast  Don is expected to drop 2 inches to 4 inches of rain across
 drought-stricken  South Texas and as much as 6 inches in
isolated areas, according to the center, less than forecasters
originally thought.  Forecasters are also tracking two other areas of disturbed
weather that have the potential to become storms. One is about
1,100 miles east-southeast of the Lesser Antilles that has a 50
percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two
days, according to the hurricane center.  The second is off the coast of  Nicaragua  and bringing rain
across Central America, the center said. It has a near-zero
percent chance of becoming a storm in the next two days because
it’s so close to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  