-- 
Tropical Storm Don Downgraded on Texas Coast

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-30T03:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/tropical-storm-don-downgraded-at-landfall-on-texas-coast-all-warnings-end.html
Tropical Storm Don has been
downgraded to a tropical depression as it moved across the  Texas 
coastline near Baffin Bay last night, the U.S.  National
Hurricane Center  said.  The depression was about 40 miles south of  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, with maximum winds of 35 miles (56 kilometers) per hour,
according to a hurricane center advisory issued just before
10 p.m. local time. All storm warnings for the coast have been
canceled.  “Don is forecast to dissipate in a day or so as it moves
farther inland,” the advisory said. “Data from an Air Force
hurricane hunter plane indicate that the winds are also rapidly
decreasing.”  At its height, Don forced the shutdown of more than 11.9
percent of oil production and 6.2 percent of gas output from the
 Gulf of Mexico , the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  said yesterday.  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.61 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Personnel were evacuated from 56 oil and gas platforms and
four rigs in the Gulf, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management 
said.  Forecasters also are tracking two other areas of disturbed
weather that have the potential to become storms. One is about
1,100 miles east-southeast of the Lesser Antilles that has a 50
percent chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next two
days, according to the hurricane center.  The second is off the coast of  Nicaragua  and bringing rain
across Central America, the center said. It has a near-zero
percent chance of becoming a storm in the next two days because
it’s so close to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  