-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump as S&P 500 Posts Biggest Drop Since July 2010

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-07-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/s-p-500-posts-biggest-drop-since-july-2010.html
U.S. stocks fell five straight days,
driving the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest weekly
loss in a year, as lawmakers’ failure to agree on raising the
federal government’s debt limit brought the nation to the brink
of default.  All 10 groups in the  S&P 500  tumbled at least 2.1 percent.
 United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the largest package-delivery
company, dropped 6.7 percent after saying the third quarter will
be “fairly slow.”  3M Co. (MMM)  lost 8.6 percent, the most in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , after missing forecasts for profit
margins and sales.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  plunged 18 percent as the
wireless-network operator trailed estimates.  The S&P 500 declined 3.9 percent to 1,292.28, the biggest
weekly drop since the period ended July 2, 2010. The Dow
retreated 537.92 points, or 4.2 percent, to 12,143.24. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which measures
the cost of using options as insurance against S&P 500 losses,
soared 44 percent, the most since May 2010, to 25.25.  “Markets don’t like uncertainty, and that’s been the key
word,” John Canally, who helps oversee $330.1 billion as an
investment strategist at LPL Financial Corp., said in a
telephone interview from  Boston . “The market’s comfortable with
the idea that there’s no default, but what the market doesn’t
know is the path to getting there.”  Debate, Earnings  The S&P 500 posted a third straight monthly loss, the
longest streak since 2008, amid speculation Republicans in the
U.S. House would fail to reach a compromise with the Senate,
controlled by Democrats, and President  Barack Obama  to boost the
nation’s ability to borrow by an Aug. 2 deadline. That concern
helped overshadow a second-quarter earnings reporting season in
which 78 percent of S&P 500 companies have exceeded analysts’
income projections.  Treasuries rallied yesterday, driving 10- and 30-year
yields to the lowest levels this year, on speculation lawmakers
will break the deadlock and avoid defaulting on the nation’s
$9.34 trillion of marketable debt outstanding.  After markets closed yesterday, the Republican-controlled
House passed Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan to cut spending and
raise the debt limit. Within hours, the Senate rejected it as
Democrats pressed for passage of their own alternative.  “This whole debacle is leading to lower growth, higher
unemployment and more erosion of the U.S. in the standing of the
global economy,” Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said during a July 27 radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . El-Erian is chief executive and
co-chief investment officer at Pimco, the world’s biggest
manager of bond funds, in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Missing Forecasts  Stocks also fell this week after government reports showed
orders for durable goods unexpectedly decreased and the  U.S.
economy  grew less than forecast in the second quarter.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of stocks most-tied to
economic growth decreased 5.6 percent, the most in a week since
July 2010. The Dow Jones Transportation Average had the biggest
loss since August, falling 4.5 percent.  UPS slumped 6.7 percent to $69.22. The company, considered
a bellwether of the economy, said that Asian growth outside of
 China  was slower than expected and the U.S. will continue to be
“extremely sluggish.” Second-quarter net income rose 26
percent in an “uneven economic environment,” UPS said.  3M had the biggest decline since December 2008, falling 8.6
percent to $87.14. The company projected full-year earnings that
trailed analysts’ estimates after lower demand for LCD
televisions curbed sales in its display and graphics business,
its third-biggest unit.  Losing Customers  Sprint sank 18 percent to $4.23. The carrier lost 101,000
customers on monthly contracts after dropping 114,000 in the
previous three-month period. That started a new losing streak
following a fourth-quarter gain in the lucrative users that was
the first increase in more than four years.  S&P placed the U.S. AAA rating on “CreditWatch” on July
14, saying there’s a 50 percent chance it would be cut within 90
days even if an agreement is reached by the Aug. 2 deadline. S&P
said it needs to see a “credible solution to the rising U.S.
government debt burden.”  “My definition of AAA has always been a credit so good
that we don’t bother talking about it,”  Michael Shaoul , who
oversees $1 billion as chairman of New York-based Marketfield
Asset Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. “Once
you’re talking about it, it’s not really AAA anymore.”  He added: “Even if the U.S. is downgraded, I don’t think
it would have any major effect on anything right now.”  REITs Plunge  Real estate investment trusts that buy mortgage debt
tumbled yesterday, adding to their biggest weekly loss in more
than a year, on concern the markets that finance them will be
roiled if the U.S. government defaults on its debt.  A Bloomberg index of shares of 32 mortgage REITs, such as
 Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY)  and  Invesco Mortgage Capital
Inc. (IVR) , dropped up to 8.5 percent yesterday, the most since May 6,
2010. For the week, the measure slumped 6.5 percent.  Quarterly reports scheduled for next week include Pfizer
Inc., the biggest drugmaker; MasterCard Inc., the second-largest
bank-card network; and Archer Daniels Midland Co., the world’s
largest grain processor. Time Warner Inc., owner of the Warner
Bros. studios, and CVS Caremark Corp., the largest U.S. provider
of  prescription drugs , are also due.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  