-- 
Saudi Shares Reach Four-Month Low as U.S. Economic Growth Misses Forecasts

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-07-30T12:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/saudi-shares-reach-four-month-low-as-u-s-economic-growth-misses-forecasts.html
Saudi Arabian shares dropped to the
lowest level since March after U.S. economic growth missed
economists’ forecasts and Moody’s Investors Service said it may
cut Spain’s credit rating.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest
petrochemicals maker, reached its lowest price in almost five
weeks.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC)  and  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s
largest publicly traded lender by market value, declined.  The 147-company  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  slid 1.4 percent to
6,355.72, the lowest level since March 22, at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Riyadh. All 15 industry groups dropped.  “The market is reacting to bad international news,
including below-expectation U.S. economic growth and the debt
re-rating of some European countries,” said Akef Al Tanbouz,
head of asset management at The Investor Securities Co. in
Riyadh. “The U.S. debt issue has not yet been resolved.”  Gross domestic product in the U.S. rose at a 1.3 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. That was less than the 1.8 percent median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. lawmakers failed to agree on raising the federal
government’s debt ceiling before the Aug. 2 deadline. The
Republican-controlled House passed Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan
to cut spending and raise the debt limit. Within hours, the
Senate rejected it as Democrats pressed for passage of their own
alternative.  “With the U.S. debt ceiling issue still unresolved, this
has put pressure on the Saudi market as traders de-risk awaiting
resolution in lieu with global equities retreat over the Saudi
weekend,” said Fuad Aghabi, a director at Ajeej Capital, in
Riyadh.  Crude Declines  Oil capped its first weekly drop since June yesterday.
Crude for September delivery retreated 1.8 percent to $95.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since July 11. Prices tumbled 4.2 percent this week.
Saudi Arabia holds 20 percent of the world’s proven oil
reserves.  Sabic slumped 1.9 percent to 102.25 riyals, the lowest
price since June 27.  Al Rajhi  declined 0.7 percent to 72 riyals,
the lowest level since June 25. Etihad Etisalat, the phone
operator known as Mobily, dropped 0.9 percent to 53 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  