-- 
Senate Republicans Will Block Reid Plan, McConnell Aide Says

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-30T17:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/senate-republicans-will-reject-reid-s-debt-plan-returning-work-to-house.html
Senate Republicans will block
Majority Leader  Harry Reid ’s debt-limit plan this weekend, said
a spokesman for Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  as the partisan
impasse over  deficit reduction  continued days before a
threatened default.  “It will be defeated,” spokesman  Don Stewart  said today
in Washington. He said Reid’s measure likely won’t be the
vehicle for a final agreement. Any deal would probably start
anew with action in the House and then the Senate would begin
its work, he said.  After President  Barack Obama  appealed to party leaders
yesterday to reach a compromise, the Senate rejected a plan the
Republican-controlled House passed hours earlier with no
Democratic support. It would have required congressional
approval of a constitutional amendment to balance the budget and
forced another debt-limit vote by lawmakers in about six months
to continue the nation’s borrowing authority beyond early 2012.  Congressional leaders “need to start working together
immediately to reach a compromise that avoids default and lays
the basis for balanced deficit reduction,” White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  said in a statement after the two votes.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, who offered modifications to a
Democratic plan that he said are designed to attract Republican
support, accused Republican leaders of rebuffing his efforts to
negotiate.  Reid said when he attempted to engage McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, in talks, “we had no one to negotiate with.”  Missing Republicans  “We’re missing Republicans,” said Senator Chuck Schumer,
a New York Democrat, though with the default deadline coming up
Aug. 2, “that could change.”  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, speaking
before the House vote, said his party has “done everything we
can to find a common-sense solution.”  Shortly after the Senate rejected Boehner’s plan, the House
scheduled a preemptive vote for today on Reid’s proposal --
planning to defeat it even before the Senate takes it up. The
House, back in session, plans to vote at about 2 or 2:30 p.m.  The Senate resumed debate today with an initial vote on
Reid’s plan at about 1 a.m. tomorrow. A Senate vote then could
be held at about 7 a.m. on Aug. 1, allowing the measure to
return to the House before the Aug. 2 deadline.  Financial markets were restrained in reacting to the
Washington impasse yesterday. Treasuries rallied, sending yields
on 10-year notes to the lowest level since November. The yield
on 10-year Treasury note yields declined 15 basis points to 2.79
percent in  New York . Stocks fell as economic growth trailed
forecasts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent
and tumbled 3.9 percent this week for its worst slide in a year.  Confidence ‘Slightly Eroded’  Christine Lagarde , the new chief of the  International
Monetary Fund , said confidence in Treasuries is “slightly
eroded” as politicians continue to squabble over the debt
limit. “There was a positive bias toward the United States of
America, toward Treasury bills,” Lagarde said in an interview
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” to be broadcast tomorrow.  “The current crisis is probably chipping into that very
positive bias,” she said, according to a CNN transcript.  The modifications Reid proposed in his plan yesterday bring
it closer to one McConnell proposed earlier this month.  Borrowing authority would be provided in two separate $1.2
trillion installments, one immediately and one in several months
as the nation again nears its borrowing limit.  All but the first $416 billion could be blocked through a
joint resolution of Congress, though opponents would have to
muster supermajorities in both chambers to override a veto.  Debt Savings  The new plan would yield debt savings of $2.2 trillion --
about the same as the total borrowing authority extended -- and
call on a 12-member bipartisan congressional committee to draft
legislation to lower the deficit to 3 percent or less of gross
domestic product.  Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican, said his
staff has been working with Reid’s to put “more teeth” in the
joint committee plan.  Senator Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, said
“absolutist” lawmakers aligned with the Tea Party have put the
U.S. “on the brink.”  “I am really worried about where we are standing, and I
think part of that has come about because you have individuals
that say, ‘It is my way or the highway,’” Murkowski said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s  Washington  office. “That is not how
you govern.”  Potential Talks  Obama may invite congressional leaders back to the White
House for more talks, according to a Democratic official. No
decision has been made about further discussions between Obama
and Democratic and Republican congressional leaders, said the
official, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the
administration’s strategy.  While Obama and Vice President Joe Biden have been in
contact with lawmakers, as of late yesterday the president
hadn’t spoken with Boehner for days, the official said.  A House Republican leadership aide said today that talks
are essentially motionless until Reid gives specifics on what
Obama would sign.  “If we don’t come to an agreement, we could lose our
country’s AAA credit rating, not because we didn’t have the
capacity to pay our bills -- we do -- but because we didn’t have
a AAA political system to match our AAA credit rating,” Obama
said earlier yesterday at the White House.  Obama said with Democrats and Republicans in “rough
agreement” on plans to raise the nation’s debt limit within
days of a threatened default, the time for compromise is
“now.” The president and the Republicans used their weekly
addresses on the Internet and radio to continue the debate.  ‘Unacceptable’  The House-passed plan was “unacceptable” and would mean
another debt-ceiling extension in less than a year, Obama said
today. “There are plenty of ways out of this mess,”  he said ,
noting the parties aren’t that far apart on spending or how to
tackle entitlements and the  tax code . “But there is very little
time.”  Jon Kyl of  Arizona , the second-ranking Republican in the
Senate, said in the  Republican address  that Obama and the
Democrats are “too committed to the European style of big
government.”  Still, he said, the consequences of missing the Aug. 2
deadline could be “severe,” with markets dropping in value and
hurting Americans’ retirement savings. “Republicans believe we
must solve our debt crisis, and we believe we can solve it if
Democrats will work with us,” he said. “If we don’t do
something about our spending problem now, the scenes we’ve seen
playing out all across  Europe  could happen in America.”  Aug. 2 Deadline  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. will breach its
borrowing limit and run out of options for avoiding default if
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling isn’t raised by Aug. 2.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  expressed
confidence that lawmakers will head off a default.  “Work expands to fill the time. We certainly know that’s
true here,” Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “Leaders on both sides are
sufficiently responsible that they understand if there were a
default, it would be a disaster for this country.”  Behind the scenes, Democratic officials said, talks on a
potential deal centered on how to force future deficit-cutting
by Congress, by setting up consequences -- such as automatic
spending cuts or tax increases, or some combination of the two -
- if the savings aren’t achieved.  “If we need to put in place some kind of enforcement
mechanism to hold us all accountable for making these reforms,
I’ll support that, too, if it’s done in a smart and balanced
way,” Obama said.  Contingency Plans  The Treasury is preparing contingency plans to pay the
government’s obligations should Congress fail to raise the
borrowing limit in time. Carney said Treasury officials may
reveal the plans this weekend.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said a resolution of the debt-ceiling impasse may remove a key
unknown that has restrained economic growth in the U.S. “Once
this last uncertainty is resolved, the path to faster growth may
be open,” Bullard said, according to prepared remarks for a
speech yesterday in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Obama’s Stance  Carney reiterated that Obama would accept a short-term debt
ceiling extension of a few days only if needed to finish work on
legislation lifting the limit for a longer period.  House Republican leaders revised their bill after failing
to win enough support for a vote the previous night. It would
allow a debt-limit increase now and require Congress to work out
a second increase agreement within months. The second debt-limit
increase would occur only if a balanced-budget constitutional
amendment is passed by Congress and sent to the states.  Representative Mo Brooks, an Alabama Republican, said the
decision to include the balanced-budget amendment turned 10 to
20 Republican votes in favor of the measure.  The House approved the measure 218-210, with no Democrats
voting in favor. In the Senate, the measure was tabled 59-41,
with all 51 Democrats joined by two independents and six
Republicans in opposition to the plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  