-- 
Mubarak Trial Moved to Cairo for More Security; Egyptian Police Attacked

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-07-30T19:13:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-30/mubarak-trial-moved-to-cairo-for-more-security-egyptian-police-attacked.html
The trial of former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  will be held at a police academy on the
outskirts of Cairo for security reasons, the Egyptian government
said today.  Mubarak, charged with corruption and with killing
demonstrators, was originally scheduled to go on trial at a
Cairo convention center along with two of his sons and members
of his security team.  Mubarak, 83, has been in a hospital in the Red Sea resort
of  Sharm el-Sheikh . He is expected to attend his trial, which
begins Aug. 3, the Middle East News Agency said.  In  Egypt ’s  Sinai Peninsula , a pumping station along the
pipeline that transports natural gas to Israel was attacked
overnight by rockets and bullets, an official at East
Mediterranean Gas Co. said. Masked gunmen carrying Islamist
banners attacked a police station on Friday in the city of
Arish, killing five and wounding 12,  Al Arabiya  television
reported. Fifteen people were arrested, the news agency said.  In Syria, a convoy of 40 tanks arrived in the eastern town
of Deir Al Zour and gunfire was heard, Al Arabiya reported,
citing activists. The conflict came a day after clashes between
demonstrators and government security forces throughout the
country left at least 25 people dead, Al Jazeera reported.  A man identifying himself as a Syrian army colonel told
Agence France Presse that he and hundreds of other soldiers had
defected. Al Jazeera later reported that the army defectors were
trying to stop security forces advancing in some neighborhoods
of Deir Al Zour.  Death Toll  More than 1,950 Syrian protesters have been killed in the
government crackdown since uprisings began in mid-March,
according to human rights groups that have compiled the names of
those killed, injured or detained. Thousands of Syrians have
fled to  Turkey , Lebanon and Jordan.  In  Libya , forces loyal to the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi 
attacked the rebel-held city of Misrata, using tanks and
artillery in the heaviest attacks in a month, said Sedek
Shalbad, commander of the rebel Hatin Brigade. Misrata’s Mujema
Aleiadat hospital reported 10 rebel fighters dead and more 50
wounded by 3 p.m. local time.  The opposition Transitional National Council appointed
Suleiman Muhmud Al-Obaidi as interim chief of staff of the rebel
armed forces, according to  Agence France-Presse . The rebels’
military chief, Abdel Fattah Younis, a defector from Qaddafi’s
forces, was shot dead along with two of his aides on July 28.  Rebel Crackdown  According to an  Al Jazeera  report, Mustafa Abdel Jalil,
head of the TNC, told reporters today that he believes Younis
was killed by pro-Qaddafi agents seeking to create divisions
within the opposition. Jalil also said there would be a
crackdown on rebel militias and other groups that aren’t under
the umbrella of the opposition armed forces.  In Yemen, government forces arrested Abdullah Omar
Hubaibat, one of the top al-Qaeda leaders in the province of
Abyan, and killed another al-Qaeda militant in the city of
Zanjibar, the SABA news agency said, citing a person in the
security forces it didn’t identify. Al Jazeera reported that six
soldiers and seven al-Qaeda fighters were killed in clashes that
erupted in Zanjibar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  