-- 
Manchester United Defeats Wigan 4-0 to Extend Premier League Lead

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-26T17:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/manchester-united-beats-wigan-4-0-to-extend-emg-osj-premier-league-lead.html
  Javier Hernandez  scored two goals as  Manchester United  beat Wigan 4-0 to extend its lead over Arsenal
at the top of English soccer’s Premier League.    Wayne Rooney  and Fabio Da Silva also had goals as United
moved four points ahead of Arsenal with 11 games remaining in
the season.  Wolverhampton climbed out of the three relegation places at
the bottom of the standings by beating 10-man Blackpool 4-0,  Aston Villa  defeated Blackburn 4-1, Everton beat Sunderland 2-0
and Newcastle drew 1-1 with Bolton.  Manchester United opened a series of three road matches
with the win at Wigan. The Red Devils visit Chelsea in three
days and are at Liverpool on March 6.  The league leader took a 1-0 lead in the 17th minute as
Nani ran onto a pass from Rooney in the area and crossed to
Hernandez, who tapped the ball past goalkeeper Ali Al Habsi.  United goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar, who earlier saved a
shot from Victor Moses, then denied James McCarthy from close
range less than a minute later.  United broke the game open with three goals in 13 minutes
late in the second half.  Hernandez doubled the lead in the 74th minute off a pass
from Rooney, who scored 10 minutes later. Fabio then made it 4-0
in the 87th minute.  Wigan drops to 19th in the 20-team league with 27 points,
two more than West Ham. The Latics have allowed 30 goals in 15
home matches this season, the most in the league.  Wolves, Villa  Sylvan Ebanks-Blake scored two goals and Matt Jarvis and
Jamie O’Hara had one each as Wolverhampton moved from last place
to out of the relegation zone.  Wolves, which scored three times in the second half after
Blackpool’s D.J. Campbell received a red card just before
halftime, have 28 points and are above West Brom in the final
relegation spot on goal difference.    Ashley Young  scored twice as Aston Villa beat Blackburn to
end a three-game winless run. Jermaine Beckford had both goals
for Everton, which is undefeated in its last 13 games against
Sunderland.  Daniel Sturridge’s 38th minute goal earned Bolton the away
draw at 10-man Newcastle, which got a reply from  Kevin Nolan .
Ryan Taylor was sent off for the Magpies in the 54th minute for
a two-footed tackle on  Johan Elmander .  Liverpool is at West Ham and Manchester City hosts Fulham
tomorrow, while West Brom visits Stoke in two days.  Arsenal also faces Birmingham in the Carling Cup final
tomorrow at Wembley Stadium in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 