-- 
Manchester City Says It Will Slow Spending as Team Improves

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-26T13:59:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/manchester-city-says-it-will-slow-spending-as-team-improves.html
Manchester City , the English soccer
club owned by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan , said its
record-breaking player acquisition strategy is only a temporary
measure to take the team to the level of the sport’s elite.  Mansour has spent more than 500 million pounds ($805
million) on the team since acquiring it in September 2008 from
former Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Most of that
money has been spent on revamping the team by buying players
like  Carlos Tevez , Edin Dzeko and  Mario Balotelli .  The club’s accounts for the year ended May 31, 2010,
published by Companies House today, confirm figures released by
City in October, and show it lost 121.3 million pounds, 31
percent more than a year earlier, on player salary and
acquisition costs.  “It is safe to say that player acquisitions on the scale
we have seen in recent transfer windows will no longer be
required in the years ahead now that we have such a deep and
competitive squad,” Chief Executive Officer Garry Cook wrote in
the foreword to the accounts.  Still, the club has spent millions since the accounts were
filed. Dzeko joined for 27 million pounds in January, while
Balotelli,  David Silva ,  James Milner ,  Yaya Toure  and Jerome Boateng signed in the summer off-season for more than 100
million pounds.  The spending was the highest in England’s top division for
the second straight year. City said in the accounts it’s looking
to improve its balance sheet ahead of new financial rules
established by European soccer’s governing body  UEFA  by
expanding its income to balance its spending.  It said revenue from sponsors and partners grew 400 percent
to 32.4 million pounds on the back of deals with the Abu Dhabi
Tourism Authority, Etihad Airways and Etisalat. UEFA said it
will monitor all deals to ensure they’re at competitive prices
and not inflated to boost revenue figures.  Managed by  Roberto Mancini , City is in third place in the
 Premier League , behind Manchester United and Arsenal. If it
finishes in the top four it will play in the Champions League
for the first time in its history next season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  