-- 
Bank of America, Wells Fargo May Face Fines on Foreclosures

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-26T19:07:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/bank-of-america-wells-fargo-see-fines-actions-on-foreclosures.html
  Bank of America Corp . and  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S. mortgage firms, said they may face
fines or enforcement actions from regulators amid investigations
into foreclosure procedures.  The probes may also lead to “significant legal costs,”  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America said yesterday
in its annual report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, said in its filing that
penalties are likely.  “I’m sure the banks are ready to put this past them and
investors would certainly like to but this is not an issue that
is going to go away,” Blake Howells, an analyst at Becker
Capital Management Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in an
interview. “There will be more lawsuits that come down the
road.” Becker Capital oversees $2.4 billion.  The largest U.S. banks have been trying to reassure
investors that costs from faulty foreclosure documents are
manageable. Wells Fargo said yesterday it didn’t expect
litigation costs to have a “material adverse” impact on its
financial position. Bank of America said it faced $230 million
in fees from slowed foreclosures.  Bank of America halted foreclosures in all 50 states in
October and announced in a Nov. 5 filing that it was reviewing
as many as 102,000 cases to screen for faulty practices.  Attorneys general  in all 50 states are investigating foreclosure
practices amid revelations that lenders were seizing homes
without proper documents to prove they had the right to do so.  $20 Billion Deal  U.S. regulators may try to extract $20 billion of penalties
in a settlement with banks that serviced flawed loans, two
people briefed on the talks said this week. Terms of an accord,
from regulators led by the Treasury Department and Department of
Housing and Urban Development, haven’t been formally presented
to banks, according to the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions aren’t public.  Bank of America also said a bondholder group pressuring the
lender to repurchase soured mortgages has almost doubled the
number of securitizations it’s challenging.  The group is disputing 225 securitizations, up from 115 as
of Oct. 18, according to Bank of America’s filing. Pacific
Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  are among the investors, people
familiar with the matter said in October.  “On the putbacks, investors have braced themselves for a
multiyear workout,” Howells said. “This might, on the margin,
make people rethink the potential size of the liability.”  Costs of Litigation  Wells Fargo said the high end of estimated litigation
losses could be $1.2 billion beyond the reserve already set
aside. Bank of America’s losses may be as much as $1.5 billion.  Citigroup Inc . said yesterday that as much as $4 billion in
additional costs from pending legal matters are “possible, but
not probable.”  Banks are releasing estimates after the SEC, in an October
letter to corporate finance chiefs, said companies should
disclose potential losses “when there is at least a reasonable
possibility” that they may be incurred, even if the risk is too
low to require reserves.  Citigroup, the third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, also said
U.S. regulators are examining how it structured and sold
collateralized debt obligations as part of an investigation into
mortgage-related businesses.  The bank is cooperating with the SEC and other watchdogs,
the New York-based company said in a filing. The probe is part
of inquiries involving Citigroup’s “subprime and other
mortgage-related conduct,” and other businesses affected by the
credit crisis, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 