-- 
Buffett Says Trigger Finger Itchy for Berkshire Takeovers

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-02-26T17:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/buffett-says-his-trigger-finger-itchy-to-buy-with-38-billion-in-wallet.html
  Warren Buffett  said his “trigger
finger is itchy” for takeovers after cash holdings at his  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . climbed to $38.2 billion.  “Our elephant gun has been reloaded,” Buffett said today
in his annual letter to shareholders. Berkshire needs “good
performance from our current businesses and more major
acquisitions,” after the company reported a 43 percent gain in
fourth-quarter profit on derivative bets and earnings from its
Burlington Northern Santa Fe railroad, he said.  Buffett is seeking takeovers after Berkshire’s $13 billion
2010 profit increased the firm’s resources and near record-low  interest rates  limited the returns available in fixed-income
markets. Buffett completed his biggest takeover, the $26.5
billion Burlington purchase, last February. Since then he’s said
he’ll consider deals outside the U.S.  “He reloads at a rapid rate,” said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner, who has about 10 percent of
his $4 billion under management invested in Omaha, Nebraska-
based Berkshire. “The hunt for new investments, and wholly
owned ones, I don’t think slows down whatsoever.”  Berkshire’s fourth-quarter net income rose to $4.38 billion
from $3.06 billion. The profit for full-year 2010 was up 61
percent from 2009. Berkshire has advanced 5.9 percent on the  New
York  Stock Exchange this year, beating the 4.9 percent advance
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Investing Approach  Buffett, 80, outlines his investing approach in his letters
and opines about economics, executive compensation and
government policies. His annual communications with shareholders
have won him a following of professional money managers and the
moniker “the Oracle of Omaha.”  “Commentators today often talk of ‘great uncertainty,’
Buffett wrote. “Don’t let that reality spook you. Throughout my
lifetime, politicians and pundits have constantly moaned about
terrifying problems facing America. Yet our citizens now live an
astonishing six times better than when I was born.”  Buffett, who refers to Berkshire’s stockholders as
“owners,” shuns quarterly conference calls with analysts and
institutional investors, preferring to communicate by sending
the letter and taking questions at the company’s annual meeting.  Acquisitions may help Buffett increase earnings for
Berkshire as investment income at the company’s insurance
subsidiaries slide. Investment income produced by units
including reinsurer  General Re  and car coverage specialist Geico
fell 5.9 percent in 2010 to $5.19 billion. Buffett said that may
decline further in 2011 as investments he made during the credit
crisis mature.  Perils of Leverage  Buffett warned in the letter about the perils of leverage
and how his grandfather Ernest, a grocer, created a rainy day
fund of $1,000 for his son Fred and similar funds for his other
children. Buffett likened the savings to the minimum $20 billion
in cash Berkshire customarily keeps on hand.  “By being so cautious in respect to leverage, we penalize
our returns by a minor amount,” Buffett wrote. “Having loads
of liquidity, though, lets us sleep well. Moreover, during the
episodes of financial chaos that occasionally erupt in our
economy, we will be equipped both financially and emotionally to
play offense while others scramble for survival.”  Marmon Stake  Buffett said Berkshire will pay about $1.5 billion to
increase its stake this year in Marmon, a unit of about 130
businesses, to 80 percent.    Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  General Electric Co . will
probably return the $8 billion that Buffett invested in 2008 for
securities paying 10 percent, Buffett said. Yields in fixed-
income markets have fallen in the last two years, and Buffett,
Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive officer, said in
October that investors buying bonds after the decline were
“making a mistake.”  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries fell to a record low
of 31 basis points on Nov. 4 before rising to 71 basis points
yesterday. The two-year note’s average yield over the last 10
years was more than 250 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 