-- 
Canadian Currency Rallies to Strongest Level in Almost Three Years on Oil

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/canadian-currency-rallies-to-strongest-level-in-almost-three-years-on-oil.html
  Canada ’s currency climbed to its
highest level in almost three years against its U.S. counterpart
as crude oil had its biggest weekly gain since 2009 on concern  Libya ’s uprising reduced supplies.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, was poised for a monthly
increase before the Bank of Canada policy meeting next week. The
Canadian currency rose for a second straight week as economists
forecast a report will show the nation’s economic growth
accelerated in the fourth quarter.  “We’ve obviously seen a very significant rally in the
Canadian dollar, and that’s entirely due to the fact that we had  oil prices  rise as much as they did,” said  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in New York.
“Will the Bank of Canada express more concern about the recent
rise in energy costs, or will they look more to the impact that
this will have on U.S. growth?”  Canada’s dollar appreciated 1 percent this week to 97.74
cents versus the  U.S. dollar , from 98.68 on Feb. 18. It touched
97.73 cents yesterday, the strongest level since March 7, 2008.
One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0231.  The loonie was headed for a monthly increase of 2.4 percent
following a 0.3 percent drop last month and a 2.9 percent rise
in December. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has called a
strengthening loonie a risk to the economy.  Crude Oil Surges  New York futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
surged 14 percent to $97.88 a barrel in the biggest weekly gain
since Feb. 27, 2009, amid estimates Libya’s output was cut by as
much as two-thirds. Oil touched a 29-month high of $103.41
before retreating after  Saudi Arabia , the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency  said they can compensate for any
Libyan supply disruption.  The Bank of Canada, which led the Group of Seven nations
with three interest-rate increases last year, is expected to
boost its benchmark by 0.25 percentage point in the second
quarter, according to the weighted average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists.  “The loonie’s been doing very well over the last couple of
sessions,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst at
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc. in  Washington . “We could see
the  Bank of Canada  upgrade some of their language regarding
growth, and I think that could provide the Canadian dollar with
a little bit of a boost.”  A “gradual” reduction of monetary stimulus through 2012
will keep inflation under control, the central bank said Jan.
18, when it held the target rate for overnight loans between
banks at 1 percent, where it has been since September. Policy
makers will hold the rate steady on March 1, according to all 26
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  BOC Rate Outlook  “The market is looking for the Bank of Canada to hint that
an early-summer rate hike is in the cards next week,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of
Nova Scotia in Toronto.  The rate on June 2011 bankers’ acceptance contract dropped
0.04 percentage point this week to 1.45 percent after falling to
1.44 percent on Feb. 22, matching the level on Feb. 1. So-called
Bax contracts have settled an average of about 20 basis points
above the central bank’s target since 1992, Bloomberg data show.  Canada’s gross domestic product grew at annual rate of 3
percent in the fourth quarter following a 1 percent expansion in
the earlier period, according to the median forecast of 23
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Statistics Canada  is
scheduled to release its report Feb. 28.  Morgan Stanley View  Morgan Stanley boosted its 2011 growth forecast for the
Canadian economy to 2.9 percent from 2.6 percent, citing higher
exports, in a Feb. 24 research note.  “The improving growth dynamics should make the Bank of
Canada more comfortable to resume its tightening cycle,” Yilin Nie, a New York-based currency strategist at Morgan Stanley, and
David Cho, an economics analyst, said in a note to clients,
predicting the benchmark lending rate will rise to 2 percent by
the end of the year. “We view April as the most likely time for
the bank to move away from the sidelines,” they wrote.    Government bonds  rose this week, pushing the yield on the
10-year benchmark down 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
point, to 3.29 percent. It was the biggest decrease since March
6, 2009. The price of the 3.50 percent note maturing in June
2020 increased C$1.35 to C$101.68.  Canada unexpectedly posted its first  trade surplus  in 10
months in December as energy and metals powered the biggest jump
in exports in almost three decades, Statistics Canada said Feb.
11. Exports climbed 9.7 percent to C$37.8 billion, the most
since February 1982, as energy shipments surged 25 percent and
industrial goods such as metals rose 7 percent to a record.  The loonie pared its gains for several hours yesterday
after the U.S. Commerce Department reported that America’s
economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
slower than previously calculated. The U.S. is Canada’s biggest
trade partner.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  