-- 
Cowboys Owner Jerry Jones Shares Blame for Super Bowl Seating Problem

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/cowboys-owner-jerry-jones-shares-blame-for-super-bowl-seating-problem.html
Dallas Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  says he shares responsibility with the  National
Football League  for fans left standing at the Super Bowl.  The NFL and Jones added 13,000 seats in temporary
bleachers at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , for the
Feb. 6 game in a bid to break the Super Bowl attendance
record. Fire marshals allowed 11,740 seats to be used,
taking the attendance for the game to 103,219 -- 766 short
of the record set at the Rose Bowl in  Pasadena ,  California ,
in 1980.  Among the displaced fans, 400 watched the  Green Bay
Packers  beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 from television
screens inside the stadium.  “I do, along with the NFL, take responsibility for
the seating issue and some of the things that we would like
to improve on regarding the seating issues,” Jones said
yesterday in addressing the situation publicly for the
first time since the Feb. 6 game. “We certainly intend to
and will get much better in terms of the seating and how
that is handled.”  Jones said the $1.2 billion stadium was built to
expand attendance with temporary seating.  “We have had several world-class events that were
very much enhanced by the way our stadium is designed to
increase our capacity by our temporary seating,” Jones
told reporters. “So that is not at issue as much as it is
evaluating what we did to create the criticism, to create
the issue, and to do better in the future.”  The NFL has offered ticketholders $5,000 or a refund
of documented expenses, whichever amount is higher. The
league originally offered $2,400, triple the face value of
the tickets, to each affected fan. It then said fans could
alternatively choose one free ticket, along with round-trip
airfare and hotel accommodations, to any future  Super Bowl .  Lawsuit from Fans  The NFL and Jones also are facing a lawsuit from
Cowboys season-ticket holders who say they were promised
prime Super Bowl seats and instead were given folding
chairs with obstructed views. The NFL, the Cowboys and
Jones are accused of breach of contract, fraud, breach of
good faith and violating Texas’s deceptive trade practices
law.  The plaintiffs are seeking more than $5 million in
actual damages, which can be tripled under the state’s
trade law, in addition to unspecified punitive damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  