-- 
Draghi Says ECB's Exit Strategy Timing Affected by Inflationary Pressures

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-02-26T12:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/draghi-says-exit-strategy-timing-key-amid-inflation-pressures.html
  European Central Bank  Governing
Council member  Mario Draghi  said that inflation pressures are
forcing policy makers to focus more closely on the timing of
future interest rate increases.  “The appearance of inflationary tensions does require that
we carefully assess the timing and methods for restoring normal
monetary conditions and  interest rates ,” he said in a speech in
Verona, Italy, today. “Monetary policy must prevent a
deterioration of expectations, in order to keep the stimulus of
international prices from passing through to domestic prices and
wages in the longer term.”  Draghi, a possible successor to ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet later this year, is the latest official to underscore
the dangers of accelerating inflation. Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen and ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio ,
speaking in  New York  yesterday, both said they would act to
prevent any surge in inflation sparked by rising oil prices.  The European Central Bank, which has kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 1 percent for almost two years,
is growing more concerned that soaring energy and food prices
will drive up wages and entrench faster inflation. At the same
time, raising borrowing costs too soon could exacerbate  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis by increasing pressure on stressed banking
systems in countries such as Greece and Ireland.  Rates and Growth  “Real short-term interest rates that are markedly
negative, as they have been over the past two years, have not
improved the growth prospects of the less dynamic economies,”
Draghi said in the speech to foreign-currency traders. “As
economic policies reach the end of their expansionary phase,
this will not necessarily endanger growth.”  In their remarks, Yellen and Constancio didn’t say whether
they’ll back swift action to control prices as  Muammar Qaddafi 
struggles to retain power in Libya, Africa’s third-biggest oil
producer. The Fed and ECB diverged in their response to rising  oil prices  in 2008, with European officials raising their
benchmark interest rate and the Americans holding off.  Crude oil rose 14 percent this week in its biggest weekly
gain in two years on concern the turmoil that has cut Libya’s
output may spread to other parts of the region. Futures in New
York surged to a 29-month intraday high. Crude oil for April
delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $97.88 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  African Turmoil  Inflation in the euro region quickened to 2.4 percent from
2.2 percent in December, more than economists forecast and the
fastest since October 2008.  Core inflation , which excludes food
and energy prices, rose 1.1 percent. January consumer-price data
for the euro region will be released on Feb. 28.  Draghi said political turmoil in North Africa “may
undermine investment in the oil industry and raise energy
prices, with repercussions for world growth,” even as spare
capacity in other producer nations will make up for any lost
energy output in countries such as Libya. He said he sees global
gross domestic product expanding 5 percent this year.  In Italy, a 20 percent increase in oil prices will shave
half a percentage point off growth over three years, Bank of  Italy  Governor Draghi said in his first major address since
becoming a favorite to succeed Trichet at the ECB’s helm after
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  unexpectedly pulled out of the
race on Feb. 11.  Draghi, who also heads the Financial Stability Board that’s
seeking to rewrite global financial rules, called on Italian
banks to reinvest profit to prepare for the new capital rules.  “We expect that as in 2009, a large part of last year’s
profits will be allocated to increasing the banks’ capital,” he
said. Still, “recourse to the  capital market  would also appear
unavoidable as soon as conditions permit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  