-- 
Draghi Urges Italian Banks to Boost Capital, Cut Dividends

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-02-26T16:03:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/draghi-urges-italian-banks-to-strengthen-capital-cut-dividends.html
European Central Bank council member  Mario Draghi  urged Italian banks to reinvest profit to
strengthen their finances and expects lenders to raise money to
boost capital ahead of new requirements.  “For banks to be prepared when the new capital adequacy
rules are fully phased in, capital strengthening must proceed,
above all through retained earnings,” Draghi said in a speech
to foreign-currency traders in Verona, Italy, today. “Prudence
should not be sacrificed to considerations of profit.”  Italy’s biggest banks, including  UniCredit SpA , Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA,  Banco Popolare SC  and Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA, are cutting costs, shedding non-strategic assets and
reducing risk-weighted assets to reinforce capital after the
country’s worst recession since the Second World War. The asset
quality and capital adequacy of Italian lenders, which passed
the European  stress test  in July, are below the European
average, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Draghi expects banks will cut costs to increase their
profit, which should be allocated to increasing capital. He
considers “unavoidable” for Italian lenders “a recourse to
the capital market as soon as conditions permit.”  Unicredit Chief Executive Officer Federico Ghizzoni said
the bank has adequate capital and it is up to individual banks
to decide if they need an increase. Italian Banking Association
Chairman Giuseppe Mussari said he agrees with Draghi’s analysis.  The capital ratios of the top five Italian banking groups
are rising overall, according to Draghi. At the end of
September, the tier 1 ratio stood at 9 percent, while the core
tier 1 capital came to 7.9 percent of risk assets, up from 5.7
percent at the end of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net  