-- 
Policy Makers Pledge to Halt Any Inflation From Oil Price Surge

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/fed-ecb-policy-makers-pledge-to-halt-any-inflation-from-oil-price-surge.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio 
said they’ll act to prevent any surge in inflation sparked by
rising oil prices.  The Fed won’t “sit by” if higher oil prices are passed
through to other costs, Yellen said yesterday in New York.
Constancio said the ECB “must be willing to be preemptive” to
combat a greater spread of inflation “if need be.” The
officials appeared together on a panel discussion at a
conference on monetary policy yesterday.  Yellen and Constancio didn’t say whether they’ll act soon
to control prices as  Muammar Qaddafi  struggles to retain power
in  Libya ,  Africa ’s third-biggest oil producer. The Fed and ECB
diverged in their response to a rise in  oil prices  in 2008, with
European policy makers raising their benchmark interest rate and
the Americans holding off.  If there is “an oil price shock and that does lead to
inflation expectations moving up, what would happen is core
inflation would move up to headline inflation,” said Bank of
England Deputy Governor Charles Bean, who was also on the panel.
The event was hosted by the University of Chicago’s Booth School
of Business.  Crude oil rose 14 percent in its biggest weekly gain in two
years on concern the turmoil that has cut Libya’s output may
spread to other parts of the region. Futures in New York surged
to a 29-month intraday high. Crude oil for April delivery
climbed 60 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Reliable Gauge  Core inflation excludes food and energy prices. The Fed
prefers to monitor core inflation in the short term as a more
reliable gauge that limits effects from fluctuations in more-
volatile commodity prices. The ECB targets keeping overall
inflation in the 17-nation euro region below, but close to, 2
percent.  “The general feeling of the panelists was the appropriate
policy is not to react, and wait for evidence of inflation to
show up in wages or passing through to core,” said Peter Hooper, an economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New
York. “Inflation risk, they think, is still pretty low.”  The U.S. central bank is watching inflation expectations
“very closely,” and is monitoring the impact of rising
commodity prices, Yellen, 64, said in response to audience
questions after a speech.  The Fed has had “the luxury over a number of years” of
not seeing surging oil prices pass through to core inflation,
said Yellen, who didn’t give new information about the outlook
for the economy or monetary policy in her speech.  Not ‘Sit By’  “It’s something we need to be very focused on, and any
increase that would seem to be sustained in inflation
expectations or in core inflation” would “really demand a
response,” she said. “We couldn’t sit by.”  The ECB “cannot allow inflation to be embedded,” said
Constancio, 67. Central banks should not react immediately to
supply shocks as they do not always portend a spread of
inflation, though they should “be ultra vigilant.”    Donald Kohn , Yellen’s predecessor as the Fed’s No. 2
official under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , said in a speech at the
event that while forces slowing inflation will begin to ease
during the next few years, prices probably won’t begin to rise
at the Fed’s preferred 2 percent rate for several years.  The labor markets have been putting “downward pressure”
on inflation, and the financial markets don’t reflect the
“degree of inflation worry” that some critics of the Fed’s
policies have voiced, said Kohn, 68, who retired from the Fed in
September.  Core Inflation  The core inflation gauge watched by the Fed increased 0.7
percent in the 12 months through December, the smallest advance
since records began in 1959.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker told reporters at the
event that “the oil price increases we’ve seen so far don’t
pose a risk to the recovery.” The rise so far is
“manageable,” he said.  “Oil price changes could have the potential, if they were
very large, for slowing the recovery,” he said. Lacker said he
sees a “risk that the high visibility of things like gasoline
and food price increases would pose a little more risk for
inflation dynamics this time than in the past.”  In an earlier panel at the conference, economists discussed
a paper arguing that the Fed may have grounds for restricting
dividends at large banks to safeguard stability in the U.S.
financial system.  The paper, written by  David Greenlaw  of Morgan Stanley,
Anil Kashyap of the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business, Kermit Schoenholtz of  New York  University’s Leonard N.
Stern School of Business and Hyun Song Shin of  Princeton
University  argued that “restraints may be justified even for
solvent institutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  