-- 
Fine Gael, Labour Likely to Form Next Ireland Government, Exit Poll Shows

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-02-26T19:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/fine-gael-labour-likely-to-form-next-ireland-government-exit-poll-shows.html
Ireland’s government may be led by
 Fine Gael  for the first time in 14 years, with the party likely
to seek a coalition with Labour in the biggest shift of
political power in the country’s history.  Fine Gael won 36.1 percent of first-preference votes in an
election yesterday, according to an exit poll carried out for
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE. Falling short of an overall
majority, party leader Enda Kenny may seek an accord with
Labour, which drew 20.5 percent support in the poll. Fianna
Fail, which has governed since 1997, drew 15.1 percent.  A coalition between the parties “is the most likely
outcome,” Eamon Gilmore, leader of the  Labour Party , said in an
interview with RTE today. Kenny said that the priority of the
new government will be “creating jobs.”  The drop in Fianna Fail support reflects voter outrage
about rising unemployment and the cost of rescuing banks such as  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc following a real-
estate slump. The country was forced to seek a bailout from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in November,
and agreed on 15 billion euros ($21 billion) in tax increases
and spending cuts through 2014 to reduce the  budget deficit .  ‘Totally Arrogant’  “If there’s going to be a Fine Gael-Labour government, it
is going to have a huge majority,” said Sean Haughey, a Fianna
Fail lawmaker. “There is a need for Fianna Fail in the
political system but it is not necessarily assured or
guaranteed.”  As of 7:20 p.m. in Dublin, 29 lawmakers had been elected to
the  Dail , as the Irish parliament is known. Fine Gael won 12
seats, Labour nine, Sinn Fein two, Fianna Fail and the Socialist
Party each won one. Four independent candidates were elected.
Among those elected were Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams and former
Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan .  “I’ve traditionally been a Fianna Fail supporter,” but
they became “totally arrogant,” said Tom Regan, 58, a voter in
Dublin. “The party that has the best policies at the minute
seems to be Fine Gael.”  Prime Minister Brian Cowen stepped down as Fianna Fail
leader last month and didn’t contest the election. Micheal Martin succeeded him.  ‘Serious’ Crisis  Fianna Fail’s defeat has some parallels in recent political
history. In Japan, the  Liberal Democratic Party  enjoyed a half a
century of almost unbroken rule before losing power to the  Democratic Party  of Japan in 2009. In  Canada , the Progressive
Conservatives was almost wiped out in 1993 when it lost all but
two of its 151 seats. The reconstituted  Conservative Party 
didn’t win back power until 2006.  Lenihan said that a new government will have to be formed
“very quickly” to fight the country’s “serious” financial
crisis.  The RTE poll showed that  Sinn Fein  won 10.1 percent of
votes and the Greens got 2.7 percent support. Unaffiliated
lawmakers won 15.5 percent, according to the poll of 3,500
voters carried out yesterday by Millward Brown Lansdowne. The
poll had a margin of error of 2.5 percentage points.  “We are seeing a huge shift,” said Garret FitzGerald, a
former Fine Gael leader who served two terms as prime minister
in the 1980s. “The last time anything happened on this scale
was more than 90 years ago.”  The  European Central Bank  and Irish central bank are
propping up Ireland’s financial institutions with about 140
billion euros, and the government is being pressed to slim down
the banking system. The state controls four of the country’s six
biggest lenders after real-estate loans soured in the wake of
the collapse of a decade-long boom.  “I don’t see a huge change in overall policy emerging as a
result of this election,” said Mark Callanan, a lecturer in
public policy at the Institute of Public Administration in
Dublin. “One thing that marks Ireland out is that we don’t have
huge ideological battles or major changes in policy when there
is a change of government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  