-- 
Florida's Governor Scott Gets Week to Reconsider Refusing High-Speed Rail

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-26T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/florida-s-governor-scott-gets-week-to-reconsider-refusing-high-speed-rail.html
U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said he was giving Florida Governor  Rick Scott  another
week to reconsider his rejection of $2.4 billion in federal
money for a high-speed rail project.  LaHood said he was providing the extra time after meeting
with Scott in Washington yesterday, shortly after the governor
defended his decision to nix the Tampa-to-Orlando project in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Scott “has committed to making a final decision by the end
of next week” on whether to accept the funding, LaHood said in
a statement. “I feel we owe it to the people of Florida who
have been working to bring high-speed rail to their state for
the last 20 years to go the extra mile.”  Scott gave no indication, though, that he planned to
rethink his refusal to accept the funds. In a  statement  posted
on his Facebook page, the  Florida  governor said his position on
the project -- which he called a “boondoggle” -- has not
changed.  “While I appreciate his continued efforts to keep the
project alive in Florida,’’ Scott said of LaHood, “it is
important to note that I have yet to see any proposal that
accomplishes my goal of eliminating risk to Florida’s
taxpayers.’’  In his Bloomberg Television interview, Scott said the
project would put Florida taxpayers on the hook to repay the
federal government for a rail line that was likely to have cost
overruns and operating losses. “I don’t want our taxpayers to
fund that,” he said.  LaHood dismissed the assertion as “baloney” during an
interview at the Bloomberg News Bureau in  Washington . “He
doesn’t know what he’s talking about.”  According to LaHood, Scott asked during the subsequent
meeting “for additional information about the state’s role in
this project, the responsibilities of the Florida Department of
Transportation, as well as how the state would be protected from
liability.”  ‘ObamaRail’  Scott, 58, elected last fall with Tea Party support, is the
third Republican governor to reject high-speed rail funding from
the Obama administration. In postings on Twitter last week, he
referred to the project as “ObamaRail” and “ObamaTrain,”
echoing the “Obamacare” nickname opponents have given to the
health-care overhaul enacted last year.  Foes of the projects said another week wouldn’t change
their minds about it.  “No means no,” Florida Senate President Mike Haridopolos,
a Republican, said in a statement reacting to LaHood’s
extension. “Why is Washington working so hard to spend money it
doesn’t have?”  Still, some Florida Republicans and Democrats have
criticized Scott for his rejection of the rail funding, and
proponents of the project said they were pleased that he might
reconsider.  ‘Another Look’  “I appreciate Secretary LaHood’s dedication to Floridians,
and I appreciate Governor Scott’s willingness to take another
look,” U.S. Representative  Kathy Castor , a Florida Democrat,
said in a statement. “I am hopeful that Governor Scott will
carefully review the job and economic opportunities tied to the
once-in-a generation infrastructure investment in Florida.”  In the interview yesterday, Scott said that an existing
rail line between Miami and  West Palm Beach  costs $65 million a
year to operate and that fares cover only $10 million.
Construction cost overruns on the proposed high-speed Tampa-
Orlando line might have reached $3 billion, he said.  ‘Smart People’  LaHood said in his interview that Floridians wouldn’t have
had to shoulder the cost. “I don’t know of another person in
Florida that agrees with that,” said the former Republican
congressman from  Illinois . “A lot of smart people have put
these plans together. There would have been no financial
liability or responsibility to the taxpayers of Florida.”  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  and Ohio Governor John Kasich have also turned down funding from the Obama
administration for high-speed rail projects, a top priority of
the president’s. They rejected funds from $8 billion in high-
speed rail grants in the 2009 economic stimulus plan.  Scott’s announcement Feb. 16 that he was refusing the money
canceled the first new project in the $53 billion high-speed
rail plan President  Barack Obama  presented in his 2012 budget
two days earlier.  Scott, in Washington for a weekend meeting of the  National
Governors Association , criticized Obama’s performance in
yesterday’s interview, saying he hasn’t shifted toward the
center since the November elections cost Democrats control of
the House and shrank their Senate majority.  “What’s changed?” Scott said. “We still have
ridiculously high taxes. We’re walking into a $1.6 trillion
deficit.”  “He should be cutting corporate taxes,” the governor
said. “He needs to reduce -- dramatically reduce -- spending.”  Scott also took Republican governors’ side in a widening
dispute with public employees over curbing their unionization
rights and benefits during a budget crunch.  Bargaining Dispute  He said that Florida would be better off if public
employees couldn’t form unions and that it’s unfair to taxpayers
that state workers don’t contribute to their pensions.  While Florida’s constitution grants state workers the right
to unionize and bargain for workplace rights, Scott said, “It’d
be great to be able to change it.”  “Our state workers don’t pay for anything into their  pension plan . And we can’t afford that -- it’s not fair to
taxpayers,” he said. “If you didn’t have collective
bargaining, would it be better for the state? Absolutely.”  He said Walker and Kasich, who have sought to limit state
workers’ union-organizing rights in their states, are
“absolutely doing the right thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  