-- 
German Two-Year Notes Fall on Bets ECB Preparing to Raise Rates

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-02-26T07:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/german-two-year-notes-fall-on-bets-ecb-preparing-to-raise-rates.html
German two-year notes declined for
the first time in three weeks on speculation that the  European
Central Bank  is laying the ground for an increase in  interest
rates  this year.  German 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down by the
most in nearly two months, as concern that violence in Libya
will push up  oil prices , damping the economic recovery. ECB
council member Yves Mersch said in an interview published Feb.
22 that policy makers may toughen their language on inflation at
their next meeting on March 3. European interest rates can only
rise in the future, ECB Governing Council member and outgoing
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said two days ago in  Frankfurt .  “The possibility of higher policy rates in the second half
of 2011 is very real,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European
interest-rate strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The
situation in North Africa and the Middle East means that
uncertainty about the outlook for growth and inflation has
increased.”  The two-year yield rose 14 basis points in the week to 1.54
percent as of 5:21 p.m. in London yesterday. The yield on the
10-year bund, the euro region’s benchmark government security,
fell 10 basis points to 3.15 percent. The yield difference
between the two securities narrowed 14 basis points to 161 basis
points, the biggest contraction since the week ended Nov. 28,
2008.  ECB Meeting  German  government bonds  handed investors a loss of 1.1
percent this year through Feb. 24, compared with a 0.3 percent
return for Italian bonds, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Irish bonds lost 1.1 percent this year and 14.2
percent last year.  ECB policy makers will probably keep the bank’s main
refinancing rate at a record-low 1 percent on March 3, according
to all 52 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet will give a press conference
after the decision at which he may give an indication of the
bank’s future intentions.  Euro-area inflation jumped to 2.4 percent last month,
remaining above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for a second month.  Ten-year bonds issued by other AAA rated nations, including
France, Austria, the Netherlands and Finland, also gained last
week as Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi lost control of the oil-
rich east of the country and fortified defenses around the
capital Tripoli as he fought to put down the unrest. Crude oil
traded in  London  rose to the highest level in 30 months.  Bonds from the region’s most-indebted nations fell, with
the Greek 10-year yield rising 16 basis points to 11.88 percent.
Ireland’s 10-year yield climbed 15 basis points to 9.35 percent
as the nation voted in a general election, which may lead to a
change in leadership after the country’s banking sector
collapsed and forced the government to seek a bailout from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at ]
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 