-- 
Ireland's Fianna Fail Headed for `Dramatically Horrific' Election Results

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-26T13:21:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/ireland-s-fianna-fail-headed-for-dramatically-horrific-election-results.html
Ireland’s Fianna Fail is bracing for
the worst election result since it was founded in 1926 after
voters took out their anger on the party for a recession that 
led to spending cuts, tax increases and bank bailouts.  Fianna Fail, which has governed for three of every four
years over the past eight decades, drew 15.1 percent of the
vote, in an election yesterday, an exit poll for Dublin-based
 broadcaster RTE  signaled today. Fianna Fail, which means
“soldiers of destiny” in Irish, may win 20 seats in the 166-
seat parliament, down from 78 in the 2007 ballot, Michael Marsh,
a politics professor at Trinity College Dublin, told RTE.  “When people are angry, when you’ve just cut their pay
packets, you are not going to be top of the pops,” Fianna Fail
director of elections Tony Killeen said in an interview with RTE
Radio today. “This is not the end for Fianna Fail.”  Frank Flannery, deputy head of elections for the Fine Gael
party, said Fianna Fail is going to have “a dramatically
horrific election” if the exit poll is accurate. In Dublin,
Fianna Fail won just 8 percent of the vote, which may put
lawmakers such as Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  at risk of
losing his seat.  Irish Bailout  Counting started at 9 a.m. and early tallies put Lenihan in
fourth place in the four-seat Dublin South constituency.  Joan Burton , finance spokesman for Labour, may top the poll in the
district, RTE reported.  Ireland was forced to accept an 85-billion euro ($117
billion) rescue from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union in November, and agreed to make 15 billion euros
in spending cuts through 2014. Prime Minister Brian Cowen, who
didn’t contest yesterday’s election, oversaw the collapse of
Ireland’s banking system and public finances, after the bursting
of the country’s decade-old property boom.  Fine Gael won 36.1 percent of first-preference votes in the
election, according to the poll. Falling short of an overall
majority, party leader Enda Kenny may seek an accord with
Labour, which drew 20.5 percent support.  Fianna Fail’s defeat has some parallels in recent political 
history. In Japan, the  Liberal Democratic Party  enjoyed a half a 
century of almost unbroken rule before losing power to the   Democratic Party  of Japan in 2009. In  Canada , the Progressive 
Conservatives was almost wiped out in 1993 when it lost all but 
two of its 151 seats. The reconstituted  Conservative Party  
didn’t win back power until 2006.  The new government will inherit an economy that has
contracted around 15 percent since the end of 2007 while
unemployment has tripled to 13.4 percent. A net 100,000 people
will leave the country in the two years through April 2012, the
Dublin-based Economic & Social Research Institute said in its
most recent quarterly report last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  