-- 
Obama Signs Order Freezing All U.S. Assets of Qaddafi, Family, Associates

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-26T01:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/obama-signs-order-freezing-all-u-s-assets-of-qaddafi-family-associates.html
President  Barack Obama  tonight
signed an order freezing any U.S. assets of  Muammar Qaddafi ,
his family and members of his regime in Libya in the first
in what the administration says will be a series of
sanctions.  The executive order says that Qaddafi “and close
associates have taken extreme measures against the people of
Libya, including by using weapons of war, mercenaries, and
wanton violence against unarmed civilians.”  Obama, in a statement, criticized the Libyan government for
its “continued violation of human rights, brutalization of its
people, and outrageous threats” and said the regime must be
held accountable.  “We will stand steadfastly with the Libyan people in their
demand for universal rights, and a government that is responsive
to their aspirations,” he said. “Their human dignity cannot be
denied.”  The unilateral measures were the first actions the
administration had vowed to pursue in response to the deadly
crackdown against anti-government protesters by Qaddafi’s
regime. The U.S. is working on additional sanctions through the  United Nations .  Earlier today the administration temporarily shuttered its
embassy in Tripoli following the successful evacuation of
diplomatic personnel and other Americans by ferry to Malta and
by chartered aircraft to  Turkey , White House press secretary
Carney said at a press briefing.  ‘First Step’  The U.S. sanctions are “a first step,” Carney said. “We
continue to review our options going forward.”  The U.S. had earlier issued a warning to banks to monitor
movements of Libyan-related assets and has suspended what had
been limited military cooperation between the two nations.  Violence between supporters of Qaddafi and opposition
groups has raged for more than 10 days, and there were reports
from Libya that worshipers were being shot as they left mosques
after Friday prayers. Qaddafi continued to cling to power as his
opponents consolidated control of the eastern part of the
country and violence worsened in the capital.  Impact on Oil  The turmoil in Libya and concern that it may spread helped
push crude oil to its biggest weekly gain in two years. Crude
for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6 percent, to settle
at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures
are up 25 percent from a year ago.  As part of an effort to put a unified global response in
place, Obama plans to meet with UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
on Feb. 28 to discuss coordinated action, Carney said.    France  and the U.K. today submitted a plan for an arms
embargo and other sanctions against Libya at a meeting of the UN
Security Council.  Obama consulted yesterday with President  Nicolas Sarkozy  of
France, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and spoke today with Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  In addition, U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will
travel to Geneva on Feb. 28 to meet with other foreign ministers
to discuss responses to the situation, including a suspension of
Libya from the UN Human Rights Council. The council approved a
recommendation today to move ahead with the suspension.  Appeal From Ambassador  Libya’s ambassador to the United Nations appealed to the  Security Council  today to “save” his nation from the violence
unleashed on protesters by Qaddafi.  “Please UN, save Libya,” Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham
said at a meeting of the Security Council. “I tell my brother
Qaddafi, leave the Libyans alone.”  Shalgham said he would support imposition of UN sanctions
against Qaddafi and his family members.  While saying Libya’s future must be decided by its
citizens, Carney said Qaddafi’s “legitimacy has been reduced to
zero in the eyes of his people.”  Carney said the administration waited until U.S. nationals
had been safely evacuated to announce the steps it is taking.  “This has been a very rapid effort to work with our
international partners to analyze and select the options we want
to take,” he said. “There has been great haste” to move ahead
on sanctions.  At the State Department, spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
the embassy shutdown, because the safety of personnel could no
longer be guaranteed, would be temporary. The U.S. maintains
diplomatic relations with  Libya , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  