-- 
Obama Urges Lawmakers to Avoid a Government Shutdown for `Sake of Economy'

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-26T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/obama-urges-congress-to-compromise-to-avoid-government-shutdown.html
President Barack Obama today urged
members of Congress to reach a short-term budget agreement and
avert a government shutdown.  “For the sake of our people and our economy, we cannot
allow gridlock to prevail,” Obama said in his weekly radio and
Internet address.  Congress has to reach agreement on some kind of short-term
spending plan before March 4, when current spending legislation
runs out. If a short-term plan is not passed, federal agencies
will close.  Approval of a short-term agreement would allow lawmakers
time to work on a longer-term measure to fund the government
through Sept. 30, the end of the 2011 fiscal year.  The president said he is willing to discuss spending cuts
as long as they don’t damage America’s ability to compete in the
world economy by reducing expenditures on education or
infrastructure.  “I look forward to working with members of both parties to
produce a responsible budget that cuts what we can’t afford,
sharpens America’s competitive edge in the world, and helps us
win the future,” he said.  In the Republican address, Senator Rob Portman of  Ohio  said
there is an “urgency” to rein in federal spending that will
require new tax policies and changes to entitlement programs.  “Our goal as Republicans is to make sensible reductions in
this spending and create a better environment for job growth,
not to shut down the government,” he said. “Getting our debt
and deficits under control is the first step we can take.”  Obama cautioned against making cuts that are too drastic
now, when the priority should be keeping the government open.  “Both Democratic and Republican leaders in the House and
Senate have said they believe it’s important to keep the
government running while we work together on a plan to reduce
our long-term deficit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  