-- 
MoveOn.org Rallies Gay Groups to Sierra Club Behind Public-Worker Unions

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   M a t t h e w   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-26T19:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/moveon-org-rallies-gay-groups-to-sierra-club-behind-public-worker-unions.html
Labor unions, environmentalists,  gay
and lesbian organizations  and anti-war activists rallied in U.S.
cities to back public employees who say they are under siege by
Republican governors.  “This really is about collective bargaining and the rights
of all people to work and support themselves,” said Thomas
Cannady, the lead volunteer at a  Washington  rally today for
MoveOn.org, an advocacy group formed to oppose the Iraq war.  Efforts by Republicans in Wisconsin, Ohio and  New Jersey  to
cut benefits and bargaining rights for public employees have
triggered union protests in statehouses and a push by national
labor leaders to rally opposition. Today, the unions were joined
by allies from causes they describe as  progressive  and from past
 Democratic Party  campaigns, including those who worked for the
election of President  Barack Obama  in 2008.  Protesters gathered in  New York City  aimed much of their
vitriol at efforts by Wisconsin’s Republican governor, Scott Walker, to curb collective bargaining rights for public
employees. Participants at City Hall Park  held signs that said
“Wake Up! We are all Wisconsin” and wore the yellow cheese-
heads favored by fans of  Wisconsin ’s professional football team,
the  Green Bay Packers .  “Collective bargaining settles disputes in an orderly
way,” Ed Ott, former executive director of the  New York City
Central Labor Council , said at the rally. “If you get rid of
that, you’ll go back to the old way of protests and work
stoppages.”  Record-Low Membership  Labor leaders are planning a $30 million campaign to
counter the Republican efforts, which strike at the heart of a
dwindling movement.  Union membership  in private industry fell
last year to a record low of 6.9 percent, leaving public
employees as the backbone of organized labor. Union membership
fell to 11.9 percent of the workforce last year, down from a
high of 28.3 percent in 1954.  The attack on public workers can revive the  labor movement ,
Van Jones, the former green-jobs adviser to Obama, said in an
interview at a rally in Washington.  “Wisconsin lit the spark, but now the candle has to be lit
across America,” Jones said.  MoveOn.org took the lead in organizing protests that it
said would be held in all 50 state capitals and cities from  Boston  to  Los Angeles . The Sierra Club, Health Care for America
Now and the  National Gay and Lesbian Task Force  were among
participants.  ‘Progressive’ Movement  The public-employee fight is motivating liberal groups to
unify after Democratic defeats in the November elections that
resulted in Republican control of the U.S. House, gains in the
Senate and victories in races for governor and state
legislatures, according to  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at
the  University of California  at Berkeley.  “The current offensive against unions has served to jump-
start and unify the progressive movement,” Shaiken said in an
e-mail. “The rallies are taking unions back to the spirit of
the 1930s and adding the energy of the civil rights movement in
the 1960s.”  Some participants at today’s rally described unions as a
bastion of earlier generations.  Josh Dischinger, 33, a non-union paralegal from  Brooklyn 
who joined the New York rally, said his grandfather was a coal
miner in  Kentucky . “He always appreciated what the union did
for working conditions,” Dischinger said.  Father’s Job  Taylor Sappington, 19, a freshman at George Washington
University and a speaker at the rally in Washington, said he was
protesting in part because his father works for  Ohio ’s
transportation department and risks losing collective bargaining
rights.  Walker and Ohio’s Republican Governor John Kasich “feel
they can fix budgets by breaking up unions,” Sappington said.  The governors and Republican state lawmakers say benefits
must be trimmed to reduce deficits that may reach a combined
$125 billion in the next fiscal year.  In Wisconsin, the state Assembly passed limits yesterday on
the collective-bargaining power of government workers’ unions,
as Senate Democrats remained out of state to block action on the
bill in that chamber. The Oklahoma House is considering a bill
to ban collective bargaining for municipal workers, and
Tennessee Republicans have introduced legislation that would bar
collective bargaining between teachers and local school boards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  