-- 
Pound Declines, Gilts Advance on Signs U.K. Economic Recovery Is Stalling

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-26T07:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/pound-declines-gilts-gain-on-signs-u-k-recovery-is-stalling.html
The pound fell against the dollar
and the euro this week while gilts gained as economic data added
to concerns Britain’s economic recovery has stalled, prompting
investors to reduce bets on interest-rate increases.  The pound declined against most of its 16 major
counterparts after a report yesterday showed the economy shrank
more than initially estimated in the fourth quarter.  Oil prices 
rose to a 30-month high in London as political tensions in  Libya 
and the Middle East added to concern that higher energy prices
will derail Britain’s economic recovery. Two-year gilt yields
rose the most in three weeks.  “We believe the oil price-induced weakening of global
growth will increase the risk premium of sterling-denominated
assets,” said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in London. “The euro will remain bid against the
pound, while the pound is expected to top out against the dollar
near $1.63.”  The pound weakened 1.5 percent to 85.54 pence per euro as
of 5:28 p.m. in London yesterday, heading for the biggest weekly
decline since the five days ended Jan. 14. Sterling fell 1.1
percent to $1.6081, the most since Dec. 17. It depreciated
against the Japanese currency for the first time in four weeks
to 131.42 yen.  BOE Minutes  Gross domestic product fell 0.6 percent in the three months
through December from the previous quarter, compared with an
initial estimate of a 0.5 percent drop, the  Office for National
Statistics  said yesterday. A U.K. retail-sales index fell to an
eight-month low in February and stores expect no growth next
month, the Confederation of British Industry the day before.  Two-year gilt yields fell 12 basis points to 1.41 percent.
Ten-year yields slipped 19 basis points, the most since the week
ended May 21.  The pound rose earlier in the week after the minutes of the
Bank of  England ’s Feb. 10 meeting showed policy makers Spencer Dale,  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale  voted to increase
borrowing costs from a record-low 0.5 percent. The central
bank’s next rate decision is due on March 10.  The currency has gained 3 percent against the dollar this
year and 0.4 percent this month amid mounting speculation the  Bank of England  will need to raise its benchmark rate to curb
inflation. Consumer-price growth accelerated to 4 percent last
month, a Feb. 15 report showed. That was the 14th consecutive
month it remained above the bank’s 2 percent target.  Investors bet the Bank of England will push back rate
increases after the GDP report. Money market traders factored in
a 25 basis-point increase by June, compared with the previous
day’s expectations for a rise in May, according to the Sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia. The  bank rate  will be at
1 percent by October, the data compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc
showed. Earlier bets had been for a September rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  