-- 
UN Security Council Votes Unanimously to Place Sanctions on Qaddafi Regime

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-27T10:53:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/qaddafi-rallies-tripoli-supporters-as-france-s-sarkozy-calls-for-departure.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
voted 15-0 to freeze the foreign assets of Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi and four aides and to bar them from traveling, in the
broadest international effort to halt his regime’s attacks on
protesters.  The resolution also imposes an arms embargo on Libya and
calls for an immediate end to violence that it says “may amount
to crimes against humanity.” The measure sends the allegations
to the International Criminal Court in The Hague for
investigation and possible prosecution.  “Referring the case to the International Criminal Court
shows that those who commit crimes against their own people will
personally be held accountable,” German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The unanimous passage late yesterday of the resolution that
was circulated by Britain and France followed a plea by Libyan
Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham for the UN to “save” his nation.
Shalgham, in an emotional speech to the Security Council on Feb.
25, broke with the Qaddafi regime and asked that sanctions be
adopted.  “This resolution represents moral support for our people
who are resisting,” Ibrahim Dabbashi,  Libya ’s deputy ambassador
to the UN, said after the vote, which came amid reports that
forces loyal to Qaddafi were reinforcing in capital, Tripoli,
after army units defected in the east of the North African
country.  Independence Flags  On the roads between the Egyptian border and the eastern
town of Benghazi, heavily armed anti-Qaddafi protesters and
military units that defected set up tents, some of them
welcoming passersby with juice and sweets. In Benghazi and other
eastern towns, public buildings including police stations flew
the red, black and green flag of Libyan monarchy which Qaddafi
overthrew when he came to power in 1969.  Egyptian volunteer doctors said most of the violence in
Benghazi took place around the main army headquarters and began
when mercenaries opened fire on protesters. UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-moon says more than 1,000 people have died in the unrest.  Several witnesses in Tripoli said forces loyal to the
Libyan leader had shot people from ambulances, used antiaircraft
guns against crowds, and removed dead bodies from hospitals to
try to obscure the death toll, the New York Times reported.  Phone Calls  The  Security Council  met in New York as leaders from  Washington  to Ankara engaged in a flurry of phone calls to
discuss the next steps.  With French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.S. President  Barack Obama  saying it’s time for Qaddafi to go, the U.S. and
its allies were trying to working out how to quell the violence
without intervening militarily.  Obama took the first step in what his administration said
will be a series of sanctions against the Libyan government,
signing an order on Feb. 25 freezing any U.S. assets of Qaddafi,
his family and members of his regime.  U.K. officials have identified billions of pounds in assets
held by Qaddafi in British banks and are planning to freeze
them, the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing an unidentified
official with knowledge of the matter.  Switzerland  on Feb. 24
froze the assets of Qaddafi and his entourage for three years.  ‘Lost Legitimacy’  Obama told German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in a phone call
yesterday that “when a leader’s only means of staying in power
is to use mass violence against his own people, he has lost the
legitimacy to rule and needs to do what is right for his country
by leaving now,” according to a statement from the White House.  “The unanimity of the resolution makes clear the unity of
the international community of nations in condemning Qaddafi,”
Merkel said today in an e-mailed statement. “It’s high time for
him to go.”  The UN resolution bars the travel of other family members
and officials, including seven sons of Qaddafi, his daughter, a
cousin and a brother-in-law. The text, while referring the
allegations to the  International Criminal Court , cites as
authorization for the sanctions a provision of the UN Charter
that precludes military intervention.  One of Qaddafi’s sons, Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, said three-
quarters of Libya is under the control of the regime and
“living in peace,” even amid the signs of  civil war .  Libya should move toward a regime change and a new
constitution peacefully after Qaddafi called for the changes,
the son said in an interview with Al-Arabiya television aired
yesterday. Otherwise, it “risks becoming like  Somalia ,” he
said, denying that mercenaries were brought in to fight anti-
government protesters.  Fatalities  The prospect of civil war in North Africa’s biggest oil
producer has pushed crude prices to a 2 1/2-year high, and led
to calls for action to stop the worst violence seen in the two
months of unrest across the Middle East and North  Africa .  Crude oil for April delivery climbed 60 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $97.88 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange on Feb. 25, the most recent day of trading. U.S. oil
rose to $103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 29, 2008.  “There isn’t a clear end-game here,” Shadi Hamid,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said
in a telephone interview. “There isn’t a rebel army marching on
Tripoli attempting to take it over from Qaddafi.”  Regional Unrest  Protesters streamed into squares across the region Feb. 25
after Friday prayers to demand more rights two weeks after the
ouster of Hosni Mubarak as Egyptian president. Demonstrations
took place in Yemen, Jordan,  Egypt , Iraq and Tunisia, the
country that sparked the unrest sweeping the Middle East when
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted.  Unrest spread to Oman today, with police firing tear gas at
stone-throwing protesters in the industrial city of Sohar,
Reuters reported, citing unidentified witnesses. The protesters
were demanding political reforms, it said. Protests were also
taking place in the southern town of Salalah, according to the
news agency.  U.K. Defense Secretary Liam Fox said yesterday two Royal
Air Force C130 Hercules aircraft have evacuated more than 150
other civilians from desert locations south of Benghazi, an
eastern city that’s under rebel control, according to an e-
mailed statement distributed by the Foreign Office in  London .  The U.K. has also arranged for HMS Cumberland, which Feb.
25 evacuated 207 civilians to  Malta  from Libya, to return to
Benghazi today “to evacuate any remaining entitled persons,”
the statement said.  Evacuations  A chartered ferry carrying mostly U.S. citizens and
diplomatic staff arrived at Malta late Feb. 25, where many were
rushed into treatment for dehydration and sea sickness.  The French embassy in Tripoli suspended operations today
due to the deteriorating security situation in Libya, the French
Foreign Affairs Ministry said in a statement. An air force
flight will bring 122 people today back to France from Libya,
including the embassy staff and ambassador. Some others have
decided to remain there, the ministry said.  France  evacuated 654
people to date, 498 of which are French.  A ship chartered by the Chinese government to evacuate its
citizens arrived in Malta yesterday bringing 3,000 nationals. At
Tripoli airport, panicked crowds tried to storm the terminal to
get on flights leaving the city, the Financial Times reported
yesterday, citing eyewitnesses.  Signaling that political unity may be hard to achieve,  Turkey ’s Erdogan said sanctions would do more harm than good for
Libyans.  “Libyans who face starvation and death will face more
difficulties and desperation in the event of sanctions,” he
said. “The Middle East and Africa have been viewed by the West
as merely sources of oil and used as pawns in oil wars for
decades. People take to the streets because they are fed up with
being used as pawns in oil wars for decades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net 
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 