-- 
Qaddafi's Son Says Libya May Become `Like Somalia' If Protests Don't End

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-02-26T19:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/qaddafi-s-son-says-libya-may-become-like-somalia-if-protests-don-t-end.html
Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, son of Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi , said the North African nation “risks
becoming like Somalia” if demonstrations against the government
by “terrorists” don’t end.  The nation can change and have a new constitution if there
is a restoration of peace, the younger Qaddafi said in an
interview with Al-Arabiya television today.  Anti-government protesters “are not people who want
democracy, freedom, a constitution, these are terrorists,” Saif
al-Islam Qaddafi said. A limited number of “hardline
Islamists” are fighting the regime, he said. The country’s
interior minister, among other officials, was forced to defect
under threats and duress, he said.  Three quarters of the country is under control of the
government and “living in peace,” the younger Qaddafi said.  He denied that mercenaries have been brought in to attack
demonstrators.  Protests calling for the ouster of Qaddafi have been met
with a crackdown. Qaddafi has bolstered defenses in the capital,
Tripoli, and launched counter-strikes against opponents who have
seized much of the rest of the country. Almost 300 people have
died, according to  Human Rights Watch . The unrest has also
driven  oil prices  to a 2 1/2-year high as Libya holds North
Africa’s largest oil reserves.  Akram al-Qarfalli, a senior member of the Warfalla tribe,
on Feb. 20 announced it was withdrawing support from Qaddafi.
The Al-Zawiya tribe threatened to halt the flow of oil if
Qaddafi doesn’t stop killing protesters. By Feb. 23 most tribes
were united in their opposition, says former interior minister,
Abdul Fattah Younis.  The  United Nations  is in talks to impose sanctions on Libya
after Qaddafi told loyalists in Tripoli he’s prepared to arm
them to fight opposition forces holding the eastern part of the
country. Anti-government protests, ignited by the ouster of
Tunisia’s president last month and  Egypt ’s president on Feb. 11
also have spread to Yemen, Bahrain, Algeria,  Iran  and Morocco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net 
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  