-- 
Treasuries Rally Most Since May as Libya Turmoil Spurs Demand for Safety

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/treasuries-gain-most-since-may-as-libya-raises-risk-aversion.html
Treasury 10-year notes gained the
most in nine months as political turmoil in  Libya  drove
investors to the safety of  U.S. debt  and raised concern that
surging  oil prices  may restrain a fledgling economic recovery.  Yields on the benchmark securities fell for a third week,
the longest stretch since October, as Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  rallied supporters in the capital, Tripoli, yesterday as
opposition forces consolidated control in the eastern part of
the North African country. Next week the  Federal Reserve  plans
to buy between $18.5 billion and $26.5 billion in U.S. debt.  “People have translated higher energy costs into concerns
about the possibility of an oil shock that will act as a tax on
the economy,” said Russ Certo, a managing director and co-head
of rates trading at Gleacher & Company in  New York . Investors
want to hold the safest securities “because of the possibility
of getting burned by event risk.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell 17 basis points to
3.41 percent, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.625
percent note maturing in February 2021 was at 101 24/32.  The weekly yield decline was the largest since May 21, when
investors were lured to safe assets amid concern that euro-zone
debt problems spreading.  Yield Difference  Treasuries have handed investors a loss of 0.3 percent this
month and this year, compared with a gain of 5.9 percent last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  U.S. securities also rose yesterday as investors purchased
longer-term debt to increase the duration of their portfolios to
match benchmarks at the end of the month, such as the Barclays
U.S. Treasury Index.  U.S. government debt extension is expected to increase by
0.13 years for February, compared with 0.08 years for January,
according to Barclays Plc, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
directly with the Fed.  Crude oil futures for April delivery in New York rose 14
percent this week to $97.88 a barrel yesterday, and touched
$103.41 on Feb. 24, the highest level since September 2008.  The U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and the  International Energy Agency 
said they can compensate for any disruption to crude supplies
caused by turmoil in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest oil producer.  Oil Drag  Longer-term Treasuries have rallied as “each $5 oil rise
decreases gross domestic product by 0.2 percent to 0.3 percent
if these higher prices are sustained,” said Guy LeBas, chief
fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which manages $12 billion in fixed-income assets.  “Over the weekend liquidity goes away, but event risk
doesn’t, so you don’t want to be caught offside, LeBas said.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, slower than previously calculated and less than
forecast as state and local governments made deeper cuts in
spending. The revised increase in gross domestic product
compares with a 3.2 percent estimate issued last month and a 2.6
percent gain in the third quarter, figures from the Commerce
Department showed yesterday in  Washington .  U.S. payrolls probably grew in February at the fastest pace
in nine months as factories expanded and consumers spent more,
economists said before reports next week.  Jobs Growth  Employment increased by 190,000 workers this month, the
most since May, after a 36,000 gain in January, according to the
median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a Labor Department data on March 4. The report may also
show the jobless rate increased to 9.1 percent from 9 percent.  “The geopolitical situation is pushing yields down,
despite the growth picture holding up,” said Jeffrey  Cleveland ,
senior economist at Payden & Rygel in  Los Angeles , which manages
$56 billion.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, widened to 2.44
percentage points on Feb 24, the most since April.  The Fed bought $7.2 billion of Treasuries yesterday,
bringing total purchases since November to $373.5 billion under
the central bank’s plan to acquire $600 billion through June to
bolster the economy.  The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year notes on Feb. 23
at a yield of 0.745 percent, $35 billion of five-year notes
yesterday at a yield of 2.19 percent and $29 billion of seven-
year notes at a yield of 2.854 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the five-year sale was 2.69,
compared with an average of 2.79 at the previous 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 34.2 percent of the notes, the lowest
since November, when they took home 31.5 percent.  “We had a sloppy auction, with the street ending up with
more paper than they would like,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “There wasn’t much setup because of the
flight-to-quality bid we’ve seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  