-- 
Shanghai Tightens Security Ahead of China ‘Jasmine’ Rallies

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-26T14:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/shanghai-tightens-security-ahead-of-china-jasmine-rallies.html
  Shanghai  has increased security in
the city’s downtown area, a day before “Jasmine” rallies were
called to take place around the country for an independent
judiciary and political reform.  At least a dozen police vans were stationed around the
 Peace Cinema  in the shopping area of People’s Square with more
than 20 uniformed police and plain-clothes officers patrolling
the area. A police car was circling around the building.  The Peace Cinema and its neighboring Hershey’s store were
closed today for “repair of facilities,” according to notices
posted outside and guarded by a security warden. The shutter of
a subway entrance nearby was also down for similar repair.  An open letter posted on a U.S.-based website  Boxun.com 
called for rallies in Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and 15 other
cities following gatherings across China on Feb. 20 inspired by
revolts in the Arab world. The Chinese protests, known as
“Jasmine” rallies after the revolution that toppled
governments in Egypt and  Tunisia  in January, began after a
 similar post  on Boxun.com, a Chinese-language news website that
reports on unrest and is blocked inside of China.  The front entrance of Starbucks next to the Peace Cinema,
which last week was packed with customers sitting outside the
cafe, was closed today and it directed customers to enter from
inside the Raffles City mall.  A Starbucks employee called Maggie, as shown on her name
tag, was standing outside the front door and said the outlet was
told yesterday to remove chairs and tables from the front today
and tomorrow. The reason was unknown, she said.  Reporting Warning  Several Beijing correspondents received phone calls from
Chinese police asking them to “obey reporting rules” that
require prior consent for interviews, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday by the Beijing-based Foreign Correspondents’
Club of  China . The phone calls show there may be “tighter-than-
usual” reporting conditions in Beijing tomorrow, it said.  Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  announced that he will hold an
“online discussion” tomorrow morning. The discussion will be
on the websites www.gov.cn and www.xinhuanet.com. The website
 http://ask1.news.cn/  is now open to questions for the premier.  LinkedIn Corp., operator of the largest networking site for
professionals, became accessible again in Beijing after a
disruption of more than 24 hours.  Oil Price Concern  China’s stock market, the world’s best performer since Jan.
25, is showing no signs that the “Jasmine Revolution” may
spread to the fastest-growing major economy. Most China stocks
fell Feb. 25, adding to the benchmark index’s first weekly drop
in more than a month, on concern higher  oil prices  caused by
Middle East tensions will curb earnings growth.  The open letter called for protests every Sunday at 2 p.m.
local time at Wangfujing in Beijing as well as in locations in
Tianjin, Nanjing, Xi’an, Chengdu, Xinjiang, Changsha, Hangzhou,
Shenyang, Changchun, Harbin and Wuhan.  Zhao Qizheng, a senior member of China’s top political
advisory body, said a Jasmine Revolution would not happen in
China and that the idea of a possible revolution is “ridiculous
and unrealistic,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported Feb.
24.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:  Bruce Grant  in Hong Kong at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant in  Hong Kong  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  