-- 
South Africa's State Mining Company to Produce Coal by June, Chief Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-02-26T16:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/south-africa-s-state-mining-company-to-produce-coal-by-june-1-.html
  South Africa ’s state-owned African
Exploration, Mining and Finance Corp. said it will start
producing 800,000 metric tons of coal annually for domestic
electricity provider Eskom Holdings Ltd. by June.  The company, jointly controlled by the government’s energy
and mining ministries, will spend 130 million rand ($18.5
million) building a  coal mine  in Vlakfontein, about 80
kilometers east of Johannesburg, Chief Executive Officer Sizwe Madondo said at the site today. Production will be increased to
1.68 million tons, with the option of boosting it further to 3
million tons annually, he told hundreds of local residents.  The revival of the state-owned company marks an attempt by
South Africa to ensure that its  mineral resources  help create
jobs and ensure constant electricity supply.  “We can no longer afford for us as a country to continue
to have strategic assets such as coal, uranium, to be mined by
privately owned” companies, Mines Minister Susan Shabangu said
at the launch of the project, which was also attended by
President  Jacob Zuma . “We will allow private participation, but
government must determine the future.”  South Africa experienced days of power cuts in early 2008,
which brought the gold, platinum, coal and uranium mines to a
halt, because the country had failed to invest in new
infrastructure to meet growing demand.  ‘Equal Field’  “Whilst we want to make sure that we play on an equal
field with all private-sector players, it would also be wrong of
us not to have a particular bias towards a state-owned mining
company whose primary motive is to make sure we have energy
resources,” Energy Minister Dipuo Peters said on the dusty
clearing in the middle of fields of maize.  Standing within eyeshot of Eskom’s Kendal power plant,
Madondo said African Exploration’s holding company, the Central
Energy Fund, would fund the open cast Vlakfontein mine, which
has 33 million tons of mineable reserves. South African
engineering and construction company Concor Holdings, which is
owned by  Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd ., will be the main sub-
contractor as they build the mine, Madondo said.  African Exploration is close to securing an off-take
agreement with Eskom, which may receive preferential rates
because it’s also a state-owned company, Madondo said. African
Exploration will still protect its own interests and ensure it
sells its coal at rates which ensure its survival, he said.  The company will seek private investors for a 2 billion-
rand project to produce 10,000 to 16,000 barrels of synthetic  crude oil  by the third quarter of 2013, Madondo said.  “Look at that extent of capex that we have to pay,” he
said. “We are currently looking for potential equity partners.
We are talking to whoever is interested in partnering with us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 