-- 
‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Judge Asks If U.S. Is Appealing Military Gay Ban

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-07-11T19:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/u-s-urges-court-to-hold-off-on-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-case-1-.html
The Obama Administration was ordered
to reveal whether it intends to defend the legality of “Don’t
Ask Don’t Tell” and explain why an appeal of a ruling striking
down the policy should not be dismissed.  A federal appeals court in  San Francisco  issued the order
today after ruling on July 6 that the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
policy on gays serving in the armed forces must immediately end.
The ruling blocks enforcement of the policy, which prohibits
gays and lesbians from serving openly in the military, while the
court reviews a lower-court decision that the law is
unconstitutional.  It appears “that the government is not prepared to defend
the constitutionality” of the military’s ban on gays, the
appeals court said in an order today.  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 22 signed into law
legislation lifting the 1993 policy. The White House said then
that it would take a matter of months for new rules to be put in
place. Certification of the repeal is “just weeks away,”
Pentagon spokesman Marine Colonel Dave Lapan said July 6.  The  Log Cabin Republicans , a group that promotes equal
rights for gays and lesbians, sued to overturn the ban.  The federal appeals court said today that no party in the
case has indicated an intention to defend the ban or argue that
the lower-court ruling should be reversed. Other groups may be
allowed to intervene in the case to defend “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell,” the court said.  The government has 10 days to respond to the court’s order,
according to the filing.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message.  “We have said all along that the policy is
unconstitutional,” said R. Clarke Cooper, executive director
of the Log Cabin Republicans. The appeals court is now asking
the  Justice Department , “Do you concur that it’s not
constitutional?” he said in a phone interview.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 10-56634,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  