-- 
U.S. Governors Say Federal Shutdown, Budget Cuts May Weigh Down States

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-02-27T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/u-s-governors-say-federal-shutdown-budget-cuts-may-weigh-down-states.html
A Congressional budget fight that
shuts the federal government and slashes spending would hobble
states struggling to recover from recession, U.S. governors said
yesterday.  States don’t expect Congress to provide additional aid to
close budget shortfalls, as it has during the past two years,
said Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, the Democrat who
heads the  National Governors Association . Lawmakers should avoid
worsening strains from deficits that during the next two years
may total $175 billion, she said.  “We know there’s no money coming to the states,” she told
reporters in Washington, D.C., where the National Governors
Association began a three-day meeting. “Anything that Congress
does that can undermine our recovery would be quite troublesome
to us.”  The budget cuts pushed through by states have been a drag
on the economy as governors make up for revenue lost during the
past two years. State and local  government spending  dropped at
an annual rate of 2.4 percent during the last three months of
2010, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, marking the
sixth quarterly drop since the last three months of 2008.  The governors said the clash between Democrats and
Republicans in Congress over how to pare the record  U.S. budget
deficit  might aggravate their problems. The federal government
could be shut down next week should an agreement not be reached.
Democratic Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe said a shutdown would
choke off money for health care, education and workforce
development programs.  “It will definitely impact every state,” Beebe said.  Move to Compromise  The U.S. deficit will widen this year to $1.6 trillion,
Democratic President  Barack Obama  said in his fiscal 2012 sent
to Congress on Feb. 14, partly because of the $858 billion  tax
cut  approved in December.  Democrats have balked at the $61 billion in spending cuts
sought by the Republican-controlled House. Republicans agreed
yesterday to temporarily drop some demands for reductions in
federal spending, proposing instead to keep most agencies at
current budget levels through March 18. Democrats, who dominate
the Senate, said the Republicans’ action was a step toward
forging a compromise to keep the government open until a final
budget is passed.  Since 2009, the federal government has cushioned the
recession’s blow to states by providing aid to help close budget
shortfalls and cover the increased cost of Medicaid, the health-
care program for the poor whose rolls have swelled as residents
are thrown out of work. Some $151 billion of such help will have
been provided by the end of June, when the assistance is to run
out, according to the  National Governors Association.   No Hiccups  While tax collections have improved with the economy, they
have yet to return to pre-financial crisis levels or rebound
enough to make up for the lost federal help. Obama hasn’t
proposed new aid and House Republicans have said they wouldn’t
support it.  States can’t afford more pressure from  Washington , Gregoire
said.  “We don’t need any hiccups right now in our recovery,”
she said.  The governors also asked Congress not to advance
legislation that would let states file for bankruptcy to escape
from their debts, as cities and counties can. The suggestion,
endorsed by potential 2012 Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich , has drawn fire from lawmakers in both parties. No
governors have seconded Gingrich; no lawmaker has said such a
bill has been filed.  Gregoire urged Congressional leaders to say that any such
plans are dead, saying the mere discussion elevated borrowing
costs in the $2.9 trillion municipal bond market.  ‘Height of Insanity’  Yield on 20-year general obligation bonds rose as high as
5.41 percent by Jan. 20 from 3.82 percent in mid-October,
according to the Bond Buyer 20 Index, as investors fled the
market amid speculation that defaults could mount.  A bankruptcy proposal would “destroy the municipal  bond
market ” by rattling investors, Connecticut Governor Dan Malloy
said.  “You’re talking about a drying up of capital for every
single public works project,” Malloy said. “It just would be
the height of insanity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Washington at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  