-- 
Mugabe Calls for End to Zimbabwe Violence, Seeks Constitution Before Vote

-- B y   N e l s o n   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-02-26T15:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/mugabe-calls-for-end-to-zimbabwe-violence-seeks-constitution-before-vote.html
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe
called for an end to violence in the southern African nation and
said elections can’t be held before a constitution is in place.  “The inclusive government has lasted for two years now and
we’d hoped by now we would have a road map,” Mugabe said at the
Harare International Conference Center. “We must have a draft
constitution soonest, a referendum thereafter and then
elections,” he said, adding that if the process “drags,” his
 Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party  may
withdraw from the constitution debating process.  “There must be a very good reason for Zimbabwe not to hold
elections this year,” Mugabe said. Previously, the president
had insisted that elections be held by June whether or not
Zimbabweans have agreed to a new constitution.  Mugabe was speaking at a celebration held by his party to
mark his 87th birthday on Feb. 21.  “I want to stay with you, not with the old ideas of an
ageing man,” he told supporters. “I will not quit, the sense
of responsibility gives me strength. I am rejuvenated by the
responsibility thrust on me by history.”  Mugabe, whose Zanu-PF party shares power with the  Movement
for Democratic Change  led by Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai,
repeated threats to seize the local assets of foreign-owned
companies that do not denounce European and U.S. travel and
trade bans against him and senior members of Zanu-PF.  Responding to criticism levelled at Zanu-PF by the MDC this
week, Mugabe said his supporters should not force residents to
support his party.  “Please no violence,” he said. “Violence will get us
nowhere. I don’t want anyone singing my name under duress having
been forced to do so through violence. People who sing must do
so voluntarily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 