-- 
Uganda Police to Crush Opposition Protests Against Poll Outcome

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-26T12:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/uganda-police-say-they-will-crush-opposition-protests-against-poll-outcome.html
Ugandan police will block planned
protests by four opposition leaders who lost the Feb. 18
presidential elections to President Yoweri Museveni because they
are likely to degenerate into riots, Kale Kayihura, the
Inspector General of Police, said.  Police will take “firm and resolute actions” against any
person organizing, intending to hold or participating in the
planned “unlawful demonstrations,” Kayihura said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The four candidates announced plans for nationwide protests
after alleging that the vote wasn’t free and fair because of
bribery by the ruling party, ballot stuffing and intimidation,
they said in a joint statement Feb. 24.  The statement was signed by main opposition leader  Kizza
Besigye  of the Forum for Democratic Change,  Olara Otunnu  of the  Uganda  People’s Congress, Nobert Mao of the  Democratic Party  and
Samuel Lubega, the independent candidate.  The government fairly won the elections because of popular
support across the country, Amama Mbabazi, the secretary general
of the ruling National Resistance Movement, said this week.  The opposition leaders plan to cause “widespread and
sustained violence and destruction” through the demonstrations,
Kayihura said. “Any planned demonstration or procession, in
this instance, is therefore, unlawful, and shall not be allowed
to take place,” he said.  Oil Boom  The opposition leaders want a fresh election under a newly
constituted independent electoral body that will clean the
voters register, the statement said. Museveni, 66, secured a
fourth term in office, winning 68 percent of the vote, leaving
him in charge of an economy on the cusp of an oil boom.    Tullow Oil Plc , the U.K.-based energy company, will
probably start pumping crude and gas from the Lake Albert Basin
in 2012. Uganda has an estimated 2.5 billion barrels of oil,
with about 1 billion barrels proven, according to Tullow.  Besigye won 26 percent of the vote that European Union
observers said was “marred by avoidable and logistical
failures, which led to an unacceptable number of Ugandan
citizens being disenfranchised.”  Commonwealth election monitors had “serious concerns”
that there wasn’t a level playing field in the run-up to
polling, mission leader Dame Billie Miller said on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 