-- 
TXU Calls Aurelius' Assertion of Default on $24 Billion Loan `Meritless'

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   P i e r r e   P a u l d e n
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/txu-calls-aurelius-assertion-of-default-on-24-billion-loan-meritless-.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.,
formerly known as TXU Corp., is rejecting an assertion by hedge
fund Aurelius Capital Management LP that it’s in default on a
$23.9 billion loan that financed its record buyout by KKR & Co.
and TPG Capital.  The allegations are “utterly meritless,” Robert Walters,
general counsel of Energy Future, said in a telephone interview.  Stephen Sigmund , spokesman for Aurelius, declined to comment.  Aurelius, led by Mark Brodksy, said in a letter to
Citigroup Inc., administrator of the buyout loans, that payments
to the Dallas-based company by one of its units aren’t in
compliance with the credit agreement, Energy Future said in a
Feb. 25 regulatory filing. The electricity provider purchased
some of its debt at a discount last year and said Feb. 18 that
profit for the last three months rose 18 percent to $161 million
on buybacks even as revenue dropped because of low natural gas
prices. Energy Future owes $39.6 billion in loans and bonds.  “Owners of the term loan would love a default and a
restructuring because then the subsidiary could stop bleeding
high coupon interest payments,” Andy DeVries, an analyst for
debt-research firm CreditSights Inc. in  New York , said in a Feb.
25 e-mail.  Energy Future’s term loan due October 2014 rose to 84 cents
on the dollar on Feb. 25 from 82.5 cents a day earlier,
according to information provider Markit Group Ltd.  The company sold $350 million of second-lien notes on Oct.
15 yielding 15 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aurelius Stake  Aurelius holds about $50 million of loans issued by Energy
Future unit  Texas  Competitive Electric Holdings Company LLC,
according to the Feb. 25 filing with the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission. The New York-based hedge fund is the only
lender alleging a default, Energy Future said.  “We intend to defend ourselves vigorously against these
allegations and to continue operating in compliance with the
terms and conditions” of debt agreements, the company said in
the filing.  Citigroup will lead discussions with lenders about
Aurelius’s assertion, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based bank, declined to comment.  Aurelius is among bondholders sponsoring an alternative
reorganization proposal in the bankruptcy proceedings of Tribune
Co., taken private for more than $8 billion in 2007 by
billionaire property investor  Sam Zell . The hedge fund was also
party to lawsuits and restructurings involving General Motors
Corp., MBIA Inc., Ambac Assurance Corp., Dubai World and Vitro
SAB.  $45 Billion Buyout  TXU, then the largest electricity supplier in Texas, was
taken private for about $45 billion in 2007. Energy Future’s
revenue has been curbed by low natural gas prices, which help to
set the price of power in the Texas market, where the company
has more than 15,400 megawatts of generation capacity. Natural
gas has fallen 47 percent since the buyout was announced in Feb.
2007.  The company’s fourth-quarter results are “weaker than
expected,” Peter Thornton, credit analyst at KDP Investment
Advisors Inc., said in a Feb. 23 report. “We continue to favor
the TCEH  term loan  as a reasonable investment, but think the
senior unsecured notes of both TCEH and TXU are facing little
economic recovery in an eventual work-out and are therefore
reiterating our sell recommendation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pierre Paulden in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  