-- 
Yen, Swiss Franc Top Performers as Uprising in Libya Fuels Safety Demand

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-26T05:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-26/yen-swiss-franc-top-performers-as-uprising-in-libya-fuels-safety-demand.html
The yen and the Swiss franc were the
top two performers against the dollar as  Libya ’s uprising drove
oil to a 29-month high, spurring demand for the safest assets.  The franc reached a record high versus the dollar and the
yen had the biggest weekly jump against the U.S. currency this
year as investors sought stability. The euro gained versus the
greenback on bets the  European Central Bank  will try to stem
inflation from rising fuel costs by increasing interest rates
before the  Federal Reserve . The ECB meets March 3.  “Risk on oil and interest rates were driving the market
this week,” said Greg Salvaggio, senior vice president of
capital markets at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.
in  Washington . “The Swiss franc has always been the go-to
safety currency.”  The yen strengthened 1.8 percent to 81.68 per dollar in  New
York , the most since a 2.2 percent gain in the five days ended
Dec. 31, from 83.18 on Feb. 18. It gained 1.4 percent against
the euro to 112.35.  The franc appreciated 1.8 percent to 92.81 centimes per
dollar, from 94.46 a week earlier. It touched 92.27 centimes
yesterday, the strongest level since at least 1971, when
Bloomberg records begin. The Swiss currency rose 1.3 percent to
1.2768 per euro, from 1.2935.  The franc and the yen tend to strengthen during periods of
financial stress because their export-reliant economies don’t
need foreign capital to balance current accounts -- the broadest
measure of trade.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3754, from $1.3693. It
reached $1.3838 yesterday, the highest level since Feb. 2.  Libyan Violence  Libya’s leader,  Muammar Qaddafi , lost control of much of
his country’s oil-rich east amid a wave of violence. Protests
have erupted in North Africa and the Mideast since last month’s
ousting of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and the
Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  Crude oil for April delivery in New York climbed 14 percent
this week, the most in two years, to $97.88 a barrel on concern
supplies would be disrupted. It reached $103.41 on Feb. 24, the
most since September 2008, before trimming its advance after  Saudi Arabia , the U.S. and the  International Energy Agency  said
they can compensate for a supply disruption.  The yen also gained versus the greenback as investors
sought safety in U.S. Treasuries, pushing yields down and making
dollar-denominated assets less attractive. Benchmark U.S. 10-
year note yields fell 17 basis points to 3.41 percent, the
biggest weekly loss since May. A basis point is 0.01 percent.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the yen and euro, fell 0.5 percent
for the week, its second straight five-day decline.  The greenback extended losses against its Australian
counterpart yesterday as the  U.S. economy  expanded in the fourth
quarter more slowly than first estimated. Gross domestic product
grew at a 2.8 percent annual pace, Commerce Department data
showed, compared with an earlier estimate of 3.2 percent.  The U.S. unemployment rate increased to 9.1 percent in
February from 9 percent the previous month, economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast before the Labor Department reports
the data on March 4.  “Anything that is going to indicate that it is going to
take longer for a self-sustained U.S. recovery is going to
prolong rate hikes and is going to demean the dollar,” said
Jessica Hoversen, a Chicago-based analyst at the futures broker
MF Global Holdings Ltd.  Rate Bets  The euro gained against the dollar as traders added to bets
for higher borrowing costs in  Europe  amid the surge in crude.
The implied yield on the three-month Euribor futures contract
for December reached 1.97 percent on Feb. 23, from 1.88 percent
a week earlier.  “Inflation indeed has been rising, and that is very much
the effect of increasing energy prices that drive upwards these
figures,”  Amadeu Altafaj , a spokesman for the European
Commission, told reporters in Brussels on Feb. 24.  The ECB has held its key rate at 1 percent since May 2009.
The Fed has kept its benchmark at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008, and policy makers reiterated last month it will
stay low for an “extended period.”  Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange yesterday showed a
35 percent probability the Fed will boost its rate in December,
versus a 41 percent chance a week earlier.  ECB Outlook  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told reporters on Feb. 23
that policy makers will take the decisions necessary to maintain  price stability  in the euro region. All 52 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast the ECB will keep its rate
unchanged this week.  “The euro is at relatively high levels, and there needs to
be some sort of new stimuli for it to break decisively clear of
its recent highs,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The market will be
watching the ECB and Mr. Trichet, and we’ll see if the euro
survives expectations.”    New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was the worst
performer versus the greenback this week as investors speculated
a 6.3 magnitude earthquake that struck Christchurch would hurt
the country’s economy.  The kiwi fell 1.3 percent to 75.16 U.S. cents. It rose
yesterday, paring the loss, as  Standard & Poor’s  said the quake
would have no immediate effect on the nation’s credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  