-- 
‘Natural’ U.S. Jobless Rate Higher Than Estimated: Chart of Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T15:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/-natural-u-s-jobless-rate-higher-than-estimated-chart-of-the-day.html
Extended  unemployment benefits  and
other changes in the U.S. labor market indicate the normal rate
of joblessness exceeds the government’s estimate, according to
researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of  San Francisco .  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the normal rate, as defined
in the bank’s February economic letter, with the Congressional
Budget Office estimate of what’s known as the non-accelerating
inflation rate of unemployment, or NAIRU. The actual jobless
rate, which was 9 percent last month, is also depicted.  Four labor indicators collectively point to a “natural”
rate of 6.7 percent, according to Justin Weidner, a research
associate at the San Francisco Fed, and John C. Williams, the
bank’s director of research. The CBO’s estimate of NAIRU has
been 5.2 percent since the fourth quarter of 2009.  The researchers used the availability of jobs, the
percentage of employees who quit, and survey-based data on the
perceived ease of finding work and the extent of “hard-to-
fill” vacancies as criteria in calculating their rate.  Benefit extensions account for about half of the gap
between the natural rate and NAIRU, Weidner and Williams  wrote .
By lengthening the time limit for aid to 99 weeks, the federal
government may “reduce the incentive of the unemployed to seek
and accept less desirable jobs,” they wrote.  As for the rest, Weidner and Williams cited two possible
explanations: mismatches between the skills of job seekers and
the needs of potential employers, and the increasing number of
Americans who have been unemployed for years.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:  David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  