-- 
Abu Dhabi's Masdar Plans to Build a Second 100-Megawatt Solar Power Plant

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-16T13:47:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/abu-dhabi-s-masdar-plans-to-build-a-second-100-megawatt-solar-power-plant.html
  Abu Dhabi  Future Energy Co., known as
Masdar, plans to complete construction of its second 100-
megawatt solar-power plant in the third quarter of 2013,
boosting output of green energy in the Persian Gulf emirate.  The Abu Dhabi government-owned renewable energy company
issued a request for qualification information from potential
builders of the facility, according to a copy of the 47-page
document obtained by Bloomberg. An official in Masdar’s
procurement office declined to speak about the tender, and media
relations officials at the company couldn’t immediately be
reached by telephone for comment.  Abu Dhabi, the capital of the  United Arab Emirates , holds
almost all of the country’s oil reserves, and is expanding use
of solar and wind power in an effort to become a regional hub
for renewable energy. The emirate is building Masdar City, a
business and residential complex designed to emit minimal  carbon
emissions , and serves as headquarters for the International
Renewable Energy Agency.  Masdar plans to build the 100-megawatt photovoltaic Nour 1
plant in the city of Al Ain, on Abu Dhabi’s border with Oman.
Construction contracts for Nour 1 are to be awarded in December,
and the project could become part of a larger solar power
complex in Al Ain, according to the document.  Potential bidders must submit their qualification
information by March 17, the document said. The company wants to
award construction contracts for the project by the end of this
year, Frank Wouters, director of a Masdar unit called Masdar
Power, said at an industry briefing in Abu Dhabi on Jan. 10.  Masdar is already developing a $600 million, 100-megawatt
concentrated solar thermal plant called Shams 1, to be completed
in 2012. Shams 1 is a venture between Masdar,  Abengoa SA  of  Spain  and  France ’s  Total SA .  The Nour 1 plant will cost less than Shams 1 because of
improving efficiency and “the normal learning curve for the
industry,” Wouters said at the briefing last month.  Photovoltaic plants use solar panels, which convert
sunlight into electricity. Masdar already operates a 10-megawatt
facility of this type.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  