-- 
Activision Loses to Block Pop Group Suing Over Image in `Band Hero' Game

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T01:09:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/activision-loses-to-block-pop-group-suing-over-image-in-band-hero-game.html
  Activision Blizzard Inc . lost its
appeal of a California judge’s refusal to throw out a lawsuit by
the band No Doubt over the way the musicians’ images are used in
the “Band Hero” video game.  A panel of the California Court of Appeals in Los Angeles
 ruled  today that Activision’s use of the No Doubt likenesses in
“Band Hero” isn’t protected free speech under the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment because it doesn’t add creative
elements to significantly “transform” their depiction.  “The context in which Activision uses the literal
likenesses of No Doubt’s members does not qualify the use of the
likenesses for First Amendment protection,” the judges said.
“Activision’s use of life-like depictions of No Doubt
performing songs is motivated by the commercial interest in
using the band’s fame to market ‘Band Hero.’”  Rival video-game maker Electronic Arts Inc. today argued
in a federal appeals court in  Pasadena ,  California , that its use
of alleged likenesses of former college and National Football
League players in its “NCAA Football” and “Madden NFL” games
is protected by the First Amendment.  Ashley Dyer, a spokesman for  Santa Monica , California-based
Activision, didn’t immediately return a call to his office.  No Doubt sued Activision in 2009 for breach of contract,
saying “Band Hero” allows likenesses of the band’s members to
perform songs by other acts.  10 Cover Songs  No Doubt said in its complaint that in 23 years it has only
released 10 cover songs. In its agreement with Activision,
whereby the band licensed the game maker to use its work in the
new version of “Guitar Hero,” No Doubt only permitted
likenesses of the members to perform three of the band’s songs,
according to the complaint.  A character manipulation feature of the game allows players
to create virtual performances, including that of No Doubt
singer Gwen Stefani performing the  Rolling Stones ’ “Honky Tonk
Woman” with her computer character “in a male voice boasting
about having sex with prostitutes,” according to the complaint.  One of the three judges on the appeals panel wrote
separately to argue that the license agreement between the band
and the video-game maker precludes Activision from seeking First
Amendment protection.  “This was a commercial agreement that granted a limited
license to Activision for use of No Doubt’s character
likenesses,” Justice Norman Epstein said. “Having agreed to
its terms, Activision cannot be heard to claim that its use of
the property in ways expressly prohibited by the agreement is
protected by the First Amendment.”  The case is No Doubt v. Activision, B223996, California
Court of Appeals, Second District   Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 