-- 
Madoff Prison Meeting Never Happened, Picard Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-16T21:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/madoff-prison-meeting-never-happened-picard-says.html
The trustee overseeing the
liquidation of  Bernard Madoff ’s former investment firm said he
never met with the jailed con man, contradicting a report in the  New York  Times.  The Times, citing a prison interview yesterday with Madoff
and a series of e-mails from him, reported today that Madoff
claimed he had provided the trustee,  Irving Picard , and members
of his team with information to help his efforts to recover
assets and pay back Madoff’s victims.  Picard’s chief counsel, David Sheehan, said in an e-mailed
statement today that the story inaccurately reported that Picard
had met with Madoff, who is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison in Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty
to orchestrating the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  “At no time did any meeting between the two take place and
there has been no direct communication between them at any
time,” Sheehan said.  The Times story quotes from an e-mail it said Madoff sent
on Dec. 29, in which Madoff allegedly wrote “my information to
Picard when he was here established” that banks “were
complicit in one form or another.” Later in the article,
written by Diana B. Henriques, the Times said Picard made
settlements with other Madoff investors “after Mr. Picard’s
trip to the prison here in Butner.”  Danielle Rhoades Ha, a spokeswoman for the Times, said the
newspaper had changed the version of the story on its website
and was preparing a correction for tomorrow’s print edition.  Picard, who has so far recovered $10 billion for Madoff
victims, has filed suits seeking $100 billion from Madoff
friends and family, feeder funds, banks and investors who
profited from the scam. His lawsuit targets include  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . and the owners of the New York Mets baseball team.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 