-- 
Thai, Malaysian Growth Probably Slowed Last Quarter

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-02-17T09:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/thai-malaysian-growth-probably-slowed-pressure-for-rate-increase-to-stay.html
  Thailand  and Malaysia may report
economic growth slowed last quarter as manufacturing output
moderated after surging during the recovery from the global
financial crisis.  Malaysia’s gross domestic product increased 4.6 percent in
the three months through December from a year earlier, after a
5.3 percent expansion in the previous period, according to the
median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
Thai economy grew 4.1 percent in the same quarter, according to
a separate survey of 12 economists.  The slowdown may be insufficient to damp pressure for
higher interest rates and stronger currencies due to
accelerating inflation. Nations from Indonesia to  China  have
tightened monetary policy this year, and the  International
Monetary Fund  says the region may need to raise rates further to
limit the risk of overheating.  “The acute issue is inflation and the growth momentum
going forward should give policy makers confidence in tackling
the elephant in the room,” said Wellian Wiranto, an economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Singapore. “Inflation won’t go away
anytime soon.”  Bank Negara Malaysia  will release the fourth-quarter
numbers at 6 p.m. local time tomorrow, while Thailand’s state
planning agency will announce the data at 9:30 a.m. on Feb. 21.  Domestic Demand  Thailand’s central bank last month estimated Southeast  Asia ’s second-biggest economy expanded 8 percent in 2010, which
would be the fastest pace in 15 years, and forecasts 3 percent
to 5 percent growth in 2011.    Malaysia  probably grew about 7 percent last year, according
to central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz, an expansion that
would be the fastest since 2000.  Prime Minister Najib Razak forecasts growth of as much as 6
percent this year, which the central bank says will be
underpinned by domestic demand and exports. The monetary
authority left borrowing costs unchanged at 2.75 percent last
month after three increases in 2010.  Malaysia’s growth may beat estimates this year as surging  palm oil  and rubber prices create a “commodity bonanza” that
will benefit banks, builders and property stocks, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Stephen Hagger. The nation’s
growth has lured funds and investment and pushed the ringgit up
more than 11 percent against the dollar in the past year.  “The upswing will probably gain more traction in 2011 and
the central bank will resume its monetary policy tightening
sooner or later,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at  Capital
Economics  (Asia) Pte in  Singapore .  Rising Wages  In Thailand, where Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  raised
the minimum wage last month and plans to increase the salaries
of civil servants in April,  consumer confidence  is rising.
Central Group, which controls Thailand’s biggest operator of
shopping malls, this month said it plans to increase investment
by 57 percent because of rising local demand.  A pick-up in consumption, along with rising wages and
higher commodity costs, is spurring inflationary pressures,
which Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul has
referred to as the “key risk.” The central bank increased its
benchmark interest rate for the fourth time in seven months on
Jan. 12 to 2.25 percent, and Prasarn has said borrowing costs
need to rise to damp quickening consumer-price growth.  “The economic growth momentum is still solid, supported by
exports, high farm income and recent wage increases,” said
Thanomsri Fongarunrung, an economist at Phatra Securities Pcl in
Bangkok. “Given the strong economic performance and heightening
risks to inflation, we expect the central bank to raise rates by
a further 50 basis points in the first half of the year.”  Political Risk  Abhisit plans to hold an election by the end of June as he
moves to ease political turmoil marked by demonstrations that
have resulted in about 100 deaths since the last vote in 2007.
There is still “high uncertainty” about Thailand’s political
situation, Thanomsri said.  Thailand, a manufacturing base for automakers including  General Motors Co . and Toyota Motor Corp., saw foreign direct
investment fall 33 percent to 236.03 billion baht ($7.7 billion)
last year as protesters occupied a Bangkok financial area.
Investment inflows into neighboring Malaysia more than tripled
to $7 billion.  Singapore said today its economy expanded an annualized 3.9
percent last quarter from the previous three months, when it
contracted 16.7 percent. That’s less than the 6.9 percent growth
estimated by the government on Jan. 3.  Taiwan Growth  Taiwan’s economic growth slowed to 6.92 percent in the
fourth quarter as exports eased after propelling the island to
one of the world’s fastest expansions last year, a report showed
today. The government’s preliminary estimate last month was 6.48
percent.    Indonesia ’s economy may expand 6.5 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Bambang Permadi Brodjonegoro, head
of fiscal policy at the  Finance Ministry , said in Jakarta today.
That compares with a 6.9 percent growth rate last quarter, which
was the fastest pace in six years.  The IMF predicts developing Asia will expand 8.4 percent in
2011 and 2012, according to a report released in January.  “Although the region’s growth is expected to settle to a
more sustainable pace, Asia will remain at the forefront of the
global recovery,” Singapore’s Trade Minister Lim Hng Kiang said
yesterday.  Singapore’s export growth more than doubled in January amid
strengthening demand for electronics and pharmaceuticals, a
report showed today. Non-oil domestic exports climbed 20.9
percent from a year earlier, after a 9.4 percent gain in
December, the trade promotion agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  