-- 
Taipei Retail Property Prices Rise to Record, Yung-Ching Says

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 
2011-02-16T07:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/taipei-retail-property-prices-rise-to-record-yung-ching-says.html
Taipei ’s retail property prices
surged to a record in January on expectations the arrival of
more Chinese tourists will boost consumption, according to  Taiwan ’s biggest real estate brokerage.  Sale prices for retail properties in Taiwan’s capital
climbed 25 percent from a year earlier to NT$1.25 million
($42,510) per ping last month, said Huang Tzeng-fu, assistant
vice president at  Yung-Ching Realty Group . A ping, a standard
measure in Taiwan, is equivalent to 36 square feet.  Taiwan expects a record number of visitor arrivals this
year to boost domestic consumption as it plans to drop a ban on
independent tourists from China, who had previously traveled in
groups. President Ma Ying-jeou said in a Feb. 8 speech he’s
targeting more than 6.5 million visitors, including those coming
to the island for leisure and business.  “The arrival of more Chinese tourists will continue to
lift property prices and extend Taipei’s store prices to a new
record,” Huang said in a phone interview.  Visitors to the island totaled 5.6 million people and
generated about NT$510 billion of tourism spending last year, Ma
said on Feb. 15.  Taipei properties around the  Pacific SOGO department stores ,
frequented by tourists, were among the favorites of investors in
January, Huang said.  Chinese tourists and the island’s economic growth may boost
consumption and raise store prices in the first six months as
much as 28 percent from the NT$1.03 million per ping in the same
period last year, Huang said.  More Chinese Tourists  Taiwan plans to allow independent Chinese tourists for the
first time in more than 60 years beginning with the Kinmen and
Matsu offshore islets, before opening up the main island,
according to Chao Chien-min, deputy minister of Taiwan’s
 Mainland Affairs Council .  Ma has allowed Chinese tourists to travel in groups since
July 2008, two months after he took office.  China  overtook Japan
last year as the island’s largest source of leisure visitors
with 1.23 million, more than twice the mainland arrivals in 2009,
according to statistics from the  Tourism Bureau . The island also
raised the daily quota for Chinese traveling in groups to 4,000
from 3,000 this year.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  