-- 
Airbus Holds Off Production Boost to Study Suppliers

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-02-16T19:46:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/airbus-holds-off-a320-production-increase-to-examine-suppliers.html
Airbus SAS, the world’s biggest
planemaker, will hold off from deciding whether to further
increase production of its workhorse A320 series to verify
whether component suppliers can keep pace.  “It’s the supply chain,” Chief Operating Officer John Leahy told journalists today at a briefing in Paris. “We’re
very conservative.”  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  is conducting more
studies into Airbus’s parts providers before making a decision,
Leahy said.  Enders said in January that the Toulouse, France-based
planemaker, a unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.,
was studying moves to boost production of single-aisle planes.
Airbus said earlier in February that monthly output of the
widebody A330 would increase to 10 aircraft from eight, without
addressing the A320, which competes with  Boeing Co .’s 737s.  Airbus took more than a year to study its engineering
resources before deciding whether to commit to offering an
updated version of its A320 with new engines. Leahy said today
the same conservative approach is being used to examine whether
major suppliers of components have the capacity to increase
production to keep pace with Airbus.  The monthly production rate on A320s and other planes in
the series will increase to 40 from 36 by 2012.  Pending Boeing Decision  Success in selling single-aisle jets is critical for Airbus
and rival Boeing as they derive most of their earnings from
those planes. Airbus late last year pledged to offer new engines
on the A320 starting in 2016, putting pressure on Chicago-based
Boeing to consider the future of its best-selling model, the
737. Boeing has yet to decide whether to develop a new plane or
offer one with new engines.  Leahy predicted today that Boeing will wait a year or more
to decide, and continue to talk about building an all-new
single-aisle aircraft before ultimately offering new engines on
the 737. That would mirror the decision-making process over the
modernization of its 737 in the early 1990s.  “I would suggest that’s exactly what’s going to happen
again,” Leahy said. “After about one year, maybe two of
talking about an all-new airplane,” Boeing will simply offer
new engines on its 737 starting in about 2020, he said.  CSeries  Leahy said the business case for Bombardier Inc.’s CSeries,
due in 2013, would no longer stand up now that Airbus is
offering airlines new engines on the A320, including the  Pratt &
Whitney  geared turbofan that will power the CSeries.  If Bombardier doesn’t win a good crop of orders over the
next year, he predicted, the Montreal-based manufacturer might
not stick with the program.  “The Bombardier CSeries is real and it’s a game changer on
so many levels,” John Arnone, a Bombardier spokesman, said in
response to Leahy’s remarks. “CSeries is an optimized solution
in a market space that has no real competitive response apart
from older and heavier aircraft.”  Bombardier has said its goal is to tap the 100- to 150-seat
segment of the narrow-body market, which is the lower end of the
passenger-capacity range on Boeing and Airbus models.  Boeing on Feb. 10 reiterated that it prefers the
development of a new narrow-body jet in about 2020 to an upgrade
of its 737 model, even with Airbus offering new engines.  “I feel pretty comfortable that we can defend our customer
base,” Boeing CEO Jim McNerney said Feb. 10 at a Cowen & Co.
conference in  New York .  The existing Airbus A320 had a list price of $81.4 million
in 2010, and Airbus has said the upgraded version would cost $6
million more. The company predicted a market potential of as
many as 4,000 aircraft over 15 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 