-- 
Al-Zayat Takes $8 Billion German Bond Claim to U.S. High Court

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-02-16T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/al-zayat-takes-8-billion-claim-on-german-gold-bonds-to-u-s-supreme-court.html
A company founded by millionaire
Fouad Al-Zayat is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to help it
secure a payment of about $8 billion on German bonds that  Adolf Hitler  ordered into default 78 years ago.  Al-Zayat, 69, began buying the debt more than a decade ago
in a bet that Germany is still on the hook for bonds issued 
near the end of the Weimar Republic, and that their value has
soared because it’s tied to the price of gold. Mortimer Off
Shore Services Ltd., a Nicosia, Cyprus-based company started by
Al-Zayat and now run by his son and son-in-law, has spent
millions of dollars on the investment and pursuing the claim in
court, according to its attorney, Peder Garske.  “It’s not like they just happened to find these bonds in
their attic or something like that,” said Garske, who declined
to say how much the company spent acquiring the securities.
“Through their contacts and through their own research, they
concluded that these particular bonds were valid and considered
by  Germany  to be valid and valuable. That’s why they acquired
them.”  Jeffrey Harris, an attorney representing Germany in two
cases filed by Mortimer Off Shore, said the company isn’t
entitled to redeem the bonds. The government won a victory in
the six-year legal battle in July when a federal appeals court
in  New York  said the company didn’t follow procedures designed
to screen out ineligible bonds, and that U.S. courts lacked
jurisdiction over debt issued in territories that became part of
East Germany after World War II.  Supreme Court Appeal  The Al-Zayat company in December asked the  Supreme Court  to
intervene, arguing the lower court’s ruling had “enormous,
negative ramifications” for holders of sovereign debt, because
it means nations can renege on obligations entered into by
earlier governments.  The  Supreme Court  plans to discuss the suit against Germany
during a Feb. 18  private conference , according to its website.
The high court may announce whether it will accept the case as
soon as Feb. 22, its next scheduled day for issuing orders on
pending matters.  “It’s a real long shot,” said Harris, an attorney at
 Rubin, Winston, Diercks, Harris & Cooke LLP  in  Washington . “The
percentage of cases that get taken to start with by the Supreme
Court is far less than 1 percent.”  Garske, of Baker & Hostetler LLP in Washington, said the
case may appeal to the justices because it pertains to the
rights of individuals and companies to sue foreign governments,
an issue the high court has shown previous interest in. His
clients sued in the U.S., not Germany, because they believed
they were more likely to get a fair hearing, he said.  Gambling Debts  Syrian-born Al-Zayat made his fortune selling airplanes and
oil in the Middle East. He became a favorite of the U.K.’s
tabloid newspapers after refusing to pay a 2 million-pound ($3.2
million) casino debt 11 years ago that he accrued in a single
night of gambling in  London ’s Mayfair district.  The casino,  Aspinall’s Club Ltd. , sued Al-Zayat in 2006. In
subsequent court filings, it came to light that he had wagered
91.5 million pounds at Aspinall’s from 1994 through 2006, losing
23.2 million pounds. His gambling appetite prompted casino staff
to refer to him as a “whale,” according to legal documents.  Justice Nigel Teare in 2008 cleared Al-Zayat of his unpaid
losses, ruling Aspinall’s violated U.K. laws that prohibit
casinos from extending credit to indebted gamblers.  “He admits that he fell into a trap of the well-
established and experienced London casinos, who open their arms
to indulge wealthy people to live the high-roller lifestyle,”
according to a statement on Al-Zayat’s  website . “It is a
lifestyle and addiction that he deeply regrets.”  Al-Zayat, who is retired, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Gold Clause  While he gambled at London casinos, Al-Zayat was also
investing in debt German banks issued in 1928 to improve the
nation’s agricultural conditions after World War I.  Al-Zayat started purchasing the bonds in the 1990s through
Mortimer Off Shore, which he set up to make investments, Garske
said. His son and son-in-law continued to buy the debt after
they took control of the company, Garske said.  The 30-year bonds were first sold in $1,000 increments in
the U.S. and paid annual interest of 6.5 percent twice a year.
To attract buyers, the debt included a clause that specified
lenders could demand repayment in dollars equivalent to the
value of gold.  Gold  sold for $20.66 an ounce on average in 1928,
according to the Washington-based  National Mining Association .  $5 Million Each  Mortimer Off Shore’s attorneys calculate that each $1,000
bond represents about 3,663.25 troy ounces of gold. When
multiplied by the metal’s current price of about $1,365 an
ounce, the firm estimates each of the 1,611 bonds held by the
company, including unpaid interest and principal, is worth $5
million, or a total of $8 billion.  The company combined its holdings with an investor who owns
83 bonds in a separate lawsuit brought against Germany in
September. The suit, filed in  Boston , says Mortimer Off Shore
has obtained additional evidence that shows Germany agreed to
guarantee the bonds and that the nation’s total liability
exceeds “$7 billion and continues to increase.”  The claims aren’t valid because Congress and the U.S.
Supreme Court forbade gold clauses in the 1930s amid concerns
that demands for the metal risked exhausting the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s supply, said Harris, Germany’s lawyer.  Lawmakers decided in the 1970s to reinstitute gold clauses,
but only in contracts entered into after 1977, he said. Even if
Mortimer Off Shore had a valid claim, the bonds are valued at
about $3,400 each based on Germany’s calculations, or a total of
$5.48 million, Harris said.  Orphans, Widows  Garske said he disputes Harris’s interpretation of U.S.
laws governing gold clauses, and whether the ban on them ever
applied to foreign debtors, such as Germany.  Bob Kerstein, who owns a Fairfax, Virginia-based business
that sells historical bonds as collectors’ items, said he gets
phone calls all the time from speculators. Scam artists also try
to market old bonds to “orphans and widows,” citing gold
clauses as a pathway to riches, he said.  “For somebody to buy these bonds and think they are going
to make millions and millions of dollars, I think it’s an uphill
battle,” said Kerstein, chief executive officer of
 Scripophily.com  in Chantilly, Virginia. “The first step is
winning in the courts, and even if you do, you may not collect
the money. I’m not sure it’s worth speculating on.”  The bonds Al-Zayat and his family bought went into default
when Hitler came to power in 1933. A portion of the bonds were
then repurchased by issuers, invalidated and stored in bank
vaults, according to German officials.  Repurchase Process  After World War II, territories that became  West Germany 
agreed to honor the debt if lenders agreed to let officials
review the bonds to determine that they hadn’t already been
repurchased. Germany set up the validation procedures after
claiming Russian soldiers had looted numerous already-redeemed
bonds from banks and re-circulated them into the market when
Germany surrendered to Allied forces in 1945.  Mortimer Off Shore contends in its Boston lawsuit that the
validation procedures are “nothing more than a mechanism to
deny legitimate claims.”  The firm also said bondholders aren’t required to validate
their debt. Rather, validation was a legal process that was set
up to ensure “expeditious payment,” according to the suit.
Mortimer Off Shore can’t validate its bonds even if the company
wanted to, because the procedures to do so no longer exist, and
never applied to territories that became East Germany, Garske
said.  World Holdings Case  Some of the banks that issued the bonds were located in
what became East Germany after the war.  Germany is trying to fend off a similar lawsuits, including
one filed by World Holdings LLC, a Tampa, Florida-based company
that controls “a significant number” of bonds issued in 1924
and 1930. The case is pending after a U.S. appeals court in
Atlanta rejected Germany’s request to dismiss the suit in
August.  Harris, who also represents Germany against World Holdings,
said he understands why investors have speculated on bonds
issued decades ago.  “There’s the allure, and at least the hope, of a huge
payday with comparatively very little investment,” he said.
“That’s the great American dream.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  