-- 
All You Need to Know About Why Things Fell Apart: Michael Lewis

-- B y   M i c h a e l   L e w i s
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/all-you-need-to-know-about-financial-crisis-commentary-by-michael-lewis.html
A surprising number of my fellow
citizens appear to be unaware of my service these past 18 months
as a member of the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission .  Thus it may come as news that I have declined to sign the
report issued by the majority, or the dissent by the three-
member minority, or even the  dissent  from their dissent, written
by the now-immortal Peter J. Wallison. I hereby dissent from the
dissent from the dissent. My dissent is different from all those
other dissents, which is why I am dissenting.  I do this, of course, not to call attention to myself.
Still less do I seek to enhance the status of my application for
employment with JPMorgan Chase. I seek merely to inform the
general public of the true causes of our so-called financial
crisis.  The task is not a simple one. In limiting me to a mere two
pages at the end of their 633-page book, the majority and the
other dissenters have suppressed not only several apt metaphors,
but deep truths.  Here, in a far-too-brief executive summary, they are:  Financial Crisis Cause No. 1:  Wall Street ’s shifting
demographics.  In the commission’s report Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  describes recent events as “the worst financial crisis
in global history, including the Great Depression.” The event,
in other words, was unprecedented. To understand an event that
has never before occurred, we must logically begin with those
factors that have never before been present. On Wall Street, the
most obvious such factor is women.  Distorted Judgment  Of course, the women who flooded into Wall Street firms
before the crisis weren’t typically permitted to take big
financial risks. As a rule they remained in the background, as
“helpmates.” But their presence clearly distorted the judgment
of male bond traders --- though the mechanics of their influence
remains unexplored by the commission (on which several women
sat).  They may have compelled the male risk takers to “show off
for the ladies,” for instance, or perhaps they merely asked
annoying questions and undermined the risk takers’ confidence.  At any rate, one sure sign of the importance of women in the
financial crisis is the market’s subsequent response: to purge
women from senior Wall Street roles. Wall Street’s gender
problem is, for the moment, of merely academic interest. Less
academic is...  Moral Collapse  Financial Crisis Cause No. 2: The moral collapse of the
American working class.  AIG head  Robert Benmosche  has recently pointed out that the
reason his firm has enjoyed such great success is precisely
because it has avoided selling insurance to the large number of
Americans who believe, as Benmosche put it, “that the
government is responsible for what happens to me.” (As we know,
the government is responsible only for what happens to AIG).  The CEO of JPMorgan,  Jamie Dimon , has often called our
attention to the outrageous amount of banker bashing by
Americans outside the financial sector, who seek to blame their
troubles on others.  Wall Street leaders now understand that they made a
mistake, one born of their innocent and trusting nature. They
trusted ordinary Americans to behave more responsibly than they
themselves ever would, and these ordinary Americans betrayed
their trust.  Amazingly, these ordinary Americans don’t even appear to
feel guilty for their actions. Like wild animals that have lost
their fear of humans, they continue to wander down from the
hills to rummage through our garbage cans for sustenance.  Best Subprime  Frankly, the commission’s report does nothing to improve
public morals. In discussing the role of the 1977 Community
Reinvestment Act, for instance, the report notes that the loans
made by big banks to meet the act’s requirements -- that is,
loans to poor people in crap neighborhoods -- outperformed,
dramatically, the general run of subprime loans.  Such nitpicking merely obscures the critical point. For at
least two centuries the U.S. government has encouraged people
who didn’t work on Wall Street to think of themselves as
“ equal .” Government policies have emboldened ordinary
Americans to borrow money they never intended to repay, just
like rich people do, and cowed the financial elite into lending
it to them. You can’t forget to bear-proof the garbage cans, and
expect the bears won’t notice.  Along these same lines I cannot help but point out...  Blame China  Financial Crisis Cause No. 3: The Chinese.  The willingness of this remote and curious people to sell
us goods at ridiculously low prices is disruptive. It encourages
our poor to believe they can afford many items which they should
not be able to, for instance. And the vast number of dollars
these same Chinese people willingly lend to us at absurdly low
rates of interest places an unfair burden on our financiers, who
must find someplace to put them.  This is a far more difficult job than is commonly
understood; it often leaves Wall Street people feeling
overworked and underappreciated. If we want our financiers to
perform even better than they do, we must cease to expect more
from them than they can give.  Which brings me to...  Financial Crisis Cause No. 4: Upon our trusting, hard-
working and underappreciated financiers we thrust the impossible
task of overcoming impersonal historical forces.  The most distressing aspect of the commission’s report is
its attempt to blame actual human beings for the financial
crisis: fraudulent CDO managers, greedy ratings companies, Wall
Street bond traders and, especially, Wall Street CEOs. Think
about this: If everyone on Wall Street is guilty, how can anyone
be? If no one on Wall Street saw it coming, how can anyone be
expected to have seen it?  Details for Dummies  Anyway, as several Wall Street CEOs tried patiently to
explain to the commission, the details were never their
responsibility.  Martin Sullivan , the CEO of AIG in the three
years leading up to its near collapse, even went so far as to
prove that he had no idea how much he’d been paid ($107
million).  The commission proved incapable of grasping the point: the
rare man capable of running a big Wall Street firm remains
focused on the big picture. And in the big picture, from the
point of view of their firms and their earnings potential, the
so-called financial crisis was a blip. They’ve already forgotten
about it.  And they assume that, eventually, you will, too.  (Michael Lewis, most recently author of the best-selling
“The Big Short,” is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Michael Lewis  at  mlewis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  