-- 
Bankrupt Ambac Fights U.S. Tax Collectors in Three Courts

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ambac-seeks-court-order-to-block-u-s-tax-collection-update1-.html
  Ambac Financial Group Inc . asked a
judge overseeing its bankruptcy to enforce a Wisconsin court’s
order that it says blocks the U.S. government from suing to
collect federal income taxes.  The bankrupt holding company for a failed bond insurer said
in a court filing yesterday in Manhattan that a complaint filed
Feb. 9 against its Ambac Assurance Corp. by the  Internal Revenue
Service  violates an agreement the IRS made not to take
enforcement action without giving five days’ notice.  The IRS asked a federal court in Wisconsin to rule that the
state court can’t stop the service from collecting a
$700 million tax liability that Ambac owes.  The company and the bankruptcy court overseeing its Chapter
11 case weren’t notified before the complaint was filed, Ambac
Financial said in today’s documents. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  scheduled a Feb. 18 hearing to
consider whether to grant Ambac’s request for a restraining
order.  Ambac Assurance was the second-largest U.S. bond insurer
before the 2008 financial crisis. Mounting defaults in mortgages
underlying the securities swamped the company with claims,
threatening its viability. New York-based Ambac Financial Group
Inc., which owns the Wisconsin-based insurer, filed for Chapter
11 bankruptcy court protection on Nov. 8 in Manhattan, claiming
$1.68 billion in liabilities.  The IRS has challenged Ambac’s claims to tax deductions the
company said were generated by $7 billion in net operating
losses. In January, the Circuit Court of  Dane County , Wisconsin,
issued a ruling preventing the IRS from collecting and possibly
assessing federal income taxes against Ambac, according to the
court filings.  The case is In Re: Ambac Financial Group Inc., 10-15973,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 