-- 
Lance Armstrong Quits Cycling to Focus on Family, Campaign Against Cancer

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-16T13:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/lance-armstrong-quits-cycling-to-focus-on-family-campaign-against-cancer.html
Seven-time  Tour de France  champion  Lance Armstrong  said he’s quitting professional cycling, ending
a two-year comeback at age 39.  Armstrong said in a news release that he will devote
himself “full time” to his family and leading his cancer
research foundation. It’s the second time he’s retired.  “My focus now is raising my five children, promoting the
mission of Livestrong” and working with companies in the battle
against cancer, Armstrong said.  Food and Drug Administration special agent Jeff Novitzky is
holding a doping probe into the U.S. Postal Service team, with
which Armstrong won most of his Tour titles. Armstrong has never
failed a drug test and repeatedly denied using any banned
performance-enhancing substances.  The rider dismissed allegations by  Floyd Landis  last year
that doping was commonplace on the team, saying his fellow
American wasn’t a credible witness. Landis was stripped of his
2006 Tour win for a failed drugs test.  Armstrong had planned to compete in the Tour of  California 
and other U.S. races this year although he has been troubled by
a knee injury since December, his RadioShack team spokesman
Philippe Maertens said by telephone.  Armstrong had already ruled out racing again in the Tour de
France after finishing third in 2009 and 23rd last year. He had
also said January’s Tour Down Under in Australia would be his
last international race.  The Texan said his comeback had spurred new investment in  cancer research  and raised awareness about the disease.  “We’ve come a long way in two years,” he said. “I’m
humbled and grateful for the outpouring of support our campaign
and our partners received.”  Armstrong first returned to cycling in 1998 after
recovering from testicular cancer that spread to his brain and
lungs. He won the Tour for the first time in 1999 and completed
his seventh straight victory in 2005 before retiring. He
returned in January 2009 at the Tour Down Under.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 