-- 
Anna Nicole Gets Singing Double at Covent Garden: Interview

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/anna-nicole-smith-s-singing-double-evokes-tragedy-enhancements-interview.html
Eva-Maria Westbroek is renowned for
singing some of the biggest, loudest roles in opera. She’s now
tackling a big character in a more euphemistic sense.  The Dutch soprano is playing the surgically enhanced party
girl Anna Nicole Smith in the world premiere of “Anna Nicole”
at the  Royal Opera House  in London.  The work, which opens tomorrow, has raised anticipatory
eyebrows. Apart from the fear that Covent Garden is dumbing
down, there have been rumors of simulated sex scenes on stage.  “It’s done in a way that doesn’t bother me at all,” says
Westbroek, who squeezed a phone interview with me into her
rehearsal schedule. “The director is careful about it. I’ve
done more troubling things on stage.  “In Shostakovich’s ‘Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk’ at the Royal
Opera there was much more touching and fondling. My main worry
wasn’t about sex. It was that the piece was simply going to make
fun of Anna Nicole. That’s not the case.”  To counter the “dumbing down” argument, the Royal Opera
has fielded its biggest guns at the piece, which is by U.K.
composer Mark-Anthony Turnage and librettist  Richard Thomas 
(writer of “Jerry Springer: the Opera”). The company’s music
director Antonio Pappano conducts, and the staging is by Richard
Jones. The cast includes star baritone Gerald Finley.  That’s a lot of top-drawer talent for the sad, even sordid,
story of a front-pumped woman who married a billionaire 62 years
older, and who died from an overdose of  prescription drugs  in
2007.  Tragic Ambition  “The piece doesn’t just laugh at her for her mistakes,”
Westbroek says. “People forget that there was a tragic element
to her story. Her 20-year-old son died in her bed, a few days
after she gave birth to his stepsister, and a few months before
her own death. She cared more about her son than anyone in the
world.  “The opera is about a young woman getting ahead in the
world, excited about her life, struggling to support her son. It
begins with a lot of humor. At the end, it’s bleak. It’s a mix
of comedy and tragedy.”  Does she worry about playing a real person? “Anna Nicole
was so iconic, and she lived such a highly reported life, that
she’s almost not a real person,” Westbroek says. “Gerald
Finley, who plays Anna Nicole’s boyfriend Howard K. Stern,
suggested to me that we’re playing archetypes. It’s a piece
about how we live now, our attitudes. That seems right.”  The poster, which shows Westbroek as Anna Nicole, has
astonishing verisimilitude. Was she surprised? “Yes, I couldn’t
believe it was me,” says Westbroek. “It’s amazing what can be
done with a lot of makeup and a blonde wig.” And the artificial
enhancements? “They’re enormous,” says Westbroek. “As
expected. I won’t be the only one wearing them in the opera.
You’ll have to come see.”  “Anna Nicole” opens tomorrow and is in repertory through
March 4 at the Royal Opera House,  London . Information:
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 