-- 
Tanzania May Hit Its Coffee Target on Improved Yields

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-02-16T11:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/tanzania-says-it-may-hit-2010-11-coffee-output-forecast-on-better-yields.html
  Tanzania  could meet its coffee
production forecast of 55,000 metric tons for the current
marketing season as improved yields in the southern and western
regions offset lower output in the north, according to the
 Tanzania Coffee Board .  More than 53,000 tons of beans have been recorded as having
been harvested for the season that ends in June, Adolph Kumburu,
director general of the board, said in an interview today in
Arusha, in northern Tanzania. The board’s forecast for the
season is 54 percent higher than last season’s crop, he said.  “Yields, particularly in the south, are continuously
rising because of good weather in the region,” said Kumburu.
“The south and west weren’t affected by the drought which was
experienced in the north.” The northern region traditionally
accounts for about 20 percent of the annual production, he said.  Marketing of this season’s crop will end next month because
of a decline in stockpiles, Kumburu said. Tanzania’s marketing
season normally ends before the crop year, which closes at the
end of June. Tanzania reaps its crop from April through August.  The East African nation is increasing planting in an effort
to raise coffee output to 100,000 tons by 2015, Kumburu said.  Tanzania grows both the robusta and arabica varieties in
the western Kagera region, while the northern Kilimanjaro and
southern regions mainly produce arabica. Arabica accounts for
about 75 percent of output, with robusta making up the rest.  Tanzania is  Africa ’s fourth-largest coffee producer after  Ethiopia ,  Uganda  and the  Ivory Coast .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Johannesburg on 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  