-- 
Arabs Reject U.S. Offer to Pressure Israel to Halt Settlement Construction

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-02-16T20:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/arabs-reject-u-s-offer-to-pressure-israel-to-halt-settlement-construction.html
Arab nations have rejected a U.S.
offer to increase pressure on Israel to stop  West Bank 
settlement construction in exchange for Arab agreement to
withdraw their  United Nations  draft resolution demanding a halt
to all such building, three diplomats said.    Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, presented the
deal to Arab ambassadors yesterday in an effort to avoid having
to veto their resolution, according to the diplomats, who spoke
on condition of not being identified because she wanted the
proposal to be kept confidential.  A committee of Arab foreign ministers rejected the deal,
and their UN ambassadors informed Rice of the decision today,
the diplomats said. Ibrahim Dabbashi,  Libya ’s deputy UN
ambassador, said in a telephone interview that a vote on the
draft resolution would be called in the  Security Council 
tomorrow or Feb. 18.  The U.S. mission to the UN declined to comment on the
meetings.  The draft resolution, which would declare the construction
illegal, was circulated to  Security Council  members last month.
The U.S. has said it opposes bringing the issue to the panel,
where 14 of the 15 members would likely vote for it.  Rice told the Arabs the U.S. would support stronger
statements on settlement construction and other issues in the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict by the Security Council and the
Middle East Quartet, which is composed of the U.S., Russia, the
UN and the European Union, the diplomats said. They said she
also indicated that the U.S. would consider backing a Security
Council trip to the Middle East that  Russia  has proposed.  Quartet’s ‘Regrets’  The Quartet, which is scheduled to meet on March 15,
stopped short of calling for a halt to settlement activity in a
Feb. 5 statement, saying only that it “regrets the
discontinuation” of Israel’s 10-month moratorium on settlement
construction.  The U.S. opposes “attempts to take these issues to this
council and will continue to do so, because such action moves us
no closer to the goal of a negotiated final settlement,” U.S.
Deputy Ambassador Rosemary DiCarlo said in a Jan. 19 meeting of
the Security Council.  She reiterated the U.S. view that “continued settlement
expansion is corrosive, not only to peace efforts and the two-
state solution, but to  Israel ’s future itself. Like every U.S.
administration for decades, we do not accept the legitimacy of
continued Israeli settlement activity.”  Incentives Package  President  Barack Obama  last year offered Israel a package
of incentives to halt settlements that included a pledge to
block such proposed resolutions in the Security Council, and
then abandoned attempts last month to broker a freeze on
construction after Israel refused to halt building.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and East
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  