-- 
FTSE 100 Fluctuates Near Highest Level Since May 2008; Shares of RBS Gain

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-02-17T17:05:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/arm-holdings-barclays-ladbrokes-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
Most U.K. stocks fell as U.S.
reports showed the cost of living in the world’s largest economy
climbed more than forecast last month and first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  rose last week.    BAE Systems Plc  declined 4.2 percent after posting full-
year profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , the bank that is 83 percent government-
owned, advanced 3.8 percent as Berenberg Bank and Evolution
Group Plc advised buying the shares.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  added less than 0.1 percent to
6,087.38 at the close in London as 54 stocks fell. The gauge has
advanced 3.2 percent this year, bringing its rally since March
2009 to 73 percent, as investors bet that a stronger economic
recovery will boost corporate earnings. The  FTSE All-Share Index 
rose 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.7
percent.  The U.S. consumer-price index increased 0.4 percent for a
second month, exceeding the 0.3 percent median estimate of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor
Department showed today in  Washington . A separate report showed
more Americans than projected filed first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  last week, a sign the improvement in the
labor market will take time to develop.  “While a failure of inflation to abate by May might force
the Bank into raising rates, this would put the U.K. in the
unique position of tightening both fiscal and monetary policy at
the same time -- a formula likely to drive renewed talk of
recession,” said Sunil Krishnan, portfolio manager in the
BlackRock Multi-Asset Client Solutions group.  The Bank of England’s inflation projections prompted
economists at banks including  Barclays Capital  to bring forward
their forecast for the first interest-rate increase this year.    Barclays Plc  economist Simon Hayes said policy makers are
“leaning toward a rate hike over the next few months” after
the central bank published its Inflation Report in London.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in January for
the seventh straight month, signaling the expansion will extend
into this year. The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for
the next three to six months increased 0.1 percent after rising
0.8 percent in December, the New York-based group said today.  BAE Systems, Europe’s largest defense company, slid 4.2
percent to 340.9 pence. The company forecast that revenue will
fall this year as the U.K. government reduces spending. BAE also
reported 2010 profit of 1.05 billion pounds ($1.7 billion),
missing estimates.    Reed Elsevier Plc  sank 2.2 percent to 561.5 pence as the
owner of the LexisNexis database and ComputerWeekly magazine
reported net income that was in line with analysts’ estimates.  RBS gained 3.8 percent to 49 pence. Evolution added the
shares to its core banks buy list. Berenberg rated the shares
“buy” in new coverage.  -- With assistance from Nandini Sukumar in London. Editor: Jason
Carey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  