-- 
Oil, Gold Gain, Asian Stocks Decline as Tensions Escalate in Middle East

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/asia-stocks-advance-dollar-yen-weaken-on-optimism-for-stronger-recovery.html
Oil climbed while Asian stocks
declined for the first time in four days amid escalating
tensions in the Middle East.  Crude for March delivery jumped 1.3 percent in  New York  to
$87.34 a barrel as of 9:20 a.m. in Tokyo. Gold rose 0.2 percent,
pacing a rally among precious metals. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slipped 0.1 percent to 139.74, halting a three-day, 1.6
percent advance. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
slipped 0.1 percent.  Libyan security forces attacked anti-government protestors,
drawing condemnation from the U.S. and  Europe  as the North
African country became the focal point of demonstrations after
violence flared in Yemen, Djibouti and Bahrain. In  China ,
authorities acted to halt an online call for a “Jasmine
Revolution,” while the central bank announced after the close
of markets on Feb. 18 an increase in lenders’ reserve ratios.  “You’ve got to be very concerned, particularly because it
can affect the oil price, and if you have the oil price spike up
another $20, $30, you could reenter a global recession,” Bill Belchere, global chief economist at Mirae Asset Securities, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Hong Kong .  Crude earlier rose as much as 1.5 percent to $87.50 in New
York. Brent crude gained 0.9 percent in  London . Amid the
widening revolt in  Libya , Africa’s biggest holder of crude oil
reserves, leader Muammar Qaddafi’s son went on state television
to warn that a civil war would risk the country’s oil wealth and
invite a return of colonial powers.  Death Toll  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, in a broadcast carried on U.S. cable
networks, said the Libyan army made errors in handling anti-
government protests and that almost 100 people had been killed,
less than half the toll compiled by Human Rights Watch. He also
said that some demonstrators had captured military equipment.  Gold for immediate delivery rose to 1,391.65 an ounce.
Silver climbed 0.4 percent.  About three stocks fell for every two that gained on MSCI’s
Asian index. The gauge rose 3 percent last week, its biggest
weekly advance since the period ended Dec. 3.    BlueScope Steel Ltd .,  Australia ’s largest steelmaker,
dropped 4.2 percent after saying its first-half loss widened.
Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., a South Korean builder
that gets about 38 percent of its revenue from the Middle East,
declined 2.1 percent.  “Investors are looking to see whether concern over the
situation in the Middle East will overshadow optimism about the
U.S. economic outlook,” said Kazuhiro Takahashi, a general
manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 