-- 
Asian Stocks Rise as Nomura Uprades Japan Economy; Chin Steelmakers Climb

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-02-16T10:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/asian-stocks-climb-to-one-week-high-on-analyst-upgrades-toshiba-advances.html
Asian stocks climbed, as Nomura
Holdings Inc. raised its growth forecasts for Japan and analysts
upgraded companies from  Toshiba Corp . to  Iluka Resources Ltd .  Toshiba, the world’s second-biggest maker of  flash memory ,
rallied 3.2 percent while Australia’s Iluka Resources jumped 3.8
percent. Elpida Memory Inc., Japan’s No. 1 maker of computer
memory chips, increased 3.6 after U.S.-based Dell Inc. reported
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the
world’s largest mining company, dropped in Sydney after its
dividend and buyback program came in at the lower end of
forecasts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.4 percent to 138.17 as
of 7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, reversing yesterday’s retreat. The gauge
last week sank 2.7 percent after  China  raised borrowing costs
and anti-government protests intensified in  Egypt , eventually
forcing President  Hosni Mubarak  to resign.  “The worst of the economic conditions are behind us,”
said  Junichi Misawa , head of equity investment at Tokyo-based
STB Asset Management Co., which oversees about $14 billion. “If
the global economy continues to recover, that should boost
Japanese stocks.”  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.6 percent amid
optimism about the nation’s economy. The  Bank of Japan  yesterday
raised its economic assessment for the first time in nine months.  Kospi Declines  “We now expect the Japanese economy to emerge from its
lull sooner than we had previously thought,” Nomura economists
wrote in a report sent to clients yesterday. We “are
forecasting a return to an upward trajectory in 2011 Q1.”  Elsewhere, South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 1.1 percent
while  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell less than 0.1 percent.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.9 percent while the  Hang Seng Index  rose 1.1 percent as industrial companies and
steelmakers rallied.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4
percent after the benchmark for U.S. equities yesterday fell
from a 32-month high as retail sales missed economists’
forecasts and Exxon Mobil Corp. dropped.  Toshiba jumped 3.2 percent to 549 yen in Tokyo after Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc. raised its recommendation for the shares
to “outperform” from “neutral.”    Asahi Glass   Iluka Resources gained 3.8 percent to A$10.01, a record
high as Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc upgraded the world’s
biggest zircon producer to “buy.”  Asahi Glass Co. climbed 2.2 percent to 1,237 yen after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded Japan’s biggest glass producer
to “neutral” from “sell.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest
publicly traded bank, gained 0.6 percent to 470 yen and Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc., the No. 2, rose 2.3 percent to
3,140 yen.  Angang Steel Co., Hong Kong’s biggest listed Chinese
steelmaker, climbed 1.2 percent to HK$11.46 after the Apple
Daily said rival Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. raised prices. Wuhan’s
shares rallied 1.6 percent to 4.6 yuan in  Shanghai .  BHP Slides  Elpida jumped 3.6 to 2,981 yen, while NEC Corp., Japan’s
biggest personal computer maker, rose 0.8 percent to 243 yen.  Dell jumped in late New York trading after fourth-quarter
profit topped estimates and the company made headway in the
market for data centers.  BHP paced declining shares, dropping 1.8 percent to A$46.52,
as the mining company declared an interim dividend of 46 cents
and a share buyback of $10 billion compared with $4.2 billion in
November.  “The shares are down on the company’s capital return which
has been the focus for the market,” said Sydney-based Andrew Gardner, an analyst at MF Global. “The interim dividend and
buyback were both at the lower end of the forecast and there is
some uncertainty as to how BHP’s buyback will be implemented.”  Earlier in the week rival Rio Tinto Group said it will pay
a final dividend of 64 cents per share which beat a Bloomberg
forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 