-- 
Astellas to Pay Aveo as Much as $1.3 Billion for Drug

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-02-17T00:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/astellas-to-pay-aveo-as-much-as-1-3-billion-for-experimental-cancer-drug.html
  Astellas Pharma Inc ., Japan’s
second-biggest drugmaker, said it will pay  Aveo Pharmaceuticals
Inc . as much as $1.3 billion for the rights to develop and sell
an experimental cancer drug that may compete with medicines from
Pfizer Inc. and Bayer AG.  The drug, tivozanib, is now being tested for  kidney cancer 
in the last of three phases normally required for U.S. approval,
Aveo, of Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and Tokyo-based Astellas said
today in a statement. The study compares the medicine with
Nexavar, a treatment from Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Bayer
AG, which generated $842 million in 2009.  If approved, tivozanib will become the latest member of a
class of anti-cancer drugs known as  VEGF receptor inhibitors 
that prevent the production of new blood vessels so tumors don’t
grow. Nexavar is a member of that class, as is Pfizer’s Sutent,
which had sales of $1.1 billion last year as a therapy for
several cancer types including kidney.  “The Aveo drug appears to be the best of that class,”
based on data released last year, said George Farmer, an analyst
with Cannacord Genuity in  New York . “Our view is it will
probably be competitive with Sutent.”  Sutent is approved as an initial therapy for renal cell
carcinoma while Nexavar is used by patients who don’t improve or
regress after being treated with other drugs, Farmer said. While
tivozanib won’t likely reduce sales and use of Nexavar, it may
replace Sutent if it’s shown to work better, he said.  Rivals Sutent Effectiveness  Early studies suggest tivozanib is more effective and
causes fewer side effects than Sutent, said Tuan Ha-Ngoc, Aveo’s
chief executive officer.  While Sutent has “reasonable efficacy,” many patients
“can’t stay on the drug for a long period of time,” Ha-Ngoc
said in a telephone interview today.  Studies in 272 patients released last year showed that
patients taking tivozanib kept their cancer from worsening for
14.8 months, compared with 11 months in studies using Sutent,
Ha-Ngoc said.  The deal with Astellas will allow Aveo to accelerate
development and testing of the drug in breast and  colon cancer ,
Ha-Ngoc said.  Astellas will pay Aveo as much as $575 million if the
treatment is approved by regulators and as much as $780 million
or more if it achieves certain sales targets. The companies said
they will share equally all costs and profits from sales of the
drug in  North America  and  Europe . Outside those regions,
Astellas will pay development and marketing costs and a royalty
on sales, the companies said.  Kidney cancer is the eighth most commonly diagnosed cancer
in men and women in the U.S. An estimated 200,000 people
worldwide were diagnosed in 2010 with the disease, which killed
more than 100,000, the companies said.  Aveo jumped 22 percent to $16.99 in extended trading. The
shares lost 28 cents, or 2 percent, to $13.88 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock market composite trading before the deal
was announced. Aveo shares have gained 54 percent since they
began public trading on March 12. Astellas fell 1.5 percent to
3,265 yen in Tokyo trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 