-- 
Tata Steel Shares Gain After Profit More Than Doubles

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-02-16T11:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/tata-steel-shares-gain-after-profit-more-than-doubles-update1-.html
  Tata Steel Ltd ., India’s biggest
producer of the alloy, gained in Mumbai after reporting third-
quarter group profit more than doubled because of rising demand
from carmakers.  The shares gained 4 percent to 641.40 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close of trading. The benchmark Sensitive Index of the
Bombay Stock Exchange rose 0.2 percent.  Net income, including that of unit Tata Steel  Europe  Ltd.,
surged to 10.03 billion rupees ($220 million) in the three
months ended Dec. 31 from 4.73 billion rupees a year ago, the
Mumbai-based company said yesterday in a statement after the
market closed. The median estimate of 20 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey was 10.7 billion rupees. Sales rose 10 percent to 286.1
billion rupees.  “The performance of the company’s domestic operations has
surprised us,” said  Niraj Shah , a senior vice-president at
Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai. “Tata Steel benefitted
by selling more high-value automotive steel in the last
quarter,” said Shah, who maintained his ‘buy’ rating on the
company.  Tata Steel Europe, which contributes more than two-thirds
of group production and owns no coal or iron ore mine, paid
about 62 percent more for coking coal and almost double for iron
ore in the quarter, based on benchmark prices. The Indian unit
gets all of its  iron ore  and about half of its coal needs from
its own mines.  The commencement of coking coal supplies from  Mozambique  to
the company’s European plants and the increase in capacity at
its Jamshedpur factory in  India  will add to earnings in the
fiscal years 2012 and 2013, Kamlesh Bagmar, an analyst with an
“accumulate” rating on the stock at Prabhudas Lilladher Ltd. in
Mumbai, said in a note to clients today.  The cost of raw materials at Tata Steel Europe increased by
more than $150 a ton in the quarter from a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Koushik Chatterjee said yesterday at a media
briefing in Mumbai, without giving percentage figures. Coal spot
prices may continue to rise this year after floods in  Australia 
lowered supplies and as demand gains in China and India,
researcher McCloskey Group Ltd. said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  