-- 
Food Riots Threaten Latin America on Surging Commodities in UN Assessment

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-16T08:26:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/latin-america-africa-most-at-risk-from-riots-as-food-prices-rise-un-says.html
Countries in Latin America and  Africa , including Bolivia and Mozambique, are most at risk of 
food riots as prices advance, the  United Nations  reported.  The past month’s protests in North Africa and the Middle
East were partly linked to agriculture costs. World food prices
climbed to a record in January, the UN said on Feb. 3. Food
prices are rising to “dangerous levels and threaten tens of
millions of poor people” globally, World Bank President Robert Zoellick said yesterday.  “The low-income food deficit countries are on the front
line of the current surge in world prices,”  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization in  Rome , said in an e-mail Feb. 14. Other
countries where expensive food imports may become a “major
burden” include  Uganda , Mali, Niger and Somalia in Africa,
Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in  Asia  and Honduras, Guatemala, and
Haiti in Latin America, he said.  Wheat traded at a record in Zhengzhou, China on Feb. 14 and
the grain, corn and soybeans rallied to the highest levels in 2
1/2 years in  Chicago  the past week. Governments from Beijing to
Belgrade are raising imports, limiting exports or releasing
supply from stockpiles to curb inflation.  Higher prices of wheat, rice, sugar and dairy products
helped push the FAO’s Food Price Index to a record last month.
Protests in North Africa have driven Tunisia’s President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile after 23 years in power and forced  Hosni Mubarak  to resign as  Egypt ’s president and hand power to
the army.  Food Crisis  North Africa is “still vulnerable, even more so than
before as situations are uncertain and domestic price stability
depends on the good functioning and continuation of subsidy
programs, such as in Egypt,” Abbassian said in response to the
question on which countries are most at risk of food riots.  The world faces a “real risk” of a food crisis as
agriculture-commodity prices climb, increasing the likelihood of
riots in developing countries, French Agricultural Minister
Bruno Le Maire said earlier this month. Rising prices have
pushed 44 million more people into “extreme” poverty in  developing countries  since June, the World Bank estimates.  Goldman View  Food prices are going higher because there is competition
for limited arable land to boost supplies, said Jeff Currie,
global head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in London.  “Each time there were food price spikes in the last decade,
there would be rotation from one crop to the next, meaning you
would go from a  bull market  in one crop to the next crop each
year,” Currie said in an interview yesterday. “What is
different this time is that there is less capability to rotate
land because strong demand is exhausting total arable land.”  Higher food costs helped provoke deadly riots this year in
countries including  Algeria , and at least 13 people died in  Mozambique  last year in protests against plans to increase bread
prices. The U.S. State Department estimates there were more than
60 food riots worldwide from 2007 to 2009.  Global wheat harvests may trail demand for a second year,
spurring “widespread” hoarding and further price gains,
Abbassian said last week. Wheat production needs to increase at
least 3 percent to 4 percent, he said then.  Wheat Production  Global wheat production will probably drop 4.3 percent to
653 million metric tons in 2010-2011 from the previous year,
while demand may expand 1.2 percent to 667 million tons, the FAO
said in December. The U.S.  Department of Agriculture  estimates
output at 645.4 million tons and demand at 665.2 million tons.  “The world needs wheat production in the 690 level next
year or things shall truly become tight,”  Dennis Gartman , an
economist and the editor of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman
Letter, said on Feb. 14. “Stronger economies take greater sums
of grain to meet rising demand or prices shall have to rise to
ration supplies.”  About 42 percent of the total area planted with wheat in
China’s eight major producing provinces has been hurt by a dry
spell that may last into the spring, Minister of Agriculture Han Changfu said Feb. 9.  China  is the largest wheat consumer,
representing about 17 percent of global use in the year to June
30, according to data from the London-based International Grains
Council.  Russia’s Drought  Prices gained after drought slashed Russian production,
floods eroded crops in Australia and  Canada  and dry weather
threatened U.S. output.  Wheat reached $9.1675 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade on Feb. 14, the highest price since August 2008 for a
most-active contract, and has surged 76 percent the past year.
That compares with an 88 percent gain for corn and a 47 percent
increase for soybeans.  The crisis is global. Bolivia will tap central bank
reserves to spur agricultural production and stockpile food,
Finance Minister Luis Arce said on Feb. 10. Protests over sugar
shortages and rising transport costs prompted President  Evo Morales  to cancel his participation at an event in the mining
city of Oruro last week. Faster inflation caused by rising food
prices is becoming a global problem, Arce said.  Still, higher food prices will prompt increased investment
in agriculture research, development and infrastructure, Cargill
Inc. Senior Vice President Paul Conway said yesterday at a
conference in Birmingham,  England . Improved technology and
investments to attract young people into agriculture will
enhance yields and help the world’s farmers feed a population
that’s expected by the U.K. government to rise to 8 billion by
2030, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 