-- 
Atlas Shareholders Approve Company’s Sale to Chevron

-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-02-16T23:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/atlas-shareholders-approve-company-s-sale-to-chevron-update1-.html
  Atlas Energy Inc . shareholders
approved  Chevron Corp .’s $3.58 billion takeover bid, clearing
the way for the oil company’s first U.S. shale-gas purchase.  Almost 100 percent of shareholder votes were cast in favor
of the takeover, which is expected to close “promptly,”
according to a statement today from Atlas. The company, based in
Moon Township, Pennsylvania, is one of the largest leaseholders
in the Marcellus Shale gas field, controlling 622,000 acres.  The transaction “will most likely close tomorrow night,”
Scott Hanold, an Austin, Texas-based analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets , said in an e-mail.  Major U.S. oil companies have been acquiring holdings in
the Marcellus and other North America shale formations to
increase their access to onshore oil and gas production.  Exxon
Mobil Corp . last year bought XTO Energy Inc., which owned
acreage in the Barnett Shale in Texas and Louisiana.  Shale-rock formations require injection of water, sand and
chemicals to release gas.  Chevron’s cash-and-stock bid valued the company at $43.34 a
share when it was announced Nov. 9, a 37 percent premium to the
previous day’s closing price. Based on current prices, the offer
is worth $45.48 a share.    Reliance Industries Ltd ., which has a joint venture to
drill in the Marcellus Shale with Atlas, said in a Jan. 10
letter to Atlas’s board that it should’ve been given a chance to
make an offer. A spokesperson in the Houston office of Mumbai-
based Reliance didn’t immediately respond to a voice mail
seeking comment.  Pipeline Subsidiary  As part of the agreement with Chevron, Atlas will sell
certain gas reserves and assets to its pipeline subsidiary,
Atlas Pipelines Holdings LP, and acquire the subsidiary’s
interest in another pipeline partnership, Laurel Mountain
Midstream LLC. Atlas Energy didn’t immediately return a phone
call seeking comment.  Chevron, based in  San Ramon ,  California , agreed on Feb. 7
to pay an additional 10 cents a share to settle a shareholder
lawsuit that alleged the bid was too low.  Atlas rose 73 cents to $45.84 at 4:54 p.m. on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. Chevron rose 32 cents to $96.66 in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 