-- 
Moody’s May Downgrade Ratings of Four Australian Banks

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T10:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/australian-bank-ratings-being-considered-for-possible-downgrade-by-moody-s.html
Australia’s four biggest banks and
their  New Zealand  unit may have their ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service on concern that access to overseas markets for
funding will be “significantly restrained.”    Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd .,  National
Australia Bank Ltd .,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac
Banking Corp . hold Moody’s second-highest Aa1 rating. They’re
likely to remain in the Aa category after the review, Moody’s
said in a statement today.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies pared gains after
the announcement. Moody’s said funds from capital markets
account on average for 43 percent of the lenders’ liabilities,
making them vulnerable to shifts in investor confidence. Still,
the banks have bolstered local deposits and curbed a funding
shortfall, an analyst at  Southern Cross  Equities Ltd. said.  “Moody’s seems about 12 months too late with this
concern,” T.S. Lim, an analyst at Southern Cross in Sydney,
said by telephone. “The banks have just reported and they’ve
shown wholesale funding isn’t an issue for them anymore.”  Credit-default swaps insuring the debt of Australia’s four
biggest banks rose 3 basis points to 107 basis points as of 7:18
p.m. in Sydney, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. Swaps on the
banks’ subordinated debt rose 4 basis points to 153 basis
points, Nomura prices show.  Currency Trading  The Australian dollar traded at 99.94 U.S. cents as of 8:14
a.m. in  London  from 99.64 cents yesterday in  New York  after
earlier rising as high as $1.0018. The so-called kiwi was at
75.34 U.S. cents from 75.19 cents, after climbing to 75.63
cents.  Westpac “continues to attract strong investor support for
its wholesale funding,” Australia’s second-largest bank said in
a statement. “The group has taken a number of steps in recent
years to diversify its funding sources and improve its funding
tenor, allowing it to continue to support its customers.”  Customer deposits rose A$8 billion ($8 billion) in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, helping Westpac buy back $2.1 billion in
government-guaranteed bonds, the Sydney-based bank said
yesterday. A further A$7 billion in term wholesale funding was
raised in the three month period, it said.  The ratings outlooks for ANZ, Commonwealth Bank and Westpac
had been negative since March 2009, and NAB since August 2008,
Moody’s said.  “The review will focus on the Australian banking system’s
structural sensitivity to conditions in the wholesale funding
market,” Patrick Winsbury, a Sydney-based senior vice president
at Moody’s, wrote in the note. Market funds comprise an average
43 percent of total liabilities for the four banks, he said.  Reducing Dependence  ANZ,  Australia ’s third-largest bank by market value, has
“been working hard” to reduce its reliance on wholesale
funding, which now accounts for about one third of the
Melbourne-based lender’s funding mix, Group Treasurer Rick Moscati said in a statement today.  National Australia Bank, the nation’s fourth-largest
lender, is “committed to maintaining strong capital, funding
and liquidity positions,” according to a statement from the
Melbourne-based lender today.  The bank has raised about A$12.6 billion of unsecured term
wholesale funding this financial year as part of its plan to
raise A$25 billion to A$30 billion in the 12 months ending Sept.
30.  The Aa2 long-term senior unsecured debt and deposit ratings
of New Zealand’s four major banks, ANZ National Bank Ltd., ASB
Bank Ltd.,  Bank of New Zealand , and Westpac New Zealand Ltd.,
may also be downgraded, according to a separate statement from
the agency.  The increase in funding costs is likely to slow,
Commonwealth Bank Chief Financial Officer David Craig told
reporters last week. The Sydney-based company is the nation’s
largest lender.  --Luo Jun, Jason Scott. With assistance from  Henry Sanderson  in
Beijing. Editors: Chitra Somayaji, Iain Wilson  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  