-- 
Australian Dollar Reaches Nine-Month High Versus Yen on Interest-Rate Gap

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-17T17:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/australian-dollar-trades-near-nine-month-high-versus-yen-on-yield-spread.html
The Australian dollar rose to a
nine-month high against the yen as investors speculated that the
South Pacific nation will maintain its interest-rate advantage
over Japan amid strengthening growth.  The Aussie gained after  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Assistant
Governor Philip Lowe said yesterday global commodity prices are
likely to remain elevated for an extended period and tighter
monetary policy in regions including  Asia  may be needed. New
Zealand’s dollar touched its weakest level this year versus its
Australian counterpart after government data showed producer
output prices rose at a slower pace in the fourth quarter.  “The yen is starting to look a little soft, and part of
that is widening rate differentials with the rest of the world,
with the  Bank of Japan  still happy to keep rates unchanged and
maintain an easing bias,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “There
are still plenty of reasons to buy the Australian and  New
Zealand  dollars versus the yen.”  Australia’s currency gained as much as 0.4 percent to 84.28
yen, the highest level since May 13, before trading at 84.20 yen
at 12:15 p.m. in  New York , up 0.3 percent. It appreciated 0.8
percent to $1.0112, from $1.0033 yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, depreciated
versus the Aussie as much as 0.4 percent to NZ$1.3344, the
weakest since Dec. 29. The kiwi rose 0.1 percent to 63.21 yen,
from 63.15, and strengthened 0.6 percent to 75.91 U.S. cents,
from 75.47 cents.  Benchmark Rates  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  The Australian central bank will increase its benchmark
rate by 0.35 percentage point over the next 12 months, while New
Zealand’s will rise 0.48 percentage point, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps trading.  “At least for the time being, it would appear that the
ability of the world to produce commodities is becoming a key
constraint on non-inflationary growth for the global economy,”
the RBA’s Lowe said in the text of a speech.  Commodities including  iron ore  and dairy products account
for the majority of exports by Australia and New Zealand,
respectively.  Producer output prices in New Zealand rose 0.2 percent in
the fourth quarter after advancing 1.2 percent in the previous
three months,  Statistics New Zealand  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  