-- 
Auto Sales Per Dealer May Reach Pre-Recession Levels

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-03-03T14:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/auto-sales-per-dealer-may-reach-pre-recession-levels-firm-says.html
U.S. auto sales per dealership may
return to levels reached before the recession after  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC closed locations.  Sales per dealer may rise to about 745 new vehicles this
year, according to auto-dealership consultant Urban Science. The
National Automobile Dealers Association forecasts total U.S.
sales in 2011 may rise 11 percent to 12.9 million, which would
be about 23 percent below the annual average from 2000 to 2007.  The number of U.S. auto dealerships fell 4.4 percent last
year to 17,659, Detroit-based Urban Science said today in its
annual Automotive Franchise Activity Report. The rate of
closings slowed from 8 percent in 2009, according to the report.  “The domestic consolidations worked and have allowed the
remaining dealers an opportunity see their numbers rebound
faster,” John Frith, vice president of Urban Science, said in a
statement.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, and Chrysler eliminated
more than 2,200 dealers as part of their bankruptcy
reorganizations in 2009. The shutting of about one-fourth of the
companies’ dealerships drew criticism by the special inspector
general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which said in a
 report  last year that the “dramatic and accelerated” closings
may not have been necessary and added to unemployment.  More Closings Expected  GM, based in  Detroit , reorganized with $49.5 billion in
government aid, while  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler got
$12.5 billion in assistance for its reorganization that year
from the government’s TARP program, which also aided banks.  Of the 822 dealerships that closed last year, almost all
were either GM and Chrysler stores in arbitration following the
automakers’ bankruptcies, or retailers of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
discontinued Mercury brand, Frith said.  About 53 percent of Mercury franchises closed by the end of
last year, and Ford plans to shut the remaining 819 outlets,
Frith told reporters today in Detroit.  Ford also plans to reduce the number of dealerships selling
its Lincoln luxury brand in the biggest U.S. metropolitan
markets by 25 percent to 325 outlets, the Dearborn, Michigan-
based automaker said this month at the NADA convention in  San
Francisco .  Ford ended last year with 3,131 franchises selling its
namesake brand, surpassing GM’s top-selling Chevrolet brand,
which had 3,084, for the first time, Frith said.  New Brand Entries  While new entries by brands such as  China ’s BYD Co. and  India ’s  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  are “certainly coming,”
they’re unlikely this year, Frith said.  “I would be very surprised if they don’t have a presence
here in the next 10 years,” he said. “Timing is a guess at
this point. There’s a lot of hurdles for a brand to enter the
U.S. with certification and setting up dealer networks.”  Automakers such as Shenzhen-based BYD or Mahindra, based in  Mumbai , may enter the U.S. market by purchasing other brands,
similar to the way China’s Zhejiang Geely Holding Co. bought the
Volvo Cars unit from Ford last year, Frith said.  The U.S. auto industry averaged a 16.8 million annual
selling rate from 2000 to 2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based researcher Autodata Corp. The U.S. is the world’s
second-largest auto market, trailing China in each of the past
two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  