-- 
BAE May Post Profit as Writedowns, Fines Are Behind It

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-02-16T12:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bae-may-post-full-year-profit-as-writedowns-fines-are-behind-it.html
  BAE Systems Plc ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, may say it returned to profit in 2010 after
fines and writedowns contributed to a loss the previous year.  Net income was probably 1.13 billion pounds ($1.82
billion), based on the average of six analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. BAE posted a 2009 net loss of 67 million
pounds following 973 million pounds in charges, mostly on the
value of its Armor Holdings unit, and $450 million in fines
after probes into dealings in countries including  South Africa .  Sales at areas including the programs and support division
may be offsetting lower revenue at the land and armaments
business, said  Sandy Morris , a Royal Bank of Scotland analyst in
London. Last July BAE and a partner won a 500 million-pound
order from  India  for 57 Hawk jet trainers, and it received a
contract worth as much as $365 million for repair and overhaul
work on 11 U.S. destroyers.  “It’s a steady year with some ebbs and flows. A lot of
restructuring, for example,” Morris, who has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock, said by phone. “Land and armaments
is clearly winding down, and it’s a question of how much they
can protect the profits.”  BAE rose as much as 5.4 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 356.2
pence in London and traded at 355.6 pence at 12:23 p.m., valuing
the company at 12.1 billion pounds. The stock has risen 7.8
percent so far this year.  Land Slide  Morris estimates full-year revenue for the Arlington,
Virginia-based land and armaments business, which makes naval
guns, armed vehicles and missile launching systems, fell to
$9.38 billion from $10.55 billion. Overall, BAE’s sales were
little changed at 22.2 billion pounds, according to the survey.  “When can we be fairly confident the slide has halted in
land and armaments? Because then we might see the growth coming
through from the other divisions,” Edward Stacey, an analyst at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  London  with a “buy”
recommendation on the stock, said by phone.  London-based BAE said on Dec. 9 it would cut 1,300 jobs
after the government terminated the Harrier and Nimrod aircraft
programs as it slashed defense spending. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Oct. 19 that the country’s armed forces will be cut
by 17,000 and that 25,000 civilian jobs will be eliminated at
the Ministry of Defence. Military expenditure will be reduced by
8 percent, adjusted for inflation, over four years.  The ministry may make further cuts of at least 1 billion
pounds a year on top of those identified in October’s Strategic
Defence and Security Review, the Financial Times reported on
Jan. 20, citing unidentified senior officials at the department.  “The headlines about the SDSR being reopened seem to have
worried the market a bit, but we don’t expect any big impact,”
Stacey said.  A year ago BAE forecast growth in 2010 for its four
operating groups except for land and armaments, where it said
“return on sales will improve as rationalization and efficiency
programs progress.” In its first-half results it said it
expected growth for the company as whole for the full year.  “It’s not a year in which the numbers are going to
excite,” Morris said. “We’re just looking for a nice solid
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  