-- 
Mideast Protests Spread to Libya Amid Bahrain Apologies, Clashes in Yemen

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-02-16T23:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bahrain-shiites-rally-after-funeral-for-second-person-killed-in-the-unrest.html
Pro-democracy demonstrations
stretched into a third day in Bahrain, while police and anti-
regime protesters clashed in Yemen and  Libya , the latest country
in the region hit by demands for change.  Hundreds of Bahrainis gathered yesterday at the funeral of
a demonstrator, who died in protests Feb. 15. They are demanding
democracy and the ouster of Prime Minister Sheikh Khalifa bin Salman al-Khalifa, a member of the Sunni Muslim royal family who
has held the post for four decades.  The dissent in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, follows the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular
movements in Egypt and  Tunisia  and marks the spread of unrest
into the  Persian Gulf , where most of the Middle East’s oil is
produced. Gulf states, including Saudi Arabia and the  United
Arab Emirates , are key U.S. allies, and Yemen is supported by
the Obama administration in a campaign against al-Qaeda.  “These movements are emboldening everybody who has
grievances, whether they are a minority that wants to have equal
rights or a majority that wants a functioning democracy,”
Ebrahim Sharif, a Sunni who heads Bahrain’s National Democratic
Action Society, said in an interview yesterday. “There is a
feeling of people being empowered by these movements, that we
are powerful. I think we are affecting even Iran.”  U.S. Reaction  The spread of protests is taxing the Obama administration’s
ability to adapt its policies in the region, said Marina Ottaway, director of the Middle East program at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in  Washington .  Ottaway said she doubts that “the  United States , once and
for all, has decided to support protests” in Arab countries.  “I think it’s a decision that’s going to be made country
by country, with a great deal of  hesitation because the U.S.
has a vested interest in maintaining of some of these leaders in
power,” she said in an interview yesterday.  Persian Gulf shares tumbled, with Saudi Arabia’s index
sliding the most this month, on concern the unrest may spread
farther.  The Saudi Tadawul All Share Index declined 1.8 percent,
while Qatar’s QE Index retreated 1.8 percent. The yield on the
Bahraini government’s 5.5 percent dollar bond due 2020 increased
1 basis point to 6.43 percent, the highest on record, at 3:16
p.m. in the capital of Manama, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The cost of Bahrain credit-default swaps rose 7 basis
points to 269 from the London close, according to CMA data.  Electroshock Batons  In Yemen, where the government has cooperated with the U.S.
in anti-terror efforts, hundreds rallied for a sixth day,
marching outside Sanaa University to demand the immediate
resignation of the president of 32 years, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Government supporters attacked them with electroshock batons.
One person was killed during unrest in the city of Aden, Al
Arabiya television reported.  In Libya, where  Muammar Qaddafi  has held power since
leading a military coup in 1969, protesters demanding the
government’s overthrow clashed with security forces in the port
city of Benghazi, chanting “No God but Allah, Muammar is the
enemy of Allah” and “Down to corruption and to the corrupt,”
the  Associated Press  reported.  The official news agency, JANA, cited a statement from pro-
Qaddafi demonstrators in which they pledged to defend him and
said the protesters were “cowards and traitors,” AP said.
State television said yesterday’s rally was among “popular
demonstrations” in support of the Libyan leader.  Day of ‘Remembrance’  The leader of the opposition Front for the Salvation of
Libya, Ibrahim Sahad, said in a video on the YouTube website
that today would be a day of “remembrance and uprising” in the
country and urged the group’s supporters to take part in
protests to mark the event.  The unrest in Libya helped boost  oil prices , with futures
rising for the first time in four days. Oil for March delivery
rose 60 cents, to $84.92 a barrel, at 9:09 a.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Libya has the largest proven oil reserves in  Africa , with
44.3 billion barrels in 2009, according to the BP Statistical
Review of World Energy. The North African nation pumped about
1.6 million barrels a day in January.  Anti-government protests inspired by the Arab revolts were
put down on Feb. 14 in Shiite Muslim-led Iran, with which many
Shiite Bahrainis retain cultural and family ties. Sunni-ruled  Saudi Arabia , Iran’s main regional rival, has a Shiite minority
in the Eastern Province, where most of its oil is produced.  Official Apology  Bahrain’s interior minister, Sheikh Rashid bin Abdullah al-
Khalifa, apologized yesterday for the killing of two protesters
in clashes with security forces this week, saying an
investigation is under way, the official Bahrain News Agency
said.  Shiites, who represent as much as 70 percent of the
Bahraini population, say they face job and housing
discrimination at the hands of the Sunni minority. King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa, the premier’s nephew, has ordered an
increase in food subsidies and social welfare payments, and a
grant of 1,000 dinars ($2,653) to each Bahraini family.  Bahrain’s government is prepared to discuss changes to the
constitution demanded by the protesters only if the debate is
held in parliament, the justice minister, Sheikh Khalid bin Ali
al-Khalifa, told reporters yesterday.  “If you want any changes, it should be done within a
constitutional process,” the minister said.  King’s Actions  The U.S. has credited King Hamad, who ascended to the
throne following the death of his father in 1999, with lifting
repressive laws, allowing political debate, improving relations
with the Shiite majority, and spurring economic development.
“The result is that the Bahrain of today is a far cry from the
Bahrain of the 1990s,” Ambassador Adam Ereli said in a
classified Dec. 2009 embassy cable, which was made public
yesterday by the WikiLeaks group.  In a Dec. 2008 cable, the king was reported to have told
visiting General David Petraeus, who took over leadership of the
U.S. Central Command in Oct. 2008, that Hezbollah, the radical
Islamic group based in Lebanon, and  Syria  were trying to foment
trouble in the Gulf kingdom, but that he had no definitive
proof. In several cables, U.S. diplomats were skeptical that
outsiders, including the allegation of Iranian efforts, were
behind Shiite unrest.  The latest protests draw special interest from the U.S.
because of Bahrain’s military connection.  ‘Important Partner’  “As a long-time ally and home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, Bahrain is an important partner and the Department is
closely watching developments there,” Maj. Chris Perrine, a
Defense Department, said yesterday. “We also call on all
parties to exercise restraint and refrain from violence.”  Sharif said seven Bahraini opposition groups formed a
committee to support the protests that began on Feb. 14. The
demonstration they plan for Feb. 19 is expected to attract
50,000 marchers, making it the biggest ever in the kingdom, he
said.  The committee, which includes al-Wefaq, the country’s
largest Shiite group, will “provide support to the young
people, help them organize and select leaders,” Sharif said.  The committee was formed late Feb. 15 and will hold its
first meeting yesterday, he said. It will meet at least once a
day to help coordinate the demonstrations and unify protesters’
demands, Sharif said.  Abdulnabi Alekry, chairman of the Bahrain Transparency
Society, said the protests in Bahrain have no pro  Iran  theme and
aren’t a demand for Shiite rule in the kingdom, as was the case
in the 1979 Iranian Revolution that brought clerics to power.  “This movement is completely different than the Iranian
experience,” he said as he took part in yesterday’s funeral
procession for the second man killed in the protests. “We want
a genuine democracy, not clerical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  