-- 
King Says Bank of England May Keep Rate at Record Low for Months to Come

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-02-16T13:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bank-of-england-sees-increased-risk-inflation-won-t-return-to-2-by-2012.html
  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said policy makers haven’t preannounced an interest-rate
increase and may need to keep borrowing costs at a record low to
aid a recovery that is “unlikely to be smooth.”  “Some people are running ahead of themselves in saying
that we are preannouncing, or we’re laying the ground, for a
rate rise,” King told reporters in London today. “That
decision has not been taken and it won’t be taken until we get
to the next meeting, or the following meeting” and “it may be
many quarters before we do anything.”  The bank today forecast inflation will quicken from a two-
year high and peak at about 4.4 percent before easing to its 2
percent target by the middle of 2012, while the growth outlook
has worsened. Britain is about to endure a budget squeeze that
will eliminate 330,000 jobs at a time when unemployment is
already rising in the aftermath of the recession, a situation
that has divided the bank’s policy makers.  “With these enormous challenges which few of us have
experienced in our lifetime, with these big and difficult
judgments about whether inflation expectations might pick up,
about what will happen to the future path of inflation, how much
spare capacity is there, surely this is the sort of time when
you’d expect differences in view and judgment on the
committee,” King said.  The pound fell after the release of the forecasts, dropping
more than 0.6 percent against the dollar and trading at $1.6058
as of 12:18 p.m. in  London . The yield on the U.K. 10-year
government bond was down 7 basis points at 3.78 percent.  Investors  The central bank’s projections in its quarterly Inflation
Report are based on the market’s view for the benchmark interest
rate to rise to 1 percent by the end of this year and 2 percent
by end-2012. Investors pared bets on an increase by June, with
the yield on short-sterling futures expiring that month falling
to 1.11 percent today from 1.18 percent yesterday.  The bank held its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent
and its bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($321 billion)
this month. Minutes of the decision to be published next week
will show if other officials joined  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale ’s push for higher rates, or if  Adam Posen  kept up his call
for stimulus.  ‘Differences’  “There are bound to be differences of view,” King said.
“If you don’t get differences of view in this kind of
situation, when ever would you find them?”  He said the “best collective judgment of the committee is
that the chances of inflation being above or below the target
are broadly equal,” adding that the recovery is “unlikely to
be smooth.”  U.K. inflation accelerated to a 26-month high of 4 percent
last month, boosted by higher  oil prices  and a sales-tax
increase. Britons’ expectations for price growth for the coming
12 months rose to 3.6 percent in January, the highest since
2008, Citigroup Inc. said on Jan. 28.  The bank sees inflation at about 1.7 percent in the first
quarter of 2013, based on a chart of quarterly average
 projections . Gross-domestic-product growth is seen at about an
annual 3 percent. The bank publishes its predictions in the form
of fan charts without specifying exact numbers. It will release
data indicating exact figures next week.  Upside Skew  “The most likely outcome is for inflation to fall a little
below the target in the second half of the period, but the risks
relative to that most likely path are skewed to the upside,”
the bank said in the report. “There remains a wider range of
views than usual” on the Monetary Policy Committee.  Hetal Mehta, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe ,
brought forward her forecast for the first rate increase to
August from November.  Simon Hayes  at Barclay’s Capital in London
also revised his forecast and now sees the bank increasing
borrowing costs in May. He said there were “two important
messages” in the report.  “The first is that the MPC is leaning towards a rate hike
over the next few months,” he said in an e-mailed note. “The
second is that the envisaged policy tightening is small and
gradual and still potentially subject to delay, depending on the
evolution of the data.”  On growth, the bank said there is a “high degree of
uncertainty over the outlook” after the economy shrank 0.5
percent in the fourth quarter. The contraction, the biggest for
more than a year, was partly due to the coldest December in a
century keeping shoppers home and stranding travelers.  “That projection for growth implies a somewhat lower level
of output throughout the forecast than judged likely in
November, reflecting the weakness of output around the turn of
the year and the higher assumed path for  bank rate ,” the
central bank said. “But the committee also judges it likely
that some margin of spare capacity will remain throughout the
forecast period.”  King also said  interest rates  can’t stay low forever.  “But I think that’s down the road,” he said at the press
conference. “It’s not the immediate policy question, but it’s
something we’re conscious of in the back of our minds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  