-- 
Beijing City Limits Home Purchases After Government Curbs, CCTV Reports

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T07:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/beijing-limits-home-purchases-after-government-s-housing-curbs-cctv-says.html
Beijing will ban residents from
buying more than two homes after the Chinese government extended
property curbs to prevent a housing bubble,  China Central
Television  reported.  Local residents will be limited to two homes and non-locals
will be allowed to buy only one property, CCTV said. Non-Beijing
residents also need to provide five years of tax documentation
to buy residential properties, the state-owned broadcaster said.    China  has been cracking down on the  property market  to
ensure housing remains affordable, with cities including
Shanghai, Qingdao and Jinan imposing local restrictions. The
government last month raised the minimum down payment for
second-home purchases and introduced taxes for homes in Shanghai
and Chongqing, while the central bank raised  interest rates  last
week for the third time since mid-October.  “The Beijing restriction probably is the harshest among
all local curbs,” Du Jinsong, a Hong Kong-based property
analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a phone interview.
“Investors are worried that will hurt property demand.”  Qingdao will ban residents owning two homes from buying
more property, the China National Radio reported last month.
Residents from outside the eastern Chinese region with one home
will not be allowed to make a second purchase, according to the
report.    Home prices  rose 6.4 percent in December from a year
earlier, increasing for a 19th month, the country’s statistics
bureau said Jan. 17. The government is due to report January’s
property price figures on Feb. 18.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  