-- 
Bernanke Says Dodd-Frank Law Is ‘Major Step Forward’

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-16T23:11:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bernanke-says-dodd-frank-is-major-step-forward-in-regulation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is working “expeditiously” to
enact the overhaul of U.S. financial regulation signed into law
last year.  “The Dodd-Frank Act is a major step forward for financial
regulation,” Bernanke said in the text of testimony prepared
for a hearing before the Senate Banking Committee tomorrow and
obtained by Bloomberg News. The Fed is working “to ensure that
the law is implemented expeditiously and in a manner that best
protects the stability of our financial system and economy.”  Bernanke doesn’t discuss the outlook for monetary policy or
the economy.  Bernanke will appear with other top financial regulators
such as Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  and
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to
testify on their progress implementing the financial regulation
law signed by President Barack Obama in July.  Bernanke’s remarks were primarily a summary of previously
published actions the Fed has taken to implement provisions of
the legislation, a task he said involved more than 300 central
bank staff.  The law, known as the Dodd-Frank Act, creates a consumer
bureau housed at the Fed, a council of regulators to monitor
firms for systemic risk to the economy and a mechanism for
liquidating large financial firms whose collapse could threaten
economic stability.  The new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection will take
over many responsibilities the Fed had for consumer regulation.
“We have finalized funding for agreements and provided initial
funding” to the new bureau, Bernanke said. “We have made
substantial progress toward a framework for transferring Federal
Reserve staff members.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  