-- 
Bertrandt Developing Golf Doors, Audi Lighting Spells `No Limit' to Growth

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-02-16T08:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bertrandt-developing-golf-doors-audi-lighting-spells-no-limit-to-growth.html
  Bertrandt AG , the German company
that helped bring Rolls-Royce’s Ghost and the newest version of  Volkswagen AG ’s Golf to the road, says it sees no boundaries to
growth after record first-quarter sales.  The company, which almost doubled its workforce to more
than 7,000 over the past four years, will increase investments
this year on workspaces and tools, Chief Executive Officer
Dietmar Bichler said in an interview. Demand for model variants
and a push for reduced auto emissions may help Bertrandt beat a
sales record set in the year ended September 2008, he said.  “I don’t see a limit. The market volume is there and we’ll
try to get into position as early as possible,” Bichler said in
his office in Ehningen, a German town near Stuttgart, where  Daimler AG  and Porsche SE are based. “We’re trying to develop
upward in terms of operations and in terms of financial
figures.”  Bertrandt, whose stock was the second-best performer in  Germany ’s SDAX Performance Index in 2010 with a 152 percent
jump, helps almost all European carmakers and major suppliers by
developing, testing and prototyping anything from parts to
entire vehicles as well as managing the interaction between
parts makers and car manufacturers. Its revenue jumped 12
percent to 429 million euros ($582 million) in the 12 months
ended September.  The stock rose 20 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 56.20
euros as of 9:27 a.m. in Frankfurt trading, giving the company a
market value of about 570 million euros.  Computer Models  In recent projects, the company coordinated the development
of the interior lighting for VW’s Audi A8, developed the doors
for the Golf VI and helped design the instrument panels for  Renault SA ’s Scenic compact cars.  Bertrandt takes parameters such as size and weight from a
manufacturer to create computer models as well as physical ones
to see how they fit with the customer’s ideas. Many of those
services could be handled by the carmakers themselves, but they
often choose to outsource tasks to be able to more flexibly
manage capacities. Bertrandt’s other, newer areas of operation
include the aviation industry and services for  wind turbines ,
medical equipment and machinery.  “It’s a real pearl, one that’s been getting more and more
attention recently but it’s still worth more than one look,”
said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst at Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt
who recommends buying the shares and raised his share-price
estimate by 10 percent to 66 euros on Feb. 11.  Of the six analysts who cover the stock and who are tracked
by Bloomberg, three recommend buying, two say hold and one
advises selling.  Mercedes, BMW    Grammer AG , a German maker of seats for vehicles, was the
best performer on the SDAX last year.  Porsche is Bertrandt’s largest shareholder with a 25
percent stake. Bichler, who took part in a  management buyout  in
1993, has an 8 percent holding.  Porsche sees its stake in Bertrandt as a financial
investment and doesn’t give special treatment to the company,
said Dirk Erat, a spokesman for the sports-car maker. There is
currently no plan to alter the stake, he said.  Sales spurts at Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz unit, VW’s Audi and
Rolls-Royce owner  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  boosted
Bertrandt’s first-quarter revenue 39 percent to a record of
125.9 million euros, while net income jumped 64 percent to 8.6
million euros, the company said this week. Bichler declined to
give forecasts for full-year earnings and investments.  ‘Discretion’  Working with competing carmakers means ongoing projects
have to be shielded from third parties to exclude the risk of
technology leaks, Bichler said. The Ehningen site is split up
into various compartments that can obscure the materials, and
company staff is forbidden from entering certain areas.  “We rely on discretion, that’s clear, because it’s a small
field,” the CEO said. “ The customer should take center
stage.”  Most of Bertrandt’s 35 locations are placed close to plants
or offices of major car manufacturers to facilitate exchanges
during projects. Outside of  Europe , the company has offices in  Detroit , and has set up partnerships in  Asia . Unlike Daimler and
BMW, which have shifted facilities to growth markets including  China , Bichler says as a developer, Bertrandt has little need to
expand there.  “The development is clearly focused here,” he said in the
Feb. 14 interview. “When it comes to production, German
manufacturers are building more capacity in China, but in
development services we don’t see that to such an extent.”  Bertrandt was founded in 1974 by Harry Bertrandt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  