-- 
Billionaire Ambani Questioned by Investigators in Phone Probe

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-02-16T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/billionaire-anil-ambani-meets-investigators-in-indian-phone-license-probe.html
India’s federal investigators
questioned  Anil Ambani , the billionaire chairman of  Reliance
Communications Ltd ., for about two hours yesterday amid a
widening probe into the award of mobile-phone licenses in 2008.  Ambani “met  Central Bureau of Investigation  officials to
clarify ongoing issues, relating to telecom matters for the
years 2001 to 2010,” an e-mailed statement from his group
spokesman Gaurav Wahi said. “No summons of any kind have been
issued by CBI” to Ambani.  The move by federal officials follows the arrests this
month of former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja , his
personal secretary and an ex-bureaucrat after the nation’s chief
auditor said the sale of permits at below-market prices may have
potentially cost the exchequer $31 billion. The questioning may
further undermine investor confidence in Ambani, 51, who
presides over the two worst performing stocks of the past year.  “Reliance Communications sends a lot of letters to
shareholders to say everything is fine, but my feeling is that
everything is not alright,” said Vienna-based Juergen Maier,
who manages a 250 million euro ($337 million) India equity fund
at Raiffeisen Capital Management. “It’s not the first time it’s
been questioned and this confirms the image investors have.”  Reliance Communications, the worst performer in the 30-stock
Sensitive Index in the past year with a 40 percent slide, fell
1.9 percent to 99.6 rupees in Mumbai yesterday.  Cooperating Fully  Ambani is the second executive to be quizzed by the CBI in
as many days after Sanjay Chandra, managing director of  Unitech
Ltd ., India’s second-biggest developer, said Feb. 15 his company
is fully cooperating with the investigation.  The bureau has argued in court that Raja conspired to
benefit companies including Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as
 Etisalat DB Telecom India Ltd. , and  Unitech  by violating
guidelines in the license sale. India’s chief auditor said in
November second-generation airwaves were sold for an
“unbelievably low” $2.7 billion when they may have been worth
at least 10 times more.  “All the nine telecom companies that received the licenses
are being questioned,” Chandra said in an e-mailed statement on
Feb. 15.  The CBI sought information from Ambani amid allegations
that his group received favors from Raja and over the role of
Reliance Telecom Ltd., a unit of Reliance Communications, in
Swan Telecom, the  Press Trust of India  reported yesterday,
citing investigators it didn’t identify.  No Benefit  The statement from Ambani’s group said no official or
affiliate held shares in Swan Telecom at the time it won a phone
license and no employee benefitted from the award.  Reliance Telecom “held only 9.9 percent of the equity
share capital of Swan Telecom at the time of filing the relevant
license application in March 2007,” Reliance Communications
said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 13.  “There would be a significant impact on the group only if
something concrete is unearthed,” said D.K. Aggarwal, who
manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management
Services Ltd. in New Delhi. “The group has taken a hit as far
as sentiment is concerned though the developments aren’t going
to have a material impact.”  The CBI arrested Shahid Balwa, vice chairman of Etisalat DB
Telecom Pvt., formerly Swan, on Feb. 8, a week after detaining
Raja in the phone probe.  ‘Wrongly Implicated’  Balwa, who is also the managing director of DB Realty Ltd.
was “wrongly implicated,” according to a company statement on
Feb. 9. Raja’s lawyer, Ramesh Gupta, said the former minister
was cooperating with investigators and shouldn’t be kept in
custody.  Ambani is also chairman of  Reliance Capital Ltd ., which
owns an 18 percent stake in Bloomberg UTV, an Indian television
channel. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, owns
part of the Indian venture.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , whose government has been
buffeted by a string of corruption scandals, vowed to punish
those guilty of fraud, in a meeting with a group of television
editors in New Delhi yesterday.  “I wish to assure you and I wish to assure the country as
a whole that our government is dead serious in bringing to book
all the wrongdoers, regardless of the positions they may
occupy,” Singh said.  Image Hurt  An atmosphere dominated by claims of wrongdoing by his
ministers had hurt the image of  India  overseas, he acknowledged,
adding the compulsions of coalition played a role in how he
allocated cabinet portfolios. Raja is a leading member of the
ruling party from the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , a key
partner in Singh’s ruling alliance.  “The scam is huge and tarnishing the image of India,”
said Taina Erajuuri, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2
billion of emerging-market stocks, including Indian shares, at
Helsinki-based FIM Asset Management Ltd. “The government is
trying to show the world they are doing something, and they are
going after the top guys.” Erajuuri’s funds own no shares in
Ambani’s companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  