-- 
Bloody Faces Aren’t What Hockey Needs to Appeal: Scott Soshnick

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bloodied-players-are-not-what-hockey-needs-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Maybe now the lords of hockey will
listen.  Maybe now that an icon has voiced his support for speed and
skill over payback punches, maybe Mario Lemieux’s fellow
National Hockey League owners will come around to the sensible
and responsible notion that it’s time to abolish fighting.  It’s due. Long overdue, actually, especially to those of us
who remember a fellow named Steve Moore, who doesn’t play hockey
anymore. He can’t play hockey anymore.  Lemieux saved hockey in Pittsburgh. And now, whether he
knows it or not, whether he intended to or not, Lemieux has
embarked on the more difficult challenge of saving hockey from
the staid notion that patrons prefer roundhouse rights in their
skill set.  “We, as a league, must do a better job of protecting the
integrity of the game and the safety of our players,” was
Lemieux’s  reaction  after the NHL doled out its discipline from a
brawl-marred game last week between his Penguins and the  New
York Islanders . “If the events reflect the state of the league,
I need to rethink whether I want to be part of it.”  You have to hope that NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman and his
30 bosses, the franchise owners, ruminate on that statement for
a minute. Better yet, make that five minutes, equivalent to the
amount of time players serve in the penalty box for dropping
their gloves and beating the bejesus out of one another. Five
minutes. That’s all.  ‘We Like It’  What we have here is a revered former player, a legend who
has devoted his entire life to the game he loves, having second
thoughts about whether what he fought to save and then nurture
is still worthy of his time, effort and affection.  Lemieux is talking about the game. Owners, though they
won’t admit it, equate fisticuffs with finances. Just ask NBC
analyst Mike Milbury, a former NHL player, coach and general
manager.  “Fighting is there because we like it. We like the violent
part of it, whether we admit it or not,” Milbury said on the
air. “Fighting is not essential to winning.”  Unlike the  National Football League  and  National Basketball
Association , which are both facing labor squabbles and possibly
lockouts, the NHL has the luxury of pondering more important
questions -- like how to improve the actual product.  Almost seven years ago, when Moore’s career was ended by a
Todd Bertuzzi sucker-punch, hockey missed an opportunity to end
fighting.  Well, here’s another chance.  Unnecessary Roughness  If only they’ll listen to Lemieux, who was rightfully
mortified after his team’s game against the Islanders produced
65 penalties totaling 346 minutes. Ten players were ejected from
what was more boxing match than hockey game. At one point there
were more coaches and trainers on the Penguins bench than
players.  Embarrassing to the sport, were Lemieux’s words. More
importantly, all the thuggery is unneeded.  There isn’t a hockey fan out there that would quit the
sport if fighting was eliminated. At its best, hockey is a game
of speed, power, precision and, yes, physicality. There’s
nothing better than an open-ice check, shoulder-to-chest, stick
down.  The league’s brain trust spends its time measuring
goaltender pads, planning outdoor games and casting  reality TV 
shows, but can’t seem to make headway on the game’s biggest
eyesore.  Olympic Heights  Anyone who’d rather see two goons pounding on each other
more than  Sidney Crosby  with a full head of steam isn’t a hockey
fan.  There weren’t any fights at the Olympics. The game was
never better, fans rising to their feet, oohs and ahs aplenty.  Hockey seems to suffer from the same ailment as the NFL,
where the players have to be protected from themselves. How else
can you explain the plethora of cheap shots and dangerous hits?  I asked Ted Leonsis of the  Washington Capitals  if in the
wake of Lemieux’s comments there was growing support among
owners to abolish fighting.  “No comment from me,” Leonsis, a former AOL vice
chairman, wrote in an e-mail.  Maybe that’s for the best.  Owners do a lot of talking. It’s time they listen. Listen
to Milbury when he says fighting isn’t integral to winning.
Listen to Lemieux, who says he and hockey might not fit anymore.
Listen to Bertuzzi, who wished that day never happened. And,
most importantly, listen to Moore, who warned that it’s going to
happen again.    Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  