-- 
BMW Costing $260,000 Means Cars Only for Rich in Singapore as Taxes Climb

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-02-17T07:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bmw-3-series-costs-260-000-as-singapore-tax-keeps-cars-for-rich.html
Francis Goh sits in a bronze BMW
335i convertible in a Singapore showroom, waggling the wheel and
feeling the leather. He isn’t fazed by the S$340,000 ($260,000)
price tag, five times what the same car costs in the  U.S.   “I see the price of a BMW, to me it’s reasonable,” said
Goh, adding that he may instead go for a Mercedes-Benz E200 or
Audi A5 to replace his Subaru Impreza WRX.  Record economic growth in the city state is enabling buyers
like Goh, a 34-year-old financial industry worker, to splash out
on  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG  autos even as a
24-fold jump in the cost of a car permit inflates costs. As the
government cuts the number of new autos on sale, prices which
are already among the highest globally look set to rise further.  Singapore has increased spending on public transport and
reduced the number of new car licenses to rein in auto sales and
curb pollution and congestion as the booming economy boosts the
buying power of the country’s residents. Last year, Prime
Minister Lee Hsien Loong promised to spend S$60 billion over 10
years to double the size of the subway network.  “High customer disposable incomes” are spurring demand
for cars in  Singapore , said Vivek Vaidya, automotive and
transportation director at researcher  Frost & Sullivan . The
reduction in permits “is bound to put the prices in upward
spiral.”  Taxing Licenses  Car buyers in Singapore must pay for excise and
registration duties of about 150 percent of the vehicle’s market
value, as well as bid for a limited number of government
permits, called certificates of entitlement, that allow a car on
the road for 10 years. The cost of a permit alone would now buy
a new Porsche Boxster in the U.S., or a C-Class Mercedes in Hong
Kong, where curbside pollution rose to a record last year.  Singapore posted 14.5 percent economic growth last year,
based on the government’s revised figures today, swelling the
ranks of the city’s millionaires by 35 percent. The country has
the highest proportion of millionaire households at 11.4
percent, according to the  Boston Consulting Group . On top of
that, the population has grown  23 percent  in the past decade,
adding to congestion in a country about the size of  Chicago .  The government today kept its forecast for the economy to
grow 4 percent to 6 percent in 2011, even as there’s “some
upside potential” to the target.  Fewer Permits  The  Ministry of Transport  has cut the number of new-car
permits it auctions twice a month, driving the price of the so-
called open-category COE, which can be used for any size of car,
to an average S$71,339 in January. That permit cost S$19,889 at
the beginning of 2010 and as little as S$3,000 two years ago.
Once the certificate expires, owners either have to bid for a
new 10-year permit, export the car, or scrap it.  Government  figures  show Singapore’s air pollutant levels in
the last five years have been as much as 88 percent below the
limits recommended by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Hong Kong ’s levels in the same period exceeded the limits by as
much as 12 percent.  The government has said it aims to make public transport
the “ choice mode ” for Singaporeans. The Ministry of Transport
spent  S$17.8 billion  in the past five years to build two more
subway lines, 37 more train stations and a five-kilometer
expressway by 2013.  New-car quotas are based on a “sustainable” growth rate,
according to the ministry’s  website . Only about 15 percent of
people own a car in Singapore, compared with 82 percent in the
U.S., World Bank figures show.  Cash Upfront  A higher COE price tends to hurt sales of cheaper cars more
than luxury models because it accounts for a bigger percentage
of the total cost.  “If we stick to Japanese cars and the budget-constrained
segment, we are not going to make money,” said Dennis Lim,
owner of dealership  Auto Equator , which sells brands such as
Jaguar and Mercedes-Benz, as well as Isuzu. For high-end autos,
“the extra S$20,000 to S$30,000 on the COE is nothing when the
total car price is S$300,000 or more. They’re not so price-
sensitive.”  Luxury car brands including  Aston Martin , Porsche and  Fiat
SpA ’s Ferrari saw sales surge as much as 115 percent last year,
the  Straits Times   reported  on Jan. 28. Overall auto sales dipped
to 42,000 units, less than half the annual average in the past
five years, the newspaper said.  “Our biggest hurdle is for customers to get over the
upfront cash they will have to fork out to purchase the car,”
said Ron Lim, general manager at  Tan Chong Motor Sales Pte Ltd. ,
Singapore’s official distributor of Nissan cars.  ‘Choice is Made’  With up to 95 percent of his customers being middle-class
Singaporean families, Tan Chong’s Lim said his challenge this
year will be to sell the same number of cars as last year.  “Car dealers in Singapore have to make a choice: either
they attract higher-end or lower-end customers,” Vaidya said.
“Considering that they can only have a finite number of cars on
the road, the choice is made.”  Part of the reason for a jump in permit prices is reduced
supply. After the ministry  announced  a total quota of 23,063 for
August 2010 to January 2011, the open COE surged to a record
$76,102 in December. In the latest tender over the lunar new
year holiday, the price fell to S$58,890. For February to July
this year, the ministry  reduced  the quota to 22,368
certificates.  While new car distributors may struggle to replicate last
year’s sales numbers, used car dealers such as Gary Hong,
general manager at  Autobahn Motors , are enjoying new business.  Rising Demand  “The demand for used cars has gone up,” said Hong, whose
 stocks  included a pre-owned 2008 BMW 335i convertible, which he
sold two days ago for more than S$300,000. “The COE for new
cars has been going for more money. Those people who choose not
to pay the premium, they go for used cars as an option.”  With a new  Toyota Motor Corp . Yaris costing about  $68,000 
in Singapore, compared with  $15,300  in  New York  and  $18,100  in  London , some are reluctant to buy at all.  “I’m having second thoughts about buying a car,” said
Stephan Ritzmann, 48, a Swiss executive at a local luxury watch
retailer who moved to Singapore from Tokyo in December. “In  Switzerland , cars cost less than half of what they cost here.
The government wants us to use public transport and it works
pretty well.”  For Singaporeans like Goh, who are used to the high tax
system and can afford the cost,  car ownership  remains important.  “I don’t care how much the COE costs,” said Goh, whose
five previous cars were all Japanese. “Owning a car to me is
not just about prestige -- like, wow, I’m able to own a car in
Singapore! For me, a car is for convenience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  