-- 
Borders Gets $505 Million in Bankruptcy Loans Led by GE Capital

-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-02-16T19:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/borders-group-receives-505-million-in-bankruptcy-loans-led-by-ge-capital.html
  Borders Group Inc ., the second-
biggest U.S. bookstore chain that filed for bankruptcy today,
received a financing commitment from  GE Capital  and investment
firms Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC, a unit of Stone Tower
Capital, LLC and GB Merchant Partners, LLC for $505 million in
bankruptcy loans.  The one-year facility will include a $410 million revolving
line of credit, a $20 million first-in last-out portion, a $20
million letter of credit facility and a $55 million term loan B,
according to a court document.  GE Capital is the sole working capital lead arranger of the
so-called debtor-in-possession financing and GA Capital LLC is
the sole term loan B lead arranger, according to the document.
Tennenbaum, Stone Tower and GB Merchant Partners are the term
loan B lenders.  Proceeds from loans made on the closing date will be used
to repay Borders’ credit agreement dated March 31, 2010,
according to the document. Borders has an outstanding $90
million credit facility that was obtained in March 2010 and is
set to expire March 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The revolver and the letter of credit facility will both
have an interest rate of 4 percentage points over the London
interbank offered rate, according to the document. There will be
a 50 basis point unused fee on the revolver.  The first-in last-out tranche will have an interest rate of
9.5 percentage points over Libor and the term loan B will have a
12.5 percentage point margin over the benchmark lending rate,
according to the document. The first-in last-out tranche will
have a 1.5 percent Libor floor and the term loan B will have a 1
percent floor.  Barnes & Noble Inc., is the largest bookseller in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 