-- 
Borders Files Bankruptcy, Is Closing Up to 275 Stores

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-02-16T17:12:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/borders-book-chain-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-with-1-29-billion-debt.html
Borders Group Inc., the second-
biggest U.S. bookstore chain, filed for bankruptcy in  New York 
today after management changes, job cuts and debt restructuring
failed to make up for sagging book sales in the face of
competition from  Amazon.com Inc . and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .  Borders plans to keep operating and restructure with $505
million in so-called debtor-in-possession financing from lenders
led by GE Capital, according to a statement. The 40-year-old
chain listed debt of $1.29 billion and assets of $1.28 billion
as of Dec. 25 in its Chapter 11 petition filed today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The reorganization is only possible if Borders immediately
closes 200 of its 642 stores, according to an emergency motion
to sell furniture and merchandise filed in Manhattan bankruptcy
court today. Sales need to start no later than Feb. 19 to take
advantage of the President’s Day long weekend, and another 75
stores may need to close if concessions aren’t won from
landlords, the company said.  “Closing the stores right away is essential because the
Debtors are losing approximately $2 million per week at the
closing stores,” lawyers for Borders wrote in court pleadings.  Market Value  Borders, whose market value has shrunk by more than $3
billion since 1998, racked up losses by failing to adapt to
shifts in how consumers shop. Its first e-commerce site debuted
in 2008, more than a decade after Amazon.com revolutionized
publishing with online sales. The world’s largest online
retailer beat it again by moving into digital books with the
Kindle e-reader in 2007, a market Borders entered in July.  “Borders Group does not have the capital resources it
needs to be a viable competitor,” the company’s president, Mike Edwards, said today in a statement. The bankruptcy will give it
“time to reorganize in order to reposition itself to be a
successful business for the long term.”  “Instead of leading and being innovative, they were
certainly a follower,” said  Michael Souers , an analyst for  Standard & Poor’s  in New York.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , began looking for a
cash infusion in December. It said lenders cut its borrowing
capacity, and that failure to find replacement credit could lead
to a violation of its loan agreements and a “liquidity
shortfall” in the first quarter of 2011.  Cash Drain  The company has 642 stores under the Borders, Waldenbooks,
Borders Express and Borders Outlet names in the U.S. and Puerto
Rico, according to the court filing.  “It buys them a little bit of time, because they are
closing stores that are a drain on  cash flow ,” said Peter Wahlstrom, a retail analyst for Morningstar Investment Services
in  Chicago . The bankruptcy filing “allows them to retrain their
focus on the stores that are profitable.”  The company owes $302 million to vendors for inventory and
has $109 million in guarantees for liquidated foreign units, it
said it its filing. Among the stores being closed are three in
Manhattan.  Penguin Putnam, a unit of  Pearson Plc , was listed as the
largest unsecured creditor with a $41 million claim. Hachette
Book Group has a claim of $36.9 million and Simon & Schuster
Inc. has a claim of $33.8 million.  Random House , the publisher
owned by Bertelsmann AG,  Europe ’s biggest media company, has a
claim of $33.5 million.  Deal With Liquidators  Borders has a deal with liquidators Hilco Merchant
Resources LLC, SB Capital Group LLC and Tiger Capital Group to
guarantee it 73 percent of the cost value of all merchandise at
the closing stores, which Borders estimates will bring in $131
million to $148 million to repay its creditors.  The offer, structured as a “stalking horse bid” is
subject to higher and better offers, and calls for the
liquidators to fund store level expenses while the locations
close. It also gives Borders a 50 percent share of any proceeds
after a 5 percent fee and expense recovery.  Before its bankruptcy, Borders had already started a plan
to close more than 260 stores, and those locations are stocked
with “quickly dwindling merchandise” that make it necessary to
close them right away, Borders said in court papers. The
agreement with liquidators calls for a break-up fee of $1
million if a better offer is received at an auction.  Creditors  Borders’ debt includes a $970.5 million revolving loan
under an agreement from March 2010, with  Bank of America Corp .
and General Electric Capital Corp. as agents to other lenders.
About $196.05 million was outstanding as of the bankruptcy,
lawyers for Borders wrote. A  term loan  taken at the same time,
worth $90 million, had $48.6 million outstanding.  Borders estimated that funds would be available for
distribution to unsecured creditors, according to the filing
signed by the company’s chief financial officer, Scott Henry.  The company in May raised $25 million in a private sale to
an entity controlled by Bennet S. LeBow, who was then named CEO
and chairman. Pershing Square Capital Management LP, the hedge
fund run by  William Ackman , is Borders’s largest shareholder,
according to the filing. Borders’ biggest shareholders also
include Zurich-based  UBS AG , according to the court filing.  In its petition, Borders says Pershing Square holds 31.3
percent of the stock and LeBow is a 15.4 percent stakeholder.  The New York Stock Exchange suspended trading in Borders
shares today and is moving to delist the company. The shares
traded at a 52-week high of $3.29 last April 12.  Restructuring  Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP is the law firm
that filed the petition and Jefferies & Co. is handling
restructuring.  Borders has struggled with cash levels since at least 2008,
when it ran short of money and was forced to borrow from
Pershing Square, its largest shareholder at the time. After
missing a deadline to find a buyer, the company issued 5.15
million warrants to Pershing, making the fund the bookseller’s
largest investor.  Borders borrowed $42.5 million from Pershing to remodel
stores and upgrade technology to compete with  Barnes & Noble
Inc ., the largest bookseller in the U.S., and Amazon.com. Cost-
savings measures have been implemented over the past year.  In January 2010, Borders announced it would close some of
its bookstores in the U.S. and cut 11 percent of staff at its
headquarters and eliminate 76 other jobs. Chief Executive
Officer Ron Marshall resigned after a year on the job. Michael Edwards was put in a role as interim CEO.  Delayed Payments  Borders delayed payments to publishers in December as part
of a plan to restructure financing arrangements with vendors.
The stock lost more than a fifth of its market value, its
biggest drop in two years, after the announcement.  Kmart Corp. acquired Borders in 1992, then a chain of about
20 stores founded by Tom and Louis Borders, for about $190
million and combined the retailer with its Waldenbooks unit.  In 1995, Kmart renamed the unit  Borders Group Inc . and spun
it off in an initial public offering. The new public company,
with a market value of about $500 million, had more than 1,000
locations under the Borders, Waldenbooks and Planet Music brands
and generated $1.5 billion in revenue.  Borders then joined Barnes & Noble in dotting the U.S. with
book superstores that proved to be more profitable than its
mall-based Waldenbooks locations. The superstore unit grew to
200 by 1996 and doubled by 2002.  “They over-expanded and built up some debt on their
balance sheet,” said Souers, who has covered Borders for six
years. “There was also less control to those businesses.”  Borders has asked court permission to keep its customer-
rewards program, serving 42 million members, and honor
obligations to its employees, which include 6,100 full-time
workers and 11,400 part-time employees.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York bankruptcy court
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 