-- 
Borders Takes Bids to Liquidate 200 Stores, Can Draw on Loan

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-17T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/borders-can-draw-on-505-million-loan-judge-says-update1-.html
  Borders Group Inc ., the second-
biggest U.S. bookstore chain, is taking competing bids to
liquidate 200 of its stores after winning court permission on
its first day in bankruptcy to draw on a $505 million loan.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Arthur Gonzalez  in  Manhattan  approved
$400 million of so-called debtor-in-possession loans on an
interim basis to finance the reorganization. Lenders are led by  GE Capital . He first demanded that a budget for the bookstore’s
use of the money be filed with the court.  He didn’t rule yesterday on a request to close 200 stores
amid competing bids for the right to liquidate the merchandise
and furniture. A new hearing will be held today.  Even as Borders closes at least 30 percent of its 642
stores, the bookseller will try to save “thousands and
thousands” of jobs, company lawyer David Friedman told
Gonzalez.  “This is a debtor that is seeking rehabilitation, indeed
rebirth, in the face of massive operational headwinds and a sea-
change in the ways in which consumers acquire information,”
Friedman said.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, filed for Chapter 11
protection yesterday after management changes, job cuts and debt
restructuring failed to make up for sagging book sales in the
face of competition from  Amazon.com Inc . and  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc .  Waldenbooks, Borders Express  The company has stores under the Borders, Waldenbooks,
Borders Express and Borders Outlet names in the U.S. and  Puerto
Rico , according to the court filing. It says it needs to close
at least 200, and potentially 75 more.  It’s losing about $2 million a week at the underperforming
stores and plans to start sales by Feb. 19 to take advantage of
the President’s Day holiday, according to court papers.  The auction for rights to liquidate the stores is ongoing,
with one offer made yesterday that would give creditors
$30 million more than an initial “stalking horse” bid,
Friedman said.  Borders has a deal with liquidators Hilco Merchant
Resources LLC, SB Capital Group LLC and Tiger Capital Group to
guarantee it 73 percent of the cost value of all merchandise at
the closing stores, which Borders estimated in court papers will
bring in $131 million to $148 million to repay its creditors.  “We have people with real money willing to give it to
us,” Friedman said, adding that the 200 stores are stocked with
dwindling merchandise less attractive to consumers and that any
restocking of shelves wouldn’t pay off.  Customer-Rewards Program  Borders can honor its customer-rewards program, serving
42 million members, and pay its employees, which include 6,100
full-time workers and 11,400 part-time employees, as Gonzalez
approved all the company’s routine so-called first-day requests.  Lawyers for the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department  that oversees bankruptcies, as well as lawyers for
landlords, had said they wanted to know Borders’ budget
considering the size of the $400 million interim loan. Borders
said it hadn’t filed a budget because that might reveal
competitive information.  Investment firms Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC, a unit of
Stone Tower Capital LLC and GB Merchant Partners are also
participating, according to court papers. The one-year facility
will include a $410 million revolving line of credit, a $20
million first-in last-out portion, a $20 million letter of
credit facility and a $55 million term loan B, for which GA
Capital LLC is the lead arranger.  Pre-Bankruptcy Lenders  Friedman said that the pre-bankruptcy lenders are over-
secured, and there would be about $100 million left over after
secured lenders are repaid.  Borders, whose market value shrank by more than $3 billion
since 1998, racked up losses by failing to adapt to shifts in
how consumers shop. Its first e-commerce site debuted in 2008,
more than a decade after Amazon.com revolutionized publishing
with online sales. The world’s largest online retailer beat it
again by moving into digital books with the Kindle e-reader in
2007, a market Borders entered in July.  GE Capital had offered Borders a $550 million loan in
January that required it to syndicate $175 million of the
commitment and get another $125 million in junior debt, which
Borders was unable to do, according to court papers.  Gonzalez was handling the case yesterday in the absence of
Judge Martin Glenn, who has been assigned the case.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 