-- 
Prudence May Pay for British Columbia Bondholders After Status Quo Budget

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/british-columbia-s-status-quo-budget-may-pay-for-bondholders.html
British Columbia’s prudent budgeting
and better-than-expected fiscal results could help  Canada ’s
third-most populous province eliminate its  budget deficit  ahead
of schedule and spur a rally in its debt.  Finance Minister Colin Hansen yesterday presented a
“status quo” fiscal plan that forecast a C$925 million ($936
million) deficit in the fiscal year that begins April 1, down
from a C$1.27 billion gap in the current year that is C$450
million smaller than forecast a year ago.  While  Hansen’s budget  doesn’t project a return to surpluses
before the 2013-14 fiscal year, conservative growth forecasts
and allowances for slower revenue and emergency spending leave
so much cushion that the end of deficits could come sooner,
which would support the province’s bonds, analysts said.  “In a world of significant concern about government
deficits, I think it’s a source of comfort for investors that
B.C. can close its budget deficit in short order,” said  Douglas Porter , deputy chief economist at Bank of Montreal’s capital
markets unit in Toronto. “There is some scope for B.C. spreads
to tighten further on this positive news.”  Hansen is projecting 2 percent economic growth in 2011,
while the province’s Economic Forecast Council -- a 14-member
independent group that advises the government -- is calling for
2.7 percent growth. Each additional percentage point in growth
adds up to C$250 million to revenue, the  finance ministry  says.  The budget has also built in a C$350 million “forecast
allowance” for slower growth, which was increased by C$50
million from last year, and a C$600 million emergency spending
fund that is one-third larger than the year before.  ‘Within Reach’  “I wouldn’t rule out a return to balance in the upcoming
fiscal year,” Porter said by telephone. “It’s definitely
within reach.”  Hansen forecasts  government spending  to grow 2.2 percent to
C$41.9 billion, while revenue will expand by 3.6 percent to
C$41.3 billion, buoyed by increased income from commodities such
as coal and lumber even as natural gas prices remain relatively
low. Commodities make up about two-thirds of the province’s
exports, which represent about 40 percent of the British
Columbia economy, according to Statistics Canada data,
supporting companies such as Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s
largest-diversified miner, and West Fraser Timber Co.,  North
America ’s largest maker of lumber for home building.  The government plans to sell C$9 billion of debt in the
2011-12 fiscal year, up from an estimated  C$8.1 billion  this
year. The province may still borrow up to C$750 million before
the end of March, Finance department  documents show , capping a
year in which it sold its first U.S.-dollar global bond in seven
years.  Higher Debt  British Columbia’s debt will rise to C$53.4 billion at the
end of March 2012 from C$47.3 billion this year, figures from
the  finance department  show, reaching C$60.4 billion by April
2014. The province’s debt is rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , Aaa
by Moody’s and AA high by DBRS.  Provincial debt will rise to 25.4 percent of gross domestic
product from 23.4 percent by April 2012, the budget projects.
Excluding the debt of self-supporting agencies such as B.C.
Hydro, which generate their own revenue, the taxpayer-supported
debt-to-GDP ratio will rise to 17.5 percent from 16.5 percent.  Today’s budget was issued less than two weeks before the
province’s ruling  Liberal Party  elects a new leader to replace
retiring Premier Gordon Campbell. “I’ve described it as a
status quo budget,” Hansen said, adding it would give the next
premier “flexibility” in starting a new administration.  ‘Lots of Options’  “The new premier will have lots of options,” Hansen told
reporters, adding that balancing the province’s budget ahead of
schedule is “always an option.”  The Liberals hold a majority of seats in the provincial
legislature, with the pro-union  New Democratic Party  forming the
main opposition. The next provincial election is scheduled for
May 2013.  Campbell said Nov. 3 he would step down as leader of the
Liberals and voting for a new leader is scheduled to begin Feb.
26. Campbell announced his resignation after his  popularity  in
opinion polls fell following his government’s decision to merge
the province’s  sales tax  with the federal Goods and Services Tax.  Hansen reiterated that the Liberals are committed to
reversing the 12 percent harmonized sales tax, or HST, if
British Columbians vote in favor of scrapping the levy in a
referendum scheduled for September.  Major Impact  A vote in favor of ending the tax would have a major
financial impact on the province, Hansen said, including
requiring it to pay back C$1.6 billion British Columbia is
receiving under an agreement with the federal government.  Hansen began his  budget speech  by saying he couldn’t
describe the document as “exciting.” Malcolm Jones, a
portfolio manager with  Edmonton , Alberta-based Adroit Investment
Management, agreed with the assessment.  “We know that there is going to be a change in leadership
and a referendum on the HST,” said Jones, who manages about
C$400 million in assets, including Canadian  government bonds .
“An unexciting budget isn’t such a bad thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Victoria, British Columbia
t .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  