-- 
Bulgaria, Romania Reject Schengen ‘Double Standard,’ BTA Says

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-02-16T16:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bulgaria-romania-reject-schengen-double-standard-bta-says.html
  Bulgaria  and  Romania  rejected
additional requirements for their accession to the so-called
Schengen Zone, which will give their citizens passport-free
travel rights within most of the 27-nation  European Union ,  BTA 
newswire reported.  The two countries “will not accept a double standard,”
involving additional Schengen entry criteria that was not
demanded of countries that joined the agreement earlier, said
BTA, citing a joint declaration issued by the foreign policy
committees of Bulgaria’s and Romania’s parliaments.  Bulgarian and Romanian lawmakers met in the Danube city of
Rousse today to discuss bilateral projects, according to BTA.  The two Balkan countries along the  Black Sea  joined the EU
in 2007 and are set to receive 45 billion euros ($60 billion) of
EU aid to raise  living standards  and improve infrastructure to
EU levels. They will join eight other former communist countries
that became Schengen members on Dec. 18, 2007, as the EU expands
its influence east and gives its newest members increased rights
within the EU.  Countries in the  Schengen  system, named for the Luxembourg
village where the border-free plans were hatched in 1985, have
to meet standards for border security, the fight against
organized crime and falsified documents, and have to issue
biometric passports to their citizens.  Countries hoping to join need the unanimous endorsement of
those already in, based on an assessment by the  European
Commission , the EU’s Brussels-based executive arm.  Several countries, including France and  Germany , have
recommended to link Bulgaria’s and Romania’s Schengen admission
to their efforts to fight crime and corruption, which is
monitored by the commission in biannual reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  