-- 
Bundesbank Nominee Weidmann Helped Merkel Steer Crises

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-16T15:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/bundesbank-nominee-jens-weidmann-helped-merkel-navigate-financial-crises.html
Jens Weidmann, the chief economic
adviser to Chancellor  Angela Merkel  nominated to head the
Bundesbank, keeps two model planes in his office: one of a
Boeing Co. jet and another from Airbus SAS.  The rival planemaker designs help Weidmann put visitors to
the Chancellery from the U.S. or  Europe  at ease, underscoring
his differing approach to that of his Bundesbank predecessor,  Axel Weber . Weber, who will stand down on April 30, has said
“it’s not so important” for a central banker to be a diplomat.  “He’s not a German tank -- he’s more like a senior French
civil servant from one of the grandes ecoles,” Manfred Neumann,
a professor of international economics at the University of Bonn
who supervised Weidmann’s 1997 doctoral thesis, said in a phone
interview. “He won’t cut and run, but he also won’t use crude
pressure. He’s a contrast to Weber, not in terms of substance
but in his manner.”  Weidmann, 42, was named today to be president of  Germany ’s
central bank, the youngest in its near 54-year history. He
worked there before serving as Merkel’s aide from 2006. He was
at Merkel’s side throughout the financial and economic crises,
the government’s efforts to stimulate its way out of the deepest
recession in modern German history, and the European sovereign
debt aftershocks that continue to roil the euro area.  He has built up experience and connections across central
banking, government and international organizations. Known for
his discretion in global meetings, Weidmann rarely seeks media
exposure, instead helping to prepare Merkel’s talking points.  Working With Merkel  “Everyone who knows Jens Weidmann knows that he has the
highest level of competency, a brilliant intellect and an
independent mind,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin as she
announced his nomination. “On a personal note, I want to say
that it’s hard for me to see him go, both in professional and
human terms, because we always worked together very well.”  As a loyal aide, Weidmann also backed decisions by Merkel
that drew criticism, including the delay of last year’s bailout
for  Greece  that irked other euro-region governments and drew
fire from economists. Critics in Merkel’s coalition say his
closeness to the chancellor casts a shadow over his appointment
to head the Bundesbank.  ‘Feisty Tradition’  While Weidmann accrued “immensely important experience”
at Merkel’s side, the chancellor should have considered
“another candidate of the same caliber who would more credibly
represent the bank’s long, feisty tradition of independence,”  Frank Schaeffler , a lawmaker for the Free Democratic Party, a
Merkel coalition ally, said in a phone interview. “The bank’s
reputation must not be compromised.”  Born in the western German city of Solingen in 1968 to an
engineer and a teacher, Weidmann has a love of Africa. As a
student, he spent time at the National Bank of Rwanda. Later,
when working at the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington 
between 1997 and 1999, he traveled in  Africa  on IMF debt-
rescheduling missions.  Weidmann returned home to work for four years as general
secretary of the German government’s  Council of Economic
Advisers . While there, he helped brainstorm the ideas former
Social Democratic Party Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder turned into
the so-called Agenda 2010, a package of welfare-state cuts that
Merkel has credited with helping bring down unemployment. The
jobless rate fell to 7.4 percent last month from a post-World
War II high of 12.1 percent in March 2005, six months before she
defeated Schroeder at that year’s election.  Weber Recommendation  Weidmann, who is not affiliated to any political party, is
a protégé of Weber, who plans to return to life as an economics
professor after he stands down as Bundesbank president on April
30. Weber taught Weidmann as a student in the 1990s, then
brought him to the central bank as a policy analyst in 2003. It
was Weber who recommended Weidmann to Merkel as chief economic
adviser after her 2005  election victory .  Fluent in both English and French, Weidmann was awarded the
French Legion of Honor in a ceremony in Berlin in 2009, when
then French Ambassador Bernard de Montferrand praised his sharp
analysis, his “discreteness, firmness and negotiating skills.”  Weidmann will use those assets in his Bundesbank post to
promote Germany’s interests, working to bolster the euro that
Merkel has said she’ll do everything to defend, according to
Neumann at the University of Bonn. A critic of the single
currency, Neumann organized an open letter by 155 German
economics professors in 1998 calling for the euro to be
postponed.  “He’s not soft. He knows what he wants, but he can make
deals,” Neumann said. “He’s for a strong euro. He won’t
compromise on that. He’ll be a euro hawk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  