-- 
Cable TV Firms Fight Google, Apple Threat in Europe

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-16T17:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/cable-television-operators-fight-google-apple-threat-in-european-market.html
  Europe ’s cable television operators,
faced with a threat from video content aggregators such as  Google Inc . and  Apple Inc ., say they’ll fight to keep customers.  While the continent’s increasingly digitized homes are
ringing in higher revenue for the operators, they are also
seeing TV customers deserting them for  Internet TV , or IPTV, and
other so-called over-the-top providers that bypass cable
packages and provide content directly through Web browsers.  “It’s an existential threat, in the sense that it leads to
cord-cutting,” said Shane O’Neill, Chief Strategy Officer at  Liberty Global Inc ., referring to customers dropping television
subscriptions. “Google, Apple, these are powerful, well-
financed companies that have started to stray into our path and
it behooves us to pick up the pace of innovation.”  Speaking at the  Cable Congress  in Lucerne,  Switzerland ,
O’Neill said today what worries him is the pace of the change.
While the cable industry is accustomed to replacing set-top
boxes every four years and a broadband upgrade every six years,
“these guys are operating at light speed,” he said. “They are
innovating every six months.”  In 2010, Europe’s cable operators’ TV revenue rose more
than 10 percent to 10.1 billion euros ($13.6 billion), and is
expected to grow to 13.2 billion euros in 2014, according to
data provided by IHS Screen Digest analyst Guy Bisson. The
number of TVs with cable feed, however, slid by 0.4 percent in
2010 and is projected to fall another 0.5 percent by 2014.  Premium Content  Cable operators can win back customers by providing premium
content that users are willing to pay for, Bisson said today,
noting that the likes of  Netflix Inc .,  Amazon.com Inc .’s
Lovefilm, Apple’s iTunes, Hulu LLC.,  Sony Corp .’s Qriocity and
Zune still make customers pay for their content.  “We are talking about competing on a like-for-like basis
and there’s an opportunity here if cable operators do it well,”
Bisson said.    Virgin Media Inc .’s Chief Operating Officer Andrew Barron
echoed that sentiment, saying that “as customers are faced with
a vast amount of choice in a fragmented market, the question is
how do we become their guide?”  To be sure, a drop in cable TV customers has coincided with
an increase in other services people demand from their cable
operators -- Internet and telephony, for example.  “Cable in its current form holds the most opportunity,
whether it’s delivery speeds, formats, products, functionality;
that’s what investors are buying,” said Marisa Drew, the co-
head of global markets solutions at Credit Suisse Securities.
“Investors aren’t seeing over-the-top as a near-term threat.”  Larger Battle  Still, in the longer term, the battle for eyeballs will
turn into a larger fight for control over more interactive media
-- from the Internet and telephony to games and social
networking.  “Cable has to look over its shoulder in a big way,” said
Tom Rogers, the CEO of digital-video recording pioneer  TiVo
Inc ., which is making deals with European and U.S. cable
operators to provide set-top boxes that will not only organize
content from the traditional TV channels, but will also
integrate social networking features such as Facebook.  “People love the choice that cable operators provide,” he
said. “Cable operators are the largest providers of content and
choice, but it wouldn’t take a whole lot for the consumer to go
elsewhere if the amount of that choice or the presentation of it
would excel somewhere else.”  Framing the Experience  Rogers said cable operators should frame the viewing
experience.  “How it is packaged is going to be critical,” he said in
an interview. “They have to be worried that if they don’t
develop that role sufficiently, they will be overcome by Google,
Apple and others who want that customer relationship that the
cable operators have built up over the last couple of decades.”  Rogers said that two years ago he would have been concerned
that the cable industry was going to get “eaten alive” because
of the trend toward more over-the-top consumption. “I’m
heartened by the last year of activity,” he said.  TiVo recently struck a content-system deal with Spanish
cable operator Grupo Corporativo Ono SA, whose CEO Rosalia Portela said in an interview that she’s not too concerned about
losing customers to over-the-top providers. Rather than fight
the trend, Ono is joining it, she said.  One Box  “We are trying to achieve that through the Ono connection
you could have access to anything,” Portela said. We’re talking
to everybody. We are less concerned than other traditional
operators. Having Hulu or Netflix or Google is an advantage
because we have the access that some other companies don’t.”  Liberty Global is planning a box that includes standard
video-on-demand and recording features with Internet video
viewing. It “remains to be decided” exactly how open the
system will be to the likes of Google, said CEO Mike Fries. The
company’s Chief Technology Officer Balan Nair said that the
system, dubbed “Project Horizon,” won’t block Google.  “There’s no reason to do that,” Nair said. “As far as
embracing it, there’s one particular element that I like
personally: it’s the search function.”  Rodrigo Costa, the chief executive officer of Portuguese
cable company Zon Multimedia SGPS SA, said he will offer Google
TV, Facebook, YouTube, Picasa, Flickr and other similar services
to customers if they ask for them. “If we refuse to do that, 
others will do it. We have to give consumers what they want.”  Meanwhile, Google, said it can’t be held responsible for
customers leaving cable-TV services.  “Google TV is not a content service,” said Donagh
O’Mally, head of partnerships at YouTube in the U.K., Ireland
and Benelux. “If you decide to cancel your pay-TV subscription
and then go with Google TV, frankly you’ll be disappointed. It
is a search and Android operating platform.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  