-- 
Cablevision Drops as Customers Defect Amid Competition, Channel Blackouts

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T21:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/cablevision-profit-rises-45-as-customers-spend-on-internet-video-service.html
  Cablevision Systems Corp ., the New
York area cable-TV provider, slumped after losing more
subscribers last quarter than some analysts estimated amid
increasing competition and channel blackouts.  The company lost 35,000 basic video customers, excluding
the users gained from the purchase of Bresnan Communications Co.
Marci Ryvicker, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co ., estimated a
loss of 12,000 users and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s  Craig Moffett  predicted a decrease of 14,000.  Cablevision is battling  Verizon Communications Inc . as well
as websites that offer TV shows. To compensate for slowing
growth in a saturating market, Cablevision is seeking to
negotiate lower prices from content providers for shows like
  American Idol ,” resulting in disputes and channel blackouts.  “The weakness in subscriber metrics in the core cable
business gives more than enough reason for pause,” said New
York-based Moffett. “The risk is that eventually Cablevision’s
metrics will hit a wall, and raising prices in an already over-
priced industry will be Cablevision’s last and only resort.”  Cablevision fell 66 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $36.76 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
risen 8.6 percent this year.  Fourth-quarter net income increased to $113.9 million, or
39 cents, from $78.4 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier. Sales
advanced 5.7 percent to $1.87 billion, the Bethpage,  New York- 
based cable operator said in a statement.  Curbing Costs  To get customers to spend more, Chief Executive Officer Jim Dolan is adding services including wireless networking and plans
to offer a feature that lets users view Web content on TV.  Cablevision also raised prices for existing users and added
Internet and voice subscribers, pushing the average revenue per
customer to $150.68 a month, a 4.6 percent increase from a year
earlier. The average for larger rival  Comcast Corp . is $133.43.  Cablevision is also seeking to cut spending on set-top
boxes by incorporating video-recording technology in its
network. Set-top box costs fell 12 percent to $57.6 million.  The company’s spat with News Corp.’s Fox in October
resulted in the longest-lasting blackout of a major  broadcast
network  for a million or more people in the last decade, with
viewers losing access to some of baseball’s  World Series  games.  The customers the company lost during the dispute were
worth the programming discount achieved in the negotiation
process, Chief Operating Officer Tom Rutledge said at the time.
Virtually all the company’s subscriber losses this quarter were
due to the blackout, he said today on a conference call.  Spinoffs, Acquisition  Cablevision spun off its Madison Square Garden business
last year, allowing Dolan, whose family controls Cablevision, to
focus on the more profitable cable unit. The company also plans
to spin off its Rainbow Media unit, with channels such as AMC,
which airs “Mad Men,” and WE TV, a women-oriented network. The
spinoff is set to be completed later this year.  “After the Rainbow spinoff is completed, Cablevision will
have transformed itself from a small media and entertainment
conglomerate to a near pure play cable operator with best-in-
class financial and operational metrics and a much improved
shareholder orientation,” said Moffett.  The company purchased Bresnan last year to expand its cable
business in  Colorado , Montana,  Wyoming  and  Utah . The deal closed
in December. Cablevision is trying “to find more attractive
acquisitions like Bresnan, although so far, such opportunities
have proven to be few and far between,” executive vice
president Gregg Seibert said on the conference call.  Bresnan was attractive because its facilities had been
upgraded, it had underpenetrated markets, and there were
favorable financing and tax attributes to the deal, Dolan said
on the conference call.  For the year, Cablevision generated more than $855 million
in free  cash flow , a 13 percent increase from 2009. The
company’s board authorized an additional $500 million for a
share-repurchase program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  