-- 
California Republicans `Wish List' Targets Public Pensions in Brown Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/california-republicans-wish-list-targets-public-pensions-in-brown-budget.html
  California  Republican lawmakers want
Democrats who control the Legislature to lock in $12 billion in
spending cuts and other remedies before they’ll consider a
public vote on taxes that’s a cornerstone of Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget.  Brown needs at least four Republicans -- two in the Senate
and two in the Assembly -- to muster a two-thirds majority that
will allow him to bring almost $10 billion in temporary tax
increases to voters for approval.  Brown, 72, a Democrat who was governor from 1975 to 1983,
has vowed to fix the financial strains leaving California with
the biggest deficit of all U.S. states, and the lowest  credit
rating . He proposes $12 billion of spending cuts and wants
lawmakers to call a special election in June for voter
permission to extend higher vehicle fees, sales taxes and
income-tax rates to avoid even deeper cuts.  Senate Republicans yesterday drew up a list of legislative
priorities including public-employee pension reductions and
lighter government regulations. Brown and Democrats must first
enact the spending cuts and the reforms before Republicans would
be willing to consider the tax extension, said Jann Taber, a
spokeswoman for Senate Republican Leader Bob Dutton.  “Until those two things happen, Senate Republicans are not
going to entertain the tax measures,” Taber said in a telephone
interview. “Once those two things happen, or if and when they
happen, then the Republican caucus would take a look at where
they are at that point.”  Permanent Cap  The Republicans also want a permanent cap on state
spending, a rollback of environmental and business regulations,
and tax, tort and civil service reforms, Taber said.  "This is a very long wish-list,’’ said Nathan Barankin, a
spokesman for Darrell Steinberg, the Democrat who is Senate
president pro tem. “But at least it’s an acknowledgment that
the voters should be given the opportunity to determine the
future of their state."  Aides to Brown didn’t have a comment on the Republican
strategy last night.  Brown was elected in November after campaigning on a
promise to add no taxes without voter consent. He wants to
retain for five more years a 0.25 percentage-point increase in
personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-point boost in the
retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an increase in the rate
for auto-registration fees of 0.5 percentage point, to 1.15
percent of a vehicle’s value; and suspension of a  child tax
credit .  Schwarzenegger Increase  The tax increases were created in February 2009 when
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican, faced a $42
billion deficit. The increases are scheduled to expire this
year. Extending them would raise more than $9 billion in the
coming fiscal year and as much as $14 billion in their final
year.  Last November, voters rejected a proposal to increase
vehicle fees to pay for maintenance of the state’s parks.
Democrats have opposed the level of cuts in Brown’s plan and his
proposal to eliminate redevelopment agencies and enterprise
zones in blighted neighborhoods.  Brown has said he wants to hold the tax vote by June 7, the
last election day before the deadline set by the constitution
for passing a budget. Election officials need about three
months’ lead time. That gives Brown until about March 7 to win
legislative authorization to put the question on the ballot.  If extended, Brown would carve out a portion of the sales
tax and vehicle fee to pay local governments for a broad shift
in responsibility for many state-run health, welfare and public-
safety programs. After five years, local governments could ask
their voters if they want to keep financing the programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  