-- 
Calpers May Limit Executive Job Moves, Gifts to Board

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-02-16T21:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/california-public-employee-pension-fund-may-limit-executive-revolving-door.html
The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension fund, will evaluate
a proposal to restrict how quickly former employees and
executives may take jobs with money managers.  Under the plan, Calpers staff and board members would be
prohibited for two years from taking jobs with any company
awarded $10 million or more in business during the preceding
five years.  The ban was recommended by an outside law firm the board
hired to strengthen ethics policies amid an influence-peddling
scandal a year ago. The firm, Steptoe & Johnson LLP, also
suggested that Calpers forbid board members from accepting gifts
from people doing business with the fund.  “We are doing what we need to do to move forward,”
Calpers President Rob Feckner said at a board meeting in  Sacramento . “But I would hate to see a black eye painted across
this entire board for the actions of others.” Calpers had
assets of $229.5 billion as of Feb. 14.  The California attorney general’s office has accused former
Calpers board member  Alfred Villalobos  of trying to improperly
influence investment decisions to favor Apollo Global Management
LLC and other private-equity clients. Federal and state agencies
are probing the use of so-called placement agents, or private
middlemen hired by money managers, to help win investment
assignments from U.S. public-pension funds. Villalobos has
denied wrongdoing.  Federal, State Investigations  Calpers said today it handed over millions of pages of
documents to federal and state criminal and civil investigators
in connection with the probe.  Former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed a law last
year prohibiting money managers from paying contingency fees to
middlemen who help win state retirement-plan contracts.  Calpers agreed in November to adopt  rules  compelling any
company seeking a contract worth more than $10,000 to report
hiring a placement agent to win the fund’s business. The rule
also requires disclosure of how much was paid and for what
services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  