-- 
Cameron Says He's Sticking to Plan A as Jobless, Prices Rise

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-02-16T13:07:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/cameron-says-he-s-sticking-to-plan-a-as-jobless-prices-rise.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said there’s no alternative to his plan for budget cuts even
after inflation accelerated to double its target and
unemployment unexpectedly rose last month.  “This country needs fiscal consolidation to deal with the
biggest  budget deficit  in peacetime,” Cameron told Parliament
in London today after the opposition  Labour Party  leader,  Ed Miliband , attacked his handling of the economy during the
premier’s weekly question-and-answer session. “There has to be
a Plan A,” Cameron said, echoing comments today by Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King .  Cameron has four years until he has to call a national
election and is betting that his plan to all but eliminate the
deficit by 2015 will see the economy recover before then. The
economy shrank in the final quarter of last year and Cameron
said this week he expected his popularity to decline.  U.K. unemployment claims unexpectedly rose in January, by
2,400 to 1.46 million, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today. Yesterday the ONS said consumer-price growth hit 4
percent in the same month, the highest since November 2008. That
increases the pressure on the Bank of England to raise interest
rates from their current record lows.  “Inflation is rising, growth has stalled, and 66,000 young
people are out of work,” Miliband told lawmakers. “Can the
prime minister tell us whether he thinks his strategy is
working?”  ‘Great Regret’  “Of course today’s unemployment figures are a matter of
great regret,” Cameron responded. “Youth unemployment has been
a problem in this country for well over a decade, in good years
and in bad. What we have to do is sort out all the things that
help young people get back into work.”  The  Bank of England  today forecast inflation will peak at
about 4.4 percent before easing to its 2 percent target by the
middle of 2012, while the growth outlook has worsened. Cameron’s
budget squeeze will eliminate 330,000 public-sector jobs. King
told a news conference in London the central bank may need to
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent to
aid a recovery that is “unlikely to be smooth.”  “People need to know that the pain is going to be worth it
in order for the government to get away with spending cuts on
the scale they plan,”  Andrew Hawkins , chairman of pollster
ComRes Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “It ups the stakes
even further. Everything at the next election is going to focus
on their success in turning the economy round. That’s the only
narrative for the next four years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  