-- 
Canada December Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-16T13:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/canada-december-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's manufacturing shipments report for December
released
by Statistics  Canada .  Manufacturing sales advanced 0.4% to $45.4 billion in
December. Gains in the primary metal and petroleum and
coal product industries were offset by a decline in
aerospace product and parts. Manufacturing sales have been
moving upwards at a slower rate in recent months, after
increasing substantially between May 2009 and May 2010.  Constant dollar manufacturing sales declined 0.5% in
December, reflecting price increases reported during the
month. Constant dollar sales have been relatively stable
over the past seven months.  Higher sales were reported in 13 of 21 industries,
representing two-thirds of total manufacturing.  Widespread gains largely offset by declines in the
aerospace industry  Sales advanced 3.9% in the primary metal industry. The
increase reflected a rise in prices and higher production
at some plants following slowdowns.  In the petroleum and coal products industry, sales
advanced 1.5%. The rise was driven by price increases.  A 2.3% gain in the chemical product industry largely
reflected higher sales of basic chemicals.  Sales in the  food industry  increased 0.9%. The rise was
largely attributable to higher sales reported by
manufacturers in the grain and oilseed milling industry.  The aerospace product and parts industry led the
declines. Production in the industry fell 16.6%, the
largest decrease in percentage terms since September 2009.  Sales decreases also occurred in the machinery industry
(-2.0%) and the computer and electronic product industry (-
3.0%).  Sales up in six provinces    New Brunswick  led the provinces, with sales rising
28.7% to $1.6 billion, largely reflecting gains in the non-
durable goods industries.  Sales advanced 3.3% in  Alberta  to $5.4 billion. Food
(+9.8%), petroleum and coal products (+4.4%) and paper
(+15.4%) were largely responsible for the gain.  A 3.9% rise in Newfoundland and Labrador's sales
reflected gains in the non-durable goods industries.  Quebec led the provincial declines in December, with
sales falling 2.8% to $10.9 billion. Decreases were
largely concentrated in the aerospace products and parts
industry (-21.3%) and the petroleum and coal products
industry (-8.7%).  Sales declined 0.4% in Ontario to $20.7 billion.
Decreases in the petroleum and coal products (-6.8%) and
food (-1.9%) industries were partly offset by gains in the
primary metal (+3.9%) and chemical product (+2.1%)
industries.  In Nova Scotia, sales declined 2.7% to $877 million,
largely as a result of lower sales in the non-durable
goods industries.  Inventory levels remain unchanged  Inventory levels remained unchanged in December at
$61.0 billion. A large increase in the motor vehicle
industry was offset by a fall in aerospace product and
parts inventories. Despite remaining at the same level in
December, inventories have risen in five of the past seven
months since their most recent low of $58.6 billion in May
2010.  Total inventories held by manufacturers in the motor
vehicle industry increased 38.7% in December.
Interruptions in motor vehicle production, caused by
severe weather conditions in Southwest Ontario in mid-
December, led to a 77.6% jump in goods-in-process
inventories for the industry. Increases in raw material
(+6.8%) and finished product (+19.7%) inventories also
contributed to the overall rise in total inventories held
by motor vehicle manufacturers.  Inventories rose 2.2% in the machinery industry and
1.9% in the petroleum and coal products industry.  The aerospace product and parts industry (-7.4%) led
the declines in total inventories. The decrease was mostly
concentrated in the goods-in-process stage of fabrication.  The inventory-to-sales ratio edged down from 1.35 in
November to 1.34 in December. The inventory-to-sales ratio
is a measure of the time, in months, that would be
required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain at
their current level.  Unfilled orders decline  Unfilled orders fell 1.6% in December to $52.0 billion.
Unfilled orders have remained relatively stable in 2010
after declining throughout most of 2009.  The aerospace product and parts industry led the
declines in dollar terms with unfilled orders falling $264
million (-1.2%) to $21.0 billion in December. Excluding
the aerospace product and parts industry, unfilled orders
fell 1.9%.  The computer and electronic product (-5.9%), fabricated
metal product (-2.6%) and machinery (-1.5%) industries
also contributed to the decline.  New orders were down 1.9% in December compared with
November. The main contributors to the decline included
aerospace product and parts, computer and electronic
products, fabricated metal products and machinery.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  