-- 
Canada December International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-02-16T13:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/canada-december-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for December
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents added a further $9.6 billion of Canadian
debt and equity instruments to their holdings in December
for an annual investment of $116.2 billion in 2010, led by
Canadian bonds. On the other side of the ledger, Canadian
investors sold $1.9 billion of foreign securities in
December, mainly US stocks. On an annual basis, Canadians
continued to reduce their exposure to foreign bonds.  Non-residents increase holdings of Canadian equities  Non-resident investors acquired $4.0 billion of
Canadian portfolio shares in December, the largest since
May. New equity issues accounted for two-thirds of this
activity, with the bulk related to cross-border merger and
acquisition activities. The remainder consisted of
secondary market purchases of $1.2 billion of Canadian
stocks, mainly in the gold and mining sectors. Canadian
stock prices were up 3.8% in December, the sixth monthly
increase in a row.  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds slows further  Non-resident investment in Canadian bonds eased to $3.1
billion in December, resulting in the lowest inflow on
this account since March. Canadian corporate bonds drew
most of the foreign investment in December, with $2.3
billion of private corporate bonds and $863 million of
federal government enterprise bonds. This activity was
mainly comprised of acquisitions of new bond issues.  Foreign purchases of federal bonds slowed to $247
million in December and non-residents further reduced
their holdings of provincial bonds, reflecting sizeable
retirements. Despite reduced activity in recent months,
strong foreign investment in Canadian bonds in 2010 was
led by record purchases of both federal and provincial  government bonds .  At the short-term end of the spectrum, non-resident
investors added $2.6 billion of Canadian money market
instruments in December, with the bulk US dollar-
denominated. This consisted of $1.5 billion of provincial
paper, following divestments from January to October, with
the balance mainly in federal government enterprise paper.
The Canadian dollar rose over par against the US dollar by
the end of December, its highest level since May 2008.  Canadian investors sell US equities for a third month  Canadians sold $1.5 billion of foreign stocks in
December, a third consecutive monthly divestment. A
reduction in holdings of US stocks accounted for most of
the divestment over the month. Notwithstanding the recent
monthly divestments, Canadian investors acquired $13.2
billion of foreign equities in 2010, continuing a string
of annual outflows dating back to 1982.  Canadians acquire foreign bonds for a second month  Following significant acquisitions in November,
Canadian investors added a further $314 million of foreign
bonds in December. This reflected activity in the maple
bond market, moderated by a reduction in holdings of US
government bonds, mostly the two-year benchmark bond. In
December, US long-term  interest rates  posted their largest
monthly increase in two years. On an annual basis,
Canadian investors reduced their exposure to foreign bonds
for a third year, but at a much slower pace than was the
case in 2008 and 2009.  Canadians reduced their holdings of foreign money
market instruments by $677 million, with a further
divestment of US Treasury bills in December. On the other
hand, Canadians acquired non-US foreign paper for a six
consecutive month, mostly sovereign paper.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar  Canada  bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  