-- 
Canadian Natural Agrees to Build $5.1 Billion Refinery for Oil Sands Fuel

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-02-16T19:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/canadian-natural-agrees-to-build-5-1-billion-refinery-for-oil-sands-fuel.html
  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd .
and North West Upgrading Inc. agreed to build a C$5 billion
($5.1 billion) refinery in  Alberta  that will convert bitumen
from the province’s oil sands into  diesel fuel .  The refinery will process 37,500 barrels a day of the
provincial government’s bitumen and 12,500 barrels of Canadian
Natural’s, according to a press release from the Alberta energy
ministry today. It will produce 5.5 million liters (1.5 million
gallons) of diesel when the first stage of construction is
completed in 2014, the government said.  Canada has the second-largest proved oil reserves after  Saudi Arabia , most of it in the form of oil sands. Producers can
pay royalties to the Alberta government in the form of bitumen.  Canada ’s daily oil-sands output is expected to more than double
to 3.5 million barrels in 2025, from 1.4 million last year,
according to the  Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers .  The project “not only supports the Alberta government’s
efforts to create value by keeping refining in Alberta but also
supports our marketing strategy to ensure conversion capacity
for our products,” Steve Laut, president of Calgary-based
Canadian Natural, said in a statement.  The refinery will be funded by closely held  North West
Upgrading , Canadian Natural and money from the Alberta
government, Energy Minister Ron Liepert said during a conference
call today, without giving the amount taxpayers will contribute.  ‘Selling Top Soil’  “I’ve always said that shipping raw bitumen out of the
province is like selling the top soil from a farm,” Alberta
Premier Ed Stelmach said on the call. “The  oil sands  are of
increasing importance for global energy and geopolitical
security, and we own the resource.”  Under a related agreement announced today between the
government and  Enhance Energy Inc. , carbon-dioxide emissions
produced by the refinery will be captured and sent to reservoirs
in central Alberta where it will be injected underground to help
oil recovery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  