-- 
Cash Hoards Shrinking at S&P 500 for First Time Since 2009

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/cash-hoards-shrink-at-s-p-500-for-first-time-since-09-as-obama-woos-ceos.html
Corporate America is putting its
cash hoard back to work.  In the first decline since mid-2009, Standard & Poor’s 500
companies reduced cash and short-term investments to $2.4
trillion from a record $2.46 trillion, according to data
Bloomberg compiled from their most recent quarterly reports.
Capital spending increased $22.3 billion, the biggest quarter-
to-quarter jump since the end of 2004, to $142.8 billion, the
highest level in two years.  Budgets are rising for new plants, distribution centers and
stores from S&P bellwethers  Cisco Systems Inc .,  General Electric
Co . and  Coca-Cola Co . While some of the money is being spent 
abroad, company officials say they are opening the purse strings
at home now too. A rebound in economic demand, President  Barack Obama ’s efforts this year to court business leaders, and
Republican gains in Congress have helped build confidence to
invest and start adding jobs, executives and investors said.  “What you’re seeing is business and government learning to
work together,” Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers 
said in a Feb. 9 interview. “There are good steps starting to
occur, but they are just initial steps.”  Cisco, the largest provider of networking equipment, had
$326 million in  capital spending  in each of its two most recent
quarters, the most since the height of the global financial
crisis in October 2008.  U.S. companies accumulated record cash last year after they
slashed spending, shut factories and fired workers in 2008 and
2009 to cope with the worst recession since the 1930s.  The dearth of investment took a toll on jobs, with the  unemployment rate  averaging 9.6 percent in 2010. An increase in
spending this year may help lower the rate to 9.2 percent, the
average estimate of 87 economists in a Bloomberg poll.  Political Climate  Companies held their cash partly on concern that health-
care mandates and increased financial regulation would add
costs, said Barry Knapp, chief equity strategist for Barclays
Plc in  New York . Elections in November, in which Republicans won
back a majority in the House of Representatives and gained seats
in the Senate, have changed the climate for business, he said.  “Corporate America now views that there’s a check on the
progressive policies of the last couple of years,” Knapp said.
“Business confidence has improved, and that’s contributed to
some increased risk appetite.”  Obama has met with CEOs including Chambers,  Jeffrey Immelt 
of GE and Kenneth Frazier of Merck & Co. in an effort to build
confidence in the recovery. The  U.S. economy  may expand 3.2
percent this year, the most since 2004, according to the average
estimates of 90 economists compiled by Bloomberg. The economy
last year grew 2.9 percent after shrinking 2.6 percent in 2009.  Profit, Not Presidents  Obama backed a compromise to extend tax breaks that were
set to expire in December and a measure to accelerate equipment
depreciation. He has countered executives’ criticism with a call
to lower corporate taxes, freeze federal spending and review
“outdated and unnecessary” regulations. In return, at a Feb. 7
speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, heasked companies to 
invest and create more jobs at home.  Decisions to expand in the U.S. ultimately come down to
profit and not a presidential nudge, Daniel DiMicco, CEO of
steelmaker  Nucor Corp ., said in a Feb. 9 interview. Companies
won’t invest “unless they have the opportunity to be more
profitable by doing that as opposed to investing the money
someplace else or holding onto it,” he said.  Nucor, the largest U.S. steelmaker by sales, said in
September that it will build a $750 million iron-making plant in
Louisiana and create 150 permanent jobs with salaries averaging
$75,000 a year. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Nucor’s capital
spending rose 42 percent between the third and fourth quarters,
even as its cash and short-term investments rose 24 percent.  GE Spending  GE has been investing at home and overseas, adding more
than 6,300 U.S. factory jobs since the start of 2009. Expansion
abroad isn’t always at the expense of American jobs, said John Rice, vice chairman and head of GE Global Growth and Operations.  “We get market access, we create jobs in both places and
we end up doing things that neither us nor our partners” could
do alone, Rice said at a Barclays conference on Feb. 8.  GE plans to spend about $6 billion on research and
development this year, including $1 billion in customer-funded
projects, double the spending of a decade ago. The Fairfield,
Connecticut-based maker of jet engines and refrigerators has
used its discretionary cash of more than $20 billion to raise
its dividend and to begin buying back shares for the first time
since 2008.  Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, reduced
its cash and short-term investments by 15 percent to $11.3
billion from the third to the fourth quarter, while doubling  capital expenditures  to $880 million.  Coca-Cola’s Kent  CEO Muhtar Kent said the Atlanta-based company got ahead of
the recovery and Obama’s call for U.S. investment. In the past
two years, Coca-Cola spent $5.5 billion on production plants,
brand advertising and distribution initiatives.  “I don’t need to agree, I’ve done it,” Kent said in a
Feb. 9 interview. “In 2009, we probably invested about $2.5
billion in this country, when everybody probably wasn’t
investing at all, and that has created jobs.”  One way to spur investment is to lower the top corporate
tax rate, said Keith Nosbusch, CEO of Milwaukee-based Rockwell 
Automation Inc., and  Marcel Smits , CEO of  Sara Lee Corp . The 
U.S. top corporate  tax rate  will be the highest among developed 
nations at 35 percent after Japan pares its rate this year.  That creates an ``ironic situation'' for Sara Lee, Smits 
said. When the Downers Grove, Illinois-based foodmaker expands 
in the U.S., the additional domestic revenue faces a higher 
levy than sales generated abroad, he said.  “In  Europe , you see real competition between countries, 
which drives the tax rate down,” Smits said.  Rockwell and Sara Lee  Rockwell reduced its cash and short-term investments by 5
percent from the third to the fourth quarters, while capital
spending fell 55 percent to $20.3 million. Sara Lee did the
opposite, with its cash almost doubling and capital expenditures
rising 29 percent to $85 million.  Cisco’s Chambers echoed the call for lower corporate taxes,
part of the reason he says only about $3 billion of his
company’s $40 billion is kept in the U.S. Even so, Cisco has
added about 10 percent to its U.S. workforce in the past year
and a half, similar to its growth overseas, he said.  Businesses outside the  S&P 500  also are beginning to spend.  Buffalo Wild Wings Inc . will add 5,500 jobs and open more than
100 restaurants this year, CEO Sally Smith said in an interview.
Capital expenditures will climb to about $120 million, she said.
Spending was $73.4 million in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  “Not only are we hiring with new stores, but at the home
office and at the field-support level, as well,” she said.  ‘Good for the Economy’  The attention Obama is giving to companies is a welcome
first step, Rockwell Automation’s Nosbusch said.  “Any time the administration is speaking positively about
the business sector, it’s good,” Nosbusch said. “It’s good for  job creation . It’s good for the economy and I think it’s good
for the country at the end of the day.”  The Bloomberg data examined the most recent quarterly
figures reported by S&P 500 companies, regardless of the
specific calendar period. About 75 percent have reported so far
in the current cycle, and final totals may change. The S&P 500
increased 12.8 percent in 2010, compared with 11 percent for the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net . 