-- 
CEZ, Blackstone May Get Czech Paybacks for Stolen CO2 Permits

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-16T14:48:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/cez-blackstone-may-get-czech-compensation-for-stolen-emission-permits.html
The company responsible for carbon
allowances in the Czech Republic, raided last month by online
hackers, may compensate  CEZ AS  and Blackstone Global Ventures
for about 1.3 million stolen permits.  The Czech registry, managed by OTE AS in  Prague , was among
three in Europe last month to report unauthorized transfers of
carbon permits worth an estimated 29 million euros ($39
million). The security breaches forced the European Union on
Jan. 19 to close all 30 national registries that track ownership
of carbon allowances, and spot trading on three exchanges in
Europe is either closed or limited.  CEZ and Blackstone Global Ventures “will ask us for
compensation,” OTE Director Jiri Stastny said in an interview.
“Unless we manage to resolve the situation otherwise, we will
have to replenish their accounts with permits within 10 days of
reopening the registry.”  OTE said it expects clearance to reopen the registry by
Feb. 25 after submitting its security report to the EU by Feb.
21. It aims to give clients limited access to their accounts
within the next few days and eventually install safeguards that
“go deeper than what is required by Brussels,” Stastny said.  Stastny, who worked at CEZ and RWE AG before starting at
OTE in 2006, said he suspects last month’s thefts are linked to
a bomb threat that forced the evacuation of its seven-story
building on Jan. 18, distracting OTE staff.  Police Investigation  “The perpetrator who entered the system clearly behaved
like one of us,” Stastny said. “The police are still
investigating exactly how he entered the system. Evidence shows
that the perpetrator tried, and in some cases succeeded, in
entering other European registries.”  The EU has allowed seven carbon registries to reopen after
showing they have minimum security. The suspensions didn’t stop
trading of carbon futures in the world’s biggest cap-and-trade
system. EU allowances for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
14.77 euros a ton on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London.  Stastny said the first evidence of missing Czech permits
came from Blackstone Global Ventures, a Brno-based trader that
reported 475,000 tons of allowances missing on Jan. 19.  “The complaint was filed at 7:30 a.m. on Jan. 19,” he
said. “But we consequently found out that the unauthorized
transaction was carried out the day before at around noon, right
before the evacuation started.”  Assigning Blame  CEZ, the largest Czech power producer, reported a bigger
theft on Jan. 27, with 700,000 tons of EU permits missing.  Alan Svoboda, trading director at CEZ, said Jan. 27 that he
holds OTE responsible for the thefts and will ask it to
replenish CEZ’s account. He also called for stricter security
measures.  Blackstone Global said Jan. 20 that OTE should take
responsibility for the loss. “It’s got a fiduciary duty toward
us,” Nikos Tornikidis, manager of the trader’s carbon
portfolio, said at the time. “Nobody breached our servers.”  The hacking attacks in January left about 2 million
emissions allowances missing in the  Czech Republic ,  Austria  and  Greece , the commission estimated. Similar incidents last year in
Italy and  Romania  left additional permits, almost 2 million,
unaccounted for and made carbon traders wary of spot trading,
even after the Feb. 4 reopening of the BlueNext SA exchange.
The Paris-based exchange reported no trades the first two days
of this week.  Based on today’s spot prices of 14.27 euros a ton on
BlueNext, the 1.3 million stolen allowances would be valued at
about 18.6 million euros.  Not Giving Up  OTE hasn’t given up on recovering missing permits. Some of
them ended up in  Estonia , where officials said they have agreed
to block further trading.  “In Estonia, it’s possible to deal directly with the
police,” Stastny said. It’s not as easy in  Germany  and the
U.K., where missing permits have also been located, he said.  German law allows permits to trade freely unless there is
legal action, Julie Steinen, spokeswoman for the German
emissions-trading authority DEHSt, said Feb. 4. She declined to
say whether permits reported missing from the Czech registry
were found in Germany.  “In Germany, the Czech police must talk to the German
police, but the German police must first get a court order,”
Stastny said. “These procedures can take days on each side. On
the other hand, a carbon transaction takes a couple of
seconds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  