-- 
Chicago’s Next Mayor to Inherit Shrinking Population

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-02-16T20:27:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/chicago-s-next-mayor-inherits-shrinking-population-census-shows.html
Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley ’s
successor will govern a smaller city with fewer black residents
and ringed by suburbs that are outpacing its growth, 2010 census
data shows.  The third-most-populous U.S. city, home to 2.7 million,
lost 6.9 percent of its residents between 2000 and 2010,
according to Illinois data released yesterday by the  U.S. Census
Bureau . The loss means fewer federal dollars for Chicago as the
next mayor confronts budget and city-worker pension deficits.  “The region is still gaining in terms of population, but
it is varying in terms of where that population is centered,”
said  Matt Maloney , deputy chief of staff and a policy analyst at
the  Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning . “We see
population continuing to drift outward.”  The drop to 2,695,598 residents was unexpected because
annual census estimates since 2006 had shown the population
holding steady or even increasing slightly.  The decline came as new condominium towers have risen along  Chicago ’s skyline. Those buildings often are filled by singles
and retirement-age couples who no longer have children at home,
resulting in smaller households than the families who  move out
of the city to find cheaper housing and jobs, Maloney said.  Daley, 68, is retiring in May after 22 years in office.
Voters go to the polls Feb. 22, and again on April 5 for a
runoff of the top two candidates if no one wins more than 50
percent.  Two Daley Decades  The population loss during the second decade of Daley’s
tenure contrasted with his first, when the city grew 4 percent
from 1990 to 2000. Hispanic population growth offset the loss of
white residents during that period.  While any mayor would like to see growth to help buttress
the property and sales taxes that boost city coffers, Maloney
said, the young professionals and empty nesters who continue to
move into the city demand fewer services and spend more.  “We are seeing a rise in terms of median  household
income ,” he said. “The city is very attractive to
professionals.”  Daley yesterday announced plans by  Target Corp . to open a
new store in a historic building on State Street in the heart of
Chicago’s downtown Loop, the latest example of national
retailers investing in the city.  Black Mobility  The growth hasn’t been uniform. Chicago’s black population
decreased 17.2 percent during the decade, as tens of thousands
of mostly black public housing families were relocated when the
city demolished their buildings. In addition, middle-class black
families have moved to the suburbs, like other demographic
groups, census figures show.  “I would imagine birth rates aren’t what they used to be,
and it is an aging population, just like the white population,”
said John McCarron, an urban affairs writer and adjunct
professor at DePaul University in Chicago. “There is a lot of
mobility for blacks now.”  Blacks constitute 32.4 percent of the population, down from
36.4 percent in 2000 though still the city’s largest racial
bloc. Non-Hispanic whites accounted for 31.7 percent of
Chicago’s population in 2010, making them the second-largest
racial or ethnic group.  After increasing by 38.1 percent between 1990 and 2000, the
city’s Hispanic population growth moderated in the latest
decade. The group, the third-largest in the city, grew by 3.3
percent and now makes up 28.9 percent of the city’s total
population.  Hispanic Growth  Hispanics now outnumber blacks in  Illinois , the 2010 census
shows, reflecting a trend that earlier annual estimates had
suggested.  Statewide, the group represents 15.8 percent of the
population, compared with 63.7 percent for non-Hispanic whites
and 14.3 percent for blacks. Blacks saw their first decline in
total numbers in Illinois since the U.S. conducted  its first
census  in 1790, according to an analysis of the new data by  William Frey , a demographer and senior fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in  Washington .  Cook County, which includes Chicago, lost 3.4 percent of
its population between 2000 and 2010.  Chicago and Cook County’s declines would have been bigger
if not for the worst recession since the Great Depression, said
Kenneth Johnson, a former professor at Loyola University Chicago
who studies the region as a demographer at the  University of New
Hampshire .  Recession Effect  “The recession had the effect of freezing people in place
due to their reluctance to try to sell homes or change jobs
because of the difficult economic situation,” he said.  The Chicago metropolitan area grew 4 percent during the
decade and is now home to 9.7 million, Johnson said.  While Chicago’s suburbs grew, Illinois’s population
increased just 3.3 percent, the ninth-lowest rate among states
and less than any of its bordering states. Nationwide  population
growth  was 9.7 percent during the decade.  In the Chicago mayoral race, frontrunner  Rahm Emanuel  and
his rival candidates are each trying to build a racial and
ethnic coalition in a city where there is no majority bloc.  Emanuel, 51, the former chief of staff to President  Barack Obama , is competing against rivals who include two Hispanics --
Gery Chico, a former Daley chief of staff, and City Clerk Miguel
del Valle -- and Carol Moseley Braun, who was the first black
woman elected to the Senate. Emanuel, who leads in all the
polls, is white.  Sparring on Tax  Chico highlighted the city’s population loss at a news
conference today.    Indiana  is waging a war against Illinois to steal our
businesses and our jobs,” Chico said in a statement. “Now is
not the time to aid and abet our competitor.”  Emanuel has proposed imposing the city’s sales tax on
“luxury” services such as private club memberships, pet
grooming, limousine rides and tanning-parlor sessions that
aren’t covered under current law. The city’s sales tax rate on
all items would be reduced to 1 percent from 1.25 percent,
saving money for many residents, he has said.  “Another day, another distortion from Gery Chico,” said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for Emanuel. “The Retail Merchants are
supportive of Rahm’s proposal because lowering the sales tax
rate from one of the highest levels in the nation will make
Chicago more competitive, support existing businesses and
attract new ones. This proposal is pro-business and pro-
consumer.”  Shrinking Base  The census data makes clear that the next mayor won’t have
recent population growth to help address what is forecast to be
an annual budget deficit of more than $600 million.  In November,  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded Chicago’s credit
rating to A+, the fifth-highest investment grade, partly
reflecting concern about the city’s reliance on one-time revenue
sources such as leasing 36,000 parking meters to a private
contractor.  Chicago’s population  peaked  in 1950 at 3.6 million, before
declining in each 10-year census until the decade between 1990
and 2000.  Los Angeles  officially  overtook  Chicago as the
nation’s second-largest city following the 1990 census.  Some of the suburban counties that surround Chicago are
likely to be ranked among the fastest-growing in the nation,
once data for all cities, counties and states is released by
late March.  Leading the Pack  Kendall County, about 40 miles (60 kilometers) southwest of
Chicago, was the nation’s fastest-growing county between 2000
and 2009, according to census  estimates  released in  March 2010 .
The county grew 110.4 percent during the decade and now has
114,736 residents.  Will County, home to 677,560 on the southern end of the
Chicago metropolitan area, grew 34.9 percent during the decade.
That made it the state’s second-fastest county for growth.  While Chicago remains the center for the region’s economy,
corporate offices are more commonly found in the suburbs,
Bloomberg data shows. About two-thirds of the area’s publicly
traded companies are located outside city limits.    Boeing Co .,  Northern Trust Corp . and  United Continental
Holdings Inc . are among those based in Chicago, while companies
including  McDonald’s Corp ., Motorola Solutions Inc. and  Abbott
Laboratories  have headquarters in the suburbs.  Chicago and its inner-ring suburbs will probably continue
to struggle to keep people as farther-out suburbs offer cheaper
housing and better schools, Johnson said.  “A lot of the jobs are out there, too,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 