-- 
Chilean Stocks: Entel, Lan, Parque Arauco, Santander, Soquimich

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-02-16T20:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/chilean-stocks-entel-lan-parque-arauco-santander-soquimich.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Chilean trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 3 p.m. New York time.  The Ipsa index lost 0.8 percent to 4,536.75.  Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA (ENTEL CC) rose
0.4 percent to 7,888.1 pesos, advancing for the fourth time in
five days. Chilean authorities awarded Entel, as the company is
known, concessions to operate new frequencies in regions from
Arica to Magallanes, Diario Financiero reported. The 900 MHz
range will allow Entel to expand fixed telephone and Internet
networks in urban areas, the Santiago-based financial  newspaper 
reported, citing decrees issued by the Transport and
Telecommunications Ministry.    Lan Airlines SA  (LAN CC) climbed 0.5 percent to 13,846
pesos, the highest level since Jan. 28. The Santiago-based
carrier’s purchase of three airplanes from Boeing Co. for about
$510 million, announced after trading yesterday, may boost its
share price, Banco de Credito & Inversiones wrote.  “We don’t rule out a positive impact on the stock after
the announcement, particularly after it was one of the hardest-
hit shares in the recent local market correction,” analysts at
BCI’s brokerage unit wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.    Parque Arauco SA  (PARAUCO CC) advanced 1 percent to 1,021.1
pesos. Celfin Capital SA reiterated a “buy” rating for the
Santiago-based shopping mall operator, forecasting an 11 percent
increase in fourth-quarter sales. Parque Arauco is scheduled to
report quarterly results next week, Celfin wrote in a client
note distributed by e-mail yesterday.    Banco Santander Chile  (BSAN CC) dropped 0.9 percent to
38.16 pesos.  Spain ’s largest lender sold a 1.9 percent
shareholding in its Chilean unit for about $290 million in an
auction on the Santiago exchange.  Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA (SQM/B CC),  Chile ’s
largest fertilizer producer, gained 2.1 percent to 26,617 pesos.  India , dependent on imports for all its potash needs, may pay
5.4 percent more for the fertilizer to secure supplies as world
prices rise, government officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net 
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  