-- 
China's Government to Release New Housing Price Index Amid Property Boom

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T08:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/china-s-government-to-release-new-housing-price-index-amid-property-boom.html
  China  will  release  two new indexes
for home prices and change the survey’s methodology, the
National Bureau of Statistics said, as the government is facing
pressure to rein in rising property prices.  The government will release two indexes of new and second-
hand home sales from January, the agency said in a statement
posted on its website today. It will stop releasing national
average property prices, according to the statement.  It will continue to monitor 70 big and medium-sized cities
and use online registration data for home transactions for 35 of
them, it said. For cities that don’t have online registration
systems, the bureau will continue to use figures from local
authorities.  Online registration data “covers a wider range, is more
detailed and easy to access,” according to the  statement . “We
will stop reporting the median home prices” because they are
not representative and can “cause misunderstandings,” it
added.  “The key is not which methodology to use, but whether
local governments will massage the numbers,” said Du Jinsong, a
Hong Kong-based property analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG in a
phone interview.  The government will report home price data on the 18th of
each month and is due to release the January figures this week.  New homes will be broken down into low-cost housing and
private-sector homes. Private-sector homes will come under three
categories: places smaller than 90 square meters (967 square
feet); from 90 square meters to 144 square meters; and larger
than 144 square meters, the statement said.  China’s  home prices  under the old calculation rose for a
19th month, jumping 6.4 percent in December from a year earlier.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  