-- 
China May Ease Deposit Controls in Step Toward Markets, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/china-may-ease-deposit-controls-in-step-toward-markets-deutsche-bank-says.html
  China  may start to give banks
more freedom to set deposit rates this year, a shift that may
lead to higher returns for savers, Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
and Deutsche Bank AG said.  Authorities may relax a deposit-rate ceiling for “well
capitalized” lenders, said  Ma Jun , a Hong Kong-based
economist for Deutsche Bank who has worked for the  World Bank 
and as a China government researcher. Mizuho Securities
said that an experiment involving “well-managed banks”
may begin this year and run through 2012.  China, home to four of the world’s 10 biggest lenders by
market value, aims to move toward more efficient pricing and
allocation of capital without destabilizing the banking
system. Scrapping a ceiling on deposit rates may boost
returns for savers, helping to offset the effects of
inflation, while also cutting profit margins for lenders as
they compete to attract money.  “If they liberalize, the only way for deposit rates to
go will be up and that will directly increase banks’ costs,”
Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho, said
yesterday. Officials will move “cautiously,” said Shen, who
has worked for the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .  China caps the rates that banks can pay on deposits. In
addition, banks cannot lend at rates lower than 90 percent of
the one-year lending benchmark, currently set at 6.06 percent.
Inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in January, higher than
the one-year deposit rate of 3 percent.  National People’s Congress  In Beijing, a central bank press official said yesterday
that any developments related to deposit-rate rules would be
announced on the agency’s website when they happened. The
official declined to be named or to comment further.  Shen said any trial may begin after the annual meeting
of the National People’s Congress in March, where legislators
will approve the government’s next five-year plan. Any
experiment would likely initially be limited to corporate
rather than retail deposits, he added.  Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in December
that officials will press ahead with interest-rate
“liberalization” in the period through 2015.  The lenders with the best ability to price risk should
be given more freedom to set rates, ahead of those bearing
heavy “historic burdens,” Zhou said Dec. 17. He didn’t
specify the burdens.  Banking Bailouts  The government is seeking to move to market rates
without undermining the financial system after a decade-long
bailout of banks, capped by a recapitalization of the  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd . in 2008, cost more than $650
billion. Bad debts had ballooned during years of state-
directed lending.  The nation’s credit boom since late 2008 to drive an
economic recovery has revived concerns that lenders may end
up saddled with bad loans, including to local-government
investment vehicles.  Still, the strength of  China’s economy , which has
expanded at an annual average of 11 percent over the past
five years, and tightened supervision may help banks
withstand market risks. The industry may post profit growth
of 15 percent to 20 percent this year, Bank of Communications
Co. forecasts.  Short-term interbank rates and longer-term corporate
bond rates are already set by the market. Since 1999, China
has also let banks set their own rates on deposits from
Chinese insurers of more than 30 million yuan ($4.6 million)
with terms of more than five years.  ‘Weaker’ Lenders  Officials may avoid moving on lending- and deposit-rate
controls simultaneously because of the extra risk of
squeezing banks’ margins, Shen said. They may also steer
clear of “weaker banks” that might price rates “too
aggressively” to capture business, the economist said.  Deutsche Bank’s Ma said that freeing up restrictions on
deposit rates will “likely” start this year, beginning with
large deposits and certificates of deposit.  China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-largest
lender by assets and market value, this week denied a China
Daily report that it was taking part in a trial program
letting some banks set deposit rates. The lenders will be
able to bid on deposits of up to five years from large
insurers and companies, the newspaper said. The People’s Bank
of China also said that it hadn’t started any trial.  The global financial crisis may have made the government
“more cautious about interest-rate liberalization,” UBS AG
economist  Wang Tao , who’s based in Beijing, said this month.  Capital Requirements  Lu Zhengwei, a Shanghai-based economist at Industrial
Bank Co., said policy makers shouldn’t rush any relaxation of
controls because of the need to protect the earnings of
lenders, under pressure to meet capital requirements. The
government should first let banks take on a broader range of
business to curb their dependence on interest income for
profits, he said.  China may order its biggest lenders, including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China  Ltd. and China
Construction Bank Corp., to raise  capital ratios  to as high
as 14 percent when credit growth is judged excessive, a
person familiar with the matter said last month. That
compares with a current minimum level of 11.5 percent.  Since mid-October, the People’s Bank of China has
boosted benchmark  interest rates  three times.  --Li Yanping, Paul Panckhurst with assistance from Luo Jun
and Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Nerys Avery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  