-- 
Rain May Be ‘Too Late’ for China Wheat Area, BWS Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-02-16T06:50:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/china-rains-may-come-too-late-to-avert-damage-to-wheat-forecaster-says.html
Drought in wheat-growing regions in  China , the world’s largest producer, may persist for a further
month and rain may come “too late” to avert damage to crops,
pushing prices higher, British Weather Services said.  “We’re not looking at anything other than cold and mostly
dry” weather, said  Jim Dale , senior risk meteorologist at
British Weather Services. “It’s probably going to do further
damage, at least to the price in the short-term, because of the
anxiety and the risks,” said Dale, who correctly predicted the
U.K.’s coldest December on record and  Argentina ’s drought.  Wheat in  Chicago  climbed to the highest level since 2008
this week and touched a record in China on concern the worst
drought in 60 years in the wheat-growing areas will tighten
supplies. Global food prices have surged to “dangerous
levels,” pushing 44 million people into extreme poverty since
June, the  World Bank  said yesterday.  “The scenario is that they have got less production, their
reserve stocks have been drawn down, there are drought fears, so
it’s more than likely that they are going to look at replacing
some more stock,” Tom Puddy, head of grain marketing at CBH
Group, Australia’s largest grain shipper last year, said today.
“We may see them look to buy more from  Australia .”  China purchased 1.4 million metric tons in the 2009-2010
marketing year, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Drought Areas  About 36 percent of winter wheat planted in eight major
growing provinces in China is affected by drought, and 6 percent
of the crops are under “severe drought” as of Feb. 14, the
Ministry of Agriculture said yesterday. That compared with 42
percent and 9 percent as of Feb. 9, the ministry said.  “As we move into March, particularly the second part of
March, we will see a break then,” Dale said in a phone
interview from  London , referring to a change in weather in
China. “That may well be too late. The damage may have been
done already, if not already now.”  British Weather Services is a London-based meteorological
company that provides weather-related risk analysis to
agriculture production, sports events and businesses.  Longer-term forecasts are not that reliable, said Yin
Changwen, director of drought relief at Shandong’s department of
water resources.  China Imports  May-delivery wheat gained as much as 0.8 percent to $8.7925
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, and was at $8.73 at 2:15
p.m. Singapore time. The most-active contract gained to $9.1675
on Feb. 14, the highest price since August 2008. Futures have
jumped 68 percent over the past year.  Substantial losses to China’s wheat crop may force the
Asian nation to drain stockpiles and seek supplies from overseas
in the next marketing year, helping push prices higher,
Abdolreza Abbassian, senior economist at the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization, said Feb. 9.  As of Feb. 10, the drought had affected 6.75 million
hectares of crops, leaving 2.8 million people and more than 2.5
million livestock short of drinking water, the state-run Xinhua
News Agency said Feb. 12. Rain on the North China Plain has been
“substantially” below normal since October, the FAO said on
Feb. 8.  China’s wheat harvest may be less than 100 million tons
this year, said Commodore Research in a note e-mailed Feb. 3 by
Landsberg. That compares with the last harvest of 114.5 million
tons, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Global Stockpiles  The drought in China may hurt the wheat crop, jeopardizing
the goal of rebuilding stockpiles, the FAO’s Abbassian said.
Global wheat output must grow at least 3 percent to 4 percent in
the 2011-2012 season to rebuild global reserves, Abbassian said.  Global harvests of wheat will total 645.4 million tons this
season, while demand will be 665.2 million tons, according to
the USDA  estimate  on Feb. 9. That will drain stockpiles to 178
million tons, the lowest level since 2008-2009.  Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said yesterday China
has “abundant” grain reserves to meet demand and the current
drought won’t affect international food prices.  China’s grain supply is in balance with demand and
stockpiles ample to meet consumption, said Nie Zhenbang,
director of the State Administration of Grain. Large-scale
imports to meet domestic needs are “unrealistic,” Nie was
cited as saying in an interview with Chinese Communist Party
magazine Ziguangge. The agency is responsible for managing the
country’s grain reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  