-- 
Chu Pressed by Senators on 45% Cut in U.S. Fossil-Fuel Research

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-02-16T19:55:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/chu-pressed-by-senators-on-45-cut-in-u-s-fossil-fuel-research.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu was
pressed about a proposed 45 percent cut for oil and gas research
in the  fiscal 2012 budget  by U.S. senators who said fossil-fuel
programs should remain a priority.  Oil, natural gas and coal industries are mature and funding
for the Office of Fossil Energy, which would slump to $418
million, would be better spent on clean sources such as solar
panels and  wind turbines  that would cut pollution and create
jobs, Chu said today at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee hearing.  The U.S. is in a “competitive race with the rest of the
world” to develop green-energy technologies, Chu said.  The proposed budget cuts include ending a program that
studies how to extract fossil fuels from hard-to-reach places
such as marginal wells or “un-minable” coal mines. The Energy
Department’s budget would expand 12 percent to $29.5 billion
from 2010, the last year the agency had an enacted budget, even
with the cuts to fossil programs.  “Fossil energy sources can be made much cleaner by the
application of appropriate research and development,” said
Committee Chairman Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat, in
urging that such research remain a priority.  The U.S. will need to “continue to rely on relatively
inexpensive fossil fuels” as cleaner energy sources develop,
said Senator Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the top Republican on the
panel, questioned the proposed increase because the department
hasn’t spent about $21 billion in stimulus money from 2009.  “To rein in federal spending, we need to look at every
program -- at every agency -- and the  Department of Energy  is no
exception,” she said.  Tax Subsidies  Senator Dan Coats, an Indiana Republican, said Chu can
expect Congress to cut his department’s budget as members focus
on reducing spending.  The budget also calls for repealing tax subsidies for
companies that produce oil, natural gas and coal to genertate
$3.61 billion in fiscal 2012 and $46.2 billion in 10 years.  President  Barack Obama  sought to repeal the breaks during
his first two years in office without success. Bingaman said
Jan. 31 that he didn’t think the plan would get much support in
Congress.  Senators scrutinized the administration’s “clean energy
standard,” which would require that 80 percent of electricity
come from low-pollution sources by 2035. Senator  Mike Lee , a
Utah Republican, asked Chu how the nation’s energy mix would
change under the proposal.  Chu said the standard wouldn’t give the government the
power to pick “winners and losers.” The U.S. gets about 20
percent of its electricity from sources that would qualify as
clean under the proposal.  Chu told reporters after the hearing that an initial review
shows no particular type of fuel source would dominate another
under the standard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder at   jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 LLiebert@bloomberg.net . 