-- 
Clariant to Acquire Sued-Chemie from One Equity, Family for $1.9 Billion

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-02-16T12:15:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/clariant-agrees-to-buy-sued-chemie-from-one-equity-posts-quarterly-profit.html
  Clariant AG  agreed to buy private
equity-owned  Sued-Chemie AG  for 1.4 billion euros ($1.9 billion)
in cash and stock to expand in chemical catalysts used in the
oil and automotive industries.  The Swiss maker of plastic additives will acquire a 50.4
percent stake from One Equity Partners LLC,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co .’s buyout arm, and has agreed to buy shares from family
investors to take its stake to “slightly above” 95 percent,
Clariant said in a statement today. One Equity will get 121
euros a share, compared with yesterday’s close of 126 euros.  Clariant shares fell as much as 14 percent because of
investor concern that Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann
is paying top dollar to buy Sued-Chemie and diversify so soon
after completing an overhaul. Sued-Chemie, whose sales and
margins held steady during the financial crisis, will add 1.2
billion euros to Clariant’s sales, a boost of about 22 percent.  “We are surprised a little by the timing and view the exit
multiples as full,” said James Knight, an analyst at  Barclays
Capital . “However, we think Clariant’s management remains
underestimated, and back them to use proven cost-cutting skills
to extract synergy.”  Clariant agreed to a 700 million Swiss-franc ($723 million)
share exchange with family shareholders of Sued-Chemie. It will
also seek to raise 400 million francs in a rights offer and 900
million francs in debt financing. Clariant investors will forego
a dividend payment on 2010 earnings. Barclays’s Knight in a note
referred to the financing as “exceptionally conservative.”  Shares of Muttenz-based Clariant fell as much as 2.48
francs to 14.98 francs and they traded at 15 francs as of 12:08
p.m. in Zurich. Munich-based Sued-Chemie last traded at 126
euros.  Opportunity Knocks  The transaction comes as Kottmann brings an end to major
restructuring. The maker of paint pigments, which closed plants
and cut jobs, ended 2010 almost debt-free, with an opportunity
to acquire a business in a new market with higher growth
prospects and less exposure to economic cycles.  Clariant, advised by  Morgan Stanley , paid the equivalent of
10.5 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. The median Ebitda multiple for 104 specialty
chemical deals announced in the past 12 months was 7.1,
according to Bloomberg data. Debt of about 500 million euros
brings the transaction’s enterprise value to 2 billion euros.  The “pro-forma new Clariant looks expensive,” said Tim Jones, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. “The investment case for
Clariant has been cost cutting and portfolio optimization, not
large-scale M&A, and we see this deal as increasing complexity,”
Jones and colleagues said in a note.  ‘Competitive Process’  Kottmann, 55, said the sale process was “competitive,”
and a pledge to keep Sued-Chemie intact helped give Clariant the
edge over other catalyst makers.  Albemarle Corp ., alongside  Umicore  SA and  Honeywell International Inc ., were among those
interested in Sued-Chemie, three people familiar with the matter
said Dec. 22.  “Our real advantage compared to other companies bidding
for Sued-Chemie was that we always said we didn’t want to split
the company into different parts,” Kottmann said on a
conference call. “The transaction is not an adventure, it’s a
logical next step.”  Clariant’s “unique” proposal, which included support for
developing products like  lithium-ion batteries , helped unlock
the stake held by the Winterstein, Stockhausen and Schweighhard
families, who had no real interest in selling and wanted to
remain involved in the company, Chief Financial Officer Patrick Jany said in an interview today.  Profit Restored  Kottmann, who took the helm in October 2008, and Jany
overhauled Clariant to boost efficiency and lift margins. The
world’s biggest maker of printing-ink chemicals returned to
profit last year, with net income of 191 million francs. It
predicted a “stable business environment” for its existing
activities in 2011.  “Clariant has gone through a big change over the past
couple of years,” said Jany in the interview. “The
restructuring was hard on everybody, but now we have a good base
to really build the business. People are proud of increasing the
performance and everybody is behind this move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  