-- 
Clifford Chance Merges With Two Law Firms to Open in Australia

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-02-16T13:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/clifford-chance-to-open-sydney-perth-law-offices-double-asian-revenues.html
  Clifford Chance  LLP, the U.K.’s
highest-grossing law firm with 1.19 billion pounds ($1.9 billion)
of revenue last year, said it will merge with firms in Sydney
and Perth as part of a plan to double receipts in Asia.  The mergers with  Chang, Pistilli & Simmons , a merger and
acquisition adviser in Sydney, and  Cochrane Lishman Carson
Luscombe  in Perth are part of a plan to boost staffing in Tokyo,
Beijing and  Singapore  and increase revenue in the region to 250
million pounds over the next four years, Peter Charlton, head of
Clifford Chance’s Asian operations, said in a phone interview.  “The importance of Asia to the global economy and to our
major clients has already resulted in substantial growth,”,
Charlton said yesterday. “Any credible growth strategy for the
Asian legal market can no longer ignore the importance of the
Australian market.”  European and U.S. firms are expanding into Australia where
a boom in the resource sector is fueling mergers and
acquisitions and a strengthened Australian dollar makes foreign
purchases cheaper. Clifford Chance follows Chicago-based DLA
Piper, which said Jan. 27 it would add 600 lawyers by merging
with its Australian partner  DLA Phillips Fox  to create the
world’s biggest law firm with more than 4,000 attorneys.  Arrow, SGX  Mergers and acquisitions, or M&A, in Australia more than
doubled to $108.5 billion last year, including Arrow Energy
Ltd.’s takeover by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and PetroChina Co. and
an offer from  Singapore Exchange Ltd . for Australia’s  ASX Ltd .
Australian and international law firms are tying up to compete
for that business and to serve the Asia-Pacific region.  The focus of Clifford Chance’s Australian practice “will
be very much around M&A,” Charlton said.  Washington-based Jones Day opened a Sydney practice in 1998
and Allen & Overy LLP, one of  London ’s five highest-grossing law
firms, poached 14 partners from Australia’s second-ranked legal
adviser on mergers, Clayton Utz, to open offices in Sydney and
Perth last year.  Norton Rose LLP, based in London, also formed an alliance
last year with Deacons Australia. The firms said at the time the
combination allowed them to provide better client service in  Asia . Their tie-up doesn’t include full financial integration,
as Clifford Chance’s and DLA Piper’s do.  Clifford Chance considered a tie-up with Mallesons Stephen
Jaques, the top-ranked legal adviser on Australian mergers.
Robert Milliner, Malleson’s chief executive, said the 2008
global recession scuttled those plans.  “Mallesons was too big,” Charlton said. Clifford Chance
has about 500 partners, while Mallesons has 190, and a merger
would’ve skewed the practice too much toward Australia, he said.
“We don’t need to be that big.” The London-based firm is
adding 14 partners with its Sydney and Perth mergers.    South Korea   The firm is also looking to expand into South Korea,
Charlton said. South Korea is relaxing restrictions on legal
firms and Clifford Chance may open a representative office in
the country this year, he said.  Clifford Chance this year ended its preferred referral
arrangement with Indian law firm AZB & Partners. It is one of 31
foreign law firms sued in  Chennai ,  India  for allegedly breaching
rules prohibiting foreign lawyers from practice.  “Every time it seems to get close, it gets further away,”
Charlton said of the prospect of India opening the country to
foreign law firms.  The Clifford Chance Australian mergers were approved by the
firm’s partners Feb. 15 and will take effect May 1, the firm
said. DLA Piper merger is subject to partnership votes and is
also targeted to take effect May 1.    Hong Kong  Aviation  Chang, Pistilli had advised Hong Kong Aviation Co. on its
acquisition of Allco Aviation, comprising of aircraft valued at
A$3 billion. Cochrane Lishman represented  Avoca Resources Ltd .
on its merger with  Anatolia Minerals Development Ltd .  Australia’s legal market has been historically dominated by
the so-called big six law firms, which include Freehills and
Allens Arthur Robinson, each with about 1,000 lawyers, and
Mallesons with about 800 attorneys, although the country has
about 11,000 legal practices.  Slater & Gordon Ltd ., an
Australian class action firm, in 2007 became the first law firm
to sell shares to the public.  “Corporate Australia is looking much more
internationally,” Tony Holland, DLA Phillips Fox’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview last month. A
strengthened Australian dollar, which has risen 11 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past year, has made foreign
acquisitions for Australian companies more attractive, he said.    Australia  produces a fifth of the world’s iron ore and 6
percent of the world’s supply of gold. The state of Queensland
produces half of the global seaborne supply of coking coal used
in steelmaking.  The resource boom in Australia is being fueled by growth in  China , India and other expanding Asian economies.  “Western Australia is of interest to any professional
services provider, given its strong business growth, especially
in energy and resources,” Ian Cochrane, senior partner at
Cochrane Lishman, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  