-- 
Clinton Vows Support to Civil Society Activist Groups

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-16T23:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/clinton-vows-support-to-civil-society-groups-overseas.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  promised increased support today to civil society
activists fighting repressive governments around the world.  Pointing to the uprisings in Egypt and other Arab nations,
Clinton said support for non-governmental civil society groups
will play a key role in advancing democratic reforms.  “If we’re going to take advantage of this historic moment,
we have to tap the expertise, experience and energy of civil
society,” Clinton said as she convened the inaugural Strategic
Dialogue with Civil Society at the State Department, bringing
together representatives from groups in more than 20 nations.  The U.S., she said, will double its financial support to
protect civil society groups, though she offered no specifics.  A fund managed by the U.S. Agency for International
Development to protect civil society groups from efforts by
governments to censor or otherwise restrict their work will be
increased to about $3.4 million, from $1.5 million, said Tomicah
Tillemann, a senior adviser, in a later briefing.  The outreach to non-governmental groups marked a stepped-up
push by the Obama administration to back democracy advocates in
countries ruled by autocrats or monarchs.  In the opening days of the Egyptian uprising, which ousted
former President  Hosni Mubarak , Clinton had described the
Mubarak government, a long-time U.S. ally, as “stable.”  Human Rights  Speaking to civic activists today, Clinton paid tribute to
“many brave people who could not be with us today” because
they are “fighting for human rights and dignity.”  “In the last weeks, we have seen their courage on display
in the streets of Tunis and the town squares of Cairo,” Clinton
said. “We have watched with great anticipation as they have
stood up for their rights and aspirations.”  Along with the participants at the State Department,
Clinton said, thousands were participating in today’s forum from
50 embassies and through live online chats conducted in Arabic,
Russian and Spanish.  Building support in  Egypt  for civil society workers --
democracy activists, writers, human-rights advocates and others
-- will be a priority for the U.S., Tillemann said.  “Clearly, Egyptian civil society is at a point now where
it is playing an extraordinary role in the future of that
country,” he said.  Another focus, he said, will be on supporting civil groups
in  Iran .  “Iran historically has had some of the strongest civil
society in the Middle East, and we are eager to do what we can
to strengthen that civil society,” Tillemann said. “We think
it’s very unfortunate the regime has turned its back on that
rich tradition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  