-- 
Coinstar’s Redbox Works on Subscription Film Streaming

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-02-16T22:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/coinstar-s-redbox-dvd-unit-works-on-subscription-film-streaming.html
  Coinstar Inc .’s Redbox film-rental
division is working to develop a subscription streaming service,
setting up potential competition with  Netflix Inc . and Hulu LLC.  The Bellevue, Washington-based company is closing in on a
choice of an online partner, Chief Executive Officer Paul Davis
said in a presentation to analysts today in  San Francisco .
Nothing is set, he said.  The comments from Davis and Mitch Lowe, president of the
30,000-kiosk Redbox rental business, clarify plans in the works
since last year. The online service would be combined in some
way with physical DVD rentals, they said. Coinstar said in July
it was developing an Internet strategy, without specifying the
model. In October, Redbox said it planned a partnership with an
existing digital player.  “We could have moved a lot quicker quite a few months ago
had we decided to do this on our own,” Davis said today. “We
made a conscious decision not to do it on our own because the
price tag was prohibitive.”  Coinstar expects to start streaming services this year,
Davis said. Netflix and Hulu offer subscription-based plans,
charging users a monthly fee to watch movies and TV shows.    Amazon.com Inc . and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . are among the
vendors offering online films a la carte. Amazon plans a
subscription service, the Financial Times and others have
reported.  ‘Lot of Players’  “We went out and talked to a lot of players in the
space,” Davis said on the conference call. “We started very
broad and we’ve been narrowing.”  The stock has fallen 23 percent this year as results and
forecasts have missed analysts’ estimates. That is in part
because Coinstar faces a 28-day delay in getting new releases
from studios including Comcast Corp.’s  Universal Pictures , News
Corp.’s Fox and Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. The company is
refining its methods for predicting demand, Lowe said.  Coinstar announced preliminary fourth-quarter results on
Jan. 13 that were below analysts’ estimates. The company’s
first-quarter forecast announced on Feb. 3 also was below
analysts’ predictions.  Coinstar fell 39 cents to $43.30 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Separately, the  Los Angeles  Times reported today that  Walt
Disney Co . raised the price it charges for DVDs sold to Redbox
to as much as $17.99 for new releases.  Marci Maule, a Coinstar spokeswoman, said the company
recently amended its agreement with Burbank, California-based
Disney. She declined to comment on the terms. Paul Roeder, a
spokesman for Disney, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  