-- 
Comcast Tops Earnings Estimates, Boosts Dividend

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T21:05:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/comcast-bolsters-dividend-buyback-program-as-profit-sales-beat-estimates.html
  Comcast Corp ., the cable company
that took control of  NBC Universal  Inc. last month, reported
fourth-quarter profit and sales that beat analysts’ estimates
and plans to boost its dividend and stock buyback program.  Profit, excluding costs from the purchase of NBC Universal,
was 35 cents a share. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey predicted
32 cents on average. Sales rose 7.2 percent to $9.72 billion,
topping projections of $9.56 billion.  “Comcast beat all financial metrics, including and
excluding NBC’s transaction costs,” said  Marci Ryvicker , an
analyst at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  New York . “Bottom
line, great quarter, nice capital returns.”  Completing the NBC Universal deal gives Comcast’s financial
position greater clarity, said Tom Eagan, an analyst at Collins
Stewart LLC in New York. Last year, the largest U.S. cable
company lagged behind  Time Warner Cable Inc . and  Cablevision
Systems Corp . in market performance. Investors were concerned
regulatory conditions might limit the upside of the NBC venture.  The Philadelphia-based company boosted its dividend to 45
cents a share annually from 38 cents and accelerated its share
repurchase program, committing to buy back $2.1 billion of its
stock this year. That’s a 75 percent increase from last year,
when the company repurchased $1.2 billion of its shares.  “With the NBC Universal deal approved by regulators,
funding for the $15 billion in debt secured at attractive rates,
we expect the company to be more aggressive about returning
capital to shareholders,” Eagan said. “Comcast is much more
comfortable with their  capital structure  then they were 12 and
24 months ago.”  Biggest Media Company  Comcast’s previous dividend yield was one of the lowest
among large media companies, Eagan said.  Comcast rose 97 cents, or 4 percent, to $25.13 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have
gained 14 percent this year.  Comcast’s NBC joint venture, combined with its existing
cable business, gives Chief Executive Officer Brian Roberts
control of a media company with about $55 billion in combined
sales last year, bigger than Walt Disney Co.,  News Corp . or Time
Warner Inc. Still, about 70 percent of Comcast’s combined
revenue will be derived from its cable systems, which
outperformed expectations in the fourth quarter.  Comcast’s average revenue per customer increased 11 percent
to $133.43 a month. The company is raising prices and persuading
customers to pay them by expanding its lineup of high-definition
programming and the number of TV shows that can be watched
online. It’s also signing up more subscribers to high-speed  Internet service  and digital video recorders.  Networks, Stations, Studios  Comcast netted 698,000 new customers, or revenue generating
units, more than the 310,000 Eagan predicted and 414,000
Ryvicker estimated. The growth was driven primarily by high-
speed Internet additions. The company lost 135,000 basic cable-
TV subscribers, fewer than the 190,000 that Eagan predicted.
This indicates that the fundamentals of the cable industry may
be rebounding from most of 2010, when it set a record in
subscriber losses for basic cable, Eagan said.  Last month, Comcast completed its purchase of a 51 percent
stake in General Electric Co.’s NBC Universal, giving the
largest U.S. cable company the NBC television network, broadcast
stations, cable channels such as  MSNBC  and USA Network,  Universal Studios  with its library of more than 4,000 movies,
and part ownership of the online video site Hulu LLC. Comcast
will report NBC’s earnings in the first quarter.  Sports Programming  “One of the advantages of waiting 13 or 14 months to get a
deal closed due to regulatory approval is you get a chance to
really get to know the assets, really get to know the people,
and get a chance to create a set of goals and plans an
priorities for the future,” Steve Burke, NBC’s newly appointed
CEO, said in Comcast’s conference call today.  Comcast will look to continue to grow NBC’s cable channels,
and to improve the company’s broadcast network, especially in
primetime, Burke said.  “We’re here to make money, and we’re going to be
disciplined,” Burke said, regarding the prospect for bidding on
sports programming. “We’re going to concentrate on businesses
that have good returns.”  NBC has the rights to the summer  Olympic Games  in  London  in
2012, and, under the guidance of former CEO Jeffrey Zucker, had
plans to bid for the 2014 and 2016 games.  Jeff Immelt, CEO of General Electric, said the Olympics had
become a “no margin” business and contributed to the media
company’s operating loss last year. NBC executives at the time
said they didn’t anticipate the deep recession and its impact on
advertising when they paid about $2 billion for the TV and
online media rights to both the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games.
That price was nearly a 50 percent more than it paid for prior
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  