-- 
Congo Wants Oil, Gas Pipelines From Eastern Border to Atlantic

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-02-16T07:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/congo-wants-oil-gas-pipelines-from-eastern-border-to-atlantic.html
  Democratic Republic of Congo  wants
to build a pipeline network to transport oil and natural gas
from the east of the country to the Atlantic Ocean, Oil Minister
Celestin Mbuyu said.  The Central African country is aiming to increase its oil
production and is currently allocating blocks of land to
companies for exploration. In October Congo signed an accord
with Uganda and  Kenya  to study the construction of a pipeline
that will transport crude oil from deposits near its eastern
border to ports on the Indian Ocean. Congo’s only coast is on
the Atlantic.  The Ugandan pipeline is a temporary solution, Mbuyu said in
an interview on Feb. 14 in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital. “In the
long term, we want an integrated industry. We need a network of
pipelines for gas and oil” to the Atlantic. Congo’s main ports
are Banana on the Atlantic coast and Matadi and Boma, on the
Congo River, which flows into the Atlantic.  Congo currently produces about 25,000 barrels of oil a day
and plans to increase production through drilling near its
eastern borders with Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda, and  Uganda , as
well as in its central basin and along its western coast
bordering Angola. The distance between the eastern deposits and
the Atlantic coast is about 2,150 kilometers (1,336 miles).  Angola is the second-biggest oil producer in Sub-Saharan
Africa after Nigeria and Uganda will begin exporting oil from
estimated reserves of 2.5 billion barrels next year from wells
owned by  Tullow Oil Plc . Most of Uganda’s reserves lie in a
geological feature known as the Albertine Graben, which
straddles its border with Congo.  Methane Gas    Eni SpA  of  Italy  bought a stake in an oil block owned by
Surestream Petroleum Ltd. last year, and Paris-based Total SA is
expected to complete a deal shortly with  South Africa ’s SacOil
Holdings Ltd. for a percentage of its oil block along the
Ugandan border, Mbuyu said. The pipeline network may take 15-20
years to build, need financing from  oil companies  and the
country would also want to establish refineries both in the east
and west of the country, he said.  Congo and Rwanda are also nearing an agreement to exploit
methane gas under Lake Kivu, Mbuyu said.  “We think we’ll make a call for offers soon and we’re
looking for a serious company,” he said, without giving more
detail.  The project will generate about 200 megawatts of
electricity, distributed equally between both counties, a Feb.
11 statement e-mailed by  Rwanda ’s ministry of infrastructure
said.  Congo is recovering from more than 40 years of dictatorship
and war. The country was ranked the 175th most difficult country
in the world in which to d0 business according to rankings
compiled by the  World Bank  that surveyed 183 economies.  Last year, Congo’s senate passed a new oil code that will
regulate the industry and should increase investment, Mbuyu
said. The code is now under consideration by the country’s
national assembly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  