-- 
Copper Falls Most in Three Weeks Amid Rising Global Stockpiles

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 
2011-02-16T19:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/copper-falls-as-expanding-stockpiles-fuel-concern-demand-may-be-weakening.html
Copper fell the most in three weeks
in  London  as expanding inventories fueled concern that demand is
weakening as some governments move to fight inflation.  Stockpiles monitored by exchanges in London, Shanghai and
New York have climbed to the highest level since July 26.  China ,
the world’s largest copper user, has boosted  interest rates 
three times since mid-October, spurring speculation that growth
will slow. India,  South Korea , Brazil and Thailand also lifted
borrowing costs.  “India, China, Brazil are implementing much harder
monetary policy,” said  Michael Pento , a senior economist at
Euro Pacific Capital in New York. “There’s a large amount of
stockpiles in China. They are going to wind that down.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery dropped $169, or 1.7 percent, to close at $9,842 a
metric ton ($4.46 a pound) at 6:52 p.m., the biggest decline
since Jan. 25. Yesterday, the metal touched a record $10,190.  On the Comex, copper futures for May delivery fell 6.35
cents, or 1.4 percent, to close at $4.4825 a pound in  New York .
Yesterday, the metal reached $4.6575, the highest ever.  Prices in New York have jumped 38 percent in the past year
amid rising demand from emerging markets.  The metal “could stagnate, or drift slightly higher, but
it will not increase the way it did last year,” Pento said.
“I’ll be shocked to see $5 copper” this year, he said.  Stockpiles may also be rising as higher prices encourage
substitution, said Nic Brown, an analyst at Natixis Commodity
Markets Ltd. in London.  Lead, nickel, aluminum and zinc also fell in London. Tin
was unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  