-- 
Oil Climbs as Israel Says Iranian Warships Heading for Syria

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-02-16T20:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/crude-oil-extends-gains-u-s-inventories-increased-by-less-than-forecast.html
Crude rose after Israeli Foreign
Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said two Iranian gunboats are
planning to move through the Suez Canal to  Syria , spurring
concern that Middle Eastern oil shipments will be disrupted.  Oil climbed 0.8 percent after Lieberman called the move he
expects later today a “provocation.” The possible action by
Iran comes five days after Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak
stepped down.  Brent crude , the European benchmark that is more
sensitive to Middle East unrest, settled at the highest level
since Sept. 25, 2008.  “This is the latest addition to the Middle East risk
premium,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of research at
PFGBest in  Chicago . “This is a knee-jerk reaction to the
headlines that Iran is planning to send two warships through the  Suez Canal .”  Crude oil for March delivery rose 67 cents to settle at
$84.99 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
up 10 percent from a year ago.  Brent crude oil for April settlement advanced $2.14, or 2.1
percent, to $103.78 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  The premium of April Brent to New York oil for the same
delivery month rose to a record $15.94 a barrel today. The gap
averaged 76 cents last year.  “The tension in the Middle East is having a greater impact
on the Brent market,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at
Adam Mesh Trading Group in New York. “This has a much bigger
impact on Europe, we don’t get as much oil from the Middle
East.”  Suez Canal  The Suez Canal Authority’s head of traffic, Ahmed El Manakhly, said that he hasn’t been informed of any Iranian
warships planning to pass through the waterway later today.  Iranian security officers used tear gas and baton charges
to break up a Feb. 14 rally in Tehran, according to Al Jazeera
television. Two people were killed in anti-government protests
in the Iranian capital,  Iran ’s Press TV reported yesterday.  “What the Iranians are doing has happened before,” Flynn
said. “When there is dissent at home, leaders in the region
like to raise tension with Israel to take the focus off other
frustrations. This will leave Israel feeling nervous and
increase tensions in the region.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Iran is
trying to get  Egypt  to break its peace treaty with Israel.
Netanyahu was speaking today to a conference of U.S. Jewish
leaders in  Jerusalem .  ‘Provocative Actions’  “The concern is that Iran will take more provocative
actions, which will spread unrest,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that
focuses on energy.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 61
percent of proved reserves in 2009, according to BP Plc, which
publishes its BP Statistical Review of World Energy each June.  The  Associated Press  reported the first-ever protests
against Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi as demonstrations took
place in Bahrain and Yemen.  In Libya, where Qaddafi has held power since leading a
military coup in 1969, protesters gathered in the port city of
Benghazi and demanded the overthrow of the government, chanting
“No God but Allah, Muammar is the enemy of Allah” and “Down,
down to corruption and to the corrupt,” the AP reported.  Libya pumped 1.59 million barrels of crude a day in
January, making it the eighth-biggest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg News
figures show. Iran, with output of 3.72 million barrels a day,
is OPEC’s second-biggest producer after Saudi Arabia.  Bahrain and Yemen  Bahrainis took to the streets for a third day of pro-
democracy rallies as Yemeni demonstrators clashed with police.
Bahrain’s interior minister, Sheikh Rashid bin Abdullah al-
Khalifa, apologized for the killing of two protesters by
security forces this week, according to the official Bahrain
News Agency.  “We, and even the most adroit political commentators,
simply do not know how things will pan out,” a team led by  Lawrence Eagles , head of oil research at JPMorgan in  New York ,
said in a report. “What we do know is that risks are high and
rising and yet do not appear to be fully priced into options
markets.”  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed 860,000 barrels to 345.9
million last week, an Energy Department report showed today. A 2
million-barrel gain was forecast, according to the median of 13
analyst responses in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies rose 205,000 barrels to 241.1 million,
the highest level since March 1990. Analysts projected a 1.85
million-barrel increase.  ‘Bigger Impact’  “The inventory numbers were a lot more bullish than the
market expected,” said Sean Brodrick, a natural resource
analyst with  Weiss Research  in Jupiter,  Florida . “The unrest in
the Middle East could have an even bigger impact on prices.
We’re now seeing protests in  Libya , which is a major oil
producer and exporter.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 828,964
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 871,147
contracts yesterday, 19 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 