-- 
CSL's Net Income Exceeds Estimates on Rival's Drug Recall

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-16T00:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/csl-s-net-income-exceeds-estimates-on-rival-s-drug-recall.html
  CSL Ltd ., the Southern Hemisphere’s
biggest drugmaker, reported first-half profit that beat analyst
estimates as gains from a competitor’s recall helped offset a
drop in swine-flu vaccine sales.  Net income fell 19 percent to A$500 million ($498 million),
or 91.23 Australian cents a share, in the six months ended Dec.
31, from A$617.4 million, or 106 cents a year earlier, the
Melbourne-based company said today. Analysts projected profit of
A$493 million, according to the average of five estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit last year included a boost from sales of CSL’s
pandemic flu vaccine, which have declined since the outbreak
ended. CSL expects full-year profit of about A$950 million as
the strength of the Australian dollar erodes the value of the
company’s sales in Europe and the U.S.  “Trading conditions in the second half of this financial
year are expected to remain similar,”  Brian McNamee , CSL’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement.  CSL rose 0.1 percent to A$37.54 as of 10:55 a.m. in Sydney
trading. The benchmark ASX/S&P 200 Index was little changed.  Six-month revenue fell 9.3 percent to A$2.19 billion. CSL,
which gets more than 85 percent of sales in foreign currencies,
said the Australian dollar’s strength against the  U.S. dollar 
and euro from a year earlier wiped A$47 million from profit.  Octapharma AG’s immune therapy Octagam 5% was recalled in
the U.S. in September, and European regulators recommended
halting sales after reports of heart attacks and strokes that
may be tied to a manufacturing flaw.  CSL is the world’s second-biggest maker of treatments
derived from blood, behind Deerfield, Illinois-based  Baxter
International Inc . So-called blood plasma products are used to
treat patients with immune deficiency disorders, hemophilia,
wounds and burns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 