-- 
Daimler Profit Misses Analysts' Estimates on Mercedes Development Spending

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-02-16T13:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/daimler-predicts-higher-2011-profit-fourth-quarter-net-misses-estimates.html
  Daimler AG , the world’s second-
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , posted earnings before
interest and taxes that missed estimates after boosting
development spending for Mercedes-Benz cars. The shares dropped.  The fourth-quarter operating profit of 1.56 billion euros
($2.11 billion) missed the average estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg for profit of 2.03 billion euros. Sales
rose 24 percent to 26.4 billion euros, the Stuttgart, Germany-
based carmaker said in a statement today.  Mercedes’ fourth-quarter profit margin declined to 8.3
percent from 9.5 percent in the third, as Daimler boosted the
unit’s 2010 development spending 15 percent to 3.1 billion
euros. Daimler will invest more than 20 billion euros on models
and factory upgrades in the next two years, up from 18 billion
euros in the previous two-year plan, to close the gap with  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and fend off  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi.  “The big disappointment is with Mercedes,” said Stefan Bauknecht, a  fund manager  with DWS Investments in  Frankfurt .
“It dampens the short-term enthusiasm, but the big picture is
still intact.”  The manufacturer, also the world’s largest truckmaker, fell
as much as 2.45 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 53.53 euros, the
steepest decline since Jan. 20. The stock traded at 54.11 euros
as of 2:06 p.m. in Frankfurt, valuing the carmaker at 57.6
billion euros. Before today, the shares had gained about 50
percent since the end of 2009.  Missing Estimates   Daimler reported fourth-quarter net income of 1.14 billion
euros, compared with a loss of 352 million euros a year earlier.
The figure missed the average estimate of 1.28 billion euros.  Operating profit this year will “significantly” exceed
the 2010 level of 7.27 billion euros on record deliveries for
Mercedes-Benz vehicles. The manufacturer recommended a dividend
of 1.85 euros per share, reinstating the payout after canceling
it in 2009 amid uncertainty about auto markets following the
global recession.  “There’s nothing seriously wrong, but the market was
simply expecting more,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Bankhaus Metzler
analyst in Frankfurt with a “buy” rating on the shares. “The
big question is whether the rally for auto stocks is over.”  Growing wealth in China and recovering spending in the U.S.
has boosted demand for luxury cars. Mercedes, BMW and Audi are
targeting record sales this year and are struggling to produce
enough vehicles to meet demand. Tight vehicle supply is causing
delivery delays in Germany, as manufacturers shift cars to the
U.S. and  China , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a study
released Feb. 4.  Factory Limits  Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said last
month growth this year will be constrained by factory limits
rather than demand as customers snatch up the updated C-Class
sedan. Delivery times for build-to-order cars in  Germany  have
climbed to 12.9 weeks on average compared with a typical waiting
period of eight weeks, PricewaterhouseCoopers said in the study.  “Although the rise in automobile demand will slacken
somewhat, there are many indications that our industry will sell
more passenger cars than ever before,” Zetsche said at a press
conference in Stuttgart.  Global auto demand is likely to rise in the range of 5
percent to 7 percent this year, driven by China, the U.S. and
Germany, the company said.  Revamped Vehicles  Daimler, which traces its roots to the first automobiles
invented by Carl Benz and Gottlieb Daimler in 1886, has revamped
the CLS luxury coupe and SLK roadster and upgraded the C-Class,
its best-selling model, with a new interior. The company will
also start rolling out four compact models, when it debuts an
overhauled B-Class later this year.  Daimler’s trucks unit, which makes Mercedes, Freightliner
and Fuso vehicles, aims to average a return on sales of 8
percent over the next three years after shutting plants in  Asia 
and  North America  during the recession. The company predicts
sales over the period to rise more than 40 percent to at least
500,000 vehicles, boosted by a new Indian model line.  The truck operations posted a fourth-quarter Ebit of 393
million euros after a loss of 224 million euros a year ago.
Sales should rise “substantially” this year as industrywide
demand grows as much as 25 percent in North American and up to
20 percent in  Europe , Daimler said.  EADS Stake  Daimler plans to continue to exercise Germany’s voting
authority in European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co., even if it
sells its stake Chief Financial Officer Bodo Uebber said. The
company said it was interested in a “stable” long-term
shareholder structure for the Airbus SAS parent that would
balance French and German interests.  Uebber declined to comment on how Daimler, a founder of
EADS, might retain a role at the aerospace company if it sells
its 15 percent stake. German politicians have been debating
purchasing the stake in the event the manufacturer sells.  Daimler yesterday appointed Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt, a
former constitutional judge, to a new management board post
overseeing compliance and legal affairs. She’s the first woman
board member in the company’s 125-year history. Daimler’s
supervisory board also extended the contract of CFO Uebber
through the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 