-- 
Moody’s Cuts Ratings on Danish Banks After Bond Losses

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-02-16T11:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/danish-banks-credit-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-after-failure-of-amagerbanken.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut its
rating on Danske Bank A/S and four other Danish lenders after
the government forced losses on senior creditors in the bailout
of Amagerbanken A/S this month as Europe debates how investors
should share the burden of potential  bank failures .  Moody’s reduced long-term ratings on Danske Bank, FIH
Erhvervsbank A/S, BankNordik P/F, Spar Nord Bank A/S and
Ringkjoebing Landbobank A/S and kept the three former on review
for a further possible downgrade, the New York-based rating
company said in a statement today.  The Feb. 6 failure of Amagerbanken A/S, the country’s
fifth-biggest listed lender, was Denmark’s eighth bailout of a
bank since 2008 and the first since the government on Sept. 30
ended a blanket guarantee of deposits and senior debt. Moody’s
placed the long-term ratings of Nordea Bank AB’s Danish unit,
Sydbank A/S and Jyske Bank A/S on review for possible downgrade.  “Today’s rating actions reflect a reduction in Moody’s
systemic support assumptions,” Oscar Heemskerk, a Moody’s vice
president, said in a statement. The “bankruptcy of Amagerbanken
demonstrated both the willingness and ability of the government
to allow depositors and senior creditors of Danish banks to take
losses in bankruptcy, where bank operations are continued as a
going concern.”  Danske Bank, the largest Danish lender, fell 1.3 krone, or
1 percent, to 128.10 kroner as of 12:26 p.m. in Copenhagen,
pushing this year’s loss to 10.4 percent.  Danske Bank was lowered to A1 from Aa3, Ringkjoebing was
cut to A2 from A1, and Spar Nord to Baa1 from A2, Moody’s said.  Irish Debate  In Ireland, politicians are debating whether to allow
senior bondholders to share losses from the failure of lenders
ahead of the Feb. 25 election. Bank of Ireland Plc and five
other Irish lenders had some senior debt ratings cut by Moody’s
last week on concern that investors may be asked to share the
cost of saving the country’s financial system.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said there is “no appetite” for imposing losses on
senior bondholders at Irish banks. “We want to avoid any kind
of potential contagion effect,” he said yesterday in Brussels.  Pressure has grown on Danish banks after Amagerbanken
failed to meet a Feb. 4 deadline to prove it was solvent after
losing money on property investments, currencies and wind-energy
projects, the Financial Supervisory Authority said. A sale will
start once the state’s bailout unit Financial Stability has
split off Amagerbanken’s toxic assets, the bailout fund’s
Chairman Henning Kruse Petersen said.  Consolidation  Financial Stability, the government bailout unit, said it
estimates creditors and depositors will lose about 41 percent of
holdings not covered by the state guarantee. This would affect
less than 2 billion kroner in bonds, according to a spokesman at
Financial Stability, who declined to be named citing policy.  Rising funding costs for Danish banks may force more
consolidation in the industry, analysts such as Christian Hede
at Jyske Bank A/S and Jakob Brink at Svenska Handelsbanken AB
said this month.    Denmark , with a population of 5.4 million people and gross
domestic product of $300 billion, has about 125 banks. That
compares with 89 in  Sweden , the largest Nordic economy. The
country, home to the world’s third-largest mortgage-bond market
after the U.S. and  Germany , is also expected to deliver the
weakest economic growth in Scandinavia this year, the European
Commission estimates.  GDP will expand 1.9 percent in 2011, compared with 3.3
percent in Sweden and 2.9 percent in  Finland , the commission
said Nov. 29. Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil and
shipping income, will grow 3 percent, the central bank
estimates.  Funding Costs  “The impact will be larger on the banks that lack the
opportunity to issue mortgage backed bonds since senior
unsecured funding will be more expensive,” Maths Liljedahl,
analyst at  Nordea Bank AB , said today in an e-mail. “Important
to note also is that we believe Moody’s has a relatively limited
impact on investors view of the banks following the earlier
misjudgments of government support.”  Danske Bank on Feb. 10 reported earnings that missed
analyst estimates and said it will sell shares for about 20
billion kroner. Sydbank fell the most in nine months yesterday
after reporting an unexpected loss as writedowns rose.  “We don’t expect that this will have any significant impact
on us,” Peter Rostrup-Nielsen, Danske Bank’s chief risk officer,
said in an e-mail. “Danske Bank’s fundamental conditions are
good and we have a strong capital position, which is to become
even stronger after our planned share issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 