-- 
Datang Renewable Gains in Hong Kong on New `Buy' Rating From BNP Paribas

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-02-16T08:44:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/datang-renewable-gains-in-hong-kong-on-new-buy-rating-from-bnp-paribas.html
  China  Datang Corp. Renewable Power
Co., a developer of clean energy projects, rose after it was
rated “buy” in new coverage at BNP Paribas.  Datang Renewable shares gained 5.4 percent to HK$1.97 at
the close on the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange, their biggest
increase since December and the biggest riser on the 100-member
WilderHill New Energy Index  of companies developing low-carbon
technologies.  The company is “one of the best ways to gain exposure” to
the growth in wind power in China, BNP Paribas said in a
research report today by analysts led by Daisy Zhang. BNP has a
target price of HK$2.48 on the stock.  The company will benefit as China’s government raises the
target for wind power capacity and from planned  power grid 
upgrades, according to the report. China wants as much as 150
gigawatts of capacity in 2015 and as much as 250 gigawatts in
2020, according to the report.  The country installed 16 gigawatts of new wind power
capacity in 2010, 62 percent more than a year earlier, raising
its total capacity to 41.8 gigawatts, according to a statement
last month by Greenpeace International, which compiled the data
with the  Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association .  Three power grid upgrade lines from  Inner Mongolia  will
ease a bottleneck in a region where the company had an estimated
50 percent of its installed capacity last year, according to the
report. About 31 percent of China’s wind capacity was
unconnected to the grid as of the end of September, according to
a Dec. 8 research note by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 