-- 
Dell Jumps After Company Gains in Data-Center Market

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-02-16T22:06:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/dell-jumps-after-profit-tops-estimates-company-makes-data-center-headway.html
  Dell Inc . jumped the most since
December 2008 on the Nasdaq Stock Market after fourth-quarter
profit topped estimates and the company made headway in the
market for data centers.  Excluding some costs, profit was 53 cents a share in the
quarter, which ended Jan. 28,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell said
yesterday. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated 37 cents
on average. The company also forecast annual sales growth that
exceeded projections.  Dell, the third-largest personal-computer maker, is
counting on a boom in cloud computing to help fuel its next wave
of growth. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  has used
acquisitions to offer a broader range of storage, software,
security and services, which often carry higher profit margins
than PCs. The company expects to keep making deals in a bid to
double sales from the data-center business to $30 billion.  “The epicenter of the company has really shifted to these
other areas and away from the PC,” Dell said on a conference
call. “If fiscal year ‘11 was about getting operationally fit,
then fiscal year ‘12 will be about leveraging this strength.”  Dell shares climbed $1.65, or 12 percent, to $15.56 at 4
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq. The stock has risen 15 percent
this year.  Michael Dell, the company’s founder, has spent the past
four years turning around the business after growth stalled and
it lost its lead in PCs to  Hewlett-Packard Co . Rather than
trying to regain its crown in that market, he’s sought to
diversify the business.  Bigger Rivals  Extending the rally depends on whether Dell can grow as
quickly as forecast while preserving profitability, said  Shannon Cross , an analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,  New Jersey .
It also will need to acquire companies without overpaying, she
said. Dell’s competitors in the data-center market, including
HP, International Business Machines Corp.,  Cisco Systems Inc .
and Oracle Corp., have deeper pockets than Dell does, she said.  “Part of the challenge with Dell is if they go after
something larger that other people want, they’re going to get
outbid,” said Cross, who has a “hold” rating on the stock.
Dell also will have to grow faster than the corporate-computing
industry to dislodge entrenched competitors, she said.  In fiscal 2012, which ends in January, Dell expects sales
growth of 5 percent to 9 percent. That would represent $64.6
billion to $67 billion, compared with an average analyst
projection of $64.4 billion.  Windows 7  While data-center demand grows, Dell also is benefiting
from corporate customers replacing older PCs with new models
running  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows 7 software. That surge will
last a number of quarters, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden
said in an interview.  “The corporate refresh continues,” he said. “This is a
process that’s going to go on now for a while.”  Corporate spending is helping Dell offset a broader
slowdown in the PC industry, said  Abhey Lamba , an analyst at ISI
Group in New York.  “Given Dell’s exposure to corporate PC shipments, we
believe the company benefitted from the acceleration in
enterprise shipment growth during the quarter, despite
lackluster performance by the PC industry,” Lamba said in a
report earlier this month. He has a “hold” rating on Dell.  Consumer Slowdown  Global PC shipments rose 3.1 percent last quarter, missing
projections, as consumers held back on holiday purchases,
according to research firm Gartner Inc. Dell ranked third in the
industry, after HP and Acer Inc., Gartner said.  Dell’s net income almost tripled to $927 million, or 48
cents a share last quarter, from $334 million, or 17 cents, a
year earlier. Sales rose 5.3 percent to $15.7 billion, matching
the average projection of analysts.  In  India , sales jumped 37 percent during the quarter,
outpacing the 21 percent growth in Dell’s larger Chinese
business. Dell has run a successful Indian marketing campaign,
called “Take Your Own Path,” profiling businesspeople and
artists in the country who use its products, said  David Frink , a
company spokesman.  Sales in  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China  combined also grew
21 percent in the fourth quarter, Dell said. The so-called BRIC
countries accounted for 13 percent of total revenue, or more
than $2 billion.  Intel Error  The PC industry has been grappling with a design flaw in
one of  Intel Corp .’s new chips -- a problem that Dell played
down yesterday. Intel, the world’s largest maker of computer
processors, halted shipments of the product until later this
month, when a new version will correct the malfunction.  The defective chip didn’t affect Dell’s sales in the fourth
quarter, and it won’t make a difference in fiscal 2012 either,
Gladden said. Dell put some products using the chips on hold
until Intel provides a fix, he said.  The flaw affects four products sold under Dell’s XPS,
Vostro and Alienware brands, Dell said earlier this month. The
company is working with customers who bought them.  Dell still gets more than half its sales from desktop and
notebook computers. It’s using acquisitions to diversify into
cloud computing, which relies on the Internet to deliver
software and data. On Dec. 13, Dell said it will buy data-
storage supplier Compellent Technologies Inc. for $960 million.  The company also plans to broaden its tablet-computer line.
It will deliver devices with 10-inch screens running Windows and
the Honeycomb version of  Google Inc .’s Android software this
year, said Michael Dell, 45. Meanwhile, the company is
eliminating lower-priced consumer PCs from its lineup.  “Profit growth is more important than revenue growth, and
that will be the defining philosophy that we use,” Dell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  