-- 
Deutsche Bank’s Casino Deals $250 Sorbet to Lucky Few: Review

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/deutsche-bank-s-casino-deals-250-sorbet-to-lucky-few-review.html
Tucked into a tapas bar at Deutsche
Bank’s $3.9 billion Cosmopolitan casino in Las Vegas, e has no
phone number, no signage and no  functional  web site, let alone
an online menu.  Dopey name notwithstanding, Jose Andres’s e (that’s not a
misprint, it’s just a lower-case “e,” with a snobby accent for
e-ffect) instantly stakes a claim as one of the city’s best --
and most seriously exclusive -- restaurants.  The avant-garde Spanish spot seats just eight people at a
tiny counter in the rear of Jaleo, Andres’ excellent tapas
restaurant. Rest assured, smoke machines and calcium alginate
baths are involved to underscore the El Bulli pedigree.  Reservations are only taken via e-mail. Lucky aspirants
receive a congratulatory reply that fails to include any
relevant information -- the price of dinner ($250 per person),
how many courses (about 18) or the length of the meal (around
two hours). The bill includes tip, tax, beverage.  You’ll be hounded by confirmation calls. No matter. All
hassles are forgiven when the meal begins. The first course is
sangria. The fruited wine becomes sorbet via liquid nitrogen.
The cool bath (-321 degrees Fahrenheit) ensures no ice crystals
form. It’s smoother than gelato without a drop of cream. Dreamy.  Edible Jewelry  Then comes edible jewelry. Mandoline-sliced beets are fried
and formed into rings. Refulgent finger food. A pungent baton of
apple meringue filled with blue-cheese foam dissolves on the
tongue like a snowflake, the essence disappearing too, a
culinary vanishing act. Cooks armed with tweezers and pipettes
plate their creations before you, taking you back to childhood
games of “Operation.” They’d win every time.  This is all par for the course for the El Bulli -trained
Andres, one of the most famous U.S.-chefs without a New York
outpost. With dishes like cotton candy-wrapped duck liver, he’s
built a reputation from his molecular, six-seat  Mini Bar  in  Washington  and the progressive SAAM in  Los Angeles .  Each savory or sweet dish is just a few bites. In a tasty
chemistry experiment, resident chef Edwin Robles takes Kushi
oysters and suspends them inside a sphere of bivalve liquor.
They pop in your mouth like caviar. Cigala (Norwegian lobster)
is served with “rose air,” which apparently is a lighter, more
advanced version of foam, typically spiked with gluco or soy
lecithin. The foam -- pardon, air -- imparts a hint of floral
bliss to the heady crustacean. It’s paired with coriander-
scented beer.  Simpler Things  Things get simpler. Foie gras is roasted in salt for a
clean flavor. The pairing is not the usual sweet dessert wine
but Ribeiro, a light Spanish red.  Iberico ham, made from acorn-fed pigs, acts as a sublimely
nutty wrapping for a filling of Spanish caviar. Even better are
headily musty roasted slabs of the same pig covered in black
truffles, as if aged in wet earth.  Why is a spongy yogurt cake called a “25 second
bizcocho?” Because that’s how long it’s nuked in the microwave.
Yes, microwave. It’s the best angel food you’ll ever have, which
is perhaps why the staff lines up for a theatrical curtain call
as the meal ends. Everyone claps. Really.  Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $250 for dinner, beverages, tax and tip.  Sound Level: Around 60; hushed and reverent.  Date Place: Yes.  Special Feature: Saffron-spiked chocolate for dessert.  Will I be back: Yes, it’s a must visit for Vegas.  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  e by Jose Andres is at the Cosmopolitan, 3708  Las Vegas 
Blvd South. Information: E-mail  reserve@ebyjoseandres.com   (Ryan Sutton reviews restaurants for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 