-- 
Irish Anger Threatens Exodus From Dominant Party After Record Boom to Bust

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-02-16T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/disgruntled-irish-desert-dominant-party-after-economic-boom-becomes-bust.html
Thomas Redmond, a newspaper seller
at Tara Street train station in central Dublin, helped  Fianna
Fail  dominate Irish politics for eight decades. Now, he says he
will never vote for the party again.  Redmond said he used to sell 200 copies of the  Evening
Herald , an Irish national newspaper, every day. That’s now
dropped to 50 as the country struggles with  Europe ’s biggest
financial demise. Like droves of other disgruntled voters, the
52-year-old will take his grievances to the ballot box in
national  elections  on Feb. 25.  “They let the country go to ruin,” said Redmond. “Most
of the time in the past I would have voted for them. Never
again. I blame them for it all.”  While few political parties have been as successful at
winning elections in the past as Fianna Fail, few have presided
over an economic boom and bust of such magnitude.  Since the party came to power again in 1997 -- it’s
governed for three of every four years since winning its first
election in 1932 -- Ireland went from being western Europe’s
fastest-growing economy to one needing an 85 billion-euro ($115
billion) rescue from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  in November as bank debt mounted.  “People are asking why aren’t the Irish storming the
barricades, why aren’t they angry?”  Diarmaid Ferriter , an
historian and author of “The Transformation of Ireland: 1900-
2000,” said in an interview. “The answer is they are, and they
are getting ready to give Fianna Fail a good kicking.”  Worst Election  Fianna Fail  is facing its worst-ever election result after
unemployment tripled since 2008 to a rate of 13.4 percent last
month and the economy contracted about 15 percent since the end
of 2007. Gross domestic product increased an average of 7
percent a year from 1997 to 2006.  A Feb. 13 opinion poll for the Sunday Business Post
newspaper gave the party 15 percent support, in third place. In
2007,  Fianna Fail  got 42 percent of the vote and it has averaged
around 45 percent in elections since its creation in 1926.  Fine Gael , the main opposition party and led by  Enda Kenny ,
59, since 2002, was at 38 percent with the  Labour Party  on 20
percent. Both parties, which governed in a coalition between
1994 and 1997, have pledged to renegotiate the terms of the EU
and IMF bailout to reduce the burden of repaying the loans.  “Diabolical is how I would describe it,” Gavin Kavanagh,
31, a pipe-layer who lost his job last year, said in an
interview in Dundalk, a town around 45 miles from Dublin. “It
is a disgrace what has happened. The government has dragged the
whole country down. I’ll vote for Fine Gael this time.”  Period of Austerity  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  introduced four austerity
budgets since taking the post in May 2008 in an effort to narrow
an underlying deficit that reached 12 percent of GDP last year,
four times the EU limit. While the government raised taxes and
cut spending, the cost of bank bailouts soared.  The country will have to pour about 30 billion euros, close
to the state’s entire tax take last year, into Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. In all, 46 billion euros has been committed to rescuing
the financial system, with another 35 billion euros available as
part of the bailout.  “Fianna Fail aren’t responsible for everything, but they
were in charge when it happened,” said Derek Smullen, 50, a
Dublin taxi driver who will abandon support for the party next
week in favor of Labour or an independent candidate. “I have
two children who are fully trained and are now unemployed.”  New Leader  Fianna Fail is pinning its hopes on the appeal of its new
leader, Micheal Martin, and loyalty from voters who have
supported it for generations.  Martin, 50, who succeeded Prime Minister Brian Cowen, 51,
on Jan. 26 apologized to voters for the government’s handling of
the recession. On Feb. 11, Martin said he and six other cabinet
members won’t take a 90,000-euro severance payment for leaving
their posts after the election.  Martin, who was previously foreign minister, wants to get
“over 20 percent” of the vote, he said in a Feb. 9 interview
in Athlone, County Westmeath. “We’re going to work very hard to
maximize our vote and seats in the election.”  Fianna Fail was formed by Irish republicans including its
first premier,  Eamon De Valera . They were on the losing side of
a civil war that was ignited by the acceptance of a 1921 treaty
granting Ireland independence from the U.K. and partitioning the
country, with the north remaining under British control. Fine
Gael, which backed the treaty, was founded by the winners.  “My father fought in the war of independence with De
Valera and I’ve voted for Fianna Fail all my life, and I’m not
changing now,” said Tom Barrat, 69, in Ballina, western
Ireland. “I blame the banks. I don’t blame Fianna Fail.”  Empty Offices  At Dublin’s Tara Street station, commuters head over
bridges to glass office blocks up and down the River Liffey,
built during the boom and left partially empty after the bust.
Further eastwards toward the docks, the concrete shell of what
was to be  Anglo Irish ’s headquarters lies unfinished and
abandoned, a reminder of the country’s collapse.  Newspaper seller Redmond said he was considering putting a
tick next to  Sinn Fein , the nationalist party led by Belfast
native Gerry Adams and now vying with Fianna Fail for third
place based on the recent polls.  “I’m not sure who I’ll vote for this time, but whoever it
will be, it won’t be Fianna Fail,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  