-- 
Djiboutian Opposition to Protest Against President

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T13:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/djiboutian-opposition-plans-protest-on-feb-18-to-demand-president-resigns.html
(Corrects date of protests in first paragraph.)  Opposition parties in  Djibouti , the
Horn of Africa nation that hosts the only U.S. military base on
the continent, plan to demand the resignation of President
Ismail Guelleh in a protest scheduled for Feb. 18.  At least 1,000 people are expected to attend the
“peaceful” demonstration that may continue through the
weekend, Ismail Guedi Hared, president of the Union for a
Democratic Alternative, said in a phone interview today from the
capital city, also called Djibouti. The coalition group
represents at least three opposition parties, he said.  “People are angry,” Hared said. “The people will say we
want the president to leave. We shall stay Friday, Saturday,
Sunday, Monday.”  Anti-government protests across North  Africa  since January
ousted the presidents of Egypt and Tunisia, while similar
demonstrations have occurred in Algeria and Libya. In Djibouti,
Guelleh’s People’s Rally for Progress party has ruled the
country since independence in 1977. The 63-year-old leader, who
was elected in 1999, amended the constitution in March to allow
him to extend his rule by two more six-year terms.  “Guelleh has been president for 12 years and he wants to
continue, but we are saying we don’t want you,” Hared said.
“It is because he doesn’t do anything for the people or the
country. He takes all the money.”  A spokeswoman for Guelleh said she couldn’t immediately
comment when contacted on her mobile phone today. Foreign
Minister Mahmoud Ali Yousef didn’t answer his phone when
Bloomberg called him seeking comment.  U.S. Base  The U.S has had a  base  in Djibouti since 2001, while former
colonial power  France  also has 3,000 troops stationed in the
country, which is smaller than the U.S. state of  Massachusetts .
The republic borders the  Red Sea  and the  Gulf of Aden  and is
seen as a strategic location in the U.S.-led fight against
terrorism and piracy.  Last month, exiled Djiboutian opposition leader Abdourahman
Boreh called for elections scheduled for April to be delayed by
as much as a year and for international monitors to oversee an
electoral roll that includes 130,000 to 140,000 of the
population of about 865,000.  Boreh was the chairman of the Djibouti Port and Free Zone
Authority from 2000 to 2009, when he left the country following
a dispute with the government. He was subsequently given a 15-
year prison sentence following accusations he was involved in a
grenade attack in Djibouti that didn’t leave any injuries.  Boreh denied all charges and said the case was politically
motivated and unfair because his lawyers were prevented from
representing him.  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries ranked in the
United Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index ,
which measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at
  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 