-- 
Doctors Need 1,600 Robot-Aided Prostate Surgeries for Skills, Study Finds

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-02-16T21:03:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/doctors-need-1-600-robot-aided-prostate-surgeries-for-skills-study-finds.html
Doctors who perform  robotic-assisted 
prostate cancer surgery aren’t proficient and able to remove all
the malignant cells surrounding the tumor until they have done
the procedure more than 1,600 times, researchers said.  Results from a study suggest the operations using  Intuitive
Surgical Inc .’s da Vinci robot are being performed too often at
community hospitals by surgeons without enough experience, said
Prasanna Sooriakumaran, lead author and urologist at the Weill
Cornell Medical College in New York. Doctors have embraced the
approach because  studies  show it can be learned quickly, uses
smaller incisions, causes less blood loss and speeds recovery.  More than 90,000 men in the U.S. have their prostate gland
removed each year because of cancer, according to the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology . The  surgery  is done mainly with
robotic technology introduced in 2000 by Sunnyvale, California-
based Intuitive Surgical, typically by doctors who perform 100
or fewer procedures annually, Sooriakumaran said.  “The operation is not easy to perform and it takes a lot
of experience in order to get the best results for our
patients,” he said in a conference call. “The enthusiasm in
the  United States  needs to be tempered in terms of what sort of
hospital needs to be purchasing this equipment and what sort of
surgeons should be allowed to do these operations.”  The researchers tracked three surgeons learning the
 technique  over a six-year period at high-volume centers at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, Karolinska Institute
in  Stockholm  and Weill Cornell in  New York City . Surgery times
decreased with each operation, while the doctor’s ability to
remove all the cancer increased, Sooriakumaran said.  Removing Cancer Cells  The surgeons needed to perform more than 1,600 operations
before they were able to gauge with at least 90 percent accuracy
how much tissue surrounding the tumor they needed to remove to
get all the malignant cells. Leaving stray cancerous cells in
the margins, at the edge of the tissue removed during surgery,
can lead to recurrences of the disease.  Every hospital has its own system to train surgeons and
it’s not up to the company to determine when the doctors reach
proficiency, said Calvin Darling, a spokesman for Intuitive
Surgical.  While he hasn’t yet seen the study, the 1,600 number
“strikes me as absurd,” Darling said today in a telephone
interview.  Training Time  “The average time it takes to get to proficiency as defined
by our hospitals in their training protocols is typically mid-
double digits,” he said. “This is an order of magnitude
higher.”  Intuitive Surgical reported $660.3 million in 2010 sales of
the da Vinci system, according to a company filing.  The company’s shares fell $1.20, or less than 1 percent, to
$339.99, at 4 p.m.  New York  time in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading.  More than 700 operations a year are done in medical centers
that specialize in the surgery, compared with just a handful a
month for smaller, community-based hospitals, Sooriakumaran
said. The procedure needs to be centralized so that surgeons can
get the amount of experience needed to gain the best results for
their patients, he said.  The results will be presented tomorrow at the  Genitourinary
Cancer Symposium  in  Orlando ,  Florida . The investigators are now
gathering information on additional surgeons to expand their
findings. It is likely that other doctors, who are in lower-
volume medical centers, will take even longer to get the
experience they need, Sooriakumaran said. Intuitive Surgical has
provided funding for  Ashutosh Tewari , an author of the study and
a urology professor at Weill Cornell.  Increased Use  Use of robotic technology is growing exponentially, said
Nicholas Vogelzang, an  oncologist  at the Comprehensive Cancer
Centers of  Nevada  in  Las Vegas  and chair of  U.S. Oncology ’s
developmental therapeutics committee. Doctors need to ensure
their abilities are keeping up, he said.  “This data today will make everyone pause,” said
Vogelzang, who pointed out that traditional open surgery also
requires years of practice. “Maybe it’s time to go a little bit
farther before we rush into this surgery. Experience really does
matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  