-- 
IBM Wins ‘Jeopardy’ With Triple Jennings’s Score

-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-02-17T15:08:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/don-t-read-this-unless-you-want-to-know-if-ibm-won-jeopardy-.html
Machine bested man yesterday, as  International Business Machines Corp .’s computer beat two former
“Jeopardy!” champions at the TV quiz show.  “Watson,” IBM’s computer named after its founder Thomas J. Watson, finished the three-day tournament with $77,147. Ken Jennings came in second with $24,000, followed by Brad Rutter
with $21,600.  With a $25,000 lead going into the final match, Watson
doubled his advantage by answering questions on subjects from
“The Simpsons” to Bram Stoker accurately. The win gives IBM a
highly publicized victory in artificial intelligence -- and a
boost as it moves to market the technology to its corporate
customers.  “Machines are evolving with breathtaking speed,” said  Paul Saffo , managing director at investment adviser Discern
Analytics in  San Francisco . “We don’t have artificial
intelligence that can go mano a mano with humans on general
things, but this technology seems to be headed that way.”  IBM built Watson to tackle a challenge in artificial
intelligence: making a machine that could understand natural
human language, as opposed to the keyword searches used in the
search engines of  Google Inc . or  Microsoft Corp . IBM wanted the
effort to have real-world applications. “Jeopardy,” with its
word plays, innuendos and penalties for inaccuracy, proved a
good test.  Jennings and Rutter  Watson faced two of the best-known players in the show’s
history. Jennings, who won 74 straight games in 2004, holds the
record for number of victories, while Rutter had pulled in more
money than any player on Jeopardy and beat Jennings in a
tournament in 2005.  Going into yesterday’s final game, Watson led with $35,734,
with Rutter at $10,400 and Jennings at $4,800. The first game
was played over the first two days of the tournament, which was
broadcast from IBM’s lab in Yorktown Heights,  New York .  Watson, who appears on film as a round avatar on a screen,
has a custom-made database created from journals, newspapers and
other resources. The computer received questions through typed
entries at the same time as host Alex Trebek read them out loud.
It scanned the database with algorithms and calculated its
degree of confidence in an answer. If its confidence crossed a
certain threshold, a mechanical thumb buzzed in and Watson spoke
the answer.  Mistakes: Toronto, The New Yorker  The computer made some gaffes. In the first round, it
repeated an incorrect answer Jennings had given moments before.
In the second day’s Final Jeopardy, the last round of each game
that often involves word play, Watson identified Toronto as a
U.S. city. Its answer was followed by question marks, indicating
how unsure it was of its answer.  In yesterday’s match, Watson missed a Daily Double, which
lets contestants wager as much money as they want. The clue
asked what work reviewed by The  New Yorker  in 1959 praised its
brevity and clarity. Watson, which had bet more than $2,000,
answered Dorothy Parker, missing the correct response: “The
Elements of Style.”  The computer was successful on topics from pop culture to
literature. When Trebek queried about a Fox show featuring
characters named Itchy and Scratchy, Watson responded “The
Simpsons,” the correct answer.  The machine also redeemed itself in the second Final
Jeopardy, with a clue of William Wilkinson’s “An Account of the
Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia” inspired this
author’s most famous novel.  Watson, along with Jennings and Rutter, gave the correct
answer: Who is Bram Stoker?  IBM Pressure  IBM, which spends about $6 billion annually on research and
development, invested four years developing the technology, with
25 scientists focused on the challenge. Trebek said he saw a
researcher crying before the competition, which was taped last
month.  “There’s tremendous pressure on the IBM scientists,”
Trebek said in an interview last week. “The pressure they had
put on themselves. They’re the ones who decided to try and
develop a computer system that can play ‘Jeopardy.’”  The project built on IBM’s work in artificial intelligence,
including the Deep Blue supercomputer that defeated world
champion Garry Kasparov in a 1997 match. IBM, the world’s
largest computer-services provider, decided to try another
challenge that would pique the public’s interest -- and this
time with commercial applications.  Business Applications  The machine has generated interest from businesses in
various sectors, especially customer support and health care,
Dave Ferrucci, IBM’s lead scientist on the project, said in an
interview last year. The computer runs on IBM’s Power 7 server
system.  “The Holy Grail here is to create a technology that can
understand what you’re asking, the way you’re asking it,” he
said. “People want to do more with all the content we have.”  Watson won $1 million for first place. Jennings and Rutter
won $300,000 and $200,000, respectively. IBM will donate all its
winnings to charity, while Rutter and Jennings plan to give away
half.  IBM fell 2 cents to $163.38 at 10:04 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares had gained 11 percent
this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 