-- 
Dubai Holding Commercial’s Rating Cut to B by Fitch

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-02-16T16:26:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/dubai-holding-commercial-s-rating-cut-to-b-by-fitch-update1-.html
Dubai Holding Commercial Operations
Group LLC, a real-estate and hospitality group owned by Dubai’s
ruler, had its long-term  credit rating  cut one level by  Fitch
Ratings  as the emirate’s property industry slumped further.  The company’s long-term issuer default rating was reduced
to B, the fifth-highest non-investment grade, from B+, Fitch
said in a statement today. The rating was removed from rating
watch negative and assigned a negative outlook, Fitch said.  “Fitch expects that the market prospects have deteriorated
further,” especially for Dubai Properties Group operations, the
agency said. The negative outlook reflects the risks Dubai
Holding Commercial faces as it needs to repay a 250 million
Swiss-franc bond in July and a $500 million bond in February
2012 while its ability to refinance debt externally is limited,
Fitch said.  Real estate prices in Dubai, the Persian Gulf business hub,
have declined 62 percent from their peak in mid-2008 after the
global credit crisis caused mortgage lending to dry up, Deutsche
Bank AG said in a report Feb. 14.  All of Dubai Holding Commercial’s assets are likely to see
declining revenue over at least the next three years, with Dubai
Properties Group the most affected and hospitality affected to a
lesser degree, Fitch said.  Dubai Holding Commercial owns Dubai Properties Group LLC, a
developer in the emirate, business park operator TECOM
Investments LLC and hotel chain Jumeirah Group LLC. The
company’s long-term issuer default rating is one level higher
than its standalone rating due to the prospect of support from
Dubai’s government in case of “ultimate need,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  