-- 
ECB’s Quaden Says He’s Very Cautious About Inflation Outlook

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ecb-s-quaden-says-he-s-very-cautious-about-inflation-outlook.html
European Central Bank council member  Guy Quaden  said he’s very cautious about the inflation outlook
for the 17-country currency bloc and predicted price pressures
to weaken in the second half of the year.  “Until now, inflation expectations are correctly anchored
and the feeling is that inflation will progressively decelerate
in the second half of the year,” Quaden, who heads  Belgium ’s
central bank, said at a press conference on Feb. 14 in Brussels.
His comments were embargoed until today. Still, “I speak very
cautiously, as I await the forecasts of early March.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Feb. 3 signaled
there’s no immediate need to raise  interest rates  even with
inflation seen remaining above the bank’s 2 percent ceiling for
most of 2011. The Frankfurt-based central bank in December
forecast inflation to average about 1.8 percent this year and
1.5 percent in 2012. It will publish new projections on March 3.  Quaden said the bank’s monetary policy remains
“accommodating.” That’s “even more so because most central
banks, including the ECB since mid-2008, use non-standard
measures that primarily seek to restore a normal functioning of
financial markets through liquidity injections in financial
institutions, which are and have stayed generous,” he said.  The ECB introduced unlimited lending operations for
commercial banks at the height of the financial crisis in a bid
to alleviate the credit squeeze. It has been forced to extend
some of those measures, lending banks as much cash as they need
for periods of up to three months.  The ECB’s program to purchase  government bonds  “was
necessary and remains necessary now, but should not be
considered as a permanent instrument in the ECB’s toolbox,”
Quaden said. “Non-standard measures are by definition temporary
and need to be gradually abandoned, in proportion to
normalization of the financial markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  