-- 
Egypt Stock Exchange Rules Out Annulling Transactions, Will Remain Closed

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-16T15:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/egypt-stock-exchange-rules-out-annulling-transactions-will-remain-closed.html
The Egyptian Exchange, shut since
Jan. 27 amid anti-government protests, will stay closed into
next week and honor transactions that sent the EGX 100 Index
tumbling on the last trading day, Al Arabiya television said.  Exchange officials, confronted by investors angry about
stock losses, said yesterday they would weigh annulling trades
that led the EGX 100 down 14 percent, the biggest one-day drop
in more than two years. Chairman Khaled Seyam ruled out such a
move, saying it would be illegal, Al Arabiya reported today.  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF  in the U.S. rose since
the Cairo exchange closed as President  Hosni Mubarak  bowed to
protesters seeking his resignation last week and ceded power to
the military after 30 years in office. Egyptian shares in  London 
have since reversed earlier gains. Seyam and Hisham Turk, a
spokesman for the bourse, didn’t answer calls and  text messages 
to their mobile phones today.  “There are people waiting to invest as soon as the market
opens,” Sven Richter, managing director and head of frontier
markets at Renaissance Asset Managers in London, which oversees
more than $2 billion, including investments in  Egypt , said in an
interview yesterday. “I would prefer those trades stayed in
place and that they opened the stock exchange as soon as
possible.”  Individual equity holders, who accounted for 48 percent of
all trading on the Egyptian Exchange last year, jammed into a
meeting in Cairo with bourse Vice Chairman Mohamed Farid Saleh
yesterday, demanding changes in regulation and management before
the market resumes operations. The exchange has delayed opening
at least three times.  Al Arabiya  reported today it won’t resume
operations as planned on Feb. 20.  Bill Auction  Egypt’s central bank today moved the deadline for some of
its Treasury bill auctions as banks are closed.  The government will auction 5.5 billion Egyptian pounds
($936 million) in 182- and 364-day bills on Feb. 21, according
to the  Ministry of Finance’s website.  The central bank had
previously said that the auctions for these bills would be
carried out tomorrow. Auctions of 91- and 273-day bills will be
held as scheduled on Feb. 20 in a bid to raise 4.5 billion
pounds, the ministry said.  The Egyptian Exchange had outlined rules yesterday for
opening on Feb. 20. The bourse planned to halt trading for 30
minutes should the  EGX 100 Index , which includes all stocks in
the benchmark EGX 30 Index, rise or fall more than 5 percent,
according to Turk. The exchange will shut for the day if the
gauge moves more than 10 percent, he said. The EGX 100 closed at
an eight-month low of 884.79 on Jan. 27 on concern protests
against Mubarak’s rule would cripple economic growth.  Investor Demands  James Angel, associate professor of finance at McDonough
School of Business at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said
he’s never heard of an exchange invalidating three-week-old
trades.  U.S. exchanges canceled about 20,800 trades on May 6, when
a sale of futures contracts set off a chain of selling that bled
into stocks and sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down as
much as 9.2 percent, according to an account of the day by
federal regulators. The annulled transactions amount to a
fraction of the volume on a typical trading day. Shares of
Citigroup Inc., one of the most-traded securities on U.S.
bourses, changed hands at least 177,000 times yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.    Ezz Steel   At yesterday’s meeting in Cairo, investors argued with
exchange officials, some demanding the trading suspension
continue and others asking that the market open conditionally.
They sought the suspension of trading of 13 companies associated
with Mubarak’s regime, including Cairo-based Ezz Steel, Egypt’s
biggest producer of the metal, and suggested more regulation to
prevent  insider trading  and improve disclosure. They also called
for new management at the bourse and securities regulator, the
Egyptian Financial Services Authority.  In addition to Ezz Steel, investors are demanding the
suspension of Ezz Aldekhela Steel Co. and Ezz Ceramics &
Porcelain Tiles Co., all of which are affiliated with Ahmed Ezz,
a member of Mubarak’s former ruling party who is under
investigation for alleged corruption by the country’s public
prosecutor.  “The bourse is a black box that still hasn’t been
opened,” said Ashraf Khairy, who added he holds 2.4 million
Egyptian pounds in stocks and is 400,000 pounds in debt. “We
cannot trust those who presided over the corruption to implement
reforms.”  GDRs Drop  The Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF, a U.S.-listed exchange-
traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, has climbed 13 percent
since Jan. 27. The fund, which changes hands throughout the day
like a stock, rose 0.5 percent today.  Global depositary receipts of Orascom Construction
Industries, the Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, lost 5
percent to $37.52 at 2:46 p.m. in London and are down 0.3
percent since Jan. 27. GDRs of  Commercial International Bank
Egypt SAE , the country’s biggest publicly traded bank, slid 4.6
percent to $6, bringing the loss since Jan. 27 to 4.2 percent.
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, the nation’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, fell 6.7 percent to $8.30 and is down 7.6
percent since the Egyptian bourse closed.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020 was
little changed at 6.57 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Five-year credit-default swaps on the nation’s debt
rose 8 basis points to 345 from the London close. That is down
from 432.48 on Jan. 28, the day after the exchange closed. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  EFG-Hermes Holding reduced its recommendation on six
Egyptian companies yesterday, including Ezz Steel, on concern
earnings may be hurt by the political changes.  ‘Hurting Investors’  Ezz, whose shares tumbled 19 percent to 15.93 pounds in the
week ended Jan. 27, was lowered to “sell” at EFG with a 12-
month price estimate of 13.9 pounds and Cairo-based  Egyptian
Resorts Co ., a developer, was cut to “sell” with a price
estimate of 1.4 pounds.  Ghabbour Auto , Credit Agricole Egypt
SAE,  National Societe Generale Bank SAE  and Paints & Chemical
Industry Co. also had their recommendations reduced.  “The suspension is hurting investors more than it’s
helping them, the bourse needs to face the reopening problem in
order to get on with business,” said Mohsin Adel, managing
director at Cairo-based Pioneer Funds, where he helps oversee
500 million Egyptian pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  