-- 
Egypt Women Clash Over Sharia Law After Tahrir Shows Equality

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-02-16T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/egypt-women-clash-over-sharia-law-after-tahrir-shows-equality-in-uprising.html
Fatma Emam’s mother accused her of
wanting to be a man and threatened to disown her if the 28-year-
old joined the protests in Tahrir Square. She went anyway.  “There are so many women who like me defied their
families,” Emam said after spending five days and four nights
in downtown Cairo. “The revolution is not only taking place in
Tahrir, it is taking place in every Egyptian house. It is the
revolution of fighting the patriarch.”  The women who rallied against former President  Hosni Mubarak 
challenged social taboos in a culture that favors men. Now the
triumph of the uprising has given way to cautious optimism among
liberal activists who want an entirely secular legal code, with
no Sharia, or Islamic-based, laws.  They are at odds with other women in the pro-democracy
movement as the military sets the stage for the new Egypt,
suspending the constitution and dissolving the parliament.  “Women in this country have always participated in
revolutionary movements, and then they have had to fight inch by
inch to get what they should get when things return to
normality,” said Margot Badran, author of “Feminism in Islam:
Secular and Religious Convergences” and a senior scholar at the
Washington-based  Woodrow Wilson Center  who was in Cairo when the
revolt began Jan. 25. “It is like driving with the emergency
brake on. You are driving, but it is pulling you back.”  Husband’s Permission  In Tahrir Square, the site of 18 days of rebellion that
ousted Mubarak, women were from disparate groups, veiled and
not, Christian and Muslim, Westernized and traditional. They
were as outspoken as men, leading chants and banging iron rods
on power poles to sound the alert of approaching pro-regime
marchers. It was remarkable in a country where until 2000 a wife
couldn’t leave the country without her husband’s permission and
until 1999 a rapist could avoid prison by marrying his victim.  While  Egypt  in 1957 was the first Arab country to elect a
woman to parliament, just four won positions in 2005. The
People’s Assembly then created 64 seats for women. With the
legislature disbanded, the fate of the 64-seat quota is unknown.  The military will keep the Mubarak cabinet, which includes
four women, in place for the time being during a transition
period to a new elected government, according to a statement
from the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. The council
appointed a committee Feb. 15 to rewrite the constitution.  Traditional, Conservative Views  As progressive as Egypt has been when compared with some
other Arab countries, many in the country hold traditional,
conservative views. Women would rather not work outside the
home, according to a government  study  that found about 3 percent
of all women in the workforce were in supervisory positions.
Divorce for women often comes with stigma. Staying single into
one’s 30s brings the label of spinster and pressure to marry.
Being the victim of sexual harassment can subject a woman to
questions about how modestly she dresses.  The Tahrir Square campaigners were from a mosaic of groups
orchestrated largely by young cyber activists holding a broad
mix of views on social issues. The country is about 90 percent
Muslim, and Egypt’s best organized opposition group, the Muslim
Brotherhood, combines public support for democracy with a
backing for Sharia law. The brotherhood -- which issued a draft
position paper in 2007 that said a woman or a Christian couldn’t
be head of state --- announced plans Feb. 15 to form a political
party.  Having Four Wives  “The Islamic Sharia does not conflict with freedom and
democracy,” Asmaa El-Erian, 21, the daughter of a Muslim
Brotherhood leader, Essam El-Erian, who was imprisoned
repeatedly by the Mubarak government.  El-Erian’s goals for the new Egypt are in sync with her
more liberal sisters when it comes to envisioning greater
participation in politics and more power in government, though
she said the head of state should always be male because “men
are more strict and firm.” She said she rejects the demands of
some activists to end a man’s freedom to have four wives.  “God has allowed polygamy,” she said. “Maybe many people
don’t prefer it, but it is not religiously forbidden.”  Jehan El-Halafawy, a 59-year-old  Muslim Brotherhood  member
who has run unsuccessfully for parliament, dismissed calls for
secular family laws as part of “an external agenda.”  “We cannot deviate from the basics of religion,” she said.
“When there are clear religious texts about certain topics,
then you cannot open the door for negotiations.”  Open to Interpretation  The idea that women shouldn’t engage in politics or even
rule as a head of state, on the other hand, is out of date, El-
Halafawy said. “The cultural views in our society are that when
women contest politics, they compete and butt heads with men,”
she said, “and thus many men reject this.”  Activists like Nehad Abul Komsan, a founder of the  Egyptian
Centre for Women’s Rights  in Cairo, contend that Sharia law,
which is based on interpretations of the Koran and religious
writings, can lead to discrimination. While women are allowed to
file for an expedited divorce in Egypt, they must return their
dowries and can’t receive alimony if they do. Men can divorce
wives by simply declaring, “I divorce you.” Women inherit half
what male family members do.  “More women need to be engaged in the discussions,” Abul
Komsan said. “When we talk to leaders they say it is not the
time to talk about gender issues; it is the time to talk about
the future. But we can’t have a gender-blind future.”  Hurling Stones  Literacy rates are lower for women than men, at 59.7
percent and 83.3 percent respectively, according to the  Central
Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics . While women made
up 49 percent of the population in 2006, they were 22 percent of
the workforce, agency data show.  Estimates by the  United Nations  and other research groups are
that more than 80 percent of women have undergone the genital
mutilation that tradition holds protects their chastity. A
survey last year of women aged 15 to 29 by the UN Development
Programme found 50 percent had been subjected to sexual
harassment and 99 percent to verbal harassment from men.  Legal reforms could change that, said Abul Komsan, who
links sexual violence to political oppression. “When people
feel they aren’t respected,” she said, “why should they
respect others?”  In Tahrir Square, women said they weren’t hassled or
bullied during the protests.  Support From Afar  “Women were spending the night out there, they were
cleaning the streets alongside men, they were hurling stones
with the men,” said El-Erian, who was in the plaza for three
days. Sally Moore, a 32-year-old who is a member of the Youths’
Coalition of the Egyptian Revolt of Anger, an alliance of
protest groups, said women rejected the offers of men to shield
them during clashes with pro-regime forces. More than 300 people
died in the country during the demonstrations.  “We said, ‘Sorry, we’re just like you,’” Moore said.
“Being a woman does not mean that I need your protection or
that I have to support you from afar.”  For Nawal El Saadawi, a 79-year-old former political
prisoner whose 1969 book “Women and Sex” was banned in Egypt,
what was notable was how she was treated with esteem by young
men in the Muslim Brotherhood.  “They said, ‘We read your books and we differ on some
points but we respect you, we love you and we believe in
equality,” she said. “This revolution is making a new social
contract. It is creating a new value system.”  Declining Female Representation  Egypt, the most populous Arab country with 80 million
people, has a long history of powerful women, with rulers in
ancient times that included the pharaohs Cleopatra, Nitocris and
Hatshepsut. The Egyptian Feminist Union was founded in 1923 by
Hoda Shaarawi, who shocked the country by going unveiled. Rawya
Attiya, a Liberation Army officer, became the first Arab female
parliamentarian after campaigning in a military uniform.  “Egyptian feminists have inspired women activists across
the region across the last century,” said Isobel Coleman,
author of “Paradise Beneath Her Feet: How Woman Are
Transforming The Middle East” and a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .  At the same time, Coleman said, a strong Islamic movement
“has pulled in another direction.” Women made gains under
Mubarak’s authoritarian rule “that in a democratic system
probably wouldn’t have passed,” she said. “How these things
play out in a more democratic system remains to be seen.”  Under Mubarak, Egypt in 2003 appointed its first female
judges and in 2009 named its first female university president.  An Islamic Framework  Still, female representation has declined since 1984, when
women occupied 36 of 458 seats, according to the Cairo-based
 Women Living Under Muslim Laws . The supreme court in April
overruled State Council judges who decided women couldn’t serve
on the body that settles cases brought against the government
because they are too emotional and too busy raising children.  Liberal activists may have to negotiate within an Islamic
framework, Coleman said. She said that happened in  Morocco ,
where parliament in 2004 raised the minimum marriage age to 18
established joint responsibility for children and granted women
more rights in the negotiation of marriage contracts.  In Egypt, parents like Fatma Emam’s mother often put more
restrictions on daughters than sons. Emam, a research associate
at  Nazra for Feminist Studies  in Cairo who describes herself as
an Islamic feminist, hasn’t returned home. She said she is
“very hopeful about the country’s future.  “People have come out of their shells,” she said. “Egypt
is liberated.”  The 25-year-old who helped spark the demonstrations with an
online video, Asmaa Mahfouz, said her father refused to allow
her to stay in the plaza after dark. “No girl of mine spends
the night away from home,” Mahfouz said he told her.  In the video, Mahfouz said: “I, a girl, am going down to
Tahrir Square. Come down with us and demand your rights.”  Her foray into politics has changed her, she said. “I was
very scared. I was shy, as a girl, to go up to people and
talk,” she said. “I have become much stronger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar in New York at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net ; 