-- 
Egypt Stock Exchange Stays Shut as Cancellation of Trades Isn't Ruled Out

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-02-16T18:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/egypt-bourse-stays-shut-as-cancellation-of-trades-not-ruled-out.html
The Egyptian Exchange, shut since
Jan. 27 amid anti-government protests, has no legal grounds to
cancel transactions that sent the  EGX 100 Index  tumbling on the
last trading day though such a decision is possible, Chairman
Khaled Seyam said.  “We’re not ruling anything out,” Seyam said in a
telephone interview today. The bourse will remain closed until
at least 48 hours after the nation’s banks open again for
business, said Hisham Turk, the exchange’s spokesman. Lenders
will stay shut for the rest of the week, state-run Nile News
television reported yesterday.  Seyam’s comments follow an Al Arabiya television report
earlier today that the exchange won’t annul trades that led the
EGX 100 down 14 percent, the biggest one-day drop in more than
two years. The exchange has delayed opening at least four times
after three weeks of protests forced  Hosni Mubarak  to cede power
to the military on Feb. 11, putting an end to his 30-year rule.  London-traded shares of Egyptian companies sank today.
Global depositary receipts of Orascom Construction Industries,
Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, and  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE , the country’s biggest publicly
traded bank, both slid more than 4 percent.  ‘Hurting Investors’  “The suspension is hurting investors more than it’s
helping them, the bourse needs to face the reopening problem in
order to get on with business,” said Mohsin Adel, managing
director at Cairo-based Pioneer Funds, where he helps oversee
500 million Egyptian pounds.  Individual equity holders, who accounted for 48 percent of
all trading on the Egyptian Exchange last year, jammed into a
meeting with bourse officials in Cairo yesterday, demanding
changes in regulation and management before the market resumes
operations.  The exchange had outlined rules for opening on Feb. 20. The
bourse planned to halt trading for 30 minutes should the EGX 100
Index, which includes all stocks in the benchmark EGX 30 Index,
rise or fall more than 5 percent, Turk said yesterday. The
exchange will shut for the day if the gauge moves more than 10
percent, he said. The EGX 100 closed at an eight-month low of
884.79 on Jan. 27 on concern protests against Mubarak’s rule
would cripple economic growth.  “Our market is directly tied to the banks because they are
our custodians,” Seyam said in the interview today. “We need
to make sure they are back to normal operations because we
cannot afford to start and stop again.”  Bill Sales  Egypt’s central bank moved the deadline today for some of
its Treasury bill auctions as banks remained closed.  The government will auction 5.5 billion Egyptian pounds
($936 million) in 182- and 364-day bills on Feb. 21, according
to the  Ministry of Finance’s website.  The central bank had
previously said that the auctions for these bills would be
carried out tomorrow. Auctions of 91- and 273-day bills will be
held as scheduled on Feb. 20 in a bid to raise 4.5 billion
pounds, the ministry said.  James Angel, associate professor of finance at McDonough
School of Business at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said
he’s never heard of an exchange invalidating three-week-old
trades.  U.S. Crash  U.S. exchanges canceled about 20,800 trades on May 6, when
a sale of futures contracts set off a chain of selling that bled
into stocks and sent the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  down as
much as 9.2 percent, according to an account of the day by
federal regulators. The annulled transactions amount to a
fraction of the volume on a typical trading day. Shares of
Citigroup Inc., one of the most-traded securities on U.S.
bourses, changed hands at least 177,000 times yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  At yesterday’s meeting in Cairo, investors argued with
exchange officials, some demanding the trading suspension
continue and others asking that the market open conditionally.
They sought the suspension of trading of 13 companies associated
with Mubarak’s regime, including Cairo-based  Ezz Steel , Egypt’s
biggest producer of the metal, and suggested more regulation to
prevent  insider trading  and improve disclosure. They also called
for new management at the bourse and securities regulator, the
Egyptian Financial Services Authority.  ‘Black Box’  In addition to Ezz Steel, investors are demanding the
suspension of Ezz Aldekhela Steel Co. and Ezz Ceramics &
Porcelain Tiles Co., all of which are affiliated with Ahmed Ezz,
a member of Mubarak’s former ruling party who is under
investigation for alleged corruption by the country’s public
prosecutor.  “The bourse is a black box that still hasn’t been
opened,” said Ashraf Khairy, who added he holds 2.4 million
Egyptian pounds in stocks and is 400,000 pounds in debt. “We
cannot trust those who presided over the corruption to implement
reforms.”  The Market Vectors  Egypt  Index ETF, a U.S.-listed exchange-
traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, has climbed 12 percent
since Jan. 27. The fund, which changes hands throughout the day
like a stock, slipped 0.7 percent today.  GDRs  GDRs of Orascom Construction Industries lost 4.6 percent to
$37.70 in  London  and are up 0.2 percent since Jan. 27. GDRs of
Commercial International Bank Egypt slid 4.6 percent to $6,
bringing the loss since Jan. 27 to 4.2 percent.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020
rose 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.62 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EFG-Hermes Holding reduced its recommendation on six
Egyptian companies yesterday, including Ezz Steel, on concern
earnings may be hurt by the political changes.  Ezz, whose shares tumbled 19 percent to 15.93 pounds in the
week ended Jan. 27, was lowered to “sell” at EFG with a 12-
month price estimate of 13.9 pounds and Cairo-based  Egyptian
Resorts Co ., a developer, was cut to “sell” with a price
estimate of 1.4 pounds.  Ghabbour Auto , Credit Agricole Egypt
SAE,  National Societe Generale Bank SAE  and Paints & Chemical
Industry Co. also had their recommendations reduced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  