-- 
Heineken Full-Year Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates on Spending Reductions

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-16T10:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/heineken-2010-sales-of-beer-by-volume-fall-more-than-analysts-estimated.html
  Heineken NV , the world’s third-
largest brewer, reported 2010 profit that beat analysts’
estimates as the company lowered spending more than anticipated
amid falling sales of beer.  Earnings before interest and taxes, excluding one-time
gains or costs, totaled 2.61 billion euros ($3.5 billion),
Amsterdam-based Heineken said today in a statement. That beat a
2.52 billion-euro median estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Profit was helped by 280 million euros in pretax
savings from Heineken’s cost-cutting program. Sales volume
excluding acquisitions or disposals fell 3.1 percent, more than
the 2.8 percent decline forecast.  Brewers including Heineken are cutting costs in developed
countries and looking to emerging markets to improve
profitability and increase sales. Growth in the U.S. and Europe
has been stinted by competition and government cost-cutting
measures, which are holding back  consumer spending . Heineken,
the maker of Amstel and Newcastle Brown Ale, reported a 2.2
percent decline in organic revenue, which excludes divisions the
company purchased or sold.  Heineken’s results were “light on volumes, but with more
cost savings than expected,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, said today.  European Investments  The brewer will focus on investing in and selling more
profitable beer in Europe and the U.S. to deliver “value
growth,” Chief Executive Officer Jean Francois van Boxmeer said
in the statement. The shift will affect the company’s earnings
in the near future, Heineken said, without being more specific.
The company expects ongoing “cautious consumer behavior” in
the U.S. and  Europe .  Heineken rose as much as 2.11 euros, or 5.7 percent, to 39
euros, the highest intraday price since April 2008, and was up
4.3 percent as of 11:55 a.m. in Amsterdam trading. The company
has a market value of about 22 billion euros.  The company said it expects a “low-single-digit” increase
in the cost of goods to make beer, including malting barley and
packaging, and will charge more for beer to mitigate the effect.
Heineken will raise prices by a larger amount in some regions
than in others, Van Boxmeer said, without specifying markets.  ‘Deteriorating’ Material Costs  “Since they are the first brewer to report, this will
probably represent a relief to the market as the brewers have
recently been under pressure on the back of continued rises of
commodities,” Javier Gonzalez Lastra, an analyst at Exane,
wrote today in a report. “We remain cautious, however, on the
input-costs front as we believe the outlook is continuously
deteriorating here.”  Van Boxmeer declined during a conference call today to give
a forecast for sales or profitability for 2011.  The amount of beer sold in western Europe slid 3.6 percent,
the second-worst performance of Heineken’s units. The region
accounted for almost half of the company’s revenue in 2010. A
“challenging economic environment impacted consumption,”
particularly in sales to bars and restaurants in  Italy ,  Spain ,
the Netherlands, the U.K. and Ireland, Heineken said.  The amount of beer sold in central and eastern Europe
plunged 8.6 percent. Consumers and distributors in  Russia  bought
less beer after the government raised taxes on the beverage in
January 2010.  Heineken is the “most exposed to austerity budget
economies” of the European brewers, according to Andrew Holland, an analyst at Evolution Securities in London. “Trading
in most of the markets where Heineken controls its business --
Europe west and east, and the U.S. -- remains weak.”  Brand Strategy  The company’s focus on “higher margin” brands, including
Dos Equis, Desperados and Strongbow, and new products in Europe
will “slow down” declines in the region’s sales, Van Boxmeer
said. He declined to comment on how the strategy will affect
profitability in 2011.  “It’s a tough time” in developed markets, as the baby-
boomer generation drinks less and consumers have doubts about
how the economy will develop, “but we continue to invest in our
business,” Van Boxmeer said. “The crisis will blow over one
day.”  The company will deliver fewer savings from its cost-
management program next year due to the “earlier-than-planned”
realization of savings in 2010, Heineken said. Van Boxmeer
declined to comment on the amount of possible job losses as a
result of the measures. The company closed factories in Europe
last year, and will continue to derive savings from the region
in 2011, he said.  Decline in Americas  Sales of beer in the Americas, excluding the effects of
Heineken’s purchase of Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB in April
2010, fell 2.5 percent, Heineken said. Sales in the U.S., the
world’s second-largest beer market, slid as sales of the
Heineken brand declined.  FEMSA, which Heineken bought to expand in Latin America,
generated 2 billion euros of revenue and 315 million euros of
profit in the eight months following the acquisition, the
company said.  The contribution from FEMSA was “stronger than we had
anticipated,” Gonzalez Lastra at Exane wrote today. He has an
“outperform” rating on Heineken stock.  The FEMSA acquisition has “significantly increased
Heineken’s emerging-market exposure,” which is “clearly
beneficial to the company’s growth prospects,” analysts at MF
Global, including Andy Ford in London, wrote in a report.  Net Income Rises  Net income rose to 1.44 billion euros from 1.02 million
euros a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated full-year profit at 1.35 million euros. Net income
before amortization and one-time items rose 20 percent to 1.45
billion euros. The company had targeted growth of “at least low
double-digits” for the year. The main Heineken brand’s volume
rose 3.4 percent, led by growth in  Brazil  and  South Africa .  Sales in Africa and the Middle East rose 9.7 percent. The
beer market in  Nigeria , which represents about 50 percent of
volume in the region, according to analysts at Sanford C.
Bernstein, grew 10 percent in the year, Heineken said. The
company saw “strong volume growth” across key brands. Heineken
said in January that it had bought controlling interests in five
breweries in the country, which is  Africa ’s second-biggest beer
market, to alleviate a shortage of capacity.  “Robust economic growth” drove beer volume increases of 4
percent in the Asia-Pacific region, and profitability soared 44
percent as the company raised prices, sold more and saw lower
input costs, Heineken said. Drinkers in  Vietnam ,  Taiwan  and  China  bought more Heineken-branded beer.  Free operating cash flow amounted to 2 billion euros, which
helped cut net debt as of Dec. 31 to 8.1 billion euros from 9.3
billion a year earlier. Heineken raised marketing and sales
spending by 5 percent to 12.4 percent of revenue, and “we will
further step up marketing,” Van Boxmeer said.  The brewer’s marketing spending beat estimates at UBS,
Jason DeRise, a London-based analyst for the bank, wrote today.
“Heineken did not under-spend” on advertising and promotions
to help achieve organic profit growth, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  