-- 
Employers Rejecting Unemployed Job Applicants, U.S. Agency Told

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-02-16T17:36:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/employers-rejecting-unemployed-job-applicants-u-s-agency-told.html
Employers are screening out job
applicants who are unemployed, a practice that may lead to
discrimination against women and minorities, worker advocates
told a U.S. agency today.  Some companies don’t specifically have a policy to exclude
the unemployed and may informally use employment status in
hiring, the advocates told the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, which enforces federal anti-discrimination laws.  “This is a practice that, regardless of its magnitude,
adds to the difficulty that millions of unemployed workers are
facing today in navigating the toughest job market any of us has
ever experienced,” said Christine Owens, executive director of
the  National Employment Law Project , which promotes jobs for
lower-wage workers. She said no information exists showing the
extent of the practice.  The commission is examining the practice after media
reports showed some employers were keeping applicants without
jobs from being considered, raising concern that minorities may
be targeted. Unemployment in January among blacks was 15.7
percent and 11.9 percent for Hispanics, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics  reported. Among whites, the rate was 8 percent.  The  Society for Human Resource Management , which represents
more than 250,000 personnel managers, is “unaware of widespread
recruiting practices” that exclude the jobless, said Fernan R.
Cepero, representing the Alexandria, Virginia-based group.  Applicants who have been out of work may struggle because
their skills are more obsolete than those who are employed, said
Cepero, vice president for human resources at the YMCA of
Greater Rochester in  New York .  Nine For Two  U.S. employers review nine applicants for every two
available jobs, William E. Spriggs, assistant secretary of Labor
for policy, said at the hearing. Weeding out the unemployed has
a disparate effect on Latinos and blacks, he said.  “The chances of considering an ethnic minority are
decreased by one third when one limits unemployed workers,”
Spriggs said.  Owens said a telephone company in Atlanta, which she didn’t
identify, ran an help-wanted ad saying only the employed should
apply. Jobless applicants were also turned down by a temporary
staffing firm and a Texas recruiter because they were
unemployed, she said.  “What’s startling are the lengths to which companies are
going to communicate this such as including the phrase
‘unemployed candidates will not be considered’ right in the
posting,” she said.  ‘What’s The Rationale?’  Commissioners said they are concerned about the practice
and may review whether the agency should act.  “The question in my mind is why would an employer want to
do this? What’s the rationale? What’s the driver for this?”
said Commissioner Stuart Ishimaru, a member since 2003 nominated
by Democratic leaders of the  U.S. Senate .  If the agency determines that keeping the employed out of
the applicant pool discriminates against minorities, it may
trigger lawsuits against companies, said Paul Evans, a
Philadelphia employment lawyer who represents companies with
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP., before the hearing. Job candidates
who think they’ve been discriminated against would be cleared to
file a complaint with the agency, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 