-- 
Lend Lease to Keep Valemus Separate in Short Term After Purchase, CEO Says

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-02-17T06:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/lend-lease-1st-half-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-australian-projects.html
  Lend Lease Group , the Australian
property developer that agreed to buy Bilfinger Berger AG’s
local unit Valemus Ltd., said it will maintain the business as a
separate entity in the short term.  “We see Valemus as a good business that has its own market
presence, that has skills in certain areas,” Steve McCann,
chief executive officer of  Lend Lease , said in a telephone
interview today. Valemus’s Abigroup, Baulderstone and Conneq are
“very strong brands, and the brands will remain separate for
the time being, so for the short-term the cost synergies are
unlikely to be material,” he said.  Lend Lease, the nation’s biggest developer, today reported
an 11 percent increase in net income to A$226.5 million ($227
million) from a year ago, driven by higher profit from its
Australian development business. The Sydney-based company agreed
in December to pay A$1.06 billion for Valemus, saying the
acquisition will help expand its road, rail and other
construction businesses.  The company expects to complete the purchase in the first
quarter of 2011, after which it will conduct a 90-day
integration review to decide its longer-term approach, McCann
said today.  Lend Lease shares added 2 percent to A$9.06 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trade in Sydney.  Retirement Assets  The company has expressed interest to  FKP Property Group 
and Macquarie Capital Group Ltd. in managing the Retirement
Village Group, an unlisted investment fund jointly managed by
the two firms, McCann said today. RVG has about A$1.7 billion of
assets, the Australian newspaper reported in November.  “That’s the type of transaction we’ll look at when our
investors show interest,” McCann said during an investor
briefing today. “Our investors have told us we’d be a good
manager of that portfolio. We have the most retirement villages
under management in  Australia  now and we have capacity for
more.”  Lend Lease is also gearing up to announce the acquisition
of a U.S. specialist health-care developer in the next week or
two, McCann said, declining to identify the company. The
Australian company has paid A$10 million as an initial outlay
for the developer of medical office buildings and outpatient
care facilities that has operations in many states, he said.  “They give us a presence in the development part of the
health-care sector,” McCann said. “We see an increasing trend
of hospitals, health-care systems and medical practitioners
turning to real estate partners for their needs, and this plays
very well into that market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  