-- 
Eni Plans to Boost Output This Year on Startups as Profit Beats Estimates

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-02-16T16:51:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/eni-plans-to-boost-output-this-year-on-startups-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
  Eni SpA , Italy’s largest oil and
natural-gas company, said it will boost output by 1 percent this
year on startups in  Australia ,  Algeria , and the U.S. after
fourth-quarter earnings beat analyst estimates.  Adjusted net income rose 24 percent to 1.72 billion euros
($2.33 billion) from 1.39 billion euros a year earlier, the
Rome-based company said today in a statement. That surpassed the
1.59 billion-euro average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 19
analysts. Net sales climbed 27 percent to 28 billion euros.  “These are good results given the economic climate,” said
Patrizio Pazzaglia, a money manager at Bank Insinger de Beaufort
NV in Rome who manages about 200 million euros. “The management
has done an impressive job diversifying geographically and into
different resources which helped offset difficulties.”  Oil and gas production increased 2 percent to 1.95 million
barrels of oil equivalent a day and is seen increasing further
in 2011. Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said output will
be driven by the Zubair field in Iraq, startups in Australia,
Algeria and the U.S. and entry into Togo, the Democratic
Republic of Congo and shale gas exploration and development in
Poland.  Dividend  Capital expenditure this year will be in line with 2010,
Scaroni said during a conference call with analysts. Capital
expenditure was 3.9 billion euros for the quarter, bringing the
total for the year to 13.9 billion euros, according to the
statement. Eni also said it will propose a dividend of 1 euro a
share for the full year.  Higher oil and fuel prices have helped companies like Eni
boost profits.  Exxon Mobil Corp . on Jan. 31 posted its biggest
quarterly profit in more than two years as it increased output
from its wells to the most in the company’s history. Total SA
reported a 23 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit and said
it will boost investments to help push output.  Brent crude averaged $87.45 a barrel during the quarter, a
16 percent increase from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Eni said it forecasts a “solid” trend
for Brent crude prices and assumes an average Brent price of $70
a barrel for 2011.  The gas and power division posted a 6.4 percent decline in
revenue for the year due to declining margins and lower sales in  Italy , Eni said. The company said it expects 2011 worldwide gas
sales and refining outputs to be in line with 2010.  Gas Talks  Renegotiations of gas contracts with Russia’s OAO Gazprom
and Algeria’s Sonatrach will be concluded by the end of the
year, Scaroni told analysts. They will help restore
profitability at the gas and power division, he said.  Scaroni also said political unrest in Tunisia, Egypt,
Algeria and Libya did not hurt production.  Chief Financial Officer Alessandro Bernini told analysts
the company is in no rush to sell its stake in Portuguese
company  Galp Energia SGPS SA  after the collapse of negotiations
with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA .  Eni gained as much as 1.4 percent before closing 0.1
percent higher at 18.42 euros. The stock has risen 9 percent in
the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 