-- 
Merkel Adviser Weidmann Nominated to Become Youngest Bundesbank President

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-02-16T12:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/merkel-adviser-weidmann-nominated-to-become-youngest-bundesbank-president.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
nominated Jens Weidmann, her chief economic adviser, to be the
next president of the Bundesbank.  Weidmann, 42, will replace  Axel Weber  on May 1, Merkel told
reporters in Berlin today. Weidmann won coalition approval to
become the youngest president of Germany’s central bank in its
53-year history.  The announcement was made after Merkel met with her Cabinet
ministers today for the first time since Weber’s unexpected
resignation as Bundesbank chief on Feb. 11. Caught off guard and
robbed of her candidate to succeed European Central Bank head  Jean-Claude Trichet  when his term expires in October, Merkel was
left to seek nominees for both posts.  “Everyone who knows Jens Weidmann knows that he has the
highest level of competency, a brilliant intellect and an
independent mind,” Merkel said. Sabine Lautenschlaeger, the
executive director for banking supervision at the BaFin
financial regulator, was nominated as vice president, becoming
the Bundesbank first female board member.  An economist and former Bundesbank analyst, Weidmann helped
guide Merkel’s policy through the financial, economic and euro-
area debt crises since becoming her chief economic adviser in
2006 at Weber’s recommendation. He emerged as frontrunner to
head the Frankfurt-based German central bank as soon as Weber
resigned.  Merkel praised Weidmann’s “capabilities, his gifts and his
personality,” saying it will be “very hard” to see him leave
the Chancellery.  ‘Raise His Voice’  “I am convinced that he will be an excellent president at
the Bundesbank and a representative for Germany who will raise
his voice on behalf of stability culture at the ECB, thus
promoting  Germany ’s own interests,” Merkel said.  Weber, who will stand down on April 30, said a lack of
“acceptance” among euro-area leaders for his monetary policy
views caused him to give up on becoming the next ECB chief,
according to an interview in  Der Spiegel  published Feb. 12. He
suggested Weidmann would make a good replacement, calling him an
“absolute professional” and “excellent economist,” the
German weekly said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  