-- 
Metals Demand in India May Double on Transport, Power Projects

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T00:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/metals-demand-in-india-forecast-to-double-on-transport-and-power-projects.html
Metals demand in  India ,  Asia ’s
second-fastest growing major economy, may double in five years
and remain robust for a decade, fueled by rising car sales and
higher spending on infrastructure projects, analysts said.  Growth in demand for base metals may jump 10 percent to 15
percent this year, said Sumit Verma, an analyst at broker Geojit
Comtrade Ltd. That compares with an average annual increase of 6
percent for aluminum and copper, and 4.3 percent for zinc
between 1972 and 2009,  Barclays Capital  said in November,
predicting demand to jump 80 percent by 2015.  “Steel demand may double in the next five years and I will
not be surprised if demand for non-ferrous metals such as copper
and aluminum grow at twice the pace,” said Kunal Shah, head of
commodity research with Nirmal Bang Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has proposed $1 trillion of
spending in the five years through 2017 to upgrade the nation’s
road, railway and power networks, which the  finance ministry 
says shaves 2 percentage points from growth. Commodity demand in
India has reached a “tipping point” and the nation may surpass
the U.S. as the second-largest consumer of copper, aluminum and
zinc in the early 2020’s, Barclays said.  “The drivers will be growth and development of key sectors
of the economy like infrastructure, power, construction, energy
and transportation,” Geojit’s Verma said in an e-mailed reply
to questions. “The outlook for next five to 10 years is
bullish.”    India’s economy  will probably grow 8.6 percent in the year
to March, the most in three years, the government’s statistics
office said on Feb. 7. The nation expanded at 8.9 percent in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, compared with the 9.8 percent growth in
the three months ended Dec. 31 in  China , the largest consumer of
everything from copper to zinc and  iron ore .  Record Sales  Rising salaries and economic expansion pushed car sales in
India to a record last month. Deliveries climbed 26 percent to
184,332 vehicles in January, the 24th consecutive monthly year-
on-year increase, according to figures released by the Society
of Indian Automobile Manufacturers on Feb. 9.  Aluminum demand in India may climb an average 8 percent a
year between 2009 and 2030, Barclays said, predicting growth in
copper and zinc usage at 8.6 percent and 8.5 percent each. In
absolute terms, the country’s aluminum demand growth from 2009
and 2015 will be equal to  Korea ’s current consumption or twice  Canada ’s, the report said.    Hindalco Industries Ltd ., India’s largest aluminum maker,
on Feb. 12 reported a 7.7 percent gain in third-quarter profit
because of higher base metal prices and said global demand for
the metal is expected to be “robust” for the rest of the year.
Sterlite Industries Ltd., the nation’s top copper producer, last
month reported a 60 percent jump in earnings.  China Spending  Commodities beat gains in stocks, bonds and the dollar in
2010 as China led the recovery from the first global recession
since World War II. The rally in raw materials may be extended
this year as the global economy recovers and infrastructure
spending in China boosts demand for copper and other base metals,  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman of China equities and commodities at JP
Morgan Chase & Co. said yesterday in  Singapore .  Copper on the London Metal Exchange reached a record
$10,190 a metric ton yesterday, boosted by manufacturing growth
in China and the U.S., the top two users.  “We are holding bullish for base metals prices,” said
Sundeep Jain, an analyst at Karvy Comtrade Ltd. “Demand on the
one side is robust from emerging markets, be it India or China,
and on the other, supply is not able to catch up with demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  