-- 
EU's Rehn Says Polish Budget-Deficit Cuts to EU Limit Are `Doable' By 2012

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-02-16T17:08:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/eu-s-rehn-says-polish-budget-deficit-cuts-to-eu-limit-are-doable-by-2012.html
  Poland  is capable of cutting its
budget shortfall to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2012
and will submit plans to the European Union to do so this week,
Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said today.  The EU “sees meeting this objective as feasible and
doable,” Rehn said at a joint press conference with Polish
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  in Warsaw today. “We expect to
receive detailed information” on the government’s proposals to
narrow the deficit “by the end of the week,” he added.  Rehn met Rostowski and Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  in Warsaw
today as concerns rise over Poland’s commitment to narrowing its  budget deficit . Rehn said yesterday he saw no need for the
European Commission to extend beyond next year a deadline for
Poland to narrow its shortfall to within the EU limit, citing
the country’s “good economic development.”  While Poland was the only member of the EU to avoid
recession in 2009 as its western neighbor,  Germany , struggled
with its worst economic slowdown since World War II, the deficit
soared as tax cuts, slowing economic growth and rising
unemployment drained revenue. The European Commission estimates
the general government deficit will reach 6.6 percent of GDP
this year, the sixth-widest in the 27-country bloc.  ‘Slightly Worried’  “I think the Commission is beginning to be slightly
worried about Poland’s public finances,”  Lars Christensen ,
chief emerging-market analyst at Danske Bank A/S, said by phone.
“The government has been pretty complacent until now and it’s
starting to become a market issue.”  The government increased value-added taxes at the beginning
of this year and is considering a special tax on banks to help
keep public debt below a legal threshold of 55 percent.
Rostowski said today the government has no plans to raise taxes
and wants to trim the deficit by curbing expenditure.  Tusk’s plan to cut contributions to private pension funds
to 2.3 percent of employees’ salaries from the 7.3 percent,
keeping the remainder in the state insurance system, has been
criticized by economists.  The pension plans may push public debt even higher,  Jerzy Hausner , a former economy minister and currently a member of the
central bank’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Council, said this
week. The proposals are like “a sportsman who isn’t in great
from” raising the bar higher and then “demanding that doping
be legalized,” he said.  Credit Rating  Poland’s credit rating may suffer if the government makes
any move to change its legal limits on debt ratios,  Trevor Cullinan , a London-based analyst with  Standard & Poor’s , said
today. S&P has an A- rating on Poland’s long-term debt.  “We’re looking at Poland’s budget deficit very carefully,
and at the various different proposals the government is
making,” said Cullinan in a phone interview. “The government
has a very strong limit on the debt burden -- a concern for us
would be if that were relaxed in any way. That’s an important
issue for us and could be a factor for Poland’s rating.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  