-- 
EU May Cut Emissions by 25% as of 2020, Put Permits in Reserve

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-16T15:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/europe-may-cut-carbon-emissions-by-25-as-of-2020-put-permits-in-reserve.html
The European Union may cut  carbon
emissions  25 percent by 2020 and withhold permits in the next
phase of its cap-and-trade program to curb excess supply and
promote new technologies.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, stopped short in
a draft policy paper of proposing a binding 2020 target for
cutting carbon dioxide more than the current goal of 20 percent
below 1990 levels. Still, it said the 27-nation bloc may exceed
20 percent as long as it saves more energy, curbs emissions from
transport and invests in low-carbon infrastructure.  The document, due to be published in March and presented to
national leaders, is a political compromise, as member states
remain split on raising the target. Western countries including  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. have called for a more-ambitious
goal, and eastern nations tend to favor a more-cautious
approach. The EU, which is poised to meet its 2020 target, aims
to cut domestic emissions by at least 80 percent as of 2050.  “The analysis  shows that the cost-efficient pathway to the
necessary reduction in 2050 requires a 25 percent domestic
reduction in 2020,” the draft EU policy paper said. “It also
shows, however, that the EU can produce this reduction if it
delivers on its existing commitment to increase energy
efficiency by 20 percent by 2020.”  To help attain the climate-protection goals, the bloc’s
nations agreed to binding targets for the share of renewable
sources used in Europe. They also adopted a political commitment
to boost  energy efficiency  after falling behind on that promise.  ‘Technically Feasible’  EU emissions in 2009 were estimated to be 16 percent below
1990, and the draft document said the bloc is poised to achieve
30 percent domestic reductions in 2030 if existing cap-and-trade
legislation is fully implemented and countries meet their
targets for renewable energy.  The cap-and-trade system, known as the ETS, puts limits
on more than 11,000 utilities and manufacturing companies,
diminishing gradually by 2020 to 21 percent below 2005
discharges.  A 30 percent target in 2020 is “technically feasible” and
“economically affordable,” the EU regulator said last year.  “The 30 percent target is still on the table,” said Isaac
Valero-Ladron, EU climate spokesman. “The roadmap will not set
any new targets. It’s a modeling exercise that will show where  Europe  can be in 20 or 30 years if we want to achieve our 2050
climate goals.”  Held in Reserve  Meanwhile, the commission is counting on national
governments to go beyond existing requirements by improving
energy savings, cutting transport emissions and investing in
low-carbon technologies. It signaled in the draft paper that
some investments needed to shift to a green economy could be
financed by putting 500 million to 800 million EU emission
allowances into a reserve for the third phase of the cap-and-
trade program, which runs from 2013 to 2020.  That number corresponds to the estimated surplus of permits
from the current phase running from 2008 to 2012. The EU system
allows permit from the second phase to be used in the third,
meaning any surplus effectively spills over. So keeping some
third-phase permits in reserve “would restore the originally
foreseen overall allowances budget for the next decade,” the
commission said.  “This would restore the reward for low-carbon investments,
preparing the sector for the innovations needed in a 2030
perspective,” according to the draft document.  Such an approach would avoid the politically contentious
step of tightening caps on energy and manufacturing companies
in the European carbon program.  After 2020  The EU annual cap in the second phase is 2.04 billion tons
of CO2-equivalent. The limits in the third trading period, when
the ETS will expand to include new industries and most permits
will be auctioned, will decrease by 1.74 percent annually.  “I think allowances would be set aside from the volume to
be auctioned, and given that the directive does not require any
specific timeframe for selling of any allowance not allocated
for free, I understand the setting aside of some allowances to
be auctioned is possible as long as these allowances are finally
sold, even if it is after 2020,” Isabelle Curien, a Paris-based
carbon analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an e-mail.  The EU has already agreed to provide as many as 300 million
carbon allowances from the next phase of the ETS to finance less
polluting, innovative technologies. Permits set aside in the New
Entrants Reserve will be monetized by the  European Investment
Bank  and proceeds will be used to support  carbon capture  and
storage and renewable energy projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
or  m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  