-- 
Eurotunnel Taps Top Clients, M&A to Lift Cargo: Freight Markets

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 
2011-02-17T09:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/eurotunnel-bets-on-bigger-clients-m-a-to-lift-rail-cargo-freight-markets.html
The  Channel Tunnel  rail link between
Britain and  France  was built on the promise that it would render
sea trade on the route redundant. Fifteen years on and operator  Groupe Eurotunnel SA  is revising its cargo strategy for a second
time as volumes languish two-thirds below their 1998 peak.  Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon has dropped Paris-
based Eurotunnel’s short-term growth targets and put Briton  John
Smith  in charge of building traffic more gradually by seeking
contracts from a smaller number of premium customers.  Gounon needs to revive freight flows to wring value from an
asset that, while voted the top construction achievement of the
20th century in a poll of 400 engineers, is virtually train-free
at night. Since joining from GB Railfreight, the company
acquired last year to win clients directly instead of relying on
operators, Smith has been analyzing the tunnel’s failure even to
approach its original traffic forecasts.  “It has got to be down to price and quality,” Smith said
in an interview in  London . “Those are the only two things that
will drive people away. We have some fantastic facilities but
they’re underused. We need to understand what the market can
sustain.”  Freight traffic through the 30 mile (48 kilometer) tunnel
fell 4 percent to 1.13 million metric tons in 2010, prompting
Gounon to scrap a pledge to match a high of 3 million metric
tons by 2012, setting a new target of 2016. At the project’s
1987 inception volumes were forecast to reach 10 million tons.  Shuttle Boom  The slump means cargo contributes just 13 percent of total
revenue and contrasts with growth in Eurotunnel’s other
businesses that has helped lift the stock 13 percent this year,
taking the company’s value to 4 billion euros ($5.4 billion).  The shares slipped 2.1 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 7.40 euros
at 10:10 a.m. in Paris. They jumped 5 percent on Jan. 19 after
Eurotunnel posted record annual access fees from Eurostar Group
Ltd. expresses and the best-ever car and truck numbers on its
own short-distance drive-on shuttles. Gains have been encouraged
by plans at Eurostar and  Deutsche Bahn  AG to offer passenger
services from the U.K. to Amsterdam, Cologne and  Frankfurt .  Gounon’s new freight strategy centers on attracting clients
who need to move entire trainloads of cargo at least five times
a week, making more effective use of Eurotunnel’s fixed cost
base.  Adding GB Railfreight for 31 million pounds ($50 million)
and the cargo unit of Veolia Environnement SA bought in 2009 for
103 million euros means the company can run trains for thousands
of miles anywhere from southern Europe to  Scotland , rather than
merely through the tunnel.  Partnerships  The move has also ended Eurotunnel’s reliance on business
from French state operator SNCF and the U.K. freight unit of  Germany ’s Deutsche Bahn, which it now regards as competitors as
well as customers, according to Smith, who says volumes can best
be grown by establishing ventures with logistics companies that
would take on responsibility for filling trains.  The focus on premium clients and regular trainloads mirrors
Gounon’s approach to lifting truck traffic on becoming chief in
2005, said  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler Equities in
Paris with a “buy” rating on the stock.  “Originally they were going after all kinds of customers
in direct competition with cross-Channel ferries, but after
Gounon took over they decided they were a premium service,”
Flabbee said. “When you have clients with regular volumes you
can manage your operating costs with far greater visibility.”  Europorte, as the cargo unit is known, announced its first
major contract since the GB Railfreight takeover on Jan. 11,
when Danish container shipper DFDS A/S signed up for a mixed-
goods service between Daventry in central England and Novara,
northern  Italy .  Cost Overrun  Gounon has already rebooted Eurotunnel’s freight strategy
once, having slashed cargo prices by almost 50 percent in 2007
in a bid to wrest business from shipping lines.  For more than a decade after the tunnel opened the company
was held back by higher-than-estimated construction costs. Its
management was ousted by a shareholder rebellion in 2004 before
three years of negotiations with creditors resulted in a debt
reorganization that signaled a change in financial fortunes.  Even then, a fire on a truck shuttle, French industrial
action and the credit crunch and recession all stymied growth,
with limits on the common use of rolling stock and SNCF’s
decisions to scrap productivity improvement plans amid union
hostility and terminate a single-wagon business that accounted
for 40 percent of tunnel freight also acting as a brake.  Keep on Trucking  Eurotunnel will benefit from government efforts to cut  carbon emissions  by promoting “intermodal” networks, where
containers are transferred seamlessly to trucks only for the
final leg of a journey, according to Gounon.  Still, the company will find it tough to displace road
haulage on the 80 percent of journeys in which goods travel less
than 200 kilometers, Francois Bertreau, CEO of French logistics
specialist  Norbert Dentressangle SA , said in an interview.  Dentressangle moves the equivalent of 250 trucks a day by
rail but sends about 700 vehicles across the Channel, mostly by
ferry, and has no plans to charter freight trains, Bertreau said
in a Jan. 26 telephone interview, adding that “supermarkets
aren’t very often in railway stations.”  Ur-Cheng Leong, an analyst at Credit Suisse in London,
estimates annual freight growth through the tunnel at 2 percent
to 5 percent over the next few years.  Eurotunnel’s Smith says he’s certain an infrastructure link
rated more impressive that the Golden Gate Bridge, Empire State
Building and Hoover Dam in a survey by CONEXPO-CON/AGG,  North
America ’s biggest construction fair, can win a greater share of
the lucrative market for next-day goods if service improves.  “Sometimes a degree of naivety helps,” he said. “When we
started GB Railfreight I’m not sure we understood the challenge,
but I think we have risen to it. The same probably applies
now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  