-- 
Europe Putting Off Inevitable Restructuring, NYU's Altman Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-02-16T18:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/europe-putting-off-inevitable-debt-haircut-nyu-s-altman-says-tom-keene.html
Holders of bonds from indebted
European nations such as  Greece  will need to take losses of
about 50 percent as their finances are restructured, according
to Edward Altman, a finance professor at  New York University .  “Things are very shaky in  Europe  to say the least,”
Altman, a professor at NYU’s Stern School of Business said in an
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “They
are putting off the inevitable.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Feb.
7 urged the Greek and Irish governments to press ahead with
their budget-austerity programs and said so-called debt haircuts
aren’t part of those plans. The ECB, which has propped up
markets by buying 76.5 billion ($103.6 billion) euros of
struggling countries’ bonds, is looking to hand over that job to
governments through the European Financial Stability Facility, a
bailout fund, so that it can focus on its main mission of
combating inflation.  Altman recommended looking at the private sector in European
countries with debt challenges as a better way of gauging
prospects rather than evaluating sovereign debt and budgets.  “If we had done that back in 2009 when this began to
erupt, you would have been alerted as to the real problems of
Greece,  Portugal ,  Spain  and to some extent Ireland,” he said.  Z-Score  Altman uses a variation of his Z-Score model that he called
the Z-Metric as a measure of probability of default. The Z-
Score, created in 1968, measures the likelihood of insolvency by
evaluating earnings, assets and capital.  “Germany has been the rock of Europe for quite some
time,” Altman said. “There’s a lot of corporate instability or
risk at the high-end there that is under the covers. Netherlands
would be a better bet in terms of its overall health than even
Germany, although  Germany  is certainly near the top.”  “Italy is the key country in Europe as to whether or not
the euro will survive,” Altman said. Italy has “been in the
doldrums” for many years. “It has the most potential among the
shaky ones to improve, but it needs good leadership to harness
that energy. If they lose it, then the euro is finished, or
maybe even before that if Spain goes.”  Altman said Spain has “chronic unemployment problems that
are perhaps insurmountable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  