-- 
Ex-Sequenom Employee Pleads Guilty to Trading Charges

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-02-16T02:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ex-sequenom-employee-pleads-guilty-to-trading-charges-update2-.html
A former  Sequenom Inc . patent agent
and his brother pleaded guilty today to conspiring to trade  stock options  in the biotechnology company’s shares using inside
information, prosecutors said.  The patent agent, Aaron Scalia, had regular contact with
scientists with access to Sequenom’s confidential data and
shared non-public information with his brother Stephen Scalia
from 2008 through 2009,  San Diego  U.S. Attorney Laura E. Duffy
said in an e-mailed statement. Stephen Scalia passed the
information to other people who bought Sequenom shares and made
a profit of more than $600,000, according to the statement.  Last year, the two men who received the tips, Brent A.
Cohen and David V. Myers, of  Cleveland , pleaded guilty to the
same charges, according to court filings. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission separately filed a lawsuit against Cohen
and Myers, according to the filings.  Aaron Scalia admitted passing his first stock tips in 2008
as Sequenom, a San Diego-based company that designs genetic
analysis technology and tests, was seeking to acquire Exact
Sciences Corp., according to the statement.  Aaron Scalia’s lawyer, Michael Lipman, said in an interview
that the SEC has refiled its case against Cohen and Myers to
include the Scalias. Lipman said he expects the SEC’s suit will
be settled before his client’s sentencing in the criminal case
scheduled for May.  “My client, and I think I speak for his brother, too,
wanted to get some closure and move on with their lives,”
Lipman said.  Stephen Scalia’s lawyer, Frank Vecchione, didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment today.  The case is U.S. v. Scalia, 11-CR-522, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 