-- 
House Kills F-35 Engine Funds as Republicans Cut Spending

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-16T18:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/f-35-spare-engine-funds-cut-by-house-as-republicans-target-u-s-spending.html
The U.S. House voted to kill a
backup engine program for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter as part
of Republicans’ proposal to cut $61 billion in federal spending
this year.  The chamber voted 233-198 to remove $450 million for the
multibillion-dollar program. Georgia Republican Lynn Westmoreland, pointing to the Obama administration’s opposition
to the program, called it a waste of money.  “The program is an extravagance that we can’t afford, pure
and simple,” said Westmoreland. “At a time when our country is
drowning in more than $14 trillion in debt, every penny we can
save the American people counts.”  The engine was backed by some Republicans including House
Speaker  John Boehner , who argued it would save money over time
and whose Ohio district is near a plant that would be threatened
with job losses if the program were cut. Other states that would
be affected include  South Carolina  and  Massachusetts . It is
being developed by  General Electric Co . and Rolls Royce Group
Plc.  The House is considering more than 500 amendments from
lawmakers taking advantage of Boehner’s promise to allow a free
debate on the budget-cutting proposal introduced last week.  The plan, which would fund the government from March 4
through Sept. 30, would kill more than 100 government programs
and slash hundreds more. The Environmental Protection Agency
would be cut by nearly one-third, the  Peace Corps  would face a
20 percent reduction and Pell college tuition grants would drop
by 15 percent.  Deeper Cuts  Many lawmakers are seeking even deeper cuts, with Ohio
Republican Jim Jordan proposing to cut an additional $20 billion
and Texas Republican  Ron Paul  proposing to slash aid to  Egypt ,  Israel , Pakistan and Jordan by $6 billion, among others.  President  Barack Obama ’s budget office  threatened  a veto
should the Republican plan arrive at his desk, saying in a
statement yesterday the proposal would “sharply undermine core
government functions and investments key to economic growth and
job creation” and would harm national defense.  A House-passed budget is unlikely to survive in the Senate,
where majority Democrats today endorsed Obama’s call for a five-
year freeze of non-security discretionary spending to help
reduce the deficit. Such a freeze would save $400 billion over
10 years.  Complete Work  Republicans aim to complete work on their plan by the end
of this week, though they voted yesterday on just a handful of
amendments after Democrats used stalling tactics to delay
action.  A Democratic amendment to cut funding for the V-22 Osprey,
a military aircraft the Pentagon has said is dogged by
unreliable parts, was defeated yesterday on a 105-326 vote.
Seventeen Republicans joined 88 Democrats in supporting the
proposal.  “The Republicans say their proposal makes ‘tough choices,’
but this turkey should be a no-brainer,” said Representative
Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat, in urging support for the
amendment.  “Cutting health care for women and children and slashing
Head Start and community health centers should be the last cuts
we make, not the first, especially when we are buying
multimillion-dollar airplanes that don’t fly like they’re
supposed to,” he said.  Lawmakers are simultaneously considering Obama’s budget
request for fiscal 2012, which Republicans attacked because it
didn’t propose overhauling the Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid entitlement programs.  ‘Why Did You Duck?’  “Why did you duck? Why are you not taking this opportunity
to lead?” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, asked White House budget director  Jacob Lew  at a hearing yesterday. Ryan said his party’s budget for
2012 will include “real entitlement reforms.”  Lew said “the president’s budget, if you look at the
bottom line, addresses the fiscal challenges that we face in the
short and medium term, and he has called it a down payment,
acknowledging that we need to work together in the long term.”  A number of Republicans are seeking further cuts in the
stopgap 2011 measure on the House floor because they argue it
still falls short of campaign promises by party leaders to cut
spending by $100 billion.  Boehner said allowing his colleagues to offer so many
amendments, which would expose intraparty disputes over
spending, put his colleagues in “uncharted waters.” He added,
“I’m ready to expect whatever.”  Asked about concerns the
legislation would force the government to furlough employees,
Boehner said “so be it” because “we’re broke.”  The bill is H.R. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  