-- 
Facebook's Zuckerberg Among Executives Set to Meet With Obama

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-02-16T15:45:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/facebook-s-zuckerberg-among-executives-set-to-meet-with-obama.html
Facebook Inc. founder  Mark Zuckerberg  is among the technology industry executives President
Barack Obama will meet with tomorrow in the San Francisco area
for a discussion about the economy and  job creation , according
to a person familiar with the meeting.  Obama will talk with the executives as he promotes an
agenda outlined in the $3.7 trillion budget he released this
week to keep up government funding of education and research to
assure U.S. economic competitiveness in the future.  The next day he plans to visit  Intel Corp .’s Hillsboro,
Oregon, campus and tour the company’s semiconductor
manufacturing facility with Intel Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini .  Tomorrow’s meeting with the executives will be private,
according to the White House, which hasn’t released the names of
those who will attend. The person familiar with the meeting
spoke on condition of anonymity because the details haven’t been
made public. Andrew Noyes, Facebook spokesman, would not confirm
whether Zuckerberg is meeting with the president.  The president has cited Facebook as an example of
innovation that will drive future growth. “We’re the nation
that put cars in driveways and computers in offices; the nation
of Edison and the Wright brothers; of Google and Facebook,” he
said in his Jan. 25  State of the Union  address. “In America,
innovation doesn’t just change our lives. It is how we make our
living.”  Facebook’s Growth  Facebook, the world’s most-used social networking service,
is hiring as it attracts more users and advertising revenue. It
has grown to more than 2,000 employees from about 1,000 in
August 2009, according to its website.  The company has more than 500 million users -- compared
with about 250 million in July 2009. Facebook, which isn’t
publicly traded and doesn’t disclose financial information, may
have more than doubled its revenue to about $2 billion last
year, three people familiar with the matter said in December.  Facebook, along with Google Inc. and Twitter Inc., also
increasingly figures in  U.S. foreign policy . Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  vowed yesterday that the U.S. will step up
support for global Internet freedom, as citizens using social
networking sites and other areas of the Internet to organize
demonstrations spreading across the Mideast and North Africa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  