-- 
St. Joe ‘Adamantly Opposes’ Berkowitz Proposal to Oust Board

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-02-16T22:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fairholme-executives-ask-st-joe-shareholders-to-replace-board.html
  St. Joe  Co., northern  Florida ’s
largest private landowner, said it “adamantly opposes” a plan
by executives of shareholder Fairholme Capital Management LLC to
elect a new board.  Fairholme founder  Bruce Berkowitz  and PresidentCharles Fernandez said today that they hired executive search firm
Spencer Stuart and began soliciting investor approval to replace
the developer’s board, which currently has seven members.
Fairholme, based in Miami, owns about 29 percent of the company.  “St. Joe adamantly opposes Fairholme’s efforts to obtain
control of the company without paying a control premium to all
other shareholders,” the developer said in a statement today.
If the executives “want to take control of St. Joe, they should
make an offer to all shareholders to buy it,” the company said.  St. Joe gained 88 cents to $27.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares have fallen 6 percent in the past year, compared
with a 33 percent gain for the Bloomberg Americas Real Estate
Index. The Watersound, Florida-based company has lost money for
10 consecutive quarters during the state’s real estate slump.  Berkowitz has proposed a slate of board nominees including
himself, Fernandez,  Carnival Corp . Chief Operating Officer
Howard Frank, and former Florida Governor  Charlie Crist .
Berkowitz and Fernandez resigned from the board Feb. 14, six
weeks after they joined as outside directors, citing
disagreements over its nominating and governance process.  “St. Joe management plans must reflect business reality,”
Berkowitz wrote in a letter to shareholders today. “St. Joe
management must stop selling cheap to fund wasteful spending.”  Executive Compensation  Chief Executive Officer William Britton Greene had total
compensation of $2.8 million in 2009, when St. Joe reported a
loss of $130 million on revenue of $138.3 million, according to
the company and data compiled by Bloomberg.  St. Joe has been criticized by hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , who has said the company needs to take “substantial”
asset-impairment charges. Based on the value of St. Joe’s
timberland, the stock has a “single-digit” valuation,
Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital Inc. said in a statement today.  “The land values don’t justify the stock price,”
Greenlight said in the statement. “We do not believe cutting
some executive compensation expenses or installing a new
management team would bridge that gap.”  Berkowitz and Fernandez resigned less than a week after St.
Joe said it hired  Morgan Stanley  to explore options to boost
shareholder value, including a merger or sale.  Corporate Governance  The Fairholme executives said they would only be part of a
board “where the majority of the directors are committed to  shareholder value , pay for performance and effective corporate
governance,” according to an e-mail to the board. “We have
concluded that the current board is not in a position to propose
such a slate of directors.”  The St. Joe board approved a shareholder rights plan that
will “reduce the likelihood that any person or group would gain
control of the company by open market accumulation or other
coercive takeover tactics,” the company said in a  statement 
late yesterday.  St. Joe has “smart, sophisticated shareholders,” who
already hold the majority of its shares and can determine the
outcome of a proxy fight, Berkowitz said today in an interview
with Bloomberg Television.  “This should all be done in 45 days,” he said.  T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. is St. Joe’s biggest
shareholder after Fairholme, with 11.25 percent, followed by
Janus Capital Management LLC at 10.95 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  T. Rowe Price declined to comment, said Robert Benjamin, a
spokesman for the Baltimore-based company. James Aber, a
spokesman for Denver-based Janus, also declined to comment.  Asset Impairment  Berkowitz and Fernandez plan to create a website,
takebackjoe.com, to receive shareholder suggestions for new
directors, which  Spencer Stuart  will review. Berkowitz said he
and Fernandez, Fairholme’s president, would serve on the board
without pay.  “We are not looking to spend a dime of the company’s
money,” Berkowitz, who was named the stock-fund manager of the
decade last year by Morningstar Inc., wrote in the letter.
“This is a matter of principle for us, and our return will be
reflected in a more valuable St. Joe.”  New Board  Berkowitz said he and Fernandez expect to fill the
remaining spots on a seven- or nine-member board with names
proposed by shareholders and Spencer Stuart. Under Florida law,
a majority can act by written consent to remove the existing
board and elect a new one without a shareholder meeting,
according to the letter.  The resignations of Berkowitz and Fernandez “are not in
the best interest of all St. Joe shareholders,” the company
said in a Feb. 14 statement. Berkowitz and Fernandez
“substantially agreed” with the business plan and approved the
exploration of alternatives, according to the statement.  “The St. Joe board has always been committed to strong  corporate governance , protecting shareholders’ interests and
creating superior results for the long term -- and that remains
unchanged,” Greene wrote to employees in a letter contained in
a Securities and Exchange Commission filing yesterday.  “I still believe St. Joe has tremendous value to unlock,
but you have to have the right people to unlock it,” Berkowitz
said earlier this week.  St. Joe’s annual meeting is scheduled for May 17 in Santa
Rosa Beach, Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  