-- 
Farmland Boom Provides Boost to Slumping U.S. Midwest Real Estate Market

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-02-16T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/farmland-boom-provides-bright-spot-for-u-s-midwest-real-estate.html
The bidders drove over snow- and
ice-covered highways for a chance to own one of the most
lucrative properties in the U.S. Midwest: 120 acres of farmland
in Greene County,  Iowa .  The winner of last month’s auction at St. Joseph’s Parish
Center in Jefferson offered $8,200 an acre -- almost $1 million
-- for the plot in Scranton Township. That’s 44 percent higher
than the $5,701 per-acre  estimate  for average values in the
county as of Nov. 1, according to Iowa State University data.  “It’s reflective of what we’re seeing,” Mike Duffy, an
Iowa State economist in Ames, said of the auction outcome.
“There’s just not a lot of ground offered for sale.”  Farmers and investors across the Midwest are bidding up
cropland at auctions like the one in Jefferson as commodity
prices surge. Farmland values in the central U.S. increased the
most in at least two years in the fourth quarter, the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City  said yesterday. The gains are a
bright spot in a region where manufacturing job losses have
driven down prices of homes and commercial property.  Prices may continue to climb even after the rise prompted
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair  to warn in
 October  that a bubble may be forming. Values in Iowa, the
largest corn- and soybean-growing state, may jump another 10
percent this year if commodities stay close to current levels,
Duffy said in a telephone interview. They climbed 16 percent in
2010, according to an Iowa State  survey .  “In the next year to two years, I don’t see a lot right
now to indicate that it’s going to take a nosedive,” said
Duffy, who conducts the annual Iowa land survey. “What people
have to remember is farmland is primarily bought by farmers and
they buy it for the long term.”  Demand for Corn  Corn futures rose 52 percent last year on the Chicago Board
of Trade, the most since 2006. Global demand grew as inventories
fell and warm, dry weather threatened output in Brazil and  Argentina , the biggest corn exporters after the U.S. Soybeans
rallied 34 percent in 2010, the most in three years, after
record Chinese demand for the oilseed. Both commodities are
trading close to their highest levels since 2008.  Corn may surge to a record in the first half of 2011,
Agrocorp International Pte. said yesterday. The firm joined
Rabobank International and Blackstone Group LP’s  Byron Wien  in
forecasting new highs for the grain as demand increases and
global stockpiles decline.  John Harder, 64, who owns 4,000 acres and lives in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, is optimistic that land values will climb if
commodities extend gains and interest rates stay low.  Bullish Farmers  “I’m bullish because I’m a farmer,” he said in a
telephone interview. “I’d buy another farm or two tomorrow if I
could buy it right.”  Net farm income may  increase  20 percent to $94.7 billion in
2011 from $79 billion in 2010, according to a  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast Feb. 14. The 2011 estimate is the second-
highest in 35 years when adjusted for inflation, the agency
said.  For investors in Corn Belt farmland, the  return  on land,
which includes appreciation and income from renting to farmers,
was 14 percent in 2010, according to the National Council of
Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries.  The agricultural economy is doing so well that farmers
making good profits have no incentive to sell their land, said
Jim McCandless, the leader of UBS AgriVest LLC, based in
Hartford,  Connecticut , which has 161,516 acres of agricultural
property under management valued at $551.6 million.  Limited Supply  “Prices continue to increase due in part to the limited
supply,” said Randall Pope, chief executive officer of
Champaign, Illinois-based Westchester Group Inc., which manages
farm tracts. “There are a number of people who would like to
buy these days but there isn’t a lot of product on the market.”  Prices jumped 14.8 percent for irrigated cropland in parts
of seven states in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, and
gained 12.9 percent for non-irrigated land, the Federal Reserve
Bank of  Kansas City  said yesterday in a report on its website.  The bank’s region includes all or parts of  Kansas ,  Colorado ,  Nebraska ,  Oklahoma ,  Wyoming , northern  New Mexico  and
western  Missouri . A majority of rural bankers surveyed said land
values will climb in the next few months.  Midwest Housing  It’s a different story in large cities in the upper
Midwest, where job losses have cut demand for homes and pushed
prices down. While the median price for Midwest existing homes
rose 3.3 percent in December 2010 from a year earlier, in the
region that includes Chicago, Detroit and  Minneapolis , it’s 22
percent below the peak in 2005, according to data from the
National Association of  Realtors .  The Midwest had 10.1 months of supply of single-family
homes on the market in December, the second-highest among the
four U.S. regions tracked by the Chicago-based Realtors group.
Supply in the eight months to nine months range is consistent
with stable  home prices , the group has said.  Commercial real estate in the Midwest also is lagging
behind a recovery. Prices in the region advanced 1.9 percent in
the fourth quarter, trailing gains in the East, South and West,
according to an index compiled by NCREIF.  The farmland rally’s endurance depends on prices for
commodities and how much farmers can get from selling what they
grow, said Jeff Conrad, president of Hancock Agricultural
Investment Group in  Boston . His company, part of  Manulife
Financial Corp ., manages $1.5 billion of farm real estate,
according to its  website .  Possible Trouble  Jim Riesberg, 55, a farmer from Carroll County, Iowa, is
cautious about what may lie ahead.  “Land’s strong,” he said after the Jefferson auction.
“If we ever see grains take a dive, we’re in trouble.” He
declined to say whether he placed a bid.  The FDIC’s Bair, speaking in October to the Risk Management
Association in Baltimore, said “positive fundamentals” that
are fueling the farmland boom could change. She warned that a
price collapse similar to one in the 1980s could have a “severe
adverse impact” on the nation’s almost 1,600 farm banks.  “While the credit structure underlying U.S. farmland does
not appear to involve excessive leverage or inappropriate loan
products, this is a situation that will continue to require
close monitoring,” she said in the Oct. 18 speech.  1970s Boom  Demand for farmland surged in the 1970s and early 1980s as
U.S. grain exports increased. Rising grain prices prompted
farmers to borrow money to buy more land and when  interest rates 
rose, farmers couldn’t cover the debt. The average price for
Iowa farmland fell 63 percent from the peak in 1981 to the
trough in 1986, according to Iowa State  data .  Today’s farmers aren’t carrying as much debt as those in
the 1980s, Duffy of Iowa State said.  Farm real estate interest rates in the third quarter --
5.81 percent in Iowa and parts of four other states -- were the
lowest since the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago began keeping
data in 1974. Lenders typically require a 35 percent down
payment, said Troy Louwagie, a land consultant with Hertz Real
Estate Services Inc. in Mount Vernon, Iowa.  “A large percentage of this land is being bought with
cash,” Louwagie said, as profits get invested in more acreage.  The winner of the Jefferson auction, John Paul Fiedler, had
an extra incentive to make his purchase. His great-grandfather
had bought the land almost a century ago.  “It’s always been in the family,” said Fiedler, 29. He
plans to rotate crops of corn and soybeans on the land, which he
purchased with his sister from the estate of a relative.  Along with fluctuating land values, farmers have to adapt
to changing energy costs and commodity prices, Fiedler said.  “There’s always some sort of wondering what’s going to
happen,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  