-- 
Shire’s Purchase of Advanced BioHealing for $750 Million Hits ‘Sweet Spot’

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-05-18T16:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-17/shire-s-purchase-of-advanced-biohealing-for-750-million-hits-sweet-spot-.html
Shire Plc (SHP) , the Irish maker of
treatments for attention-deficit disorder, said it agreed to buy
closely held Advanced BioHealing Inc. for $750 million in cash,
a day before the biotechnology company was to go public.  Advanced BioHealing’s lead product is Dermagraft, a bio-
engineered skin substitute used to treat diabetic foot ulcers,
Dublin-based Shire said yesterday in a statement. Advanced
BioHealing planned an initial public offering today that would
have valued the company at as much as $637.1 million, according
to regulatory filings. It was offering 13.4 million shares
priced from $14 to $16.  Shire had talked with Westport, Connecticut-based Advanced
BioHealing about a potential acquisition since 2008, said Mike Cola, president of Shire’s specialty-pharmaceuticals business.
The biotechnology company now will become the focal point of
Shire’s new regenerative-medicine unit, Cola said. It will
operate as a semi-autonomous division and its management team
will stay in place.  “Advanced BioHealing will drive our ambition in
regenerative medicine,” Cola said in a telephone interview.
“This deal falls into a very sweet spot for Shire.”  Shire’s purchase values Advanced BioHealing at 5.1 times
last year’s sales of $146.7 million. Acquirers paid a median
three times sales for medical-products companies in deals of
$500 million or more over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  New Field  “We see the deal as strategically sound, helping Shire
potentially achieve its aspirational mid-term growth goals,”
Peter Welford, an analyst with Jefferies International in
 London , wrote today in a note to clients. “However, given the
multiple paid and uncertain peak potential, we anticipate some
stock weakness.”  Shire shares gained 49 pence, or 2.6 percent, to close at
1,949 pence in London trading, giving the company a market value
of 10.9 billion pounds ($17.7 billion).  Shire has been the subject of takeover speculation with
Exane BNP Paribas, Kepler Capital Markets and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  each listing the company as among drugmakers likely to be
acquired. The shares have climbed 25 percent this year, touching
a record price of 1,987 pence May 13, buoyed by the takeover
speculation and rising sales from the Replagal and Vpriv
therapies for genetic disorders. Shire’s treatments for
attention-deficit and hyperactivity disorder generated $1.2
billion in 2010.  ‘More Attractive’  “This might take any focus off Shire as a takeover target
in the short term, but for those pharma companies looking to see
what the next big thing in medicine is, this deal could make
Shire even more attractive,” Navid Malik, an analyst at Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s going to offer any acquirer not just the ADHD or
rare-disease franchises, but also offer them a regenerative
medicine franchise, which is aimed at a high unmet medical
need,” Malik said.  Cola said he has known Advanced BioHealing’s chief
executive officer, Kevin Rakin, for years. Shire had been
evaluating the management team’s performance and gauging the
reception for Dermagraft among patients and physicians before
moving forward, Cola said. He estimates the product has
penetrated only about 5 percent of the market.  Dermagraft was previously marketed by  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) 
until 2005 when the U.K. company stopped production of the
therapy. Smith & Nephew sold rights to the product to Advanced
BioHealing the following year.  Foot Ulcers  Currently, standard practice for  diabetic foot ulcers 
involves clearing out dead and infected tissue from the wound
and keeping it clean in an effort to prevent the infection’s
spread, Cola said. Shire estimates that 65 percent or more of
sufferers receive a basic saline and gauze treatment.  “We’re talking about changing the practice of medicine”
with Dermagraft, Cola said.  Shire said it would finance the acquisition with existing
cash and expects the deal will have no effect on its 2011
forecast.  Barclays Capital  is Shire’s financial adviser. Bank of
America Corp. acted as Advanced BioHealing’s financial adviser.  Matt Cabrey, a Shire spokesman, declined to estimate when
the acquisition may close. He said Shire doesn’t anticipate any
antitrust or other regulatory issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  