-- 
Fed Officials Saw Stronger U.S. Recovery, Disappointed on Jobs

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-02-16T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fed-officials-saw-stronger-u-s-recovery-disappointed-on-jobs.html
Federal Reserve policy makers took a
more optimistic view of the  U.S. economy  last month while
maintaining their dissatisfaction with job growth as they
pressed forward with an expansion of record monetary stimulus.  Officials “continued to express disappointment in both the
pace and the unevenness of the improvements in labor markets,”
while also judging the recovery to be on a “firmer footing,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in minutes of its Jan.
25-26 meeting, released today in Washington. Policy makers
raised projections for economic growth this year and made little
change to forecasts after 2011 or for unemployment and
inflation.  The Fed was divided over whether further evidence of a
strengthening recovery would warrant slowing or reducing the
$600 billion of Treasury purchases, and the report doesn’t
discuss what the Fed may do after completing the bond buying.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is trying to spur growth and reduce 9
percent unemployment by bringing about a “sustained period of
stronger  job creation ,” he said this month.  “A few members noted that additional data pointing to a
sufficiently strong recovery could make it appropriate to
consider reducing the pace or overall size of the purchase
program,” the Fed minutes said. “However, others pointed out
that it was unlikely that the outlook would change by enough to
substantiate any adjustments to the program before its
completion.”  While the decision was unanimous, a “few” FOMC voters
“remained unsure of the likely effects of the asset purchase
program on the economy, but felt that making changes to the
program at this time was not appropriate.”  Growth Forecasts  Central bankers projected U.S. inflation-adjusted gross
domestic product will rise 3.4 percent to 3.9 percent, compared
with November forecasts of 3 percent to 3.6 percent, as
household spending picked up and recent economic data showed a
“stronger tenor.”  The FOMC next meets March 15 in  Washington . At the prior
session in December, some Fed officials indicated that “they
had a fairly high threshold for making changes to the program”
of so-called quantitative easing, according to minutes.  The jobless rate will average 8.8 percent to 9 percent in
the fourth quarter, Fed officials projected, down from November
forecasts of 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent. For the fourth quarter
of 2012, the jobless rate will average 7.6 percent to 8.1
percent, versus the 7.7 percent to 8.2 percent in the previous
estimates by policy makers.  Unemployment, Inflation  Many Fed officials said the economy was likely within five
or six years to return to longer-run rates of expansion,
unemployment and inflation. “A number of participants indicated
that they expected that the convergence of the  unemployment rate 
to its longer-run level would require additional time” beyond
six years, the minutes said.  The forecasts are based on assumptions from before the
Labor Department reported Feb. 4 that the unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to 9 percent in January from 9.4 percent in
December. Employers added 36,000 workers last month, the
smallest gain since September, as winter weather depressed
payrolls.  Fed officials didn’t expect recent increases in commodity
prices to filter into broader inflation permanently, the minutes
show. The Fed’s preferred price index, which excludes food and
energy costs, is projected by policy makers to rise 1 percent to
1.3 percent in 2011 and 1.0 percent to 1.5 percent in 2012. That
compares with November’s estimates for core inflation of 0.9
percent to 1.6 percent this year and 1 percent to 1.6 percent in
2012.  Core PCE  Central bankers prefer overall inflation in the longer run
of 1.6 percent to 2 percent. The core personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 0.7 percent in December from a
year earlier, the smallest advance since records began in 1959.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker said yesterday any
effort by the central bank to push unemployment down at a faster
rate in the short run could spark inflation.  “It is this time in the recovery where the potential for
inflation accelerating is highest,” Lacker, among officials who
have said the Fed shouldn’t ease more than planned, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  By comparison, Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , appointed
last year by President  Barack Obama , said in a Feb. 11 speech
that the economic rebound is “agonizingly slow” and that “we
need a strong housing market in order to ensure a complete,
stable and sustainable recovery.”  Manufacturing  Manufacturing output increased 0.3 percent in January after
a revised 0.9 percent jump in December that was more than twice
as large as previously reported, figures from the Fed showed
today. Total production, including mining and utilities,
unexpectedly dropped. Single-family home starts decreased 1
percent last month to a 413,000 annual pace, the fewest since
May 2009, according to the Commerce Department.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 6 percent this
year as rising business investment and global demand boost
earnings prospects at companies including Dell Inc. Dell, the
world’s third-largest personal-computer maker, yesterday
reported quarterly profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Yesterday, a separate Commerce Department report said sales
at retailers rose 0.3 percent in January, less than anticipated
and the smallest gain since a drop in June.  The Fed forecasts reflect the central tendency of 18 policy
makers, which excludes the three highest and three lowest
projections in each category. They compare with the 3.5 percent
average projection of private economists for 2011 growth in the
Blue Chip Economic Indicators survey and 3.2 percent for the
fourth quarter of 2012. The survey was conducted Feb. 2-3.  Economists in the Blue Chip survey see a 9 percent
unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 8.3 percent
on average a year later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  