-- 
FHA Seeks Wider Authority to Push Bad Mortgages Back to Lenders

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T16:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fha-seeks-wider-authority-to-push-bad-mortgages-back-to-lenders.html
Congress should give the Federal
Housing Administration more power to adjust fees and recoup
losses on bad loans, Commissioner David Stevens said.  In  testimony  prepared for a hearing of the House Financial
Services Committee today, Stevens said the FHA currently has
authority to go after some large-volume lenders to recoup losses
on loans that were fraudulently or improperly originated. That
power should be extended to all mortgages the agency insures,
Stevens said.  The FHA, which now insures more than a third of new
mortgages, won congressional approval last year to raise
premiums as its mortgage insurance reserves fell to their lowest
level on record. The agency said Feb. 14 that it would increase
annual premiums by 25 basis points beginning April 18.  Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan “and
I remain committed to comprehensive FHA reform legislation that
enhances FHA’s lender enforcement capabilities and risk
management efforts,” Stevens said. “And we hope Congress will
pass comprehensive FHA legislation as quickly as possible.”  Loans the agency insured before 2009 account for 70 percent
of its projected losses on single-family mortgages. The quality
of loans the FHA is now insuring has improved, Stevens said.
FHA’s seasonally adjusted 90-day delinquency rate was 5.8
percent in December, compared with 7.45 percent a year earlier,
he said.  To reduce its footprint in the mortgage market, FHA may
consider increasing the size of the down payments it requires on
all the loans it insures, Stevens said. The agency in October
raised the size of down payments it requires for borrowers with
weak credit.  “In considering how to apply such options, FHA will
continue to balance the need to prudently manage the risk to FHA
and the borrower with its efforts to ensure access to affordable
loans for lower and middle income Americans,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in  Washington  at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 