-- 
Fiat, Toyota Lead Europe Sales Drop as Incentives End

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-16T08:58:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fiat-toyota-lead-european-car-sales-drop-after-goverment-incentives-end.html
  Fiat SpA ,  Toyota Motor Corp . and  Ford Motor Co . led a 10th straight monthly decline in European
car sales as consumers cut spending following the end of
government incentives.  Registrations in the region fell 1.1 percent from a year
earlier to 1.07 million vehicles in January, the Brussels-based
 European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association  said today in a
statement. Fiat’s European sales dropped 20 percent, Toyota’s
declined 11 percent and Ford’s dropped 9.4 percent.  Volume carmakers in  Europe  are under pressure to cut prices
as falling sales lead to an oversupply. Buyers are holding back
following the expiration of government programs introduced
during the recession to encourage purchases of fuel-efficient
cars or trade-ins of older models for scrap.  “Vehicle markets are still coming under pressure for a
variety of reasons: payback from scrapping schemes, doubts about
economies, job-security worries,”  Ian Fletcher , an IHS
Automotive analyst in  London , said before the figures were
released. Ireland and Romania are the only European countries
still offering incentives, he said.  Sales declined in three of the region’s five biggest
markets, dropping 24 percent in Spain, 21 percent in Italy and
12 percent in the U.K. Demand gained 17 percent in Germany and
8.2 percent in France.  ‘Too Aggressive’  Fiat is seeking to improve productivity and capacity
utilization to restore profitability in its home market of
Italy. The Turin-based carmaker’s plans to present seven new
products this year may be “too aggressive” as demand across
Europe may remain “structurally weak,” Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said yesterday. He predicted full-year Italian
car sales will total 1.8 million units, the lowest since 1996.  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy in
2009, reported a 79 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit as
its European division had an unexpected loss and costs rose for
introducing models such as the Focus compact car and Explorer
sport-utility vehicle.  Toyota has continued to issue recalls for various defects
as the world’s biggest carmaker aims to regain consumer trust
following record recalls in 2010 for problems linked to
unintended acceleration. The company said last month it would
repair 1.7 million vehicles globally.  Volkswagen Growth    Volkswagen AG , Europe’s biggest carmaker, has benefited
from rebounding sales in its home market of Germany as the
region’s largest economy grows. Wolfsburg-based VW recorded a 6
percent European sales gain last month to 237,212 vehicles. VW’s
market share increased to 22.1 percent from 20.6 percent.  All three German luxury carmakers also bucked the regional
market decline, in part because fewer of their customers took up
the earlier sales incentives that were focused on volume models.  Sales by  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest
luxury-car manufacturer, jumped 20 percent to 56,165 cars.
Munich-based BMW is introducing a revamped X3 sport-utility
vehicle and debuted a convertible version of its 6-Series coupe
earlier this year.    Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz and Smart brands recorded a 14
percent jump in sales to 46,769 registrations. Mercedes-Benz has
revamped the SLK hard-top roadster and is upgrading the C-Class,
its best-selling model, with a new interior. Registrations by
VW’s luxury Audi division rose 3.6 percent to 47,916 vehicles.
Audi is introducing a new version of the A6 sedan in March.  European sales by Paris-based PSA Peugeot Citroen, the
region’s second-largest carmaker, fell 3.6 percent in January to
145,472 vehicles, while registrations by French rival  Renault SA 
declined 4.8 percent to 110,132.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  