-- 
Fibria Quarterly Profit Jumps on Pulp Price Gains

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-02-16T11:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fibria-quarterly-profit-jumps-on-pulp-price-gains-update1-.html
  Fibria Celulose SA , the world’s
largest pulpmaker, said fourth-quarter profit jumped about four-
fold after China rebuilt stockpiles, driving price gains.  Net income climbed to 162 million reais ($97 million) from
35 million reais a year earlier, Sao Paulo-based Fibria said
today in a statement to  Brazil ’s securities regulator. The
company didn’t report per-share figures.  The company, formed by Votorantim Celulose & Papel SA’s
takeover of Aracruz Celulose SA, said sales rose 4.2 percent to
1.77 billion reais. Higher prices helped compensate for a drop
in volumes after the company sold a unit to Empresas CMPC SA for
$1.43 billion in December 2009.  “Despite lower volumes after the sale of the Guaiba unit,
pulp prices guaranteed a much better quarter compared with last
year,” Pedro Galdi, a analyst with SLW Corretora in Sao Paulo,
said in an interview before earnings were released. He has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock.    China ’s imports of the paper-making raw material jumped 24
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to
data compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG. Pulp sales volumes fell
12 percent to 1.29 million tons, Fibria said.  The company’s outlook for this year may improve as Fibria
plans to sell its Piracicaba paper plant and forest projects,
which have a combined value of 1 billion reais, Banco Santander
SA analyst Felipe Reis said before earnings were released.  “If effective, this initiative should further reduce
Fibria’s leverage and improve momentum for the stock,” he said
in a Jan. 21 note to clients. He rates the stock “hold.”  Fibria rose 1.3 percent, or 32 centavos, to close at 25.32
reais yesterday in  Sao Paulo .  Votorantim agreed to buy Aracruz in 2009 after the rival
lost $2.13 billion in wrong-way currency bets.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 