-- 
Financial Crisis Panel’s Report Questioned by House Republicans

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-16T16:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/financial-crisis-panel-s-report-questioned-by-house-republicans.html
U.S. House lawmakers battled over
the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission’s final report today,
with Republicans and Democrats both pointing to the panel’s
failings while using its findings to bolster their own views.  Republicans at a House Financial Services Committee hearing
questioned commissioners about a split that led to the official
report being endorsed only by the six Democratic appointees.
Representative Patrick McHenry of  North Carolina  said the result
“brings into question the objectivity of the majority report.”  Democrats including Representative  Barney Frank , the
party’s top member on the House panel, pointed to the FCIC’s
findings as justification for portions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
the financial regulation law that he helped write.  Lawmakers called FCIC members including Chairman  Phil Angelides , a Democrat who formerly served as California’s
treasurer, to report on their 633 pages of  findings  released in
print and online last month. The 10-member panel, charged by
Congress with delving into the origins of the 2008 credit
crisis, released split findings.  The Democrats’ majority report blamed U.S. regulators and
Wall Street banks equally for failures leading to the worst
financial collapse since the Great Depression. The panel’s four
Republican members issued two dissents that faulted Democrats
for failing to uncover the actual causes of the crisis.  “Setting aside the conclusions and dissents, this report
contains a valuable and accurate historical account of the
events leading up to the crisis and the crisis itself,”
Angelides told lawmakers today.  Republican Scrutiny  Republican lawmakers said the panel’s inability to deliver
a unified report undermines the credibility of its conclusions.  “It’s unfortunate this commission couldn’t present a more
credible report,” said Representative Ed Royce of California.  The FCIC has been under Republican scrutiny since last
year, when Representative  Darrell Issa  of California -- now
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
-- raised questions about the panel’s spending of taxpayer money
and conflicts of interest among staff members.  McHenry, who also serves on Issa’s panel, questioned the
panel’s use of resources at today’s hearing, saying the report
read more like a news “clipping service” from reports about
the crisis than findings from an in-depth investigation.  Issa has pledged to look into the group’s spending and said
he also wants to investigate why its members were unable to come
up with a unanimous conclusion.  The FCIC held a series of hearings reviewing the actions of  Moody’s Corp . and other bond-rating firms, the failure of New
York-based investment firm Bear Stearns Cos. and the bailout of  American International Group Inc . Chief executive officers
including  Warren Buffett  of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Lloyd Blankfein  of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . testified for the panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  