-- 
Fraser, Partners Bid $800 Million for Singapore Residential, Shopping Site

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-02-16T00:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fraser-partners-bid-800-million-for-singapore-residential-shopping-site.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. unit Frasers
Centrepoint Ltd. and its partners bid S$1 billion ($796 million)
for a Singapore site, beating six others even as the government
introduced more measures to damp property speculation.  Frasers Centrepoint, Far East Organization and Sekisui
House plan to build 680 homes and a 365,000-square-foot shopping
mall on the north-eastern Singapore site, according to a
statement to the stock exchange late yesterday.  Far East  is the
city-state’s biggest privately held developer.  “The seven bids that this tender attracted indicate that
developers are still eager to acquire attractive sites,”
Nicholas Mak, executive director of SLP International Property
Consultants, said in an e-mailed statement.  Singapore’s private home sales declined 11 percent to 1,189
in January from the previous month as government measures took
effect. Last month’s sales were the lowest since October when
1,066 homes were sold, according to data on the Urban
Redevelopment Authority’s website.  The bid “demonstrates our confidence in the Singapore
property market,” Lim Ee Seng, chief executive officer of
Frasers Centrepoint Ltd., said in the statement.  The city may take further steps to damp the  property market 
if needed following last month’s curbs, Mah Bow Tan, minister
for national development, said in Parliament on Feb. 14. The
government on Jan. 13 raised down payment requirements for
second mortgages and raised sales taxes, which were pre-emptive
and imposed to cool the market, not “crash it,” Mah said.  Private  home prices  in the city-state climbed 2.7 percent
to a record in the fourth quarter, boosting gains in 2010 to 18
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  