-- 
FSA Won’t Release Bank Pay Data Without Permission

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-02-16T18:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/fsa-won-t-release-bank-pay-data-without-permission-sants-says.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority will ask bankers for permission before handing over
data on their pay to lawmakers, the regulator’s chief executive,
Hector Sants, said today.  The FSA will “seek consent of all the firms” before
passing information on the size of senior bankers’ bonuses to
the U.K. Parliament’s Treasury Committee, Sants said in a  letter 
to  Andrew Tyrie , the group’s chairman.  Tyrie asked the FSA to disclose more information on
executive remuneration at banks last month.  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc ,  Barclays Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  will disclose the pay of their five most senior
employees below board level as part of a deal with the
government, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
last week.  “Assuming the firms are prepared to release the data and
given the reporting timetables of the firms, we would hope to be
able to write to you with the aggregated data by the end of
April,” Sants said in the letter to Tyrie.  Tyrie also asked for information on the number of people in
big firms whose pay is “equal to or more than, the remuneration
of the least well-paid executive board member” in his Jan. 31
letter.  The FSA doesn’t have this information and firms will have
to decide whether to provide it, Sants said. The FSA can’t
“compel firms to supply information where it is not required
for our regulatory function.”  European Union regulators approved laws to curb banker
bonuses in December, including limits on immediate cash payouts
and requiring part of the award to be deferred or held in shares
for a minimum of three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 