-- 
FTC Building Becomes Takeover Target in U.S. House Resolution

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-02-16T22:12:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ftc-building-becomes-takeover-target-in-u-s-house-resolution.html
The U.S.  Federal Trade Commission’s 
Depression-era building in  Washington  has become a takeover
target in a battle pitting regulators against museum officials.  The  House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee  today
approved by voice vote a plan to move the FTC, one of two
federal agencies that examines proposed mergers and acquisitions
for antitrust violations, from the building it has occupied
since 1938.  The House measure would make the FTC’s  Apex  building, known
for its Art Deco sculptures and Classical Revival architecture,
part of the National Gallery of Art in a relocation plan that
supporters said would save $300 million.  “It is a very rare opportunity to avoid $300 million in
taxpayer costs,” said Representative Jeff Denham, a California
Republican.  The FTC’s five commissioners -- three Democrats and two
Republicans -- oppose the shift. In a Feb. 14 letter to
Representative John Mica, a Florida Republican who heads the
House committee, they said relocating the agency would be more
expensive than staying put.  “A forced move of the FTC could impose additional costs on
the American taxpayer from the need to replicate important
functions” in the new building, the commissioners wrote.  A fight over the building has been waged for at least five
years. In an interview before today’s committee action, Mica
said the commissioners have concerns other than cost savings.  Ruining the View  “It ruins the views of the Capitol of five
commissioners,” he said.  Mica said the  National Gallery of Art  needs 100,000 square
feet for future use, so it makes sense to displace its neighbor.  “We do need the space and this is the best option,” said
Deborah Zisca, a gallery spokeswoman.  Mica said gallery officials have pledged to raise $200
million in private donations to renovate the building, whose
cornerstone President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  laid in 1937.  The building’s design includes unused space that doesn’t
accommodate offices, a problem for an agency that is looking to
expand, Mica said. Also, the building Roosevelt said would be
the “permanent home” of the FTC hasn’t been updated with
modern technology, supporters of today’s committee resolution
said.  FTC officials disagreed, saying the building houses a
state-of-the-art computer laboratory that helps them uncover
Internet scams. They also said Mica’s alternative sites for the
FTC already are claimed by other agencies.  The gallery’s bid to annex the FTC building contrasts with
a drive to cut back costs for federal agencies, said Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia’s non-voting member of
the House.  “Why are we in a rush to give a federally owned building
to an art gallery?” she asked.  The prospects for congressional approval of the takeover
plan are unclear. Kate Gilman, a spokeswoman for the  Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee , didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  