-- 
G-20 Economic Growth Masks Income to Inflation Fissures Exposed by Egypt

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/g-20-growth-masks-income-to-inflation-fissures-exposed-by-egypt.html
The global economic recovery now
gathering pace is deepening income inequalities in both advanced
and emerging nations, threatening to undermine policy makers’
efforts to repair their finances and fix currency misalignments.  As the uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt demonstrate, income
disparities exacerbated by accelerating food and energy prices
are proving a risk to a worldwide rally in equities. Egypt’s
benchmark EGX30 Index fell 16 percent in one week amid the
uprising. Economist Ed Yardeni says such geopolitical tensions
pose the greatest risk to emerging-market stocks.  “The message that goes out from Egypt to the rest of the
world is that governments have to get ahead of the process,”
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach,  California , told Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  on Feb. 10.
“There are many countries today around the world that are
dealing with food inflation, that are dealing with high youth
unemployment, that are dealing with income inequality.”  The test for governments is balancing the need to spur
growth with demands to cut debt that surged with the financial
crisis. The risk is that they resort to protectionism and
currency management, while delaying budget  deficit reduction , as
short-term remedies. Such concerns loom over two days of talks
among central bankers and finance ministers from the  Group of 20
nations  starting Feb 18 in Paris.  ‘Strong, Balanced’  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said Feb. 14 that
the group aims to encourage “strong, balanced and equitable”
expansion. International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, citing record high global unemployment
and widening  income inequality , said Feb. 1 “it is not the
recovery we wanted.”  Efforts to sustain the expansion may deepen divisions among
the G-20 nations that constitute about 80 percent of the global
economy. Few back French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s push to
curb derivatives trading as a way to contain commodity-price
volatility. Members also disagree about what’s driving capital
flows into emerging markets and how they should be treated.  The schisms threaten the efforts of G-20 governments to
address imbalances in budgets and trade gaps, said Tim Adams, a
former U.S. Treasury undersecretary. Emerging market economies
may dole out more subsidies for energy and food, while those
such as China which control their exchange rates will keep
arguing that doing so protects their societies, he said.  “It will all have an impact on fiscal, monetary and
currency policies,” said Adams, now a managing director of the
Lindsey Group, an investment advisory firm in Fairfax, Virginia.  ‘More Threatening’  For now, geopolitical frictions “are more threatening” to
emerging markets than developed ones, said Ed Yardeni, chief
investment strategist at Yardeni Research Inc., who coined the
term “bond vigilantes” to describe how investors can punish
profligate governments.  The MSCI Index of emerging-market stocks gained 63 percent
in the past five years against the 1.8 percent advance in the
index of developed-nation equities.  The 18-day protests in  Egypt , where 40 percent live near
the poverty line, that resulted in the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak underscore the elevated political risk that investors
ignore at their peril, says Stephen Lewis, chief economist at
Monument Securities Ltd., a London-based broker.  Income disparities are not just an issue for developing
markets, according to data he’s assembled. The Gini coefficient,
a measure of income inequality, rose in the U.S. to 46.8 in 2009
from 39.4 in 1970. Over the same period, comparable figures show
an increase from about 25 in Japan and the U.K. to 39 and 36
respectively, he found.  ‘Lessons of Indequality’  “We’re seeing in North Africa and the Middle East some of
the lessons of inequality, but the tensions are also there in
advanced economies and coming to the surface in a way markets
aren’t yet discounting,” said Lewis.  Income differences are reflected in retailers’ shares, said
Lewis.  Tiffany & Co . and  Burberry Group Plc  are among those
benefiting with an appeal to rich shoppers as the recovery
gathers steam driven by emerging markets. Meantime,  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc  says mounting pressure on U.K. consumers will
make business tougher and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc . reports
“everyday Americans” are living pay check to pay check.  Masking growing disparities within countries is the
narrowing of wealth imbalances among nations.  Credit Suisse
Group AG  research shows the share of global wealth held by the
richest 10 percent has slipped to below 83 percent from 85
percent, while the middle segment now contains 1 billion people
with almost 60 percent located in the Asia Pacific.  Income Gaps  While income gaps narrowed during the credit crisis as
employment and the value of equities and property sank, they are
reopening again, aggravated by unemployment and surging food,
energy and commodity prices. Food prices rose to another record
last month amid higher dairy, sugar and grain costs and the
World Bank yesterday reported that climb has pushed 44 million
more people into “extreme” poverty. The price of oil last
month reached its highest since 2008.  “The large run-up in inequality is the problem of the next
decade,”  Kenneth Rogoff , a former chief economist at the  IMF 
who now teaches at  Harvard University , said in an interview.
“The recovery is disproportionally benefiting the wealthy and
there is a growing risk of instability in most of the G-20
countries.”  AAA at Risk  Rich nations may be looking to slow deficit reduction until
hiring improves. Moody’s Investors Service said the risk of a
negative outlook on its Aaa rating for  U.S. debt  remains as
President  Barack Obama  pushes a budget that will leave the  budget deficit  above 3 percent of gross domestic product until
2017 from as high as 10.9 percent in the current fiscal year.
Among his proposals, Obama wants aid for state unemployment
programs burdened by debt because of high jobless rates.  The income gaps will continue to grow, said Simon Johnson,
another former IMF chief economist and Bloomberg contributor,
who draws a distinction with how banks have emerged from the
crisis recording profits and distributing bonuses while hiring
remains weak. The Geneva-based  International Labor Organization 
last month predicted global unemployment of 6.1 percent this
year from about 5.5 percent in 2007 and called tackling youth
joblessness a world priority.  “The top 1 percent are making out like bandits and the
bottom 15 percent are doing very badly,” said Johnson, who now
teaches at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . “Where are
the jobs?”  Declining Trade  Another risk is a period of stagnant globalization last
witnessed in the 1970s and early 1980s as governments levy taxes
on foreign products to protect domestic interests, said Paul Donovan, deputy head of global economics at UBS AG in  London .
Trade as a share of global GDP dropped to about 21 percent last
year from a peak of 24 percent in 2008 and data from Global
Trade Alert show G-20 governments have imposed more than 700
protectionist measures since November 2008.  The unrest in  Africa  and the Middle East proves “it pays
to minimize reasons for popular discontent,” said Donovan.
“Protectionism is creeping back onto the global agenda.”  The ultimate result may be what New York-based economist  Nouriel Roubini  and Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group investment
consultancy call a “G-Zero” world, in which no country has the
power to dominate the international agenda and focuses on
preserving its own economic well-being.  “This is not a G-20 world,” Bremmer and Roubini wrote in
the latest  Foreign Affairs  magazine. “The result will be
intensified conflict on the international stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  