-- 
LG Aims to Boost Television Market Share With 3-D, Web-Connected Models

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-02-16T04:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/lg-aims-to-boost-television-market-share-with-3-d-web-connected-models.html
  LG Electronics Inc ., the world’s
second-largest maker of liquid-crystal-display televisions, aims
to boost its market share this year by introducing new models.  The electronics maker is targeting to capture a more than
16 percent share of televisions sold worldwide this year,
Havis Kwon, head of the company’s TV division, told reporters in
Seoul today. LG had a share of about 12 percent last year,
according to Seye Im, a company spokesman.  LG introduced its first 3-D TV that uses a new technology
today as part of a plan to gain market share this year and
narrow the gap with market leader Samsung Electronics Co. to as
little as 3 percentage points, Kwon said. TV manufacturers are
adding features such as 3-D functionality and Web-based services
to revive sales by luring consumers to replace their old models.  Shipments of liquid-crystal-display TVs in the U.S.
probably fell last year for the first time amid weak economic
indicators such as consumer confidence and unemployment, IHS
ISuppli, a research company in El Segundo,  California , said in
December.  LG aims to sell 40 million units of flat-screen TVs in
2011, the electronics maker’s parent company said Dec. 28,
without providing a figure for last year. Samsung, the world’s
top TV maker, previously said it’s targeting sales of 45 million
flat-panel TVs this year.  Samsung had an 18 percent market share of the global TV
market at the end of September, according to Nam Ki Yung, a
company spokesman.  LG is introducing 3-D TVs using its latest Film Patterned
Retarder, or FPR, technology featuring the use of glasses that
it says are lighter, more comfortable and lead to less eye
strain.  The technology creates 3-D images by sending visual
information to both eyes simultaneously. Samsung’s uses the so-
called shuttered-glasses approach, which sends data to each eye
sequentially.  LG also plans to capture 20 percent of the global market
for Web-connected televisions, Ro Seog Ho, head of LG LCD TV
division, told reporters today, without providing a timeframe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 