-- 
Gagosian Buys Warhol Portrait in $99 Million Auction

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-02-17T11:41:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/gagosian-buys-warhol-self-portrait-for-17-4-million-at-christie-s-london.html
A rediscovered Andy Warhol self
portrait that hadn’t been seen in public for more than 30 years
last night helped a London sale raise the highest total in the
U.K. capital since June 2008.  Christie’s International made 61.4 million pounds ($99
million) with fees as the auction market for contemporary art
continued its rehabilitation process. Dealer  Larry Gagosian ,
bidding in the room, paid 10.8 million pounds for the crimson
acrylic and silkscreen Warhol portrait, dating from 1967.  Buyers from a widening geographical range are joining sales
as the value of contemporary works rises. Bidders came from 21
different countries, said Christie’s.  “More wealthy people are diversifying their assets and
putting 5 percent into art,” the Montreal-based collector
Francois Odermatt said. “A lot more of them are buying for
their own private museums. There’s now a market for big works.”  Warhol’s 6-foot square portrait was estimated to fetch a
hammer price of as much as 5 million pounds. Gagosian was
underbid by Andreas Rumbler of Christie’s on the phone and New
York collector and dealer Jose Mugrabi, also in the room.  The painting, showing the Pop artist looking pensive with
his hand over his mouth, was one of a series of 11 large-scale
self portraits, five of which are now in museums, including the
Detroit Museum of Arts and the U.K.’s  Tate  collection. Offered
by what the London-based auction house described as “an
American estate,” it had been acquired from Warhol’s New York
dealer, Leo Castelli, in 1974.  Koons’s Bears  The sale tested demand for art-boom favorite  Jeff Koons .
The 1988 wood sculpture, “Winter Bears,” from his acclaimed 
“Banality” series, was also new to auction. One from an edition 
of four, it was acquired by its European seller from the New 
York-based dealership  Deitch Projects  in 1994. It sold for a
mid-estimate 3 million pounds to a telephone bid from Christie’s
New York-based Amy Cappellazzo. Another version was donated to
the U.K. nation by the former London dealer Anthony d’Offay in
2008 and has been displayed at Tate Modern, London.  Matthew Day Jackson ’s 2007 painting “Bucky II” was sold
for a below-estimate 79,250 pounds. Odermatt said in an e-mail
that his wife, Isabelle, was the buyer. It was a smaller version
of the portrait of the engineer Buckminster Fuller that U.K.-
based jeweler Laurence Graff bought for a record 601,250 pounds
at Christie’s,  London , in 2010.  “It’s a hard market to read,” London dealer  Simon Lee 
said. “One minute an artist is hot, the next not. The mini-
cycles turn quickly.  Gerhard Richter  remains strong, though.”  Richter’s Abstract  Richter’s 1990 blue-hued “Abstraktes Bild” sold for a
double-estimate 3.2 million pounds to Sandra Nedvetskaia, a
Zurich-based Christie’s employee who looks after Russian
clients. The seller bought the painting for 657,600 pounds at
Christie’s, London, in June 2005 -- an investment that has
increased more than four-fold in less than six years.  The most expensive of six artist records set during the
evening was the 4.1 million pounds paid by the New York and
London dealers  Eykyn Maclean  for the 1962 work “L’annee
derniere a Capri (titre exotique)” by the French painter
Martial Raysse.  The Pop-period portrait of the artist’s girlfriend hadn’t
been seen on the market for 30 years and had a high estimate of
1.5 million pounds. The price was an auction record for a living
French artist.  A total of 58 of the 63 lots were successful at an event
estimated to make as much as 51.8 million pounds. Christie’s
auction in June 2008, held at the height of the art boom, raised
86.2 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 