-- 
Gasoline, Heating Oil Rise on Middle East Tensions, Demand Gain

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T21:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/gasoline-heating-oil-gain-on-housing-report-brent-crude-rise.html
Gasoline and heating oil advanced in  New York , following Brent crude oil in  London , as fuel demand
rose and as Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said two
Iranian warships planned to pass through the Suez Canal today to  Syria  in what he called a “provocation.”  U.S. fuel use rose 3.8 percent last week to a seven-week
high, according to Energy Department data. The front-month
contracts for gasoline and Brent reached 28-month highs as
Middle East protests spread to Libya, Bahrain and Yemen,
threatening fuel supplies.  “Rioting spreading to Libya, then the headline about the
Iranian warships, we haven’t had this kind of major geopolitical
news to focus on for a while and it doesn’t appear it’s going to
go away anytime soon,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of
trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana, Texas.  Gasoline for March delivery added 5.59 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $2.5447 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement for the front-month contract
since Sept. 26, 2008.  April-delivery Brent on London’s ICE Futures exchange
gained $2.14 to settle at $103.78, the highest level since Sept.
25, 2008.  Gasoline and heating oil are vulnerable to changes in Brent
because refineries supplying fuel to New York Harbor, the
delivery point for heating oil and gasoline futures, use crude
oil grades priced relative to the European oil.  ‘Provocation’  Israel’s Lieberman said in a speech that two Iranian
gunboats are planning to sail later today to Syria through
Egypt’s Suez Canal. The possible move comes five days after
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down. Israeli leaders
have voiced concern that  Iran  will try to exploit the period of
transition in Egypt.  Lieberman said Iranian war boats had not sailed through the
canal for “many years.” His comments were sent by his office
in an e-mailed statement.  Bahrainis took to the streets for a third day of pro-
democracy rallies as Yemeni demonstrators clashed with police
and the Associated Press reported the first-ever protests in
Libya against leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The dissent in Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth
Fleet, follows the toppling of autocratic rulers by popular
movements in Egypt and Tunisia and marks the spread of unrest
into the  Persian Gulf , where most of the Middle East’s oil is
produced.  “The market is a little more worried about supply
disruption than we’ve seen the last couple of years,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Gasoline Supplies  Total product demand in the U.S. rose to 20.1 million
barrels a day last week, the Energy Department reported, the
highest level this year.  Gasoline stockpiles grew 205,000 barrels to 241.1 million,
the largest total since March 1990. Supplies have risen for
seven consecutive weeks, gaining 12 percent.  Demand, measured by deliveries to wholesalers, rose 3.4
percent to an average 8.81 million barrels a day. Measured on a
four-week average, demand was little changed from a year
earlier.  “Total fuel demand was up, but gasoline demand was flat on
a four-week average and I don’t like flat demand,” said  David Pursell , a managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in
Houston. “What’s bullish is a big distillate draw. And had you
not added about a million barrels from the government’s heating
oil sale, you’d have had an even a bigger draw.”  Distillate Inventories  Distillate supplies include 984,253 barrels of heating oil
that the department sold from its Northeast reserve to replace
with ultra-low-sulfur distillate to comply with more stringent
standards in some states. The department said today a second
sale of 1 million barrels completed on Feb. 10 will show up in
next’s week’s inventory report.  Stockpiles of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, dropped 3.1 million barrels to 161.3 million, a seven-
week low. The decline came as refiners cut distillate production
by 5.9 percent. Demand gained 8.1 percent to an average 3.98
million barrels a day, the highest level this year.  Refiners reduced rates 3.5 percentage points to 81.2
percent, the lowest level since March 2010.  “Overall, things still look bearish,” said  Sander Cohan ,
an analyst with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. “Gasoline inventories are still building and
we’re at the end of heating-oil season.”  Heating oil for March delivery advanced 4.58 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $2.7748 a gallon, the highest settlement in two
weeks. Nymex-traded West  Texas  Intermediate crude oil for March
delivery rebounded from a 10-week low, adding 67 cents, OR 0.8
percent, to $84.99.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 0.9 cent to $3.133 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its
 website . That’s the highest average since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 