-- 
GE Hitachi to Use Lockheed’s Nuclear Control Systems

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-02-16T17:40:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ge-hitachi-to-use-lockheed-s-nuclear-control-systems-update1-.html
  Lockheed Martin Corp . will design
and supply the main control-room systems for a new reactor from
GE Hitachi, the nuclear reactor venture of  General Electric Co .
and Japan’s Hitachi Ltd., executives said in an interview.  The companies expect to deliver their first set of control
rooms systems to India, where final negotiations are under way
on a new Economic Simplified Boiling Water Reactor, by year-end
if liability issues are resolved, said Danny Roderick, senior
vice president for nuclear projects at GE Hitachi.  The agreement supports President Barack Obama’s objective
of bolstering U.S. exports in an industry dominated by sovereign
competitors. Terms weren’t disclosed.  “We’re very excited, especially about the forward progress
we’ve been making in  India ,” Roderick. “This same partnership
will work for us as a supply chain in the U.S. and a supply
chain to  Europe , the Middle East, and to other parts of the
world where we’re taking our technology.”  The reactor is a front-runner to become the first next-
generation model fully certified for U.S. construction by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which is expected to complete its
final rule-making on the design in the fourth quarter,
Wilmington, North Carolina-based GE Hitachi said in a statement
today.  Lockheed’s reputation as a systems integrator in defense,
security software and energy facilitated discussions with the
GE-Hitachi partnership for expansion into boiling-water
reactors, said Dan Heller, the executive who oversees nuclear
systems and solutions at Lockheed.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , built and maintains
high-level security tracking systems for the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission and instrumentation and controls for the U.S. Navy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  