-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Must Face Budget, Fiscal Challenges to Support Growth

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-02-16T17:15:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/geithner-says-u-s-must-face-budget-challenges-support-growth.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. needs to face its fiscal challenges in a
way “that’s designed to support future growth” as he testified
to the Senate Finance Committee.  Geithner said today that  job creation  isn’t happening fast
enough as the economy recovers from the recession. He called for
tax incentives to encourage investment along with infrastructure
and education improvements.  The Treasury chief repeated the administration’s call for
an overhaul of the corporate tax structure, possibly accompanied
by an agreement to allow companies to repatriate overseas
profits. Such an agreement won’t be considered on its own, he
said.  Senator Michael Crapo, an Idaho Republican, said the
administration was making a “huge mistake” by proposing the
elimination of many tax breaks in the budget without also
proposing a rate reduction. “It uses up a huge portion of our
opportunity for  tax reform ,” Crapo said.  Companies such as Cisco Systems Inc. have been seeking a
change that would let them bring profits back to the U.S. at a
reduced  tax rate . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told the
House Budget Committee on Feb. 9 that Congress shouldn’t
consider a temporary repatriation holiday and instead should
look at switching to a “territorial” tax system that exempts
overseas profits.  Territorial Taxation  Geithner said today that the administration was open to
considering a territorial system, as long as the details of such
a plan didn’t encourage companies to shift income and investment
outside the U.S. In recent years, Japan and the U.K. have
shifted to similar tax systems, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
supports territorial taxation.  “When we look at territorial tax systems, we’ve got to
make sure that the ultimate outcome supports that objective,”
Geithner said.  The Obama administration is open to additional ideas beyond
those it has proposed and doesn’t have a “monopoly on wisdom,”
Geithner said. “If there are better ideas out there, we’ll be
happy to take ‘em.”  Obama’s proposed budget for the 2012 fiscal year aims to
reduce deficits by more than $1 trillion in coming years. The
plan, his first since Republicans took control of the  House of
Representatives , includes cuts to energy, transportation,
housing and other programs popular with Democrats.  ‘Drunken Sailor’s Budget’  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
finance committee, said Obama’s plan falls short of what is
needed. He said at the opening of the hearing that the U.S.
could learn about managing finances from inebriated sailors.  “Unlike the drunken sailor’s budget, the president’s
budget doesn’t cut the government off from its spending spree,”
Hatch said in his opening statement.  Geithner said that limiting the home-mortgage interest
deduction and other itemized deductions to 28 percent wouldn’t
harm the housing market. “In my judgment, if Congress were to
enact that proposal we could withstand the impact, if any, on
the broader housing market,” he said.  Also, he said the U.S. must rein in budget deficits over
the next 10 years and then tackle entitlement spending that is
poised to reach “untenable, unsustainable” levels. He said it
would damage the economy to attempt this only through
discretionary spending cuts without considering revenue.  “We do have a real problem in the next 10 years,”
Geithner said. “It’s about a huge imbalance between commitments
and resources.”  Long-term Plan  Geithner said he isn’t worried the U.S. will face an
immediate liquidity crunch, noting that investors continued to
allow the U.S. to borrow at low rates during the financial
crisis. He called on lawmakers to pass a long-term plan that
would allow companies and households to build the confidence
needed for economic growth.  “You cannot provide that confidence” if the tax and
budget environment is uncertain, he said. “We have to have a
multiyear, clear set of commitments to bring those deficits down
over time.”  Geithner repeated his call for Congress to raise the debt
limit, which stands at $14.29 trillion now. Treasury projects
the limit will be reached between April 5 and May 31. He said
the department’s cash-management tools can provide only six to
eight ways of extra time.  “It’s a question of math. It’s not a question of
discretion,” Geithner said. “They will not relieve the
Congress of the obligation to pass” legislation raising the
debt limit.  The U.S. “would never contemplate” putting financial
markets in a position of uncertainty as to whether the
government could meet its obligations, he said.  -- With assistance from Ian Katz in  Washington . Editors: Jodi Schneider, Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net  