-- 
Genzyme's Termeer May Follow Health-Care CEOs to Private Equity

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-02-16T23:01:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/genzyme-s-termeer-may-follow-health-care-ceo-path-to-private-equity-firms.html
  Genzyme Corp .’s chief executive
officer, Henri A. Termeer, will leave his post of 26 years after  Sanofi-Aventis SA  closes its $20.1 billion purchase of his
company. He may not be out of a job for long.  Termeer, Genzyme’s chief since 1985, exits with at least a
$138 million payout and a legacy as the longest-serving CEO in
biotechnology, after pioneering a business model of charging top
dollar for drugs to treat rare genetic disorders.  His success selling some of the world’s most expensive
medicines, priced from $200,000 to $300,000 a year, may make him
an attractive hire for private-equity firms, said Erik Gordon, a  University of Michigan  business professor. Termeer, who turns 65
on Feb. 28, may follow the former chiefs of Wyeth and Schering-
Plough Corp. to help pitch deals for equity firms led by  Carlyle
Group , Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Warburg Pincus LLC.  “Henri is the guy you send out as your sales guy to get
your real guys in the door,” Gordon said in a telephone
interview from Ann Arbor. For an investment firm seeking biotech
business, “he would be a good guy to have. The CEO of a
midmarket biotech company, they’ll take a Henri Termeer call.
They would all love to be Henri Termeer one day.”  After nine months of talks, Paris-based Sanofi agreed to
pay $74 a share for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, the
companies said yesterday. Sanofi also agreed to future fees,
known as contingent value rights, of as much as $14 a share tied
to sales targets for an experimental multiple sclerosis drug,
called Lemtrada.  No Dealmaker  While Termeer has built a strong business, he may not be
the guy to close a deal, Gordon said. The Genzyme chief might
have extracted a higher up-front payment and avoided a deal that
relies on an unapproved drug hitting revenue targets if he’d
been a better negotiator,  Gordon  said.  “Is he a dealmaker? No,” Gordon said. “Sanofi is a
dealmaker and Sanofi had the patience of Job.”  Bo Piela, a spokesman for Genzyme, declined to comment.  Termeer, a Dutch native, studied economics at Erasmus
University in Rotterdam and earned a masters degree of business
administration from the  University of Virginia ’s Darden School
of Business in Charlottesville, according to  Genzyme’s  website.
He lives in Marblehead, Massachusetts, with his wife of 12 years
and has two children.  Termeer is chairman of the  Boston  Federal Reserve Bank,
serves on Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick’s Council of
Economic Advisors, and sits on the  Harvard Medical School  board.
He said in a June interview that he was preparing for
retirement. Last month, while Sanofi continued to press for a
deal, Termeer said his plans to retire were “still the same.”
In yesterday’s news conference, he didn’t use that word.  Innovation Ideas  After he assists Sanofi with integration, Termeer will seek
out opportunities “to connect with people who are really
interested in how does innovation truly work, how do we get
something that works to patients in the fastest possible way,”
he said at a press conference yesterday in Cambridge.  He ruled out starting a biotech. “If you create a company,
it takes 30 years,” he said. “I don’t have 30 years, and I
don’t have the patience anymore.”  Private equity or venture capital firms may still try to
recruit him, Ian Somaiya, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  “Private equity firms fund new technology, new products,”
Somaiya said. For former industry executives like Termeer,
working for equity firms “keeps them involved in science and a
form of innovation. They do get attracted by it.”  Termeer Payments  Termeer will receive about $18 million in the sale to
Sanofi, and he owned about 709,000 shares of stock as of Sept.
30, according to an Oct. 7 regulatory filing. His stock, options
and restricted shares were valued at about $120 million at $69 a
share, Genzyme reported in an Oct. 7 filing. The company hasn’t
disclosed updated compensation for Termeer based on Sanofi’s
final offer of $74 a share.  The departure package makes him “one of the biggest all-
time winners in biotech,” said Gordon, who has studied the
pharmaceutical industry for three decades.  Sanofi’s acquisition of Genzyme is the biggest drug
industry takeover since  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
Merck & Co. bought Schering-Plough for about $47 billion in
November 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Schering’s CEO at the time, Fred Hassan, has been an
adviser to Warburg Pincus since 2009. In March, Hassan was named
chairman of Bausch & Lomb, an eye-care company acquired by
Warburg in 2007.  Robert Essner, former head of Wyeth, was named a senior
adviser at Carlyle in April, the year after New York-based  Pfizer Inc . bought the  drug company  for $68 billion.  KKR recruited Kenneth W. Freeman in 2005 after he spent
nine years in the top job at medical testing company Quest
Diagnostics Inc. KKR and Warburg are based in New York, while
Carlyle is based in  Washington .  Manufacturing Defects  Sanofi’s offer came while Genzyme was focused on fixing
manufacturing defects that eroded sales of its biggest products
after a virus contamination at its factory in Allston,
Massachusetts. The resulting drug shortages sent Genzyme’s
shares down as much as 43 percent from a 2008 high of $83.25,
and led to fines and increased scrutiny from U.S. regulators.  Termeer’s rejection of Sanofi’s initial $69-a-share offer
reflected his oft-stated position that the company’s business
model, which he is widely credited with creating, and which
other biotechs have since copied, makes Genzyme especially
valuable. Unlike the pills produced by traditional drug
companies, Genzyme’s medicines are made using biological
processes and can’t be readily copied by generic-drug makers.
Genzyme garners premium prices from insurers and government
payers because the therapies provide life-saving benefits.  Biotech Pioneer  “Most if not all of these diseases are fatal,” said Piper
Jaffray’s Somaiya. “You’re talking about patients that lead
some semblance of a normal life if they start therapy early
enough. He was definitely a pioneer in biotech’s advance into
these kinds of diseases.”  Genzyme’s best-selling medicine, with $720 million in 2010
sales, is Cerezyme, a mass-produced version of a human enzyme
missing in patients with the inherited illness Gaucher disease.
Fabrazyme, for the genetic illness Fabry disease, and Myozyme
and Lumizyme for Pompe disease, similarly provide patients with
enzymes their bodies fail to make or produce adequately.  “We created a completely new sector in the health-care
field,” Termeer said in an Aug. 30 interview.  Termeer is regarded as one of the fathers of biotechnology,
said Robert Coughlin, CEO of the Massachusetts Biotechnology
Council, an advocacy group based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
Coughlin’s son has  cystic fibrosis , an inherited chronic disease
that affects about 70,000 people worldwide.  Personal Commitment  “When I talked with him about his commitment to rare
disorders, especially in a day and age where everyone’s looking
for the next blockbuster, I said, ‘What makes you think this is
important when there aren’t so many patients?’” Coughlin said.
“He said, ‘Well, it’s pretty important to the person who has
it.’”  The strategy has paid off. Cerezyme costs about $260,000 a
year per patient in the U.S., according to Brian Abrahams, an
analyst at Wells Fargo Securities. The drug surpassed $1 billion
in annual sales in 2007 and 2008 before revenue declined amid
the production shortages.  Fewer than one in ten U.S. publicly traded biotech
companies were profitable in 2009, according the Washington-
based  Biotechnology Industry Organization . Genzyme’s longevity
and profitability is Termeer’s lasting legacy, said Al Correia,
executive vice president of business alliances at Cambridge
Biomedical, a lab services organization in Massachusetts.  Deadlines Met  Over the months since Sanofi’s initial approach, Termeer
also met U.S. deadlines to resolve manufacturing issues and
eased drug shortages, said  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC
Capital Markets  in  San Francisco .  “Management did a good job over the last six months,” Yee
said in a telephone interview. In the end, Termeer got “a fair
share price out of Sanofi that represents not only that success
but future potential upside for Lemtrada.”  Termeer’s pursuit of new frontiers in drug development also
may lead him to venture capital firms like other former
biotechnology CEOs.  David M. Mott became a general partner at New Enterprise
Associates Inc., a venture firm with offices in Chevy Chase,  Maryland , and  Menlo Park ,  California , the year after leading
Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MedImmune to a $15.2 billion sale
to London-based  AstraZeneca Plc  in 2007.  CEO Movement  Third Rock Ventures LLC in Boston was co-founded by Mark J. Levin in 2007 after he held the top job at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. for more
than a decade.  Bill Rastetter joined New York-based Venrock Associates as
a partner in 2006 after steering Idec Pharmaceuticals through
the merger that formed  Biogen Idec Inc . in Weston,
Massachusetts.  Termeer’s next step “could be anything -- he could set up
a consulting firm of his own, he could be on the board of
different companies,” Piper Jaffray’s Somaiya said. “Or he
could just enjoy his life, take a little break.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  