-- 
Genzyme's `Theoretical Cure' for MS Draws Scrutiny, Spurs Sanofi Purchase

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T13:26:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/genzyme-s-experimental-ms-drug-to-profit-investors-only-if-it-has-success.html
  Genzyme Corp .’s experimental drug
for multiple sclerosis, the treatment central to negotiations in  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s $20.1 billion takeover, will profit
investors only if its early promise proves true in later tests.  Genzyme says the drug, known as Lemtrada for MS and sold as
Campath for leukemia, will reap peak annual sales of as much as
$3.5 billion. While the medicine may meet that projection,
indications of infections, thyroid complications and blood
disorders may ultimately limit use, doctors say.  To hedge its bets, Sanofi carved out a contingent value
right in the deal tied to Lemtrada’s future sales. That protects
Sanofi against the potential failure of a high-profile drug
acquired to buttress its product portfolio, a setback  France ’s
largest drugmaker suffered Jan. 27 when a cancer drug from a
2009 acquisition didn’t work in a final-stage trial.  “The CVR trend is likely here to stay,” said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San Francisco , in
an e-mail. “It makes M&A easier by bridging the valuation gap
of buyers and sellers. Sellers want the ‘full value’ of their
asset, and buyers don’t want to pay for future risk.”  Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of treatments for rare
genetic diseases, said Lemtrada is likely to become its best-
seller. Multiple sclerosis, which affects about 2.5 million
people worldwide, is a chronic and incurable disease that
destroys the nerves and robs patients of their ability to
control their bodies. Many patients have trouble staying on
current therapies because they’re difficult to use or cause side
effects, according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  No Relapses  Lemtrada is given once a year as an infusion. Patients get
five doses over five days. More than 70 percent of patients with
early disease given the drug in a study had no relapses or
progression of disability for four years, compared with 35
percent of those given  Merck KGaA ’s Rebif.  Side effects included infections in 72 percent of patients,
thyroid complications and cancers. Most infections were in the
respiratory or urinary tracts and cleared with treatment.  “To say Campath is going to be a game changer and solve
all the problems, I don’t know if that’s true,” said Howard Weiner, director of the Partners Multiple Sclerosis Center at
Brigham & Women’s Hospital in  Boston . “It’s a theoretical cure,
but to know that you need to follow people for 10 years. It’s a
very strong drug and has potential side effects.”  Lemtrada is in the third and final stage of tests generally
needed for U.S. approval. Results from one of those tests, in
patients without prior MS treatment, are expected mid-year,
Genzyme said today in a statement. A second study of previously
treated patients will be done by the end of 2011. Genzyme said
it expects U.S. approval in the second half of next year.  Safety Data  Genzyme has been transparent with its safety data, John Lacey, a spokesman for the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
company, said in an e-mail.  “The analyses to date have consistently indicated
unprecedented efficacy versus active treatment and adverse
events that were detectable by standard blood tests and easily
managed with standard treatments,” Lacey said. “Our Phase 3
program is continuing to progress well with the safety committee
as recently as December indicating that no new concerns had been
identified and that the trials should continue.”  Sanofi will pay Genzyme’s stockholders $74 a share for
Genzyme, the Paris-based company said today in a statement. They
will also receive so-called contingent value rights that entitle
them to payments of as much as $14 a share depending on the
performance of Lemtrada and production levels of two other
medicines, Sanofi said.  Contingent Value Rights  Genzyme holders will receive one contingent value right per
share. Sanofi will pay $1 per CVR if Genzyme meets production
targets this year for two rare-disease drugs, Cerezyme and
Fabrazyme, and another $1 if Lemtrada wins U.S. approval. CVR
owners will also get $2 if Lemtrada sales exceed $400 million
within specified periods in specific territories, $3 if sales
exceed $1.8 billion, $4 if they surpass $2.3 billion and $3 if
they top $2.8 billion.  The right, which will be publicly traded, will terminate on
Dec. 31, 2020, or earlier if the sales goals have already been
reached.  The contingent value right allowed Genzyme and Sanofi to
overcome disagreements on whether Lemtrada will be a blockbuster
drug, Viehbacher said on a conference call today. Sanofi first
proposed the idea at a meeting in September, he said.  “The CVR was an extremely important tool to bridge
differences in value,” he said. “Genzyme’s own forecasts for
Lemtrada were very significant.”  Drug Failure  Sanofi received a recent reminder about the risks of
experimental medicines, even after receiving promising results
in clinical trials. The company’s breast cancer drug BSI-201,
obtained with the June 2009 purchase of San Francisco-based
BiPar Sciences Inc., failed to lengthen overall survival or slow
disease in a final study released Jan. 27 in women with
aggressive tumors. Sanofi acquired closely held BiPar for up to
$500 million, based on BSI-201’s success in future trials.  The effectiveness of Lemtrada in second-phase studies was
compelling, said Peter Calabresi, director of the Johns Hopkins
Multiple Sclerosis Center in Baltimore.  “These early data may set a new bar for clinical outcomes
in multiple sclerosis,” said Omar Khan, one of the drug’s
researchers and a professor of neurology at Wayne State
University School of Medicine, in an April 14 statement after
the study results were released.  Boxed Warnings  Campath, the version of Lemtrada sold since 2001 in the
U.S. to treat B-cell chronic lymphocytic  leukemia , carries boxed
warnings, the most stringent caution from the  Food and Drug
Administration , for weakening the immune system, triggering
infections and causing injection site reactions.  “The biggest concern is the safety signal that’s out there
already,” Calabresi said in a telephone interview.  While Lemtrada’s once-a-year treatment approach is
convenient for doctors and patients, medical complications may
go unnoticed and be difficult to treat. With daily pills, side
effects may sometimes be eased by halting use. Genzyme’s
medicine, by design, remains active in the body for a year.  “Because of the unique way in which it’s dosed, I think it
will have niche in the MS market, especially for patients who
aren’t compliant with their current medicine,” he said.  Current treatments for the condition include  Bayer AG ’s
Betaseron,  Biogen Idec Inc .’s Avonex, German drugmaker Merck’s
Rebif,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .’s Copaxone and Elan
Corp. and Biogen’s Tysabri.  Novartis AG ’s Gilenya, the most
recently approved drug, is the first pill to treat the
condition. MS drugs generally must be taken throughout a
patient’s life to reduce flare-ups and delay disability.  MS Competitors  Lemtrada may find its sales limited by competition from
Gilenya and potential new treatments, said  Michael Yee , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in San Francisco. Yee predicted
$1 billion in sales three to five years after approval.  “We think the side-effect profile is going to relegate
Lemtrada to later lines of therapy,” said  Phil Nadeau , an
analyst with Cowen & Co. in  New York , in a telephone interview.
“We predict relatively modest peak sales estimates,” of $500
million to $1 billion five years after approval, he said.  Genzyme bought worldwide rights to Lemtrada in 2009 from
German drugmaker Bayer. At the time, Genzyme agreed to pay Bayer
as much as $1.25 billion depending on certain revenue targets if
the drug succeeds in MS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  