-- 
Germany’s Baader Bank Seeks to Boost Capital Markets Business

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-02-16T09:28:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/germany-s-baader-bank-seeks-to-boost-capital-markets-business.html
  Baader Bank AG  plans to generate
half its revenue from its capital markets business within five
years as the German stock-exchange broker diversifies.  “We aim to build the capital markets business into our
second pillar,” management board member Nico Baader, 40, said
in an interview. “We now have the right setup to offer a broad
base of capital markets services including debt issuance and
equity market transactions.”  Baader Bank, based in Unterschleissheim near Munich, last
year hired about 30 bankers from rivals including UniCredit
SpA’s Munich-based HVB Group unit to strengthen its investment
banking operations focusing on small and medium-sized company
financing. Baader became a fully licensed bank in 2008 after
previously concentrating on securities trading.  The broker’s capital markets team is headed by former HVB
managers Oliver Riedel and Christian Bacherl. Georg Stuerzer,
also formerly with HVB, is head of equity research.  “We aim for an operating profit in the new business in
2012 at the latest, should markets remain within normal
patterns,” said Baader, who is the son of company founder and
Chief Executive Officer Uto Baader.  While the capital markets team will take the business
beyond advisory for initial public offerings, the company aims
to participate in “three or four more” IPOs in the first half
of this year, said Baader, who is responsible for customers and
products, capital market services and marketing.  Baader was chosen as joint lead manager and local
bookrunner for  Germany  in the IPO of Williams Grand Prix
Holdings Plc, which is selling as much as 27.4 percent of its
capital on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  