-- 
Goldman’s Picks Can’t Beat ‘7% Club’ on Sexiness: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-02-16T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/goldman-s-picks-can-t-beat-7-club-on-sexiness-william-pesek.html
Is anyone else a bit BRIC-ed out?  Hey, I completely get the importance of  Brazil , Russia,
India and China as emerging powers, growth engines and, perhaps,
role models. Yet ever since Goldman Sachs Group Inc. squeezed
the indispensable four into an acronym, we seem to have lost
sight of a wider constellation of hugely promising economies.  Even Jim O’Neill, coiner of Goldman’s now-ubiquitous BRICs,
says investors ought to concentrate on a broader basket of
“growth economies” as Brazilian, Russian, Indian and Chinese
stocks gyrate. It really is time to dispense with this BRICs
hype and focus on a more useful yardstick: the “7 Percent
Club.”  This concept comes courtesy of  Standard Chartered Plc . It’s
a fluid list of economies that achieve that rate of growth
consistently over an extended period -- and, of course, it
includes China and  India . More importantly, the nature of the
grouping has the power to exert a much-needed peer-pressure
dynamic in Asia, the world’s fastest-growth region.  It’s an incentive for countries like  Bangladesh ,  Cambodia ,  Indonesia , Mongolia and Vietnam on the cusp of membership to try
harder. It’s also a reminder to investors that focusing only on
the biggest, sexiest emerging powers isn’t always best.  Imagine for a moment a utopia in which theoretically any
economy, regardless of population and mix of natural resources
can join the 7 percent crowd. All John Calverley, Standard
Chartered’s global head of macroeconomic research, has done is
create a simple criteria for entry. Club members can enter and
leave depending on their macroeconomic performance.  Cult of GDP  Sure there are caveats here. One is the Cult of GDP. In  Asia , GDP stands less for gross domestic product than gross
domestic problem. Leaders work to mask challenges with big
headline growth rates. They are just as much about advertising
as they are a diversion. Racy data distract investors from the
cracks undermining economies and give politicians room to step
before the cameras and say we’re moving forward.  What matters is that growth reaches those who most need it.
So it’s not just a matter of growing faster, but the quality of
that growth. By focusing on growth alone without democratizing
its benefits, governments risk Egypt-like backlashes.  Another is environmental. Were Britain’s Prince Charles to
read this argument, he might be tempted to toss his morning tea
at the computer screen. In a recent piece in the  Times , of  London , the prince made an impassioned and logical call for
“decoupling economic growth from increased consumption in such
a way that both the well-being of nature’s ecology and our own
economic needs benefit simultaneously.”  Growing Faster  Yet high-income nations tend to do a better job of growing
sustainably than poorer ones. It’s also more likely that
developing nations will be far more enthusiastic about boosting
growth than reducing  carbon emissions . So, for better or worse,
this issue of growing faster is what it is.  The argument is a simple one. Economies growing 7 percent
annually double in size every decade and more than quadruple in
a generation. After three decades of growing at such rates, an
economy can be twice as large as one achieving 5 percent.
Calverley points to the experience of  China ,  Hong Kong ,
Indonesia, Japan,  Malaysia ,  Singapore ,  South Korea  and  Thailand 
over the last half century.  Investors are learning to differentiate between Asian
economies doing the right things and those walking in place.
Indonesia and the Philippines are as good an example as any.
Long-term investment is pouring into Indonesia as the government
tries to improve infrastructure, reduce corruption and narrow
the rich-poor divide.  Perception Problems  Markets are less enamored of the Philippines. There remains
a perception of timidity in  Manila  at a time when policy makers
need to reform an economic system that’s been neglected for
decades. Also, the nation’s key export has become its people.
Remittances account for more than 10 percent of the Philippine
economy. Not a good sign.  The Philippines, by the way, is actually growing faster
than Indonesia -- 7.1 percent year-over-year and 6.9 percent,
respectively. And yet Indonesia gets the headlines and the
kudos. The reason: It’s widely perceived to offer greater
potential than the Philippines.  That gets us back to Goldman’s BRICs. Russia’s GDP is more
than double Indonesia’s and yet it’s often seen as a less
promising business opportunity.  Russia  is a proud BRIC member;
Indonesia is left wondering what gives. Some offer a similar
argument about Brazil. While it has performed masterfully over
the last decade, are the structural changes needed to bring
Brazil to the next level feasible? Only time will tell.  All this leaves the specter of upstarts out-BRIC-ing the
BRICs.  Chatter about adding another “I” for Indonesia (BRIICs,
anyone?) or a “K” for Korea (BRICKs) or a “T” for Turkey
(BRICTs) is good sport. It just doesn’t get us closer to knowing
where to invest and in which sectors.  It’s time to think bigger. Let’s toss aside alphabet-soup
groupings parading as insights and missing the bigger picture
about emerging markets. The 7 Percent Club may be a good place
to start.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  