-- 
China’s Oligarchs Tighten Grip, With Assist From Goldman: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-02-16T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/goldman-doing-god-s-work-helps-chinese-oligarchs-tighten-grip-books.html
To hear analysts talk,  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China  Ltd. is one sizzling stock. Of 43
recommendations on its Hong Kong shares, 88 percent advise
“buy” or “outperform.” Not a “sell” in sight.  What does a share in China’s largest bank represent,
though? Not ownership, let alone control. The government holds
some  70 percent  of Industrial & Commercial, and its executives
obey Communist Party bosses, as Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie show in their sobering book, “Red Capitalism.”  Set aside, for a moment, the vapid chatter about the
Chinese “miracle.” Forget that clever clogs at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . invested in the bank before it went public.  Recall instead the $42 billion that investors poured into
Industrial & Commercial and two other state banks in initial
public offerings. What happened to that money? It cascaded right
into the state’s coffers as dividends, the authors say. Call it
free  cash flow  with Chinese characteristics.  “Why wouldn’t international investors keep the cash in the
first place?” they ask. The question is especially worth asking
now that China has surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest
economy.  Walter and Howie have lived in China for 25 years and
worked at banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Morgan
Stanley . They recognize that the country’s economic resurgence
and opening to the world have lifted more than 300 million
people out of poverty. They also understand that China’s Party
bosses still control the economy, thanks partly to the
ministrations of Goldman Sachs and other banks, they say.  “China is a family-run business,” not a market economy,
they write. And the families are the political elite.  Parallel Economy  When most Westerners think about China, they picture the
crane-bristling export juggernauts of Guangdong and the  Yangtze
River Delta . Led by private and foreign-invested companies,
these are the regions that earned China’s $2.85 trillion in
foreign-exchange reserves, the authors say.  Yet there’s a parallel economy, a domestic one dominated by
state-owned corporations, “national champions” such as
PetroChina Co. and  China Mobile Ltd . That’s what the Party wants
to fortify, as this book shows in convincing detail.  The national champs have the trappings of Western
corporations -- professional lawyers, accountants and bankers.
No surprise there: They were created and sold to international
fund managers by the likes of Goldman, doing “God’s work,” the
authors say.  “Red Capitalism” is on the dry side. We get no tales of
“princelings with their hands in the till,” as the preface
cautions, and the text sometimes chokes on abbreviations such as
MOF (Ministry of Finance) and PBOC (People’s Bank of China). If
you soldier on, though, the book rewards your patience with
cogent analysis and muscular conclusions.  Capitalist Veneer  Chart by chart, Walter and Howie peel back China’s
capitalist veneer to expose the cadre of rapacious oligopolies
beneath. The array of data they bring to bear is astonishing,
especially given that the numbers come from public sources.  Nothing in China is as it appears, judging from this
account. Its bond markets, for example, boast thousands of
participants and the paraphernalia of  ratings agencies  and
industry associations.  Yet they lack the engine of normal bond markets -- risk and
the ability to measure and price it. The state controls the
interest-rate framework, and banks hold more than 70 percent of
all bonds. So much for financial diversification.  Nor do China’s equity markets operate as arenas for valuing
companies and contesting ownership. They’re just slick casinos
for gambling on minority stakes in the national champions.  ‘Patronage System’  The Western guise serves a purpose. It camouflages what the
state sector really is: “a patronage system centered on the
Party’s nomenklatura,” the authors explain.  The chairmen and chief executives of the national champions
hold ministerial rank and are, in many cases, former ministry
bosses. The country’s biggest banks, by contrast, are classified
as vice-ministerial entities. Imagine the clout these executives
wield over the banks.  “What would the chairman of  China ’s largest bank do if the
chairman of PetroChina asked for a loan? He would say: ‘Thank
you very much, how much and for how long.’”  All of which helps explain why new Chinese loans soared to
a record $1.4 trillion in 2009 -- and why the banks then
scrambled to raise more capital. The Party ordered the banks to
lend more money to companies that, by this account, are in no
hurry to repay.  That leaves the elite families and their retainers free to
plunder China’s vast domestic markets for more profits. Who’s
going to stop them?  “Red Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation of
China’s Extraordinary Rise” is from  Wiley  (234 pages, $29.95,
19.99 pounds, 24 euros). To buy this book in  North America ,
click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 