-- 
Google Undercuts Apple with Subscription Service for Newspapers, Magazines

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-02-16T21:55:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/google-to-offer-one-pass-system-for-newspaper-subscriptions.html
  Google Inc . unveiled a digital-
content service that gives publishers a bigger cut of
subscription sales than a competing program introduced yesterday
by  Apple Inc .  Google will keep about 10 percent of the fees charged by
publishers, Chief Executive Officer  Eric Schmidt  said today in
Berlin. Apple said it’s keeping 30 percent. Google is also
giving access to more information about users, publishers said.  “Of course publishers would like the option where they’re
paying 10 percent instead of 30 percent,” said Nina Link,  chief
executive officer  of the Magazine Publishers of America. “It’s a
significant difference. And we love the fact that there’s some
choice, and we think there will be even more.”  Content providers are working with Google and Apple to make
their wares available in more ways, including on mobile devices,
as sales of paper magazines and newspapers slump. Google’s
concessions on price and user data make it a more alluring
partner, said Jaimee Steele, a spokeswoman for Rhapsody
International Inc., an online-music provider based in  Seattle .  “Google’s proposed 10 percent fee is much closer to
something we would find to be sustainable based on the margins
that we’re operating under,” Steele said in an interview.  Google, based in Mountain, View, California, rose 7 cents
to $624.22 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. The shares have gained 5.1 percent this year.  Freedom of Information  Apple also is placing tighter limits on how much consumer
data it shares with publishers, publishers said.  “Google is a little more free with the information they
release about the consumer,” said Dean Turcol, spokesman for
Bonnier AB, which publishes magazines including Popular Science
and works with both companies. “We hope that, as the process
evolves, we’ll get more and more information about our
consumers.” Bonnier is “happy with both agreements,” he said.    Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. In a
statement yesterday, the company said it would give developers
access to user data if the consumer agrees first.  Google’s service, called One Pass, will let publishers,
including  Axel Springer AG  and  Media General Inc ., set their own
terms and prices for digital content, Schmidt said in a speech
at Berlin’s Humboldt University. That includes subscriptions,
metered access, “freemium” content or single article sales.  “You’ve got a very publisher-friendly approach; we
basically don’t make any money on this,” Schmidt said. “The
most important thing is to get the money to people who are
producing high-quality content.”  Schmidt said Google’s cut will cover the costs of the
service which will be available on tablets and smartphones,
along with websites.  The service is available for publishers in Canada, France,  Germany , Italy, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S., according to a
Google  blog post . Other publishers who have signed on include
Stern.de, Focus Online, NouvelObs and Rust Communications Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  