-- 
Grasso to Rudloff Cite Egyptian Need to Gain Public Confidence in Markets

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n ,   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-02-17T22:14:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/grasso-to-rudloff-cite-egyptian-need-to-gain-public-confidence-in-markets.html
Six days after  Hosni Mubarak  ceded
control of Egypt to the military, the nation’s financial markets
remain in disarray.  The Egyptian Exchange, shut since Jan. 27 after the biggest
stock selloff in more than two years, delayed its opening for
the fourth time yesterday while the central bank postponed 5.5
billion Egyptian pounds ($936 million) of bill sales. Banks will
stay closed for the rest of the week, state-run Nile News
television reported. Credit default swaps insuring Egyptian debt
against default have climbed every day since the end of
Mubarak’s 30-year rule on Feb. 11.  While the army calmed the streets of Cairo following three
weeks of demonstrations, regulators haven’t announced plans to
restart the most-populous Arab nation’s financial system.
Military, capital-market and business leaders should hold a
public meeting to signal confidence in the economy and outline
how they will open markets, said  Richard Grasso , who ran the New
York Stock Exchange during the 1998 collapse of Long Term
Capital Management and the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  “The initiative should have both private sector and
military figures publicly supporting the resumption,” Grasso,
chairman of the NYSE from 1995 to 2003, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “Most importantly, projecting a shared
air of confidence will permit a resumption of capital-markets
activities.”  ‘No Credibility’  Egyptian securities traded on foreign exchanges retreated
yesterday as the bourse said it will remain shut until at least
48 hours after the nation’s banks open. The exchange isn’t
ruling out canceling transactions on Jan. 27 that sent the
benchmark  EGX 30 Index  to an 11 percent drop, though it has no
legal grounds to annul the trades, Chairman Khaled Seyam said in
an interview. The decline was the most since Oct. 7, 2008.  Egyptian authorities “should explain to businesses,
political and economic leaders a sustainable fiscal and monetary
program,” Roque Fernandez, who ran Argentina’s central bank
from 1990 to 1996 when the country recovered from hyperinflation
and established an exchange-rate regime that pegged the peso to
the dollar, said in a telephone interview from Buenos Aires.
“Markets need to have information, if they don’t have it, then
there’s no credibility.”  Egypt may struggle to lure big investors until there’s more
clarity on the economic and foreign policies of the new
government, said Hans-Joerg Rudloff, the chairman of Barclays
Plc’s investment-banking unit.  GDRs Sink    Egypt ’s military has vowed a transition to democracy and
indicated the country will honor its peace treaty with  Israel .
The Mubarak-appointed government is now running the country with
military oversight.  “You are not going to make a big, half a billion dollar
investment before you know which way the country will swing,”
Rudloff, who pioneered the Eurobond market in the 1980s, said in
an interview in  London  yesterday.  Ziad Bahaa El-Din, head of the Egyptian Financial Services
Supervisory Authority, and Hisham Ramez, deputy governor of the
central bank, didn’t respond to calls and text messages seeking
comment.  Global depositary receipts of  Orascom Construction
Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded builder, and  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE , the country’s largest
publicly traded bank, both slid more than 4 percent in London
yesterday. Orascom Construction declined 0.1 percent today,
while Commercial International gained 0.6 percent.  Bonds Retreat  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , a U.S.-listed exchange-
traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, fell 0.4 percent in New
York today. The fund has gained 13 percent since Jan. 27.  Yields on Egypt’s 10-year dollar bonds were little changed
at 6.62 percent today. Five-year credit default swaps increased
10 basis points to 350, according to data provider CMA in
London. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The government will auction 5.5 billion Egyptian pounds in
182- and 364-day bills on Feb. 21 instead of today, according to
the  Finance Ministry ’s website. Auctions of 91- and 273-day
bills will be held as scheduled on Feb. 20 in a bid to raise 4.5
billion pounds, the ministry said.  Egypt has an advantage over some other nations facing
crises because it’s an important U.S. and European ally in the
Middle East and controls the Suez canal, used to carry about 8
percent of global seaborne trade, according to Zelia Cardoso,  Brazil ’s finance minister when inflation hit a record high of
6,821 percent between 1990 and 1991.  IMF Involvement  That makes it more likely international institutions will
offer help in reviving Egypt’s markets and economy, she said.  “If the market bets against you, it’s very hard to deal
with,” Cardoso, who froze Brazilians’ savings in an attempt to
tackle inflation, said in a phone interview from  New York .
“That was the case with us. I don’t think it will be the case
with Egypt.”  The  International Monetary Fund , the Washington-based
lender with 187 member nations, has shared information with
Egyptian authorities on how other countries opened banks
following crises,  Masood Ahmed , the director of the IMF’s Middle
East and Central Asia department, told reporters in  Washington 
yesterday. Ahmed didn’t mention any specific countries and said
the IMF doesn’t currently have a team in Egypt.  ‘Thought Leaders’  “The international community has to say that this is an
internal issue but that from a financial side, they will take
all measures that are needed to prevent an external speculative
attack against the currency,” Mario Blejer, who ran  Argentina ’s
central bank from January to June of 2002, when the country
devalued the currency in the wake of the government’s $95
billion default, said in a telephone interview from Washington.  The Egyptian pound traded near a six-year low of 5.878 per
dollar on Feb. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Grasso, along with then Treasury Secretary Paul O’Neill and
New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, rang the opening bell at the
NYSE on Sept. 17, 2001, six days after terrorists flew planes
into the World Trade Center in lower  Manhattan . Federal Reserve
policy makers led by  Alan Greenspan  lowered their benchmark
interest rate a half percentage point the same day to shore up
investor and consumer confidence.  While the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  tumbled as much as
14 percent in the first five trading days after the exchange
opened, it recouped its losses within two months.  The moves helped to “calm fears” among investors, Grasso
said. “The depth of decline and speed of recovery was heavily
influenced by the demonstration of public confidence between
political, business, academic, investor and thought leaders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  