-- 
Greek, Irish Banks Force ECB to Print More Money: Euro Credit

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-02-16T11:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/greek-irish-banks-force-ecb-to-print-more-money-euro-credit.html
The  European Central Bank  is being
forced to print money to bolster banks in bailed-out Greece and
Ireland, leaving the region’s taxpayers on the hook as the final
guarantors of those nations’ debts.  Greek and Irish banks have issued at least 70 billion euros
($95 billion) of bonds to create the collateral required to get
cash from the ECB, according to the  International Monetary Fund 
and regulatory filings, a figure that may rise to 100 billion
euros after Greece said Feb. 11 it may extend another 30 billion
euros of guarantees to its banks.  “What you have here is micro-quantitative easing, or money
printing,” said Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed-income sales at
NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The banks are issuing unsecured
loans to themselves.”  The ECB has vowed to eschew the type of monetary policy
implemented by the  Federal Reserve , whose bond-buying to boost
growth has left it owning more Treasuries than are held by  China , the biggest foreign buyer of  U.S. debt . By granting loans
against bank debt, the ECB is adding to the monetary base and
would be out of pocket were the guarantors to renege.  The yield premium investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds rather than German securities is 599 basis points, up from
153 basis points a year ago. The spread between Greek and German
10-year bonds is 850 basis points, up from 305 basis points a
year ago.  ‘Stressed Market Conditions’  Ireland’s banks have issued at least 17.4 billion euros of
notes backed by government guarantees, with 9.2 billion euros
going to Bank of Ireland alone. The program amounts to 11
percent of Ireland’s 2009 gross domestic product.  “Access to ECB operations allows the banks in question to
obtain funding that is not currently available in the continued
stressed market conditions,” the Irish central bank said in an
e-mailed response to questions.    Greece ’s current state-guaranteed liquidity program is 55
billion euros, according to the IMF  country report , equivalent
to more than 20 percent of the nation’s $330 billion output in
2009. That’s on top of the 8 billion euros of zero-coupon bonds
Greece has lent to the banks and 15 billion euros of direct
capital injections, according to  John Raymond , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London.  ‘Huge Credit Exposures’  “To a very significant extent, the ECB is taking the place
of capital markets,” said Alan Dukes, the former Irish finance
minister who is now chairman of Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which
posted Ireland’s biggest-ever loss in 2010. “The ECB is no
longer in a position to pursue a clear monetary policy because
it is running huge credit exposures,” he said in a speech last
week.  Ireland has put 46.3 billion euros into its debt-laden banks
in the past two years as property prices collapsed and loan
losses soared. Irish-based lenders, including foreign-owned
banks, received 126 billion euros of ECB funding at the end of
January and as much as an additional 51.1 billion euros of
“exceptional liquidity” from the Irish central bank, figures
published on Feb. 11 show.  “The own-bond issuances are a pragmatic response in
exceptional circumstances,” said Donal O’Mahony, global
strategist at Davy Capital Markets in Dublin. “While the notes
are not backed by the banks’ own assets, they are backed by the
government guarantee, which is an important point. State-
guaranteed notes are ECB-eligible collateral.”  ‘Expensive Emergency Liquidity’  Greek banks, with 1.5 percent of European banking assets,
and the Irish, with 5.5 percent, account for 17 percent and 24
percent of ECB borrowing, according to a Feb. 7 report by
Laurent Fransolet and Giuseppe Maraffino at  Barclays Capital  in
London.  “The ECB accepts government-guaranteed bonds as
collateral,” said Maraffino. “The Irish banks are replacing
expensive emergency liquidity with cheaper ECB funding. It’s
just the way it works.”  As the lender of last resort, the job of the ECB is to
ensure the European banking system has the liquidity it needs to
function. While the nascent European Financial Stability
Facility probably will have the task of ensuring solvency, for
the moment the ECB has that role, too.  “This is a great example of bank risk moving to national
government risk, and now to ECB risk,” said Jean Dermine,
professor of banking and finance at INSEAD business school in
Fontainebleau,  France . “The ECB is increasing the  money supply 
and that is raising inflationary pressure. There is also credit
risk, the fact that default would lead to a loss for European
taxpayers.”  ‘Difficult to Distinguish’  Monetary growth in the euro area, as measured by M3 money
supply, which the ECB uses as a gauge for future inflation,
turned positive in June and reached a 15-month high of 2.1
percent in November.  The ECB is calling on governments to step up efforts to
restore confidence, to allow sovereigns and their banks to
regain access to the capital markets.  “It’s difficult to distinguish banking and sovereign
risk,” said Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at Bruegel, the
Brussels-based economics research group. “What happens if
there’s a default? Everyone would like to avoid testing that out
in real life. Governments are really scared of the consequences
of an actual restructuring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  