-- 
Gross’s Ex-Rainmaker Hague Recruits Pimco Alumni

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-02-16T15:35:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/gross-s-ex-rainmaker-recruits-pimco-alumni-as-bond-rally-falters.html
John  Hague , who helped  Bill Gross 
build Pacific Investment Management Co. into the manager of the
biggest mutual fund, is recruiting former colleagues for a firm
to pursue more aggressive strategies as the bond rally fizzles.  Hague, who spent 18 years at Pimco before leaving in 2005,
is talking with at least five ex-colleagues, including John Brynjolfsson, about creating a smaller alternative to Gross’s
firm, he said in an interview. One vehicle for that venture may
be Massif Partners, a Greenwich, Connecticut, partnership Hague
formed with Philip Duff, co-founder of hedge fund FrontPoint
Partners LLC, according to a January regulatory filing.  Hague, 53, is among a number of high-ranking Pimco alumni
who are forming private investment funds that can take on more
risk and rely less on top-rated bonds than Gross, who last year
forecast the end of the three-decade debt rally. Pimco’s Total
Return Fund became the world’s biggest mutual fund in 2009,
helped by the historic bond market surge and a strategy that
combined capital appreciation with interest income.  “To be thinking about total return in a bond portfolio
with rates at 3.5 percent is yesterday’s news,” said William Powers, who worked as a global portfolio manager and served on
Pimco’s investment committee during almost two decades at the
firm. “Unless you are China and need to invest $2 trillion, you
are likely to find much better outlets for your money than
Treasuries and other high-quality bonds,” said Powers, who left
Pimco in January 2010 and helps run two real estate funds from  Manhattan Beach , California.    Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, declined to comment on his firm’s
strategy or Hague’s venture.  Rapid Growth  Since Gross co-founded Pimco in 1971, more than 20 former
partners have resigned, many of whom still live in southern
California. The firm has 40 partners, now known as managing
directors, Porterfield said. The sought-after position entitles
executives to share in lucrative fund fees.  Several of those who have departed since 2000, including
Brynjolfsson, Powers, Lee Thomas and  Paul McCulley , began
working at Pimco during the 1990s, when the fast-growing firm
was smaller. Thomas, a former Pimco managing director who worked
there from 1995 until 2004, said he left in part because Pimco
got too big.  “Meetings of the partnership and senior professionals
could be held in one small room,” said Thomas, who is opening a
macro fund through his Austin, Texas-based firm, Flint Rock
Global Investors LLC. “Now there is an auditorium that doesn’t
begin to satisfy Pimco’s needs” when the firm holds quarterly
investment forums for its professional staff, he said.  Frequent Flier  Hague, whose new fund will focus on fixed income, joined
Pimco in 1987, when the firm had about $4 billion in assets and
four portfolio managers: himself, Gross, David Edington and
Chris Dialynas. He started the firm’s international fixed-income
business and its Global Relative Value hedge fund, managed 125
separate accounts with about $30 billion in assets, and, as one
of Pimco’s primary rainmakers, spent 500 hours a year flying to
meet with potential and existing clients.  “Bill would say, ‘Hague, you get on the airplane,’”
according to Hague, who said he spent so much time flying that
he befriended Jack Weselis, the former chief pilot at  West Coast
Charters Inc. , in  Santa Ana , California. When a heart attack
killed Weselis last year, Hague was host at the funeral.  Hague began holding quarterly round tables last year at
Newport Beach’s  Big Canyon Country Club  so that Pimco alumni and
other investment professionals could swap trading ideas. He said
he hopes to form an investment alliance of former Pimco managing
directors, with the possibility of them joining Massif Partners.  Exchanging Ideas  An unresolved issue, according to Hague, is how managers
such as Brynjolfsson who run their own funds could also work
with him. He declined to name any other prospective partners.  Brynjolfsson, 46, built Pimco’s real return strategies
during a 19-year career at the firm. He left in 2008 to start
Armored Wolf LLC, an absolute-return fund in  Aliso Viejo ,
California, focusing on inflation and deflation.  Asked about the possibility of working with Hague,
Brynjolfsson said in an e-mail that he speaks with his former
colleague “regularly,” without elaborating. Powers said he had
been invited to the round-table meetings and was unaware of
Hague’s initiative.  “People are trying to figure out the best configuration to
work with each other to compete with Pimco and Wamco,” Hague
said, referring to Western Asset Management Co., a Pasadena,
California, unit of  Legg Mason Inc . with about $454 billion
under management as of Dec. 31. “We can run some money in the
same style we did at Newport Center with the ability to be more
aggressive,” Hague said, alluding to Pimco’s address at 840
Newport Center Drive.  Total Return Fund  Under Gross’s strategy, Pimco sought to purchase bonds that
would appreciate in value as  interest rates  declined. This
strategy got a boost after 1980, when the  prime rate  banks
charge their most credit-worthy customers peaked at 21.5 percent
and then fell during the next three decades, according to data
from the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis .  Gross’s Pimco Total Return, with assets of $239 billion,
averaged annual gains of 8.5 percent from inception in 1987
through Dec. 31, outperforming the 7.3 percent yearly increase
by its benchmark, the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Index. Its
net assets exceeded Ireland’s gross domestic product last year
as estimated by the  International Monetary Fund .  Core Holding  While the fund’s prospectus says its objective is to
provide “maximum total return consistent with preservation of
capital,” Powers and Thomas said in interviews that Gross’s
unofficial goal is to generate returns 100 basis points, or 1
percentage point, above those of the Barclays index each year.
Gross, 66, seeks to limit the risk the fund assumes because it’s
widely held in 401(k) plans, said Eric Jacobson, director of
fixed-income research at Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc .  “Gross is very cognizant that it is the core holding in
many people’s retirement portfolio, so he wants it to be very
predictable and risk sensitive,” he said.  Pimco has “well over” $450 billion invested in total
return strategies including separate accounts, Jacobson said.
Pimco Total Return was the most popular fund in the retirement
market last year with more than $50 billion from defined-
contribution plans, according to San Diego-based BrightScope
Inc.  The firm has done so well in recent years, particularly
with the total return strategy, that many institutional
investors now have their fixed income assets concentrated at
Pimco, according to Jacobson. As a result, some pension funds
and endowments may consider moving assets to smaller firms, he
said.  ‘Rational Decision’  “These are questions that have come up for BlackRock and
for Western Asset and they have definitely come up for Pimco,”
Jacobson said. “They have so much money with Pimco, it seems
like a rational business governance decision to try and
diversify.”  Cash-strapped state pension funds are increasingly
concerned about whether they can generate the returns needed to
cover future liabilities to retirees, Hague said. Pensions and
other institutional investors may prefer managers that look to
provide an absolute return, such as 10 percent or more each
year, over strategies designed to beat a variable benchmark such
as the Barclays index, he said.  “The target Pimco is trying to meet is to earn 100 basis
points over an index,” said Thomas, whose macro fund will seek
to generate annual returns of 10 percent regardless of market
performance. “The clients I anticipate dealing with are looking
for a leveraged product with a much higher rate of return with
more risk as well.”  Macro funds seek to capitalize on macroeconomic trends by
investing in currencies, debt, equities or commodities.  Bond Rally  The renewal of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve
probably would signify the end of the 30-year  bull market  in
bonds, Gross said in an Oct. 27  commentary  on Pimco’s website. A
week later, the central bank said it would acquire as much as
$600 billion in Treasuries through June to spur employment and
avert deflation, marking its second round of purchases to help
the economy.  Pimco has the “vast majority” of its assets in bonds,
according to Morningstar’s Jacobson. The firm has been seeking
to diversify through stock funds and an Unconstrained Bond Fund,
run by Dialynas, that seeks to generate absolute returns by
investing freely across fixed-income markets rather than trying
to beat a specific benchmark index.  “What they are doing is steering a lot of their strategies
towards less-Treasury-linked markets, less interest-rate
sensitivity, less exposure to the dollar,” Jacobson said.  Powers is a general partner at Los Angeles-based JRK
Multifamily Platform LP, a $250 million fund formed in September
that plans to invest in apartment buildings nationwide with the
goal of generating an internal rate of return exceeding 20
percent, including a 9 percent annual dividend.  Massif  He is also a partner at Miami-based Encore Housing
Opportunity Fund, which is raising as much as $200 million to
buy undeveloped residential land, finished lots and housing
projects in the works, mainly in  California  and  Florida . The
fund is targeting an internal rate of return of 30 percent
annually.  Hague is Massif’s chief investment officer and Duff is the
managing member, according to a Jan. 18 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Massif will invest in assets
globally, according to Hague, who said the fund’s trading
strategy is still being developed.  “The interesting areas of the market are credit,
currencies and emerging markets,” Hague said. “When it comes
to Treasuries, I’m not interested.”  Duff, 53, co-founded FrontPoint Partners in 2000 after
stints as the chief financial officer for the investment bank
Morgan Stanley and chief operating officer at Tiger Management
LLC, the hedge fund set up by billionaire  Julian Robertson . Duff
sold FrontPoint to Morgan Stanley for $400 million in 2006 and
then sought to start a hedge fund under the name Duff Capital
Advisors LP, only to shutter the Greenwich firm when he had
trouble raising money during the 2008 stock-market collapse.    Steve Bruce , a spokesman for Duff, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  