-- 
Guild Investment Recommends Egypt Construction, Japan Stocks

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-16T09:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/guild-investment-recommends-egypt-construction-japan-stocks.html
Monty Guild, chief executive officer
of Los Angeles-based Guild Investment Management Inc. who
oversees $200 million, commented on investment strategies in the
Middle East and emerging markets, in an interview in Singapore.  On the impact of  Egypt ’s political crisis:  “We think it will create tensions and decrease the
valuations of Middle Eastern and emerging European stocks and
also the valuations of some countries outside of the Middle East,
which have repressive dictatorial or oligarch governments.  “In the next two years, many governments will change in
this kind of countries, because of Google, Facebook, MySpace,
all of these social networking communications, which allow
people to get together in groups and create change.”  On the Egyptian stocks to buy:  “If you want to buy in Egypt, buy shares in the major
construction companies, the biggest companies in Egypt. Buy
shares not in the airlines or anything that depend on commodity
prices like oil. But buy shares in companies that will be
growing, public works will be growing to employ more people. The
military is concerned people don’t have work, so they will start
more public work programs, construction programs, to stimulate
growth and employ more people.”  Recommends Japan stocks:  “We like Japan because there’s no inflation and the
deflationary problem that they had is solved by the inflation
problem in  China ,  India  and  Brazil .”  Japanese companies “have an ability to sell more products
on an export basis to the developing world, where prices are
rising and rising,” he said.  On emerging markets:  “We haven’t been in the emerging market for a few months.
We have been buying Europe because the banking crisis in  Europe 
caused many European stocks to get quite low.  “We still own Columbia but that’s the only emerging market
we own. Within two months, we will start to own 10 to 12 percent
emerging positions. As they come down, we will buy a little
bit.” Guild Investment Management cut the portion of funds
invested in emerging markets to 5 percent from 50 percent,
starting in September, Guild said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  