-- 
Liberty Mutual Says Deficits `Debase' Dollar; Bond-Holding Durations Cut

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-16T19:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/liberty-mutual-says-deficits-debase-dollar-bond-holding-durations-cut.html
  Liberty Mutual  Holding Co., the
second-largest policyholder-owned property-casualty insurer in
the U.S., is expanding abroad and shortening the duration of
bond holdings on concern that deficit spending and Federal
Reserve policies may weaken the dollar.  Liberty Mutual plans to add business in  China ,  India  and
Latin America as policy sales in the U.S. decline. The Boston-
based insurer has been settling for lower yields on its fixed-
income portfolio after buying securities with shorter maturities
on the expectation inflation will rise.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against six currencies, including the euro, has
dropped 4.8 percent in the last six months through yesterday, as
the Fed committed to pump $600 billion into the economy, known
as quantitative easing. President  Barack Obama  sent Congress a
$3.7 trillion  budget  this week that projects the federal deficit
will exceed $1 trillion for the fourth straight year.  “We are firmly convinced, and have been for a couple of
years, that the monetary and fiscal policy will continue to
debase the dollar,” said Liberty Mutual Chief Executive Officer
Edmund “Ted” Kelly in a conference call today. “So we are
positioning our portfolio and our businesses to respond if
inflation emerges.”  Bond Durations  The insurer has about $18.9 billion in securities that
mature in five years or less, Liberty Mutual said today in a
fourth-quarter  statement . That compares with $15.2 billion a
year earlier. Securities maturing in more than 10 years declined
to $12 billion from $15.5 billion.  Policy sales in the U.S. slipped by 2.3 percent to $5.29
billion in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, Liberty
Mutual said today. That compares with a 0.8 percent drop to
$1.69 billion for international sales. U.S. commercial rates
industrywide have fallen each quarter since 2004, and fell 5.4
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, according to the
Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers.  “We see growth opportunities in all markets, but the most
significant area of growth will obviously be international,”
Kelly said.  Liberty Mutual said in November it was entering a joint
venture with  Videocon Industries Ltd . to sell personal and
commercial coverage in India. The insurer operates in more than
20 countries, including  Brazil ,  Spain  and  Australia .  Net income for the fourth quarter rose 22 percent to $576
million on gains from private-equity investments. Full-year
profit was $1.68 billion, the insurer said in a statement today.  Federal Deficit  The U.S. federal deficit for the current fiscal year is
forecast to hit a record $1.6 trillion -- 10.9 percent of gross
domestic product.  Liberty Mutual ranks second behind Bloomington, Illinois-
based State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. in property-
casualty sales among policyholder-owned carriers in the U.S.,
according to the  National Association of Insurance
Commissioners . State Farm hasn’t yet reported 2010 results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  