-- 
Liberty Mutual Profit Jumps 22% to $576 Million on Private Equity Rebound

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-16T16:13:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/liberty-mutual-profit-jumps-22-to-576-million-on-private-equity-rebound.html
  Liberty Mutual  Holding Co., the
second-largest policyholder-owned property and casualty insurer
in the U.S., said fourth-quarter profit rose 22 percent on gains
from private-equity investments.  Net income increased to $576 million from $473 million a
year earlier, the Boston-based company said today in a statement
on its website. Private equity contributed $164 million in
profit, compared with a loss of $13 million on the holdings a
year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer Edmund “Ted” Kelly is betting on
gains in private equity, energy partnerships and real estate
ventures while trimming the company’s municipal bond holdings,
including debt in  Connecticut ,  California  and  Illinois . The
insurer had about $2.9 billion in so-called alternative
investments such as private equity as of Dec. 31, an increase of
17 percent from a year earlier.  “These investments offer the potential for superior long-
term returns,” the company said in a separate statement today.  Net income was $1.68 billion for the 12 months ended Dec.
31, a 64 percent increase from 2009.  Fourth-quarter policy sales declined 2 percent to $6.98
billion. Commercial rates industrywide have dropped each quarter
since 2004, and fell 5.4 percent in the three months ended Dec.
31, according to the Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers.  ‘Competitive Prices’  “We didn’t see any strong resolve by insurers to hold the
line on pricing last quarter,” council President Ken A. Crerar
said last month. “Competition still rules the day. Buyers still
have opportunities to get more coverage at competitive prices.”  The insurer earned an underwriting profit of 0.6 cent for
each premium dollar, compared with 1.1 cents in the year-earlier
period, as catastrophe costs rose. Liberty Mutual ranks second
behind Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. in property-casualty sales among policyholder-
owned carriers, according to the  National Association of
Insurance Commissioners .  The insurer postponed the initial public offering of a unit
in September, citing lower-than-projected demand. The unit,
Liberty Mutual Agency Corp., had planned to sell 64.3 million
Class A shares at $18 to $20 each, according to regulatory
filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 