-- 
Liberty Global Says It Will Bid for Kabel BW, Sees Better Fit With Ziggo

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-02-16T16:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/liberty-global-says-it-will-bid-for-kabel-bw-sees-better-fit-with-ziggo.html
  Liberty Global Inc ., the cable
operator controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone , will make
an offer for  Germany ’s Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH & Co KG,
Chief Strategy Officer Shane O’Neill said.  Bids for Kabel BW, Germany’s no. 3 cable company, are due
today.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG ’s largest investor,
Providence Equity Partners, also said it may make an offer.
Kabel BW said yesterday that owner EQT Partners AB was
evaluating all options and could sell the company, go for an
initial public offering or keep the business.  When Liberty Global acquired Germany’s second-largest cable
operator, Cologne-based Unitymedia, in 2009, it hadn’t decided
to make a follow-on acquisition, O’Neill said during a panel
discussion at the Cable Congress in Lucerne,  Switzerland  today.
If Liberty can get Kabel BW “at the right price, great, if we
can’t, life absolutely goes on,” he said.  Netherland’s cable-television operator “Ziggo would
actually be a better fit in terms of our Dutch business,”
O’Neill said, adding that Liberty Global isn’t in talks with the
company. If Ziggo’s owners want to sell, Liberty Global would
probably look at it, Chief Executive Officer Mike Fries said
yesterday.  O’Neill didn’t say today what the right price might be for
Kabel BW, and noted that “multiples have gone above eight for
the first time in years so you have to make a determination
whether that’s a permanent rerating or a temporary one.”  German Regulators  John Hahn, managing director at  Providence Equity Partners ,
the biggest stakeholder in Unterfoehring, Germany-based Kabel
Deutschland, said “we have lots of alternatives available to
us,” and Kabel BW “is one we will look at.”  Attempts to consolidate in Germany have failed in the past
because of antitrust concerns. Cable companies argue that their
push into broadband and telephony means that they should be
regulated as telecommunications companies rather than as
television distributors.  “It’s impossible to predict what the German regulator will
do,” O’Neill said. “We will bid, but bid on the basis that
there is clearly a long conversation to be had with the
regulator, and it’s unpredictable.”  A year ago, Providence decided against a straight sale of  Kabel Deutschland  and instead listed part of the company on the
stock exchange. Since March 23, the shares have risen 78
percent.  ‘Icy Waters’  “We were in icy waters a year ago, we were coming out of a
poor period form a markets perspective and you needed a story
like Kabel Deutschland to open it up a little bit,” Hahn said.  In the last 12 months, “cable has done incredibly well and
it should be a very good time” for Kabel BW to have an IPO,
Hahn said. O’Neill said it could take 18 months to make a “full
exit” if Kabel BW’s owners choose an IPO for the business.  “I think we’ll see much more dual-track initial public
offerings and sales that run side by side and we’ll see where
the bids come in and ultimately a decision will be taken
depending on who shows up to the party,” said Marisa Drew, co-
head of global markets solutions at Credit Suisse Securities.  Industry executives in Lucerne said other companies that
could come to market this year include Cinven Ltd. and Warburg
Pincus LLC’s Ziggo; The  Carlyle Group  and Providence Equity’s
Swedish cable firm Com Hem AB; and  Spain ’s Grupo Corporativo Ono
SA, owned by investors and lenders including Providence Equity,  GE Capital  and Grupo Santander.  ‘Attractive Prices’  Drew said the prospects for increased mergers and
acquisitions are good. “We have a liquid market, willing buyers
and attractive prices.”  Kabel BW spokesman Martin Herkommer said all options
remain open and that EQT is not under time pressure. Com Hem
spokeswoman Jessica Sjoeberg declined to comment. Ziggo
spokesman Erik van Doeselaar said in an e-mail this month that
“an IPO is one of the possibilities to finance our company in
the future.”  Ono Chief Executive Officer Rosalia Portela said in an
interview yesterday that the company is working toward a
possible IPO.  “There’re a lot of things the company needs to do before
an IPO, but we are working on this,” Portela said. “2011 may
be bit too early. We need to do a lot of work within the
company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  