-- 
Scottish Deerhound Hickory Is Top Dog at Westminster Show

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-02-16T10:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hickory-scottish-deerhound-wins-westminster-best-dog-in-show.html
A diva of a dog who lives on a 56-
acre farm in horse country, Virginia, glided to glory at New
York’s Madison Square Garden last night, the first Scottish
deerhound to win Best in Show at the  Westminster Kennel Club 
pageant.  Hickory defeated six other purebreds in the final round --
including a regal 11-pound Pekingese named Malachy, a black
cocker spaniel with dark soulful eyes and a Portuguese water dog
with a buzz cut highlighting her rear end.  “She’s got everything,” Paolo Dondina, a judge from
Monterchi,  Italy , said in Italian after picking Hickory. “The
movement, the presence. It’s a dog for the big show.”  The Westminster spectacle is serious business for dog
owners, many of whom part with hundreds of thousands of dollars
to “campaign” their charges at shows throughout the U.S. For
the audience, it’s a chance to root for favorite breeds.  Named after a bluegrass song by John Duffey, Hickory
succeeds Sadie, a black Scottish terrier who won Westminster
last year.  Hickory bested about 2,600 canines in 179 breeds and
varieties over the two-day event. They competed by ambling on
the floor of the Garden and submitting to an exam by the judges,
who assess how well they conform to standards of their breeds.
The Westminster Kennel Club, a  New York  tax-exempt organization,
named its first best in show in 1907.  The Scottish deerhound breed dates to the 16th century and
was ideal for pursuing and killing deer, according to the
 American Kennel Club . It could be owned by “no one of rank
lower than an earl,” the site said.  Chasing Animals  While the breed is quiet and dignified, it still may chase
furry animals that run nearby. The AKC recommends exercising a
Scottish deerhound on a leash in a fenced area.  Angela Lloyd, Hickory’s 31-year-old handler, described her
as an 85-pound diva who cherishes biscuits and the spotlight.  “She’s constantly making sure she’s getting attention,”
Lloyd said after Hickory aced the hound dog category on Monday
night.  Lloyd added that Scottish deerhounds are sensitive to their
surroundings, and hence might be riled by the bright lights and
noise of a New York arena.  “This is an extreme experience for a dog who lives on a
farm,” said Lloyd, a junior showmanship winner at Westminster
when she was 18 and the daughter of a German shepherd breeder.  Lisa Croft-Elliott, a veteran dog photographer, said she
was mesmerized by the dog’s grace.  “She’s stunning, a supermodel,” she said. “In order to
pursue her quarry she can’t be clunky. She has to move
briskly.”  Hickory’s owners say they plan to retire her to the Flint
Hill,  Virginia , farm of co-owner Cecilia Dove, with the hope of
breeding. The dog, who turned five in December, saved her best
for last.  “She showed as she’s never showed before,” Lloyd told
reporters last night as she petted Hickory’s wiry coat, the dog
panting and its tongue hanging out of its mouth.  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  -- With assistance from Lili Rosboch in New York. Editors: Mark Beech, Jim Ruane.  To contact the writer on the story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 