-- 
Microsoft Phone Sees Boost in App Activity After Nokia Deal

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-02-16T21:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/microsoft-phone-sees-boost-in-app-developer-activity-after-deal-with-nokia.html
  Microsoft Corp .’s Windows Phone 7
operating system has lured an increasing number of application
developers since the software maker announced a partnership with  Nokia Oyj  last week, according to analytics firm  Flurry Inc.   In the four days after the Feb. 11 deal, 4 percent of new
app projects started were for Windows Phone, compared with 1
percent in the previous four days, according to data from
Flurry, which tracks mobile games and programs.  New projects for Windows Phone passed  Research In Motion
Ltd .’s BlackBerry and now rank third behind new apps for  Apple
Inc .’s iOS and  Google Inc .’s Android, Flurry said. Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft, which agreed last week to have its
Windows Phone software power Nokia handsets, is working to turn
around market-share losses to Apple and Google. A wide variety
of applications is critical to attracting mobile-phone users.  Apple’s software for the iPhone was the platform for 69
percent of apps started in the 4 days after Feb. 11. Android had
25 percent. BlackBerry was fourth with 2 percent.  Flurry predicts most developers will build apps for three
operating systems, meaning RIM and Microsoft are likely to
compete for the No. 3 spot, Peter Farago, vice president of
marketing at Flurry, said in an e-mail.  International Appeal  Crowdbeacon , maker of an app that lets users ask questions
about nearby businesses, is now planning to release a Windows
Phone 7 version, lured by Nokia’s international position, said
Robert Boyle, the company’s chief executive officer.  The Crowdbeacon program, which lets customers ask things
like where to get a haircut nearby in the next 45 minutes, now
is focused on the U.S. A planned international expansion means
Nokia customers are a key audience, Boyle said.  “We weren’t even considering it before,” he said of
Windows Phone 7. “It just lags behind in users in the U.S. The
Nokia deal changed that.” The Crowdbeacon app was released a
week ago for Apple’s iOS.  The reported surge in interest in Windows Phone comes on
top of an increase that started showing up early last week as
speculation about the deal mounted, Flurry reported in a Feb. 11
posting on its Web site.  Microsoft, the largest software maker, rose 6 cents to
$27.02 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares had dropped 3.4 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  