-- 
Midwest Refiners May Enjoy ‘Cushing Upside’ Into 2013, RBC Says

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-02-16T14:40:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/midwest-refiners-may-enjoy-cushing-upside-into-2013-rbc-says.html
The oversupply of crude oil in the
Midwest has increased refining margins in the region, a benefit
that could last into 2013, according to  RBC Capital Markets .  “A glut of oil in the Midwest has lowered WTI crude oil
prices relative to other light/sweet oils and caused refining
margins in the region to spike, a significant positive for
Midwest refiners,” Jacques Rousseau, an RBC equity analyst,
said in a note to clients. “The problem should continue until
new pipelines are built in 2013.”  Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , where the U.S. benchmark
West  Texas  Intermediate contract is settled, rose in the week
ended Jan. 28 to the highest level since at least 2004,
according to the Energy Department.  TransCanada Corp . started
deliveries to the hub Feb. 8 in the second phase of its Keystone
pipeline project.  “The consensus view in the market is that the oversupply
of oil in the Midwest is going to get worse until pipelines are
built to take oil to the Gulf,” Rousseau said. RBC estimates
crude into the region should increase as much as 200,000 barrels
a day this year.  The discount for WTI versus other light, sweet oils, such as
Light Louisiana Sweet and Brent, is expected to drop this year
to $7 to $10 as oil is moved by rail, truck and barge from the
Midwest to Gulf Coast, Roussea said. In the interim, refiners
processing Canadian crude “should continue to benefit
substantially,” he said.  An expansion to the  Gulf Coast , the third phase of
TransCanada’s project, known as Keystone XL, may be operational
by early 2013 if regulators approve. The XL extension will run
from Cushing to Nederland, Texas, linking Gulf refineries to  Canada ’s oil sands.  This year, Midwest refiners may run at elevated rates to
maximize production, while inventories in the region will
probably decline slightly and the WTI discount will narrow,
according to Rousseau.  “The problem could get even more severe in 2012, since
Canadian oil-sands production volumes are scheduled to rise
another 200,000 barrels a day, according to RBC estimates, and
refiners are already operating at capacity,” Rousseau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 