-- 
Milan's Gattuso Faces Ban After Headbutt, Telegraph Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-02-16T11:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/milan-s-gattuso-faces-ban-after-headbutt-telegraph-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. media, with clickable links to the Web.  Gattuso Ban?  AC Milan captain Gennaro Gattuso faces a “lengthy”
European ban for headbutting Tottenham coach Joe Jordan after
his team lost 1-0 at home to Spurs in the Champions League last
night,  the Telegraph  said.  Gattuso swapped shirts with Luka Modric and shook hands
with Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  before the Italian and Jordan
started yelling at each other and the midfielder bumped his head
into Jordan’s, the newspaper said. Gattuso was already due to
miss the second game between the teams in  London  after picking
up a yellow card last night.  European ruling body UEFA today said it began disciplinary
proceedings against Gattuso,  Sky Sports  reported.  United for Gotze  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  is ready to move
for Borussia Dortmund midfielder Mario Gotze,  the Mirror said .  The 18-year-old has scored four league goals for the
Bundesliga leader, which has raised his fee to 20 million pounds
($32.3 million) from 12 million pounds, the newspaper said.
United has sent scouts to watch the player, the Mirror said.  Eden’s Cost  Lille wants 21 million pounds for winger Eden Hazard, who’s
being watched by Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool, the Mail said.  While Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  has expressed interest in
the 20-year-old, Chelsea is believed to be the frontrunner to
sign the Belgian, the newspaper said.  Chelsea Probe  The Dutch Football Association will investigate Chelsea’s
signing of 15-year-old center-back Nathan Ake from Feyenoord,
 the Sun said .  Dutch law doesn’t allow children under 16 to have agents,
and authorities in Holland are questioning whether Ake had an
agent that took him to London to meet with Chelsea players and
coaches to complete the signing, the newspaper said.  A Chelsea spokesman said the team had kept Feyenoord
informed of its plans, and that Ake will move to London in July,
after he turns 16, the newspaper said.  Only  Barcelona   Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas’s father said the player will
only leave the Gunners for Barcelona,  the Mirror said .  Fabregas has also been linked with Real Madrid and Chelsea,
although his father said the midfielder is only interested in
returning to Barcelona, where he started his career, the
newspaper said.  Arsenal and Barcelona meet in a Champions League round-of-
16 game in London later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 