-- 
Production in U.S. Probably Increased as Manufacturers Supported Expansion

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/industrial-production-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-january.html
  Industrial production  in the U.S.
probably rose in January for a third consecutive month, adding
to signs manufacturing is leading the expansion, economists said
before a report today.  Output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.5
percent after a 0.8 percent gain in December, according to the
median forecast of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Other figures may show homebuilding climbed from a one-year low,
and rising costs for oil and raw materials pushed up wholesale
prices.  Overseas demand for American-made goods coupled with gains
in business and consumer spending mean manufacturing, which
accounts for about 11 percent of the economy, will keep
bolstering growth. Housing, the industry that helped trigger the
recession, is struggling to recover from depressed levels as
unemployment hovers around 9 percent and lenders foreclose on
delinquent owners.  “Manufacturing is benefiting from export orders and growth
in U.S. demand,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “That’s really
driving growth. The residential construction market is an
absolute laggard in this economy.”  The  Federal Reserve ’s data on industrial production is due
at 9:15 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from an
increase of 0.9 percent to a drop of 0.5 percent.  Home Building  At 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department may report builders
broke ground on 539,000 homes at an annual rate in January,
according to the median forecast in the Bloomberg survey.
Permits, an indicator of future construction, likely slumped
after builders rushed to fill applications in December before
changes in building codes took effect this year.  Producer prices rose 0.8 percent last month, economists in
the survey projected. The Labor Department release is also due
at 8:30 a.m. Core wholesale costs, which exclude food and fuel,
probably climbed 0.2 percent for a second month.  While demand in emerging markets is boosting commodity
costs, companies have limited scope to pass those increases on
to consumers. The lack of inflation and absence of a pickup in
employment are among reasons the Fed may complete $600 billion
in asset purchases by June to stimulate the economy.  Inflation may “persist below the levels that Fed policy
makers have judged to be consistent” with their long term goal,
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House Budget Committee on
Feb. 9. He also said “output growth likely to be moderate for a
while.”  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s January meeting, due at 2 p.m., may
shed more light on policy makers’ discussions on growth,
inflation and the labor market. The central bank also will issue
updated forecasts.  Today’s data may show the influence of last month’s weather
on factory production and housing starts. Winter storms spread
from the Midwest and the South to  New England , covering 71
percent of the country with snow on Jan. 12, according to the
 National Climatic Data Center .  “Chances are, activity was held down by the weather,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York .  Factories, which led the economy out of the recession that
ended June 2009, are likely to stay busy this year as consumers
continue spending, businesses invest in new equipment and
companies replenish inventories to meet sales in the U.S. and
abroad.  Orders Rising    Parker Hannifin Corp ., a Cleveland-based manufacturer
viewed as a barometer of global industry, is among businesses
seeing an improvement in orders as the economy recovers. The
maker of components used in construction equipment, aircraft,
refrigeration, and hybrid delivery trucks also projected growth
in the  Europe ,  Asia  and Latin America regions.  “We’re pretty bullish as far as what the future order
pattern is,” Thomas Williams, executive vice president and
operating officer, said on a conference call on Feb. 9. “Our
backlog is building,” he said, and “we’ve got ramp-up in
volume.”  Investors are bullish on the outlook for manufacturers. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has surged 56
percent in the 12 months to Feb. 15, outpacing a 21 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 index .  Recent reports reinforce projections for continued growth
in manufacturing. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index jumped last month to the highest level since May 2004,
while the Fed Bank of New York’s general economic gauge showed
activity expanded in February at the fastest pace since June.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  