-- 
ING Fourth-Quarter Net Misses Estimates on U.S. Insurance Unit Writedown

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-02-16T16:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ing-groep-posts-fourth-quarter-profit-of-586-million-missing-estimates.html
  ING Groep NV , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, reported a fourth-quarter profit
that missed estimates on costs related to the separation of its
bank and insurance units.  Net income of 433 million euros ($587 million) in the three
months ended Dec. 31 compared with a loss of 712 million euros
in the year-earlier period, Amsterdam-based ING said in a
statement today. That fell short of the 537 million-euro average
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Results included
a 975 million-euro pretax charge in the U.S. insurance business.  ING, created by the 1991 merger of insurer Nationale
Nederlanden and NMB Postbank Group, is preparing to sell its
insurance operations, a condition for the European Union’s
approval of  government aid . The firm is considering two initial
public offerings, one for the European and Asian businesses and
one for the U.S., and Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen has
said the IPOs would will most likely take place in 2012,
depending on market conditions.  “The focus for 2011 will be on preparing the insurance
company for two IPOs and working toward the repurchase of the
remaining outstanding core Tier 1 securities from the Dutch
state,” Hommen said in today’s statement.  ING’s bailout included 10 billion euros of state aid and
the transfer of 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage assets. The
firm paid back 5 billion euros in December 2009, and Hommen said
today he’s “quite hopeful that we can repay the Dutch state to
a significant amount this year.”  ‘Higher Than Expected’  Divestments and special items, mainly related to
restructuring programs and separation costs, totaled 211 million
euros after tax in the fourth quarter, according to ING.  The firm, which traces its roots to 1743, rose 0.2 percent
to 9 euros in Amsterdam trading today. The stock has gained 24
percent this year, for a market value of about 34 billion euros.  “Restructuring costs and one-off expenses related to the
separation process where higher than expected,” said Jan Willem Weidema, an Amsterdam-based analyst at  ABN Amro .  Costs for the split between bank and insurer are expected
to be about 200 million euros this year, ING said in a
 presentation  on its website.  EU regulators were uncertain last November whether ING
would obey a “repayment schedule for the state capital set out
in the restructuring plan,” the European Commission  said  in a
letter to the Dutch government dated Nov. 29, which was
published on the EU’s website today.  Underlying Profit  The antitrust agency blocked ING’s plans to redeem $1.5
billion in hybrid capital issued in December 2009, ING said Nov.
30. The document published today says the EU disallowed the
redemption because it was “a key incentive” to repay a
taxpayer-funded bailout as quickly as possible.  Profit excluding divestments and special items climbed to
644 million euros in the fourth quarter from 90 million euros in
a year earlier, ING said. That compared with a 664 million-euro
average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Pretax profit at the banking unit soared to 1.5 billion
euros from 163 million euros, helped by an increase in net
interest margin, the difference between what the bank pays for
funds and what it charges for loans, which rose 6 basis points
to 1.47 percent. Loan-loss provisions fell to 415 million euros
in the fourth quarter from 689 million euros a year earlier.  ‘Strong’ Bank Earnings  “Banking earnings were strong, which is the business to be
retained,” Dirk Peeters, a Brussels-based analyst at KBC
Securities, wrote in a note today. “Insurance earnings were
weak, but are affected by the clean-up of the balance sheet in
the run-up to the IPOs.” He rates the stock “accumulate.”  The adjusted pretax loss at the insurance division was 690
million euros, compared with the 600 million-euro average
estimate of nine analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  ING agreed to split its insurance and banking units by the
end of 2013 to gain EU approval for its government bailout. ING
and the Netherlands are appealing the regulator’s decision on
measures taken against the company after it received the aid.  The lender doesn’t know yet when an outcome of the court
case can be expected, Hommen told analysts on a conference call.  ING yesterday said it agreed to sell the majority of its
Real Estate Investment Management unit to CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. for about 770 million euros as it aims to reduce property-
related risk.  The firm is also in the process of selling its Westland
Utrecht retail banking unit, another EU requirement. “We are
still very active in finding buyers,” Hommen said. ING is
“exploring all options” for the insurance operations in Latin
America, he also said, adding that the firm has received
“numerous expressions of interest” from potential buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  