-- 
Ivory Coast Financial System Grinding to Halt as Banks, Bourse Lock Doors

-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-02-16T17:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/ivory-coast-financial-system-grinding-to-halt-as-banks-bourse-lock-doors.html
Ivory Coast ’s financial system is
grinding to a halt, with bank closing and the stock market
halting trade as the West African nation’s political crisis
drags into its 11th week.    Standard Chartered Plc  became at least the third lender to
halt operations in the world’s top cocoa producer this week,
citing safety issues after a disputed Nov. 28 election left the
country with two rival administrations.  Citigroup Inc . and  BNP
Paribas  SA closed their units this week.  “Given the increasingly challenging operating environment
in the  Ivory Coast , we have decided to temporarily suspend our
operations there until it is safe to reopen,” Shaun Gamble, a
London-based spokesman at Standard Chartered, said by e-mail
today.  The closure comes after the  Central Bank  of West African
States demanded banks in the region halt all transactions with
its agencies in Ivory Coast after they were seized by  Laurent Gbagbo , the incumbent president. Alassane Ouattara, the
internationally recognized winner of the election, called on
companies to stop paying taxes to Gbagbo’s administration and
told coffee and cocoa shippers to stop exports for one month in
a bid to starve Gbagbo of funds.  Setback  “This is a significant setback for Gbagbo’s
administration,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging market
strategist at Standard Bank Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note
today. “The financial system has virtually come to a
standstill, which is likely to erode the regime’s base of
support going forward, especially if public and private sector
salaries are not serviced later this month.”  Clients filled banks in the commercial capital, Abidjan,
that were still open today. “People are afraid,” said Laurent
Kone, owner of a food-processing company in the city who waited
at a branch of SGBCI, a unit of  France ’s  Societe Generale  SA.
“We’re anxious because we don’t know what could happen.”  About 40 people lined up at an automated teller machine in
Plateau neighborhood for Societe Ivoirienne de Banques, which is
jointly owned by Morocco’s Attijariwafa Bank and the government
of Ivory Coast.  The Bourse Regionale des Valeurs Mobilieres shuttered today
following the Feb. 9 seizure of its office by Gbagbo’s
administration. He called the move to halt trading on the market
“void,” according to a statement e-mailed today.  Economic Contraction  Ivory Coast’s economy, once the second-biggest in West
Africa after Nigeria, may contract in the first half of the year
as the crisis deepens, Gadio and other Standard Bank researchers
said last month. The European Union levied trade and travel
sanctions on Gbagbo, his supporters, and institutions that aid
his bid to stay in power last month.  At least 296 people have been killed in post-election
violence, according to the  United Nations . Ouattara remains
holed up in the Golf Hotel in Abidjan, where he is protected by
UN peacekeepers. Gbagbo retains control over the army, state
television and over public institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 