-- 
Japan and India Sign Trade Agreement to Cut Tariffs Over Next 10 Years

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-02-16T03:59:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/japan-india-sign-trade-accord-to-cut-tariffs-as-asian-investment-expands.html
Japan and  India  signed an economic
agreement that will abolish tariffs on 94 percent of trade over
10 years as each country expands its investment in  Asia .  India Trade Minister  Anand Sharma  and Japanese Foreign
Minister Seiji Maehara signed the Comprehensive Economic
Partnership Agreement today in Tokyo. Indian Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh and Japanese counterpart Naoto Kan reached a
preliminary deal in October.  The accord will give companies including  Toshiba Corp .,
Hitachi Ltd. and Bridgestone Corp. greater access to the second-
fastest growing major economy as Japan seeks to keep pace with
China’s rising presence in the region. India, whose main
overseas markets are the U.S. and the European Union, is trying
to expand trade by signing agreements with Asian countries.  Trade between Japan and India totaled $10.4 billion in the
year ending March 31, 2010, down 5 percent from the previous
year, according to Indian government  data . Japan was India’s
11th-biggest trading  partner  in the April to June quarter of
2010.  Malaysia , where Sharma will go to sign a separate deal
this week, was ranked eighteenth.  Kan has said Japan must open up to free trade to boost an
economy that last year was replaced by  China  as the world’s
second-biggest. He is seeking to join the U.S.-led  Trans-Pacific
Partnership  trade talks with nine Asia-Pacific countries, which
is opposed by Japan’s agriculture industry, a key constituency.  “Essential” for Japan  “These trade agreements that boost both exports and
imports in Japan are essential for the country’s continued
development,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-
Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Japan’s been behind on
signing these trade deals, as consideration to the domestic
industries have made it politically difficult. But we’re past
the point of being able to afford such niceties.”  Under the terms of the deal signed today, tariffs on items
such as Japanese automobile parts and diesel engines will be
reduced, and those on digital video disc players and tractors
will be abolished over the next decade.  “I hope bilateral relations will build a win-win
partnership,” Maehara said after signing the deal. Sharma said
India is “fully delighted” with the agreement.  Investment Fund Proposal  Sharma last night met with Kan and proposed setting up a $9
billion joint fund to help finance an industrial corridor
between New Delhi and  Mumbai , according to an e-mailed statement
from India’s trade ministry. Sharma told Kan India needs $550
billion in infrastructure investment over the next five years
and another $1 trillion in the five years after that.  Toshiba, Japan’s largest supplier of nuclear reactors,
entered the Indian power market through a joint venture with
Indian power utility JSW Energy Ltd. The company is in talks
with NTPC Ltd., India’s biggest power producer, to build a pilot
project for capturing and storing  carbon emissions .  “The gravity of economic activity is shifting to Asia and
we should have as much access to these markets as we can, Rajeev Kumar, director general of the New Delhi-based  Federation of
Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry , said on Feb. 14.  China and India in December pledged vowed to boost trade by
two-thirds to $100 billion in the next five years after Singh
met in  New Delhi  with Chinese premier Wen Jiabao.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  