-- 
Jeff Wilpon Says Control of New York Mets Not for Sale as Suitors Line Up

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T18:55:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/jeff-wilpon-says-control-of-new-york-mets-not-for-sale-as-suitors-line-up.html
The  New York  Mets’ owners aren’t
willing to sell a controlling interest in the franchise, Chief
Operating Officer Jeff Wilpon reiterated after several ownership
candidates surfaced in recent days.  Wilpon and his father, Fred Wilpon, the Mets’ chairman,
said on Jan. 28 that they may sell as much as 25 percent of the
Major League Baseball team because of a lawsuit tied to the  Ponzi scheme  created by Bernard L. Madoff.  Making an appearance today in the Mets’ spring-training
clubhouse in  Port St. Lucie ,  Florida , Jeff Wilpon told reporters
that his family won’t be forced to give up control of the
franchise.  “We’re not selling controlling interest in the team,”
Wilpon said, according to several news organizations including
the  New York Daily News . “It’s not on the table.”  Trustee Irving Picard wants to recover $300 million in
alleged phony profits from Madoff’s scheme made by Sterling
Equities Inc., which owns the Mets, and as much as $700 million
in principal, his lawyer, David Sheehan, said on Feb. 11.    Jeff Wilpon ’s comments came the day after executives from
the investment bank and brokerage firm Tritaurian Capital Inc.
created  BuyTheMets.com , which would sell $999 shares in an
ownership group that would give fans a voice in running the
team.    Donald Trump , the billionaire real estate developer, said
he contacted the Wilpons about two weeks ago to set up
discussions on potentially buying a majority stake in the
club, according to the New York Times.  Repole’s Interest  Michael Repole, the co-founder of Glaceau Vitaminwater
sports drink, said in an interview last month that he has tried
to contact Steve Greenberg, a managing director at Allen & Co.,
who was hired as the Wilpons’ adviser to address the situation
created by the Madoff lawsuit. Repole, an avid Mets’ fan, sold
Vitaminwater to Coca-Cola Inc. for $4.1 billion in 2007. He now
owns a colt that races in the Mets’ orange and blue colors
and is the favorite for this year’s  Kentucky Derby .  BuyTheMets.com was started partly out of love for New York
sports, said James Preissler, a managing director at Tritaurian
Capital, who created the investment vehicle with partners John
Calce and William Heyn.  “It just stings when your team stinks and the reason why
it stinks is because one billionaire screwed over another
billionaire,” Preissler said.  Specified Purpose Acquisitions  Preissler, a 39-year-old from Northport, New York,
said in a telephone interview that he has a background
in creating specified purpose acquisition corporations, where
capital is raised and put in escrow, keeping the money safe
while finding an investment. When one is found, shareholders can
either go along with the transaction or get their money
back.  “This methodology could be used for a bunch of different
things,” Preissler said. “Here it would be used to buy the
Mets or a controlling interest in the Mets, and if it doesn’t
work out, the people are as protected as possible.”  The goal of the initiative would be to provide Mets’ fans
with a voice in running a franchise that’s missed the playoffs
all but once in the past decade, while also making the
investments potentially financially lucrative, Preissler said.  ‘Hands of Fans’  “To the extent it’s possible, we could put as much in the
hands of the fans as possible that  Major League Baseball  would
allow,” Preissler said. “That’s the trick, that’s not our
call.”  Patrick Courtney, a spokesman for Major League Baseball,
declined to comment in a telephone interview.  The  Cleveland Indians  went public at $15 a share in June
1998, with about two-thirds of the team and 99 percent of the  voting rights  remaining in the hands of Chairman Richard Jacobs.
The team was sold in its entirety to Lawrence Dolan in February
2000, with former shareholders receiving $22.66 a share.  Preissler said he was unsure of how many potential
investors had signed since launching BuyTheMets.com yesterday
because of technical difficulties created by traffic on the
website.  The Mets were the third-highest-valued team in the major
leagues at $858 million, behind the Yankees ($1.6 billion) and  Boston Red Sox  ($870 million), Forbes magazine said in April
2010. It said the Mets’ value had dropped 6 percent from 2009,
with $268 million in revenue and operating income of $26.2
million.  Stadium, Network  The Wilpons said on a Jan. 28 conference call that any sale
wouldn’t involve Citi Field, their home stadium, or SportsNet
New York, their regional sports network. That unit was created
by Sterling Entertainment Enterprises, Time Warner Inc. and
Comcast Corp. in 2006, according to the network’s website.  Preissler said he would also consider buying a minority
interest in the team, even if the Wilpons maintained control.  “You could buy a minority interest as long as the minority
is well represented and the business is run properly,”
Preissler said. “This is nothing against the Wilpons per se.
They unfortunately found themselves in a bind. The problem is
that bind may affect the best interest of the Mets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 