-- 
JPMorgan Consolidates Trading Platforms to Cut Costs, 3,000 Jobs by 2014

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-02-16T20:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/jpmorgan-consolidates-trading-platforms-to-cut-costs-3-000-jobs-by-2014.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s investment
bank has reduced trading costs for foreign exchange and other
transactions from about 75 cents per trade to around 10 cents by
consolidating some trading systems.  The overhaul began about two years ago, Jes Staley, the
unit’s chief investment officer, said during an investor meeting
at the company’s New York headquarters yesterday. JPMorgan has
cut its trading systems from 10 platforms to five with plans for
just two systems by 2014, he said.  When the project is complete, the costs to process a trade
should fall to five cents, with some of that savings being
passed on to clients, Staley said.  “Just think of the importance of having a foreign exchange
desk, whether you are in  Sao Paulo ,  Brazil  or Tokyo, Japan or
Berlin,  Germany , you’re on the exact same system, so you have
the exact same pricing and deal with clients in the exact same
way. The impact is extraordinary,” Staley said. “Once we get
the consolidation, then we get to innovate and to make the
overall system that much more efficient.”  The lender, which processes about 68 million foreign
exchange trades a year, will be able to eliminate 3,000 jobs of
employees who manually process trades by the end of 2014, Staley
said. Those people may move to other functions within the bank,
said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a company spokeswoman.  The new system, which will cost about $500 million over the
five-year program, will save the company about $300 million with
a “broader impact” of $1 billion a year once it’s in place,
Staley said. The new platform will enable JPMorgan to execute
trades faster and to get products to the market quicker.  “The real impact though is on the revenue side,” he said,
comparing the new systems with game-changers like the cellular
telephone for consumers and iPad for institutional clients. “If
we can get innovative like that, I think our revenue impact will
be even more significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  