-- 
Kickback Investigation Tests CVC's Romance With Formula One's Ecclestone

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-16T02:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/kickback-investigation-tests-cvc-s-romance-with-formula-one-s-ecclestone.html
Banker Gerhard Gribkowsky may have
taken a $50 million kickback for engineering the sale of Formula
One, the world’s most-watched motor sport, German prosecutors
say. Who paid that suspected bribe, they aren’t saying.  That mystery has thrown a spotlight on the partnership
between 80-year-old Formula One Management Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer Bernie Ecclestone, a fixture of  London’s tabloids , and
the company’s buyer, CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of  Europe ’s
largest and most-private buyout firms. The case is also reviving
the anger of media mogul  Leo Kirch , who says the racing company
he once owned was sold on the cheap. Meanwhile, Gribkowsky sits
in a German prison that held  Adolf Hitler .  “When investing in a company like Formula One and betting
on a man like Bernie, you have to be prepared for high-profile
scrutiny as the media are always looking for scandals and
controversy,” said  Mark Jenkins , author of a book on Formula
One. “The timing may be tricky for CVC if the firm wants to
realize its investment in the next years.”  The investigation is focused on the 2005 sale of a 48
percent stake in London-based Formula One to CVC by  Bayerische
Landesbank  in Munich, which received a 10 billion-euro ($13.5
billion) government bailout following losses on U.S. subprime
mortgages. That investigation is adding to uncertainties about
Formula One’s future, making an exit more difficult for CVC,
which manages 31 billion euros, including Europe’s second-
largest buyout fund.  Hitler’s Prison  Gribkowsky, 52, a former risk manager at BayernLB who left
in 2008, is in custody in Munich’s  Stadelheim prison  -- where
Hitler spent time in 1922 for disturbing the peace and where
alleged Nazi death-camp guard  John Demjanjuk  is being held --
because he may have taken a bribe to sell his employer’s stake
in Formula One without first performing a “proper valuation,”
prosecutors said in a statement on Jan. 5.  “According to the current findings, the suspect, in turn,
received $50 million in payments disguised via two consultancy
agreements,” Munich prosecutors said in the statement. A
spokesman for the prosecutors declined to say who may have made
the payments. No charges have been filed against Gribkowsky, who
is being held while the probe continues. Ecclestone hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing.  The banker confided to people who worked with him that the
$50 million was a consulting fee paid by Ecclestone, not a bribe,
those people told prosecutors, German newspaper  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  reported Feb. 5, without saying where it got the
information.  ‘No Knowledge’  Barbara Stockinger, a spokeswoman for the Munich
prosecutors, said in a Jan. 5 interview with Bloomberg News that
the money was deposited in an Austrian trust Gribkowsky
controlled called Sonnenschein, or sunshine in German. Austria
dropped a money-laundering probe into the payments.  Gribkowsky’s lawyer, Reinhard Hoess, declined to comment.  Formula One said in a Jan. 21 statement that Gribkowsky
received only $50,000 a year since 2006 as a non-executive
director of the company. “The Formula One group and Mr.
Ecclestone have no knowledge of, nor any involvement in, any
other payment to Dr. Gribkowsky nor to anyone connected with
him,” the company said.  In an interview, Ecclestone declined to say anything more
about Gribkowsky or the investigation.  “I’ve been advised not to talk to anyone about it,” he
said. “A person has been detained.”  CVC, based in Luxembourg, said in a Jan. 5 statement that
it “has no knowledge of, nor any involvement in, any payment to
Mr. Gribkowsky or anyone connected with him in relation to CVC’s
acquisition of Formula One.”  BayernLB’s Claims  CVC and the board of Formula One’s holding company, Delta
Topco, have appointed Ernst & Young LLP and law firm Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP to investigate the circumstances
surrounding the Formula One takeover in 2006, Sky News
reported yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  The firm, whose chairman, Michael Smith, rarely gives
interviews to the press, wouldn’t comment further on the
investigation or Formula One.  BayernLB,  Germany ’s second-largest state-owned bank, is
seeking to freeze Sonnenschein’s assets as it claims 200 million
euros in damages from Gribkowsky for his role in the bank’s
subprime losses and the acquisition of Austrian lender Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, a Bavarian Finance Ministry
spokesman said on Feb. 2.  The roots of the investigation date to 2002, when Kirch’s
media empire collapsed after the German cable TV and publishing
entrepreneur couldn’t make payments on $5.7 billion of debt.  JPMorgan, Lehman  Kirch, 84, used loans to fund multiple acquisitions,
including Formula One. He became the controlling owner after
providing $987 million in 2001 to fund an option to buy 25
percent of the firm from Ecclestone and purchasing a 50 percent
stake owned by EM.TV & Merchandising AG, a German maker of
children’s programs. Ecclestone held the remaining 25 percent.  Kirch’s ownership was short-lived as his lenders seized
control of his assets a year later. BayernLB, Kirch’s largest
lender, ended up with 48 percent of Formula One. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., both based in  New York ,
shared 27 percent.  Gribkowsky, representing BayernLB, became chairman of
Formula One. He clashed with Ecclestone after the CEO claimed a
single share in one of the racing company’s units gave him half
of the  voting rights . The banks sued Ecclestone, and the two
parties settled their differences on the eve of a London trial.  ‘Ticking Bomb’  Eight months later, in 2005, BayernLB sold its stake to  CVC 
for an undisclosed amount. Gribkowsky, who became a member of
the bank’s management board in 2003, ran the sale and stayed on
the Formula One board as a non-executive director. By March 2006,
CVC took over almost all of Formula One, buying the other
lenders’ stakes as well as most of Ecclestone’s with $2.5
billion in loans.  Ecclestone, who remained CEO, said in an interview that he
doesn’t hold any shares. He said his family’s trust, Bambino
Holdings, whose beneficiaries are his former wife, Slavica, and
his two daughters, reinvested some of the proceeds from the sale
alongside CVC, owning less than 10 percent of the company now.  Ecclestone and his family trust received $67 million from
BayernLB for brokering the CVC deal and the settlement of “an
open claim,”  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported on Feb. 12, citing
an unidentified person with knowledge of the bank’s books.
Ecclestone didn’t return a call seeking comment on the report.  Formula One’s Value  The kickback case “has been a ticking bomb for at least a
year now,” said Klaus Fleischer, professor of banking and
finance at the University of Applied Sciences in Munich.
“BayernLB is a money sink and is under enormous political
pressure to clean up the whole mess of subprime, Hypo Alpe-Adria
and Formula One.”  Gribkowsky didn’t run a competitive auction when BayernLB
sold its 48 percent stake, two people with knowledge of the deal
said. Kirch’s lawyers say the sale undervalued Formula One,
according to a letter sent to the bank on Jan. 6.  Accounting firm  KPMG  valued Formula One at 5.5 billion to 7
billion Deutsche marks ($3.8 billion to $4.9 billion) in 2001,
when Kirch weighed an initial public offering of his media group,
according to the letter, obtained by Bloomberg News. In 2003,
BayernLB CEO Werner Schmidt said the racing company was valued
at 3 billion euros. The bank sold its stake to CVC in 2005 for
about $860 million, the letter said, without citing where
Kirch’s lawyers got their information. BayernLB must reclaim its
“bargained away” stake, the lawyers said in the letter.  First Bridge, Lewington  CVC’s purchase wasn’t cheap, Ecclestone said. If anything,
he said, it was too high. Threats from car manufacturers to
leave Formula One because they were unhappy about the split of
TV revenue were raging, making CVC’s bet riskier and lowering
the price, he said.  “There were all sorts of dramas at the time,” Ecclestone
said. “The car manufacturers wanted to march into the night.”  CVC offered the manufacturers’ teams better terms, quelling
dissent, he said.  A unit of Gribkowsky’s Sonnenschein sent a letter to
Ecclestone’s  London  office in December 2007 to complain about a
delay in a $2.3 million payment, part of a $25 million fee,
Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported Jan. 22, citing the letter written
by the banker’s lawyer. The letter noted a contract with British
Virgin Islands-based Lewington Invest Ltd., the newspaper said.  From 2006 to 2007, while part of BayernLB’s top management,
Gribkowsky received another $25 million from Mauritius-based
First Bridge Holding Ltd., the newspaper also reported.  CVC Returns  Neither First Bridge nor Lewington could be reached for
comment. First Bridge was listed as defunct by the Mauritius
registrar of companies. Lewington Invest was registered in the
British Virgin Islands, an official at the island’s financial
commission said, without providing details. Neither a telephone
number nor an e-mail address for Lewington was available.  CVC, whose investments include printing-inks supplier Flint
Group, Evonik Industries AG, Germany’s largest specialty
chemicals maker, and Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd., the owner
of Madame Tussauds in London, isn’t new to motor sports. It sold
 MotoGP , the motorcycling equivalent of Formula One, for as much
as 500 million euros to buyout firm Bridgepoint Capital Ltd.
eight years after acquiring it for $82 million, two people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time of the sale in 2006.  The buyout firm, the former European private-equity arm of
Citigroup Inc., has delivered some of the industry’s best
returns. CVC’s latest 10.8 billion-euro pool is showing a gain
exceeding 30 percent, according to two people with knowledge of
the situation. That places the fund in the top 25 percent of
performers, according to research firm Preqin Ltd.  Hands-on Manager  Since arriving at Formula One more than five decades ago as
a driver, Ecclestone, who is 5-foot-2, has a mop of gray hair
and wears round glasses, has turned the racing series into one
of the world’s most popular sporting events. Last year, the 19
Formula One races attracted about 527 million television viewers
in 187 countries. In 2009, it generated more than $1.1 billion
in revenue, according to a company filing in May.  Ecclestone has become a billionaire, ranked 38th on the
Sunday Times  Rich List  in 2010 with an estimated wealth of $1.4
billion pounds ($2.2 billion). The one-time auto dealer is known
for his hands-on management style: He even organizes loans to
keep teams afloat, former Minardi team owner Paul Stoddart said,
recalling that Ecclestone agreed to a “multimillion” dollar
loan in 2002 to enable his team to start the season.  The CEO is also popular with U.K. newspapers for his
quotable style --  Hitler  was “able to get things done” -- and
his personal life, including his marriage and divorce from a
 former Croatian model  10 inches taller and 28 years younger.  ‘Unique Individual’    Bernie Ecclestone  is a unique individual,” said Jenkins,
author of “Performance at the Limit” about Formula One and a
professor of business strategy at Cranfield School of Management,
50 miles north of London. “I can’t imagine one individual doing
his job when he’s gone. There are so many aspects to his role.”  Since the CVC acquisition, Formula One has been plagued by
a cheating scandal, and the global economic slump led Honda
Motor Co., Toyota Motor Co. and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG to
quit. The average race audience fell to 44 million in 2009 from
52 million in 2004 as younger people watch less TV, according to
London-based Future Sport & Entertainment.  The sport is betting on growth in  Asia  and the Middle East
after  France  was dropped from the schedule because it couldn’t
meet the costs and Italy and Germany lost one of their two
annual races. This year, the championship has 20 races,
including one hosted by  India  for the first time.  Formula One Results  Since 2007, Formula One’s profit before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization has changed little at $428 million,
according to filings by Delta 3 UK Ltd., a CVC-controlled
company holding its main assets. The company has posted annual
net losses of about $500 million during those years, on non-cash
debt interest charges, according to U.K. filings.  CVC recovered some of its investment through dividends
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc agreed to a $3 billion
debt recapitalization in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buyout firms often look to exit their investments within
five to six years of the acquisition. The investigation will
make that more difficult for CVC, Jenkins said. Another issue,
he said, is the renewal of an agreement with the teams in 2012
on how to share TV revenue. Most important, Jenkins said, is
life for Formula One without Ecclestone.  “If Bernie Ecclestone isn’t there, that makes the
investment vulnerable because of his incredible position in the
industry, his ability to negotiate and resolve issues and
tensions and protect the investment,” Jenkins said.  Ecclestone said grooming a successor isn’t on his agenda.
“That would be like  Frank Sinatra  looking for another singer,”
he said. “They will probably get three or four people doing
what I do. It will be more corporate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  