-- 
Kobe Steel May Be ‘at Center’ of Consolidation, Citigroup Says

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-02-16T05:35:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/kobe-steel-may-be-at-center-of-consolidation-citigroup-says.html
  Kobe Steel Ltd ., Japan’s fourth-
largest maker of the alloy, is “likely to be at the center” of
moves by the nation’s producers to combine, Citigroup Inc. said,
upgrading the stock to a “Buy.”  A merger between the No. 1 and No. 3 producers  Nippon Steel
Corp . and  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd ., announced Feb. 3,
should help Japan’s steelmakers claw back profits eroded since
2003 and make further tie-ups in the industry “inevitable,”
Toshiyuki Johno, a Tokyo-based analyst, said in a note to
investors yesterday.  “The merger is a potential game-changer for the Japanese  steel industry  and may trigger another round of consolidation
both in Japan and elsewhere,” he said. Kobe may “ally with a
peer to ensure a recovery of value-added in the industry.”  Japanese steelmakers need to regain pricing power in talks
with raw material producers to return to profit after three of
the top five posted losses in the last financial year. The steel
companies have struggled with a shrinking domestic economy,
deflation, a shift of domestic manufacturing orders overseas, as
well as “a few” coking coal and iron ore miners controlling 70
percent of supply, according to Citigroup.  Raised From Hold  Citigroup’s Johno raised Kobe from a “Hold” and set a 12-
month target price of 280 yen ($3.34). Kobe steel closed at 229
yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange the day before the note was
published. It’s up 16 percent this year.  Sumitomo Metal Chairman Hiroshi Shimozuma said Feb. 9 that
the Kobe-based company can join the merger if it splits off its
non-steel businesses. Kobe Steel declined to comment on
Shimozuma’s remarks.    JFE Holdings Inc ., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, is
another “possible candidate” to merge with Kobe Steel, which
also makes copper and aluminum, as well as construction
machinery, Johno said.  Aside from aligning its steel operations with another
producer, Kobe Steel may pursue an independent path, which is
likely to mean tying up with an electric-arc furnace maker of
specialty steel, he said. “This could result in it taking the
lead and engineering industry reorganization.”. Its ITmk3 unit
in  Vietnam  would be best placed for a partnership, he said.  Citigroup forecasts Kobe Steel profits to rise to 55
billion yen in the financial year ending March 31, 2013, from
6.3 billion in 2010, driven by growth in the company’s steel,
resources, engineering and machinery businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  