-- 
Gas Buyers Seek End of Europe’s Two-Tier Pricing: Energy Markets

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-02-16T16:47:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/natural-gas-buyers-seek-end-of-europe-s-two-tier-pricing-energy-markets.html
The biggest difference between
natural gas and crude oil prices in eight months is fanning
calls by  Europe ’s largest power producers to scrap the almost
40-year-old system for setting their fuel costs.    E.ON AG ,  Germany ’s biggest gas importer, asked suppliers
last year to sell it fuel at spot-market rates rather than at
prices tied to oil products, two people with knowledge of the
matter said this week. GDF Suez SA, operator of Europe’s largest
natural-gas network, said in September it was negotiating a
stronger link to spot prices for long-term purchases. North Sea
Brent crude costs $55 a barrel more than U.K. gas, the most
since May 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas buyers on mainland Europe buy about two-thirds of their
fuel under long-term contracts, a formula that’s driven up their
costs after Brent crude rallied 9 percent this year to a 28-
month high. By contrast, U.K. consumers can purchase gas at
cheaper spot-market prices, which have fallen 15 percent.  “If E.ON is pushing for 100 percent spot indexation it
suggests they believe the entire European market is moving to a
fully liberalized structure as already exists in Britain and  North America ,” said Patrick Heren, a London-based consultant
who founded Heren Energy Ltd., the European price-information
service bought by Reed Business Information Ltd. to form ICIS
Heren.  Oil-Linked Contracts  The contracts are often pegged to gasoil or fuel oil prices
with a three-to-six month time lag, rather than crude, in a
method that dates back to the 1970s, when oil-based fuels were
more commonly used in power generation. Spot gas prices have
fallen 40 percent from their 2008 peak as industrial demand
collapsed during the global financial crisis and U.S. and Middle
Eastern supply rose.  E.ON is in talks with all its suppliers over adapting long-
term contracts to the “current market situation,” Kai
Krischnak, a spokesman for E.ON Ruhrgas, the company’s Essen-
based gas unit, said yesterday. He declined to comment on
contract details or the timing of the talks.  Moscow-based OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest producer,
agreed last year with companies such as E.ON, Wingas GmbH,  GDF
Suez , Eni SpA to reduce prices by including more spot fuel and
delaying some contracted volumes to a later period, the Russian
company said in a quarterly earnings report on Feb. 14.  Arbitration Confidence  The company reached agreements with E.ON, Eni and GDF Suez
on their requests for reconsidering price formulas, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev said in November. The deals
will last for three years, he said.  “A number of our key customers used their right to
renegotiate prices at the beginning of last year,” Medvedev
said at an investor meeting in  London  yesterday. “If it does
come to arbitration proceedings, we are pretty confident.”  As much as 67 percent of gas on mainland Europe was sold
under oil-linked contracts last year, Societe Generale SA said
in a Feb. 2 report. Prices in the U.K.’s National Balancing
Point market are determined by supply and demand, without any
direct link to oil.  North Sea  Brent crude  oil settled at $101.64 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London yesterday. U.K.
natural gas closed at 52.89 pence a therm, or $48.45 a barrel
when converted into similar units.  ‘Increasingly Untenable’  “A rising oil price makes things very rapidly increasingly
untenable” for consumers with oil-linked contracts, Jonathan Stern, director of gas research at the Oxford Institute for
Energy Studies, said in a phone interview from Oxford,  England .  E.ON Ruhrgas sold 20.6 billion euros ($27.9 billion) of the
fuel in 2009, or about 58 billion cubic meters, according to its
website. That’s more gas than  India  used that year, according to
BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  While purchases based solely on U.K. gas futures would have
averaged $6.40 a million British thermal units last year, the
cost for buyers of Gazprom’s contract gas was $8.60 a million
Btu in 2010, according to data from Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The world’s gas “glut” may exceed 200 billion cubic
meters this year, up from 130 billion in 2010, the  International
Energy Agency , an adviser to developed nations, said in
November. The Paris-based agency defines the glut as the
capacity of inter-regional pipelines and liquefied-gas export
plants minus the volume of gas traded.  Deferred Deliveries  About 5 billion cubic meters of pre-paid Russian gas is
weighing on spot prices because customers have deferred delivery
to a later date, said Thierry Bros, a senior analyst at Societe
Generale SA. The oil link will be preserved and utilities will
“suck up their losses” before the market returns to balance by
the middle of the decade, he said in London yesterday.  E.ON “didn’t share the money with their customers or with
Gazprom when oil-indexed contracts were out of the money” in
2005-2007. At that time, lower  oil prices  cut gas costs to
utilities that bought supplies under multiyear contracts, Bros
said.  For Heren, E.ON and other companies are faced with the
dilemma of buying gas at a higher price than they can pass on to
consumers amid competition from liquefied natural gas shipments
and U.K. supplies priced in the free market.  E.ON “cannot support an ineffective two-tier pricing
system,” he said. “With the changes in the European energy
marketplace it recognizes that it cannot purchase gas on an oil-
indexed basis which it will then have to sell on a gas index.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  