-- 
NetApp Forecast Trails Estimates on Product Shortages

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-16T23:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/netapp-profit-forecast-trails-estimates-as-competition-rises-shares-drop.html
  NetApp Inc ., a maker of data-storage
products, forecast fourth-quarter profit that trailed analyst
estimates as the company increases spending to catch up with
customer demand.  Excluding some costs, earnings in the current quarter will
be 49 cents to 53 cents a share, NetApp said today in a
statement. Analysts had projected 54 cents, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales will be about $1.38
billion, matching the average analyst estimate.  The company, whose clients include Oracle Corp. and Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., sells hardware and software that let
companies more easily store, compress and access data. Strong
demand has led to a shortage of supplies, and restocking
materials will add expenses and cut margins this quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Steven Gomo said in a telephone interview.  “The surprising thing this quarter was that demand blew
away our expectations so much that we ran out of some
material,” Gomo said. “We want to make sure we have all the
supplies that we need to meet customer demand.”  Sunnyvale, California-based NetApp dropped as much as
8.4 percent to $53.61 after the forecast. The shares had gained
10 cents to $58.54 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The stock jumped 60 percent last year.  Net Income  Net income in the fiscal third quarter, which ended in
January, rose 60 percent to $172.5 million, or 42 cents a share,
from $107.9 million, or 30 cents, a year earlier, NetApp said in
the statement. Profit excluding some items was 52 cents,
exceeding the 50-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 25 percent to $1.27 billion.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting manufacturing costs, in the fourth quarter will be
65 percent, a decline from 65.5 percent in the third quarter and
66.9 percent in the second quarter, Gomo said.  Operating margin, another measure of profitability, will
narrow to 18.2 percent excluding one-time costs in the fourth
quarter, Gomo said, a 1.2 percentage-point decline from the
third quarter and 1.6 percentage points lower than in the second
quarter.  “You get a little bit tainted when we have two 19-plus
quarters in a row,” Gomo said.  Larger Rivals  Competition has been increasing from EMC Corp.,
International Business Machines Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co . and  Dell Inc ., each of which snapped up a data-storage company in
the past year as they pushed further into the market.  “The challenge for NetApp is to extend into difficult
markets,” Bachman, who has a “market perform” rating on the
shares, said before earnings were released. “When you’re firing
on all cylinders, if there are any missteps, it’s bad by
comparison.”  In addition to storage hardware, NetApp sells software and
services. Many of the company’s most profitable products fit
into the two latter categories, according to  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco , who has a “buy”
rating on shares.  NetApp is the third-biggest seller of external computer-
storage systems, trailing EMC and IBM, according to third-
quarter figures by Gartner Inc., a research firm based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . HP ranks fourth and Dell is fifth.  In September, HP agreed to buy storage-systems maker 3Par
Inc. for $2.35 billion, outbidding Dell, and IBM purchased
Netezza Corp. for $1.7 billion in November. EMC announced the
acquisition of Isilon Systems Inc. for $2.25 billion in November
to gain video-storage equipment. In December, Dell agreed to buy
data-storage company Compellent Technologies Inc. for $960
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 