-- 
LNG-Tanker Rates Doubling as Ship Glut Erodes: Freight Markets

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-02-16T19:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/lng-tanker-rates-seen-doubling-as-ship-glut-disappears-freight-markets.html
Record demand for liquefied natural-
gas is causing the decade-long glut of vessels that carry the
fuel to disappear, doubling freight rates and at least tripling
profit for shipping lines  Golar LNG Ltd. (GLNG)  and Exmar NV.  Consumption of LNG, liquefied by cooling the gas to about
minus 260 degrees Fahrenheit, is rising 5.1 percent at a time
when nations from the U.K. to  South Korea  are increasing curbs
on pollution. Natural gas emits about 50 percent less carbon
dioxide than coal and power companies are also burning more
because it’s cheaper after plunging 30 percent since the end of
2008 while coal rose 52 percent and oil almost doubled.  While owners of  oil tankers  and coal carriers are slowing
down, anchoring ships and scrapping them because rental rates
have been unprofitable, gas ships are sailing at the fastest
speeds since at least 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Average spot LNG tanker rates will about double to $70,000 a day
this year, the highest since 2007, according to Martin Korsvold,
an analyst with Pareto Securities AS in Oslo, whose ratings on
Golar earned investors an 87 percent return in six months.  “High-growth economies such as  China  and India are using
more and more natural gas and Europe is using more LNG for
environmental reasons,” said  Zach Allen , president of Pan
Eurasian Enterprises Inc., a Raleigh, North Carolina-based
company tracking gas shipments. “It will benefit the LNG tanker
owners more than anyone else because there are really very few
additional  tankers  coming on line.”  Lake Charles  Since the first LNG shipment from  Lake Charles  in  Louisiana 
to the U.K. in 1959, the industry has expanded to import
facilities in 23 countries, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s biggest shipbroker.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  says natural gas
will be the fastest-growing major fuel through 2030 and bought
XTO Energy Inc. in June for $34.9 billion, giving it proprietary
technology used to get gas.  Increasing profit is encouraging owners to sail vessels
faster, with the average speed of the fleet increasing to 13.4
knots last week, from as low as 12.1 knots in July, according to
ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s also spurring
them to stop idling tankers. There were an average of 51
 anchored  last week, down from 91 in June, the data show.  The opposite is happening elsewhere in the merchant fleet.
Returns for owners of supertankers dropped 35 percent last year
and were last at $48,333 on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to- Japan 
route while for  capesize  ships carrying coal and iron ore they
declined 46 percent and were last at $7,189, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange . The bourse in London publishes
assessments for more than 50 maritime routes.  Vessel Surplus  Most of that slump is being caused by a surplus of vessels
rather than a slowing global economy. New orders are equal to 24
percent of the supertanker fleet and 43 percent of existing
capesizes, according to Redhill, Surrey-based IHS Fairplay,
which compiles data on ships, ports and vessel movements. The
orders were mostly made in 2007 and 2008 when daily income rose
to $177,036 for supertankers and $233,988 for capesizes.  In 2008, 13 percent of the LNG tanker fleet was idled,
compared with 3 percent of the oil-tanker fleet and less than 1
percent of the dry bulk fleet, the United Nations estimates.
Golar in a report in November said there had been “more or less
10 years with structural overcapacity” in the fleet.  “We are not seeing a huge expansion on the LNG fleet
side,” said Jorn Bakkelund, an analyst with RS Platou, an Oslo-
based shipbroker and investment bank. “That’s what separates
LNG from most of the other shipping segments.”  The LNG tanker  fleet  has a total of 347 vessels. There are
26 new ships on order, equal to 10 percent of the existing
capacity of the fleet, according to IHS Fairplay data.  Gas Carriers  Part of the reason is the expense in  building  the vessels.
An LNG ship cost about $210 million in March, compared with $99
million for a supertanker and $57 million for a capesize,
according to the UN. Gas  carriers  need equipment to hold about
155,000 cubic meters of liquid that expands to 95 million cubic
meters in gas form, equal to about 25 percent of peak daily
winter demand in the U.K.,  Europe ’s biggest gas market.  LNG tankers are often the only option to connect producers
and consumers. All pipeline projects into Europe combined
wouldn’t be enough to meet anticipated demand, according to
Clarkson. Qatar, the biggest LNG supplier, is about 5,000 miles
away from Japan, the largest consumer.  “By 2020, we will need another 100 ships and by 2035 the
fleet has to double,” said David Glendinning, president of
Teekay Gas Services, a unit of Hamilton, Bermuda-based Teekay
Corp. that provides LNG transport for energy companies and
utilities.  Shipping Recommendations  Golar’s tanker rates will double to an average of $40,000 a
day this year, according to Urs Dur, an analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets Ltd. in  New York , whose recommendations on the
company earned investors a 79 percent return in 12 months. His
estimate is a combination of long-term contracts and spot rates.  The  spot market  in gas tankers started in the past four
years because ships were still being delivered from yards as new
LNG projects were delayed by financing or construction,
according to Calum Kennedy, an analyst at Clarkson in London.  Golar will report a fivefold increase in earnings per share
this year to $1.15, according to the  mean  of 10 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the company jumped 23
percent in Oslo trading this year.  Exmar (EXM) , based in Antwerp,  Belgium , will earn 78 cents a
share, up from 25 cents, the mean of five estimates shows. Its
stock gained 7.8 percent this year in Brussels.  Teekay LNG
Partners LP (TGP) , based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will  report  earnings of
$2.09 a share, from $1.68, based on two estimates. The shares
were little changed in New York trading this year.  LNG Demand  Global LNG demand will increase to the equivalent of 31.1
billion cubic feet a day in 2011, according to  Barclays Capital .
China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, bought 87 percent
more LNG in 2010, customs data show. While  Asia  led growth in
demand last year, it will be Latin America and the  Middle East 
this year, Barclays estimates.  Natural gas will account for 25 percent of global  energy
supply  by 2030, rising from about 20 percent, Irving, Texas-
based Exxon said last month in its  Outlook for Energy: A View to
2030 report , used to guide the company’s investment decisions.  “Global demand for natural gas as a clean fuel will keep
increasing,” said Oyvind Hagen, an analyst at Oslo-based ABG
Sundal Collier Holding ASA. “You have a much better market
outlook in LNG than crude tankers because you still have
oversupply in crude tankers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 