-- 
Nobel Biocare Board Names Richard Laube as New CEO

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 
2011-02-18T09:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/nobel-biocare-board-names-richard-laube-as-new-ceo-update1-.html
(Corrects name of firm in sixth paragraph of article
published Feb. 16.)    Nobel Biocare Holding AG  hired
Richard Laube to replace Domenico Scala as chief executive
officer beginning May 1. The shares rose the most in 18 months.  Laube, who headed Nestle SA’s nutrition unit until the end
of August, will join Nobel Biocare on April 1, the Glattbrugg,
Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Scala will be available to the company in an advisory capacity
until the end of October, Nobel Biocare said.  “In Richard Laube, we have a successor who comes with the
right qualifications to continue developing the company,
especially regarding innovation and global strategy
implementation,” Chairman Heino von Prondzynski said in the
statement.  The stock gained as much as 6.9 percent, the biggest
intraday increase since Aug. 12, 2009. Nobel Biocare was up 50
centimes, or 2.6 percent, to 19.94 Swiss francs ($20.60) as of
2:12 p.m. in Zurich trading.  Scala, a former finance chief at Syngenta AG, took over as
CEO in 2007. He replaced Heliane Canepa in what the company said
at the time was a “regular succession process,” though the
plan hadn’t been previously announced. Since Scala took the
helm, the stock has fallen 70 percent and the company has a
higher-than-average chance of being taken over in 2011, analysts
at Nomura said in a note on Jan. 3.  ‘Turnaround in Sight’  “A management change could now mean that a real turnaround
is in sight, although the next quarters could still be tough,”
Stephan Gasteyger, an analyst with Jefferies International Ltd.,
wrote in a note published today. He has a “hold” rating on the
stock.  Nobel Biocare has undergone management changes and
restructuring in the last year. It reported a loss for the third
quarter on higher new product costs and said the economic
downturn dampened demand for pricier dental work. The company
will return to “at least market growth” this year, Scala said
in a Jan. 7 interview.  The company is scheduled to release fourth quarter and
year-end results tomorrow before the market opens.  Rival Straumann Holding AG has gained market share and said
yesterday it expects to grow ahead of the market this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  