-- 
Nobody Wants Nasdaq at 11.6 Times Net With Hot Option: Real M&A

-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T09:42:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/nobody-wants-nasdaq-at-11-6-times-profit-as-options-prices-surge-real-m-a.html
For all the acquisitions being
struck by exchanges around the world, no bourse is less wanted
than  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc .  Shares of Nasdaq, the New York-based owner of 12 markets
cobbled together in the past five years, sell for about 11.6
times each dollar of estimated profit for 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than every other
publicly traded bourse and about half the price that the average
securities exchange commands.  Nasdaq  has also borrowed more
money relative to its equity than any exchange that hasn’t
already reached a merger agreement, the data show.  While NYSE Euronext’s  Duncan Niederauer  sold the 219-year-
old company to  Deutsche Boerse AG  to create the world’s largest
exchange, Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld still
faces the task of boosting returns for shareholders who lost
money in the past five years as rivals gained 44 percent. Nasdaq
hasn’t grown fast enough to attract the largest remaining
standalone markets in the U.S.,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc .
and  CME Group Inc ., according to Capstone Global Markets LLC.  “You aren’t going to do a deal just because your peers are
doing a deal,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and
merger arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global in  New York .
“You want to grow your market share. If you look at the growth
profile of the Nasdaq relative to ICE or CME, it’s fairly low.
That point shouldn’t be lost. I don’t think ICE or CME are going
to sacrifice their shareholders just to weed out costs.”  LSE, TMX  Silvia Davi, a Nasdaq spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Deutsche Boerse’s $9.53 billion takeover of New York-based
NYSE Euronext was announced yesterday, less than a week after  London Stock Exchange Group Plc  agreed to purchase  TMX Group
Inc . of Toronto for about $3.1 billion. In October,  Singapore
Exchange Ltd . offered $8.3 billion for Sydney-based ASX Ltd.,
which runs the Australian stock market.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently the world’s
biggest exchange operator at $23.1 billion in market
capitalization, said last week that it’s open to “alliances,
partnerships and other relationships.”  While the deals have fueled speculation of more mergers and
acquisitions, investors haven’t been willing to reward Nasdaq
with a higher valuation. The company’s stock closed at $28.28
yesterday, giving it a market capitalization of $4.97 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  On a per-share basis, Nasdaq trades at about 11.6 times
analysts’ estimates for $2.45 in profit this year. That’s less
than the average multiple of 19.4 times for all publicly traded
exchanges, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  NYSE Euronext  trades
at 15.1 times, while Atlanta-based ICE, the second-largest U.S.
futures market, is valued at 19.6 times.  Bourses outside the U.S. command even higher multiples.
Singapore Exchange shares trade at 23.9 times, while Sao Paulo-
based BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, sells for 17.3 times estimated profit, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.
     Hong Kong Exchanges is the most valuable, with investors
paying 35.6 times projected profit, or three times more than
what they’re willing to spend for Nasdaq, the data show.  A devalued share price makes it harder for Nasdaq to use
its own stock as currency in any deal without eroding the value
of existing owners’ claims on earnings, according to  David Goerz , the San Francisco-based chief investment officer at
Highmark Capital Management Inc., which oversees $17 billion and
owns shares of Nasdaq.  ‘Have Some Edge’  “For Nasdaq, given that they’re the cheapest of the group,
it’d be very hard for them to step up and buy a higher PE
company because that would dilute shareholders,” said Goerz.
“It’s going to become increasingly difficult to compete in the
exchange world unless you have some edge, some market that you
dominate, some unique product.”  Nasdaq may still go after  CBOE Holdings Inc ., the largest
U.S. options market in 2010, to gain its derivatives business,
according to  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer of
Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. With its affiliates, the
firm oversees about $1 billion, including shares of Deutsche
Boerse, NYSE, CBOE, LSE and TMX.  “CBOE should be part of another exchange,” he said last
week. “Some exchange should be looking at CBOE to become a
factor in options. It could be Nasdaq.”  Gail Osten, a CBOE spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Nasdaq and Chicago-based CBOE rallied two days ago on
speculation they may be the next exchanges to be purchased,
according to Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst at Raymond James
& Associates Inc. in  Chicago .  CFO Resignation  Shares of Nasdaq retreated 4.6 percent to $28.28 yesterday
after the company announced its chief financial officer, Adena Friedman, will quit to take the same role at Washington-based
Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest buyout firm.  Nasdaq may ultimately attract takeover offers because its
stock is so cheap, according to William Karsh, former chief
operating officer at Jersey City, New Jersey-based Direct Edge
Holdings LLC, the third-largest U.S. equity exchange.  “They’re there to be acquired,” he said.  Options traders betting on larger share moves are pushing
up prices for Nasdaq contracts at the fastest rate in two years.
Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-the-
money options expiring in 30 days has surged to 40 from 22.9 on
Feb. 4, the steepest seven-day gain since October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Skew Tumbles  Nasdaq skew, a measure of prices for puts to sell versus
calls to buy, has tumbled to the lowest level since July 2009 as
investors paid more for bullish positions. Call volume soared
Feb. 9 to a one-year high of 16,422 contracts, enough to buy
1.64 million shares if all contracts were exercised.  “People expect a big move in the stock, and it looks more
bullish than bearish,” said Ophir Gottlieb, head of client
services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of
options market analytics.  An exchange buying Nasdaq would have to take on more debt
relative to equity than any other bourse that isn’t already in
merger talks. Nasdaq had borrowings equal to 49 percent of its
common equity, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry
average is 18 percent.  CBOE doesn’t have any debt, the data show.  Nasdaq also earned less before interest and taxes per
dollar of sales than any bourse that hasn’t already agreed to a
takeover. The company had an operating margin of less than 20
percent in the past year, versus the average of 48 percent. Hong
Kong Exchanges earned 82 cents per dollar of sales, while CME
and ICE both turned more than 50 percent of revenue into
operating income.  Air Products  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions, Air Products &
Chemicals Inc., after a Delaware judge upheld Airgas Inc.’s main
anti-takeover defense, dropped its $5.9 billion hostile bid for
the packaged-gas supplier. Air Products had pursued Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Airgas for more than a year. Delaware
Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III yesterday rejected
Air Products’ claim that Airgas’s poison-pill defense was
flawed.    CB Richard Ellis Group Inc ., the world’s biggest commercial
property broker, agreed to buy the majority of  ING Groep NV ’s
global real estate investment management unit for about $940
million as the Dutch bank and insurer seeks to reduce property-
related risk.  CB Richard Ellis of  Los Angeles  will purchase businesses
from ING Real Estate Investment Management, or REIM, with 44.7
billion euros ($60.5 billion) in assets, Amsterdam-based ING
said in a statement yesterday.  There have been 2,979 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $261.8 billion, a 27 percent increase from the $205
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer A. Johnson in New York at 
 Jjohnson156@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 