-- 
Nvidia Rises After Sales Forecast Exceeds Predictions

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-02-17T21:13:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/nvidia-first-quarter-revenue-forecast-tops-estimates-amid-demand-for-pcs.html
  Nvidia Corp ., a maker of graphics
chips, rose 9.8 percent in Nasdaq trading after the company’s
sales forecast exceeded analysts’ predictions.  Revenue will increase 6 percent to 8 percent in the current
period from the fourth quarter, to at least to $939.6 million,
Nvidia said yesterday in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg on average estimated $889.6 million.  The company has released new products, helping it regain
ground lost to  Advanced Micro Devices Inc . in the market for
chips that run add-in graphics cards in personal computers.  Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia is also getting more orders
for its Tegra chips, which run the operating systems in mobile
phones and tablet computers.  Nvidia jumped $2.30 to $25.68 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has gained 67 percent this
year.  Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang, who started the
company in 1992, is working to expand the use of its graphics
chips in mobile devices and server computers, rather than just
plug-in PC cards. The efforts are aimed at offsetting a drop in
its chipset business, which new designs by  Intel Corp . and AMD
are threatening to make obsolete.  This week, Nvidia said its new quad-core chips will be the
first of their kind to appear in tablet computers. The products
will go on sale in August. The company is trying to take the
lead in product introductions from  Qualcomm Inc . and  Texas
Instruments Inc . in the market for so-called applications
processors, which run the software in smartphones.  Net income in the fourth quarter rose 31 percent to $171.7
million, or 29 cents a share, compared with $131.1 million, or
23 cents, a year earlier, the company said. Sales in the period
that ended Jan. 30 fell 9.8 percent to $886.4 million.  Nvidia’s earnings were helped partly by proceeds from a
$1.5 billion, five-year licensing agreement with Intel,
announced Jan. 10. Fourth-quarter operating expenses were
reduced by $57 million before tax, Nvidia said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  