-- 
Nvidia Says First Quad-Core Chips in Tablets Coming in August

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/nvidia-says-first-quad-core-chips-in-tablets-coming-in-august.html
  Nvidia Corp ., trying to steal ahead
of  Qualcomm Inc . and  Texas Instruments Inc ., said it will sell
the first quad-core chips running computer tablets in August.  Smartphone models based on the faster chip, the Kal-El,
will follow by the end-of-year holiday shopping season, the
company said today in a presentation at the Mobile World
Congress show in Barcelona.  Nvidia Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang is trying to
recast his company as a provider of chips for mobile devices,
lessening its reliance on graphics for personal computers. The
company is locked in a fight with Qualcomm and Texas Instruments
to bring increasingly powerful processors to the market faster.  “It’s the only quad-core available,” said the head of
Nvidia’s mobile business Philip J. Carmack.  In the last two weeks Qualcomm, the largest maker of chips
for phones, and Texas Instruments, said they will have quad-core
chips in devices starting next year. Building more processors
into the same piece of silicon enables the chip to better
perform multiple tasks simultaneously.  Nvidia shares have surged 46 percent since Jan. 1 following
announcements of products based on its Tegra 2 processors. That
rise makes Nvidia the second-best performer on the Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index, which tracks the performance of 30 industry
stocks.  On Jan. 5 at the  Consumer Electronics Show , Nvidia said
that LG Electronics Inc. will use its Tegra 2 processor in its
Optimus 2X phones. Nvidia didn’t identify customers for the Kal-
El processor -- which was Superman’s name as boy -- or say
whether it will come to market as Tegra 3.  The  Santa Clara , California-based company, which reports
earnings tomorrow, fell 56 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $22.55 at 4
p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  