-- 
NYC Study Shows Photos May Help Health Departments Link Tuberculosis Cases

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-02-16T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/nyc-study-shows-photos-may-help-health-departments-link-tuberculosis-cases.html
Showing photographs of people with
 tuberculosis  to others infected with the same strain of TB may
help track its spread and contain a further outbreak, a study of
the illness in  New York City  found.  Researchers found that 54 TB cases in New York City from
2003 to 2009 were the same strain by analyzing the genetic
makeup of the disease. Some patients became resistant by 2006 to
one of the four antibiotics regularly used to treat the disease.
Those who were resistant to the medicine were more likely to be
born in the U.S. and have a history of illegal drug use.    Department of Health  and Mental Hygiene researchers led by
Bianca Perri interviewed patients to find acquaintances and try
to prevent the disease from spreading further. In 2007, they
began showing photographs of those infected and linked four of
the cases, according to today’s study in the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention’s journal  Emerging Infectious Diseases .  “TB control still needs new tools,” said  Charles Daley ,
chief of the Division of Mycobacterial and Respiratory
Infections at National Jewish Health in Denver, who wasn’t
involved in the study. “Using photographs is a tool that is
readily available. If these results are validated in other
settings, it could be a cheap and perhaps cost-effective way to
improve TB control.”  Difficult to Track  The number of  New York  City cases has dropped since the
early 1990s, said  Chrispin Kambili , assistant commissioner for
the health department’s Bureau of Tuberculosis Control, which
funded the study. Tracking related cases is particularly
difficult in hard-to-treat populations such as illegal drug
users and undocumented immigrants who don’t always know or want
to provide names of acquaintances, the study’s authors wrote.  “If we cannot make a connection among cases, we cannot
stop tuberculosis,” Kambili said in a Feb. 15 telephone
interview. “We must maintain a level of vigilance in
investigating tuberculosis.”  Tuberculosis is an infectious disease of the lungs that is
spread through the air and killed about  1.7 million people 
worldwide in 2009, the  World Health Organization  said. TB is
treatable using multiple antibiotics over six months. Left
untreated, those with active cases may infect 10 to 15 people in
a year, according to the Geneva-based  United Nations ’ health
group.  More studies in different areas of the country are needed
to see if using pictures helps track the disease, Daley said.  The researchers found the most-common link among the
patients was geographic. Still the health department was unable
to identify the “chains of transmission” in the TB outbreak,
they said.  “Conventional contact investigation can be inadequate for
identifying and curtailing TB transmission among difficult-to-
reach populations,” the researchers wrote. “Insights gained
from using name and photograph data in an ongoing investigation
will benefit TB control programs. This method would have been
more successful if used earlier in the investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  