-- 
Obama Stresses Need to Curb Medicare, Medicaid Cost While Skirting Details

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/obama-stresses-need-to-curb-medicare-medicaid-cost-while-skirting-details.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid is creating “huge
problems” for the nation’s finances that must be dealt with
“in a serious way.” He’s just not taking the first step.  In his Feb. 14 budget proposal and at a news conference
yesterday, Obama said the entitlement programs were driving the
U.S. debt, while offering no details on how to shore them up.  That puts the onus on Republicans, who won control of the
House on a pledge to curb the deficit, to share the risk of
proposing unpopular benefit cuts and tax increases to curb
entitlement spending, which makes up 40 percent of the budget.
It also gives them a chance to take the lead on revamping the
two insurance programs and Social Security, something they have
vowed to do, though they’ve offered no specifics.  “This is not a matter of ‘you go first’ or ‘I go first,’”
Obama said yesterday. It’s about “getting in that boat at the
same time so it doesn’t tip over.”  To arrest the debt, Obama and Republicans can’t avoid
tackling entitlement programs, whose cost is expected to balloon
by $6.85 trillion over the next 10 years, according to an
analysis by the  Bipartisan Policy Center  in Washington.  Yet both the  president’s  and the Republican budget-cutting
proposals so far center on freezing or cutting back
discretionary spending that covers energy, housing, health care,
transportation and other programs.  ‘Fighting Over Trivialities’  Even if Congress adopted every one of those proposals, the  U.S. debt  would grow from 62 percent of the economy in 2010 to
more than 75 percent in 2021, according to the center.  “They’re fighting over trivialities,” said Steve Bell, a
senior adviser to former Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican and chairman of a debt
commission sponsored by the Bipartisan Policy Center.  “Do you know what happens if the Republican and
president’s plans are passed? Nothing,” Bell said. “It makes
virtually no difference in the path of the deficit and the
debt.”  White House budget director Jacob Lew defended the
administration’s reluctance to submit a concrete plan, in a Feb.
14 interview on Bloomberg Television.  “When you put a proposal out there, before you’ve laid the
foundation for a bipartisan discussion, it actually doesn’t move
the process forward,” and instead sets it back, Lew said.  ‘A Tactical Move’  Democrats say Obama’s previous major legislative proposals,
including on health care, have become fodder for attacks by
Republicans such as Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , who
has said he wants to deny the president a second term.  The president’s strategy “has to be seen as a tactical
move,” said  Alice Rivlin , a former budget director under
President  Bill Clinton .  Obama is looking to two separate groups of senators working
on deficit-reduction plans to “provide some bipartisan cover”
for specific cuts, said Rivlin, who co-chaired the Bipartisan
Policy Center’s debt commission with Domenici.  David Walker, former U.S. comptroller general, said Obama
can’t leave it to the Republicans to take charge on an overhaul
of the programs.  “President Obama is CEO of the U.S. government,” said
Walker, the founder of a new organization advocating for fiscal
restraint. “He has a fiduciary obligation to lead.”  More to Do  At his news conference, Obama underscored that non-defense
discretionary spending amounts to only about 12 percent of the
budget. “We’ve got a whole bunch of other stuff that we’re
going to have to do, including dealing with entitlements,” he
said.  Republicans are responding by saying they’ll tackle those
programs.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said Feb. 14 that his party will propose “very bold” changes
to entitlements in their 2012 budget resolution.  “We’re going to tee it up for them” and “if they don’t
take up our offer, it’s going to be very plain” to voters
“who’s leading and who’s not,” said Cantor.  Yesterday, House Speaker  John Boehner  said Republicans will
offer specifics in their budget. “Republicans will not punt,”
Boehner said.  A proposal released last week by House Republicans to cut
$100 billion in discretionary spending from Obama’s 2011 budget
request, including agriculture, health care and the environment,
doesn’t address entitlements. The plan would be about $61
billion lower than last year’s spending levels.  No Consensus  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , in a Feb. 13
appearance on “Fox News Sunday,” said he couldn’t “tell you
exactly what” Republicans will propose because “quite
literally we haven’t been able to reach consensus.”  Some entitlement experts say the president has carefully
parsed his language to allow for negotiation.  In his Jan. 25 State of the Union address, Obama said
Social Security needs to be preserved without “slashing”
benefits for future generations, language he repeated in his
news conference yesterday.  That doesn’t mean he’s ruling out cuts, said Ed Lorenzen,
senior adviser at the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget
in  Washington .  “They chose the extreme word of ‘slashing’ as a bogeyman
that leaves a lot of room to make reductions in the rate of
growth in benefits without crossing that line,” said Lorenzen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  