-- 
Oil Rebounds From 11-Week Low on Libya Unrest, U.S. Supply Drop

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-02-16T13:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/oil-rebounds-from-11-week-low-on-libya-unrest-u-s-crude-supply-decline.html
Oil rebounded from an 11-week low in  New York  on signs U.S. stockpiles are shrinking and as political
protests in the Middle East spread to  Libya  and Bahrain.  Futures rose for the first time in four days after the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute yesterday said
crude inventories slid 354,000 barrels in the seven days ended
Feb. 11. Energy Department data today may show stockpiles
increased 2 million barrels.  Associated Press  reported the
first-ever demonstrations in Libya against leader Muammar Qaddafi who has held power since 1969.  “The  risk premium  won’t disappear quickly as more
countries such as Libya and Iran emerge as hot spots, but on the
other hand the tension isn’t that powerful yet,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst with Raiffeisen Bank International AG in
Vienna. “Supply in the U.S. is good, so inventories will take a
bit more time to come down.”  Crude for March delivery gained as much as 62 cents to
$84.94 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $84.82 at 1:23 p.m. London time. The
contract dropped to $84.32 yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 30.
Brent for April settlement advanced $1.16, or 1.1 percent, to
$102.80 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London .  Oil-supply totals from the API and DOE have moved in the
same direction 75 percent of the time over the past four years.
The Energy Department is scheduled to release its inventory
report today at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Fibonacci Level  Futures in London may surge past $142 a barrel, to near the
highest price ever, if futures close above a Fibonacci level at
$104.98, according to technical analysis by brokers PVM Oil
Associates Ltd. Brent climbed to a 28-month high of $104.30 on
Feb. 14 as anti-government protests in North Africa spread
through the Arab world, renewing concern that supplies from may
be disrupted.  Demonstrators in Yemen clashed with police yesterday while
Iranian security forces on Feb. 14 used tear gas to break up the
biggest anti-government protests since June 2009. Fighting broke
out in Bahrain before the funeral of one of two protesters
killed this week, the official Bahrain News Agency said today.    Iran  is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum-Exporting Countries, pumping about 3.7 million barrels
a day, according to Bloomberg data. Libya’s January output was
1.6 million barrels a day. Bahrain produced about 32,000 barrels
a day of crude in 2009 and 1.49 billion cubic feet of gas,
according to the national oil and gas authority.  New York futures have outpaced London’s Brent this week,
narrowing the difference between the benchmark prices. The April
spread of the two contracts was at $14.34 a barrel today. The
March West Texas Intermediate contract expires on Feb. 22.  Cushing Glut  U.S. crude inventories probably rose for a fifth week in
the seven days ended Feb. 11 as TransCanada Corp. completed an
extension of a pipeline to Cushing, adding to the glut at the
country’s biggest oil-trading hub, a Bloomberg News survey
showed. TransCanada started deliveries from  Alberta  to Cushing
on Feb. 8 in the second phase of its Keystone pipeline project.  The Energy Department report may show gasoline stockpiles
climbed 1.85 million barrels in the seven days ended Feb. 11,
matching the longest streak of gains since August. The  American
Petroleum Institute  said yesterday that inventories increased
1.24 million barrels to 241 million.  “Economic data in the U.S. and Europe are getting better
than before and this is encouraging a lot of positive response
from investors putting money into commodities,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity sales manager at broker Newedge in Tokyo.
“Physically there’s no shortage of oil in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  