-- 
Billionaire Ho Files New Suit to Regain Casino Stake

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-02-16T10:20:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hong-kong-billionaire-ho-files-new-lawsuit-to-regain-casino-shareholding.html
Billionaire Stanley Ho filed a new
lawsuit against some family members to regain control of his
assets, extending a three-week public dispute over  Asia ’s
biggest casino company.  A  writ  filed today in Hong Kong’s High Court by law firm
Oldham, Li & Nie accuses Ho’s daughters Pansy Ho and Daisy Ho of
seizing the tycoon’s holding in Sociedade de Turismo e Diversoes
de  Macau  SA. Today’s complaint follows a Jan. 26 lawsuit that
was withdrawn after an oral agreement by them to return the
stake, according to the new claim.  The 89-year-old who built his casino business with a four-
decade monopoly in Macau is embroiled in a family feud over a
stake that’s worth at least HK$11.2 billion ($1.44 billion)
based on today’s prices of listed arm  SJM Holdings Ltd .  Videos 
shown by his lawyer Gordon Oldham on Jan. 31 showed the
patriarch saying  Pansy Ho  and other family members took his
holdings without his consent and that he’d been forced to make a
televised statement saying the dispute was over.  “A lawsuit will be bad for the stock price and the
company’s operations, in particular on decision-making,” Li
Kwok Suen,  fund manager  at Phillip Capital Management (HK) Ltd.,
said before the announcement. “Investors do not like companies
where they can’t figure out who is in charge.”  SJM Declines  SJM fell 2.7 percent to HK$11.60 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong today. The stock has lost 16 percent since
Jan. 24, when SJM said Ho’s holdings had been transferred to
family members.  Both sides have “been unable to come to any resolution,”
Oldham said at a press briefing in  Hong Kong  today.  The new writ again seeks an order declaring that the
transfer of Ho’s interest in Lanceford Co., which holds a 31.7
percent of closely held STDM was made without his approval.
STDM, with stakes in gambling, hotels and the former Portuguese
colony’s airline, owns 56 percent of SJM, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pansy and Daisy Ho “improperly and/or illegally”
transferred 99.98 percent of Lanceford’s shares to a company
they control along with their siblings and another controlled by
Chan Un-chan, whom Ho refers to as his third wife, according to
the writ.  The writ also includes a new allegation that Pansy and
Daisy exerted “undue influence” when they transferred a 4.84
percent stake their father owned directly in STDM to Lanceford.  ‘Reluctant to Talk’  Pansy and Daisy Ho have “proved to be the most reluctant
to come to negotiations,” Oldham said today. “They don’t want
to talk to their father. We hope to hear from them.”  Joseph Lo, an external spokesman for Lanceford at Brunswick
Group, declined to comment in a phone interview.    Stanley Ho  is also seeking injunctions to restrain the
companies that hold the contested stake from selling the shares
or voting on them, and for Pansy and Daisy Ho to be restrained
from transferring or dealing with his holdings in any other
companies, including Shun Tak Shipping Co. and Hanika Realty Co.
Hanika owns at least 18.4 percent of ferry operator and property
developer  Shun Tak Holdings Ltd . and Shun Tak Shipping owns
another 10.7 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SJM runs most of the  casinos  in Macau, where gambling
revenue is more than four times that of the  Las Vegas Strip .  Ho built his fortune over five decades after Macau’s
colonial government granted him and his partners a gambling
monopoly in 1962. The monopoly wasn’t renewed after 2001 and
Macau eventually allowed rivals, including  Sheldon Adelson   Las
Vegas Sands Corp . and  Wynn Resorts Ltd ., founded by billionaire  Steve Wynn .  Ho was ranked Hong Kong’s 13th-richest man, with a net
worth of $3.1 billion, by Forbes magazine last month.  The case is Dr. Stanley Ho v. Ho Chiu King, Pansy et al,
HCA268/2011 in the High Court of Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  