-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Advance; Pacific Century, Steelmakers Climb

-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 
2011-02-16T09:06:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hong-kong-stocks-rise-reversing-drop-pacific-century-rallies.html
  Hong Kong ’s benchmark stock index
rose to a one-week high as steelmakers gained after price
increases in the industry, countering a drop in developers on
concern of  China ’s further policy to cool property prices.  Maanshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s second-biggest Hong
Kong-traded steelmaker, climbed 3.6 percent after the Apple
Daily said rival Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. raised prices.  Pacific
Century Premium Developments Ltd . soared 13 percent after
Mingpao newspaper said the developer plans to sell a Beijing
property. China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled
developer, declined 1.5 percent after the Beijing Daily said the
city’s Communist Party approved local property control measures.  “Overall valuations aren’t expensive and this year the
overall operating environment looks okay,” said  Pauline Dan ,
Hong Kong-based chief investment officer at Samsung Asset
Management, which oversees about $72.1 billion in assets.  The  Hang Seng Index  advanced 1.1 percent to 23,156.97,
after falling as much as 0.4 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
gained 1.3 percent to 12,437.23.  The Hang Seng Index has gained 0.5 percent this year as
concern that China will tighten monetary policy countered
optimism that improving U.S. economic reports point to a broad-
based recovery in the world’s biggest economy.  Shares in the gauge trade at an average 12.5 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 17.2 times at the start
of 2010.  Steel Price Rises  Maanshan Iron rose 3.6 percent to HK$4.35. Angang Steel Co.,
Hong Kong’s biggest-listed Chinese steelmaker, climbed 1.2
percent to HK$11.46. Citic Pacific Ltd., an investor in steel,
iron ore and property, climbed 1.7 percent to HK$20.65.    Wuhan Steel , the listed unit of China’s fourth-biggest mill,
raised prices for March delivery, Apple Daily reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest publicly traded
steelmaker, announced yesterday price increases for a third
month as demand rose.  Pacific Century soared 13 percent to HK$1.64 after Mingpao
said the developer plans to sell a Beijing property for at least
4 billion yuan ($608 million).  ZTE Finance Company         ZTE Corp . advanced 3 percent to HK$32.65. China’s second-
biggest maker of phone-network equipment will renew attempts to
bid for U.S. contracts after it said opposition from the
government foiled the signing of a previous deal with Sprint
Nextel Corp.  Separately, ZTE said it got approval from the China Banking
Regulatory Commission for setting up a group finance company.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., China’s second-biggest
insurer, gained 1.6 percent to HK$78.80 after Deutsche Bank AG
boosted its recommendation on the stock to “buy” from
“hold.”  China Resources Land declined 1.5 percent to HK$12.92.
China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., a developer controlled by
the nation’s construction ministry, fell 0.9 percent to HK$13.14.  Beijing’s Communist Party approved local property control
measures, and the city will “strictly” implement loan and tax
policies for homes, the Beijing Daily reported, citing a party
meeting.  Separately, Beijing will halt residential property sales
for local residents who own two homes and non-local residents
who have one, the  China Central Television  said.  BYD Co. dropped 2.5 percent to HK$33.40 after the Chinese
automaker backed by  Warren Buffett  reported lower vehicle sales.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index gained 0.7 percent to 23,087.
Eleven stocks rose for every four that fell among the measure’s
45 constituents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 