-- 
Hongkong Electric May Bid for E.ON’s U.K. Power Grid

-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 
2011-02-16T09:21:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hongkong-electric-may-bid-for-e-on-s-u-k-assets-tso-says.html
  Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd .,
controlled by billionaire Li Ka-shing, may bid for E.ON’s U.K.
assets as the utility expands overseas to diversify its sources
of income beyond  Hong Kong .  “We’re looking at the details of the bidding documents, so
we aren’t in a position to tell you if we’re bidding or not,”
Group Managing Director Tso Kai-sum said today at a media
briefing in the city to announce a change in the company’s name
to Power Assets Holdings Ltd. He didn’t give a value for the U.K.
assets of Germany’s biggest utility.  E.ON’s U.K. power grid is drawing interest from MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co., PPL Corp. and  Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd ., also controlled by  Li Ka-shing , in a sale that
may fetch about $6 billion, people with knowledge of the talks
said this month. Hongkong Electric was part of a Cheung Kong-led
group that paid 5.8 billion pounds ($9.3 billion) for
Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power networks last year.  “Hongkong Electric’s broad strategy is to look for
regulated assets, predominantly power distribution assets in
developed markets, and E.ON certainly falls into these
parameters,”  Michael Parker , senior research analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., said by telephone in Hong Kong. “The
strategy seems to be to seek out low-risk, low-volatility assets
in developed and matured markets such as the U.K.”  The Hong Kong utility is also seeking investment
opportunities in Australia and  Canada , according to Tso. There’s
no plan for a separate listing of the company’s overseas assets,
he said.  Margot Leong, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Cheung Kong,
said by telephone she couldn’t immediately comment on whether
the company is looking at a possible bid for E.ON’s U.K. assets.  Overseas Operations  Hongkong Electric has risen 15 percent in the past year,
compared with the 14 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index. The stock climbed 0.3 percent to close at HK$50.10 today.
Cheung Kong Infrastructure fell 0.1 percent to HK$36.70.  The utility received approval from the Registrar of
Companies in Hong Kong to change its name to reflect the
company’s increasing operations overseas, Power Assets said in a
statement handed out to reporters at the briefing today.  The company has investments in  Australia , Thailand, the
U.K., Canada, New Zealand and  China . About 35 percent of Power
Asset’s net income came from overseas operations in the first
half last year, according to the company’s six-month earnings
 statement .  The power producer’s unlisted unit, Hongkong Electric Co.,
will retain its existing name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 