-- 
Oregon Pension Fund May Review ING Clarion Partners After Buyout

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-02-16T16:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/oregon-pension-fund-may-review-ing-clarion-partners-holdings-after-buyout.html
  Oregon ’s state pension fund may
review its real estate investments with ING Clarion Partners
after the company said yesterday it would be acquired by its
management and private-equity firm Lightyear Capital LLC.  “The sale could put them on the watchlist” with Oregon,
Nori Gerardo Lietz, a San Francisco-based consultant at Partners
Group AG who advises the fund on real estate investments, said
in a telephone interview.  “As with all of our funds, we watch the evolution of the
management carefully,” said James Sinks, a spokesman for the
Oregon State Treasury, which oversees the pension fund. He
declined to comment on ING Clarion Partners’ performance.  Pension funds often reevaluate managers when executives
change or returns lag behind benchmarks. ING Clarion Partners’
performance was criticized during a Jan. 26 review of Oregon’s
real estate holdings conducted by the pension fund staff.  “It’s fair to say that Clarion has been a fairly static
manager, adopting far more of a buy-and-hold mentality,”
Gerardo Lietz said at the meeting. Other managers were more
active in buying and selling assets to take advantage of changes
in the market, she said.  The sale of ING Clarion Partners comes as a recovery in the
commercial real estate market is boosting property appraisals
for the fourth quarter. The market shift could allow some
managers to move from showing losses to showing profits, Gerardo
Lietz told trustees of the Oregon pension system in January.  Full Cycle  Preliminary property appraisals for the fourth quarter
suggest “wildly different” returns from the third quarter, the
consultant said, advising the trustees against making any
decisions until they’ve seen the audited financial statements
due out in about April.  ING Clarion Partners has managed real estate investments
for Oregon throughout the most recent full market cycle,
starting in about 2000, when property was out of favor, through
the 2007 peak and subsequent crash. The company is Oregon’s only
real estate fund manager to have experienced a complete market
cycle, Gerardo Lietz said.  The sale of ING Clarion Partners for $100 million is the
third major management transition since Oregon hired the firm,
Gerardo Lietz said at the January meeting. The deal had been
widely anticipated at the time.  Suzanne Franks, a New York-based spokeswoman for ING
Clarion Partners, declined to comment.  The Oregon review in January looked at the performance of
so-called core real estate during the past five years and was
based on appraised values as of Sept. 30. The pension fund’s
trustees had asked for the review in July.  Problem Properties  “In the office portfolio, we probably held onto some
properties longer than we should,” Brad Child, Oregon’s senior
investment officer for real estate, said on Jan. 26. “In one
case, they actually tried to sell and lost a big tenant just as
they put it on the market. One’s been a drag on the portfolio
for a long time. Those two properties have held down this
portfolio. Waiting for this next review will give us a better
answer.”  Child said ING Clarion Partners outperformed the benchmark
National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries Index
when real estate was increasing in value.  “In the heady days of 2006 when real estate was on a
tear,” ING Clarion Partners’ five-year returns were 14.3
percent compared with 13.3 percent by the index, Child said.
“Fast forward to the end of this year and I think what we’ll
see is that ‘10 was a terrible year for being appraised and they
probably got hammered the worst.”  Five-Year Returns  Child urged Oregon to wait for fourth-quarter returns. “I
think we will see some benefits of the market turnaround and
then it’ll be a reasonable thing to look at five-year returns
and then say if they have a five-year lack of performance,” he
said during the meeting.  Real estate accounted for $5.33 billion of the $55.7
billion Oregon Public Employees Retirement Fund as of Dec. 31,
according to its  website . The real estate portfolio had a
negative 1.88 percent return in 2010 and a gain of 1.51 percent
for the five years through Dec. 31.  There was no breakout for the core portfolio, the topic of
the Jan. 26 meeting. So-called core real estate refers to
established buildings, usually well-occupied, that produce a
stable income stream, as opposed to properties that might
require extensive renovations.  “You’ve underperformed in all time periods,” Gerardo
Lietz told the meeting.  CB Richard Ellis  Sinks, the Oregon Treasury spokesman, couldn’t immediately
provide a total figure for how much money ING Clarion Partners
manages for the state.  Oregon’s investment in a 2006 fund, Clarion Columbia Office
Properties, shows a negative 5.86 percent return, according to
Oregon’s website. The state’s $100 million pledge to ING
Clarion’s Lion Mexico Fund from 2007 shows a negative 4.86
percent return. It often takes funds several years to reach the
point where they are ready to sell investments and book any
profits.  Lightyear Capital, a New York-based buyout firm, agreed to
acquire U.S.-based ING Clarion Partners along with the firm’s
management for $100 million. The deal was announced yesterday at
the same time as parent  ING Groep NV  agreed to sell the majority
of its global real estate investment management unit to  CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc . for about $940 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  