-- 
Morgan Crucible Jumps Most in Year on Ceramics Demand, Forecast

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-02-16T10:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/morgan-crucible-jumps-most-in-year-on-ceramics-demand-forecast.html
Morgan Crucible Co., a provider of
body armor to the U.K. Ministry of Defence, rose the most in a
year after saying it aims to double underlying pretax profit by
2013 and as net income soared on demand for ceramic products.  Morgan Crucible surged as much as 8.1 percent and was up
6.9 percent at 295.7 pence as of 10:56 a.m. in London trading.
The stock has risen 83 percent in the past year, giving the
company a market value of 807 million pounds ($1.3 billion).  “The ceramics division had a particularly strong
performance in emerging markets, places like  China ,  India  and  Brazil ,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Robertshaw said in a
telephone interview. “The macro trends in those countries will
create higher levels of growth than in the Western world,”
particularly in the petrochemical, power-generation and
infrastructure-building sectors, he said.  Morgan Crucible aims to double underlying pretax profit by
2013 through organic growth supported by acquisitions, the
Windsor, England-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. It also aims to achieve “mid-teen underlying
operating profit margins,” and improve its return on operating
capital employed from 25.4 percent to more than 35 percent by
2013.  “Morgan Crucible’s full-year 2010 results were slightly
ahead of consensus and RBS expectations,” Royal Bank of
Scotland analyst Andrew Douglas, who has a “buy” rating on the
stock, wrote in a report today. “The more attractive potential
upside comes over the longer term, where management targets
appear significantly higher than we are currently forecasting.”  Bolt-on Acquisitions  Morgan Crucible may make acquisitions in the health-care
market and the renewable energy sector where it sees its highest
growth potential, Robertshaw said.  “For bolt-on type acquisitions, where our focus will be,
we’ll be looking at the 10 to 60 million-pound range,” the CEO
said.  Last month, the company announced the acquisition of
Changsha Hairong New Materials Co., a Chinese company that makes
graphite components for  lithium-ion batteries  used in electric
vehicles. The purchase price was about 6 million pounds in cash.
It is part of Morgan Crucible’s expansion in the renewable
energy sector, Robertshaw said.  Morgan Crucible’s full-year net income rose to 42.5 million
pounds, or 15 pence a share, from 19 million pounds, or 6.8
pence, according to the statement.  A recovery in the aerospace and general industrial sectors
helped boost revenue more than 21 percent in technical ceramics,
the company said. Growth in the South American market,
particularly the Brazilian petrochemical sector, contributed to
a 14 percent increase in thermal ceramics revenue.  The dividend for the year ending Jan. 2 climbed to 7.7
pence a share from 7 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  