-- 
Thorntons Profit Drops 5% Hurt by Bad Winter Weather

-- B y   R e n e e   L a w r e n c e
-- 
2011-02-16T17:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/thorntons-profit-drops-5-hurt-by-bad-winter-weather-update1-.html
  Thorntons Plc , a U.K. confectionary-
maker, said poor weather hurt profit over the Christmas holiday
period as fewer customers and deliveries made it to the shops.
The shares fell 7 percent, the most since October.  Net income in the 28 weeks ended Jan. 8 fell to 5.98
million pounds ($9.67 million), or 8.8 pence a share, compared
with 6.29 million pounds, or 9.3 pence a share a year earlier,
the Alfreton, England-based company said in a statement today.
Sales climbed 5 percent to 133.5 million pounds.  The heavy snow fall and adverse weather cost Thorntons
about 478,000 pounds ($773,000). Factory closures, overtime pay,
and extra lorries hired to make deliveries accounted for the
extra costs, Finance Director Mark Robson said. Rising raw
material prices, such as cocoa, also affected gross margins,
Robson said.  “Our profit before tax has been affected by the loss of
sales over Christmas and the cost of raw materials and
discounting affected gross margins,” said Robson on a
conference call. “As a company, we are trying to mitigate
costs.”  Thorntons shut nine stores during the first half and said
trading at its own stores will remain difficult. The company
plans to review its existing stores as many store leases are
approaching renewal, according to the statement. Jonathan Hart,
who became chief executive last month, is reviewing the business
and the store portfolio, he said.  “We see that 2011 will be challenging and tough but we see
good growth opportunities, and I will look at the business
strategy,” Hart said on the same conference call today. “I am
glad to be leading a business which is able to put a smile on
people’s faces in tough times.”  Thorntons said it anticipates profit before tax and
exceptional items will be similar to last year when it posted a
pretax profit of 6.1 million pounds.  The shares fell 7 pence, or 7.1 percent, to 92 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London , giving the company a market value of
62.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Lawrence in London at 
 rlawrence7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  