-- 
Orrick Hires Paul Hastings's Yoshi Takatori for Japan Disputes

-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/orrick-hires-paul-hastings-s-yoshi-takatori-for-japan-disputes.html
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP,
the San Francisco-based law firm with more than 1,100 lawyers
worldwide, hired Yoshihiro Takatori from Paul, Hastings,
Janofsky & Walker LLP to head its Japan litigation practice.  Takatori, 47, started at Orrick Feb. 14 along with Shinsuke
Yakura, bringing the firm’s total in Tokyo to 32 lawyers, said
Mark Weeks, a managing partner in Tokyo.  “We’ve seen a big increase in Japanese and cross-border
litigation in the last few years,” Weeks said. New litigation
in Japanese courts rose 52 percent to 974,175 cases in 2009 from
2006, according to the judiciary’s  website .  Japanese companies are suing more to protect their
intellectual property, Takatori said. His clients include the
sports unit of  Bridgestone Corp ., which sued Fortune Brands
Inc.’s Acushnet unit over golf-ball technology.  Product liability and labor-related claims are also
becoming more common, Takatori said in an interview. Takatori
was chairman of the steering committee of the five companies
sued by hemophiliacs who became infected with the AIDS-causing
HIV virus from using blood coagulants in the early 1980s.  Baker & McKenzie LLP is the largest international law firm
in Japan with 159 lawyers there, according to an Asian Legal
Business ranking published in October. Morrison & Foerster was
next with 116 lawyers.  Two other Paul Hastings partners, Jun Usami and Ayako
Kawano, left the firm’s Tokyo office this year to join  New York- 
based White & Case LLP, ranked third-biggest with 88 lawyers in
the Japanese capital last year, according to ALB. Paul
Hastings’s lawyers in Tokyo have decreased to 24 from 46 in
2008.  “The Tokyo office is in great shape with a solid team and
we continue to secure mandates on many of the most high profile
deals in the market,” said Toshiyuki Arai, the office chairman.  Orrick was the world’s 30th  highest-grossing  law firm in
2010, according to Legal Business magazine. The firm wants to
add more lawyers in Tokyo to work on mergers and acquisitions
and intellectual property, Weeks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  