-- 
Tottenham Tops AC Milan as Champions League Resumes; Raul Rescues Schalke

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-16T01:14:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/tottenham-tops-ac-milan-as-champions-league-resumes-raul-saves-schalke.html
  Peter Crouch  scored the only goal as
Tottenham beat AC Milan to open the Champions League round of 16,
while Raul Gonzalez earned Schalke a 1-1 draw at Valencia.  Crouch finished off a counterattack by  Aaron Lennon  with 10
minutes left as tournament newcomer Tottenham upset seven-time
European champion Milan last night at the San Siro stadium.  “The whole team was magnificent,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  said in post-match comments on his club’s website.
“Every single one of them did their job. We caught them on the
break, scored the goal and it was a well-deserved win.”  Raul extended his record Champions League goal tally to 69
to wipe out an earlier score from Roberto Soldado as Schalke
came from behind for the draw in Valencia,  Spain .  Tottenham and Schalke host the return matches in the two-
game series on March 9. The knockout stage of European soccer’s
elite club competition continues tonight as Arsenal hosts
Barcelona and Shakhtar Donetsk visits Roma.  Spurs pressured Milan early and had a penalty appeal for
handball against Alessandro Nesta denied in the opening minute.
Milan goalkeeper Christian Abbiati then left the game in the
18th minute with a head injury and was replaced by Marco Amelia.  The substitute goalkeeper knocked a  Rafael van der Vaart 
shot over the crossbar in the 41st minute as Tottenham continued
to control play. Milan’s Ignazio Abbati forced Spurs goalkeeper
Heurelho Gomes into a save with a long-range effort, while
Robinho sent a shot wide just before halftime.  Van der Vaart chipped wide early in the second half and
Gomes made a lunging one-handed save from Mario Yepes.  Tensions, Tackles  Tensions rose after Mathieu Flamini’s two-footed tackle
against Vedran Corluka forced the Spurs defender out of the game
and Milan’s Gennaro Gattuso had bad-tempered exchanges with
Crouch and Spurs’ assistant coach Joe Jordan. Yepes was then
denied again by Gomes, who knocked away the defender’s header
from point-blank range.  Tottenham broke through in the 80th minute as Lennon got
the ball in his own half. The winger carried it to the edge of
the Milan penalty area, skipped around Yepes’s challenge and
passed for Crouch to tuck the ball into the corner of the goal.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic looked to have tied the game for Milan
in the final minute of stoppage time, though his overhead kick
was disallowed for a foul by the Swedish striker.  “I thought we deserved to win, we limited them to a few
chances,” Crouch told  Sky Sports . “It’s a fantastic
achievement to beat Milan in the San Siro but the job is not
finished.”  ‘Lost Control’  Milan captain Gattuso, who will miss the second game after
picking up a yellow card, appeared to head butt Jordan after
confronting him as he was leaving the field.  “I lost control,” Gattuso told AC Milan’s website.
“There is no excuse for what I have done. I accept my
responsibilities for that.”  Former Real Madrid striker Raul scored on his return to
Spain to give Schalke the advantage heading back to  Germany  for
the second game.  Schalke’s Klaas-Jan Huntelaar shot wide from close range in
the 10th minute before  Valencia  took the lead six minutes later.
Jeremy Mathieu’s near-post cross found Soldado, who sent a
first-time shot past Manuel Neuer for his sixth goal of this
season’s competition.  Raul tied the game midway through the second half when he
took a pass from Jose Manuel Jurado, pushed the ball past David Navarro and fired a shot under goalkeeper Vicente Guaita.  Junmin Hao had a shot turned aside by Guaita after going in
alone on the goal before Schalke’s Lukaz Schmitz was sent off in
stoppage time following his second yellow card.  The round of 32 in the second-tier Europa League also began
yesterday as  Manchester City  drew 0-0 with Aris Salonika in  Greece . City will host the return match in the two-game series
on Feb. 24. The remaining 15 matchups start tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  