-- 
Palm Oil Declines as Better Soybean Crops Ease Supply Concerns

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-02-16T09:56:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/palm-oil-drops-as-soybean-crops-ease-supply-concerns-correct-.html
  Palm oil  dropped the most in two
months, tracking overnight losses in soybeans which declined
amid a report that  Brazil ’s output and exports may climb to
records and on speculation U.S. farmers may increase planting.  The April-delivery contract declined as much as 3.5 percent
to 3,796 ringgit ($1,247) a metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the most since Dec. 17, and was at 3,803
ringgit at 5:28 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur. Local financial markets
were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Brazil, the second-largest producer of soybeans, may have
record output and exports this year as rainfall in Mato Grosso,
Parana and Minas Gerais boosts crop prospects and plants develop
faster than normal, researcher Oil World said yesterday.  Soybean
oil  is a substitute from palm oil, and shifts in soybean and
soybean-product prices can influence palm oil.  “Markets were closed yesterday so there could be some
spillover from the soybeans market on Monday and yesterday,”
said Arhnue Tan, an analyst at ECM Libra Capital Sdn. in Kuala
Lumpur. A bigger-than-expected soybean crop in Brazil could have
a “compounded effect,” she said.  Brazil’s soybean crop may total 71 million metric tons, up
from last year’s record of 68.7 million tons, and exports may
climb 13 percent to an all-time high of 33 million tons, Oil
World said. Normal or above-normal rain the past six weeks has
improved conditions, the company said. Acreage in the U.S., the
top grower and exporter of the oilseed, may gain 0.8 percent to
a record 78 million, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on
Feb. 14 in a 10-year outlook  report .  Backwardation  The forward curve is now in backwardation, reflecting
expectations that prompt prices of palm oil could “ease in the
coming months”, Xin Yi Chen, an analyst with  Barclays Capital ,
said in a report yesterday. A backwardation in palm oil prices
occurs when near-term contracts are more expensive than those
for future delivery.  “High prices also facilitate substitution away from palm
oil to other vegetable oils, moderating demand,” Chen said.
Still, high demand from China and  India  for cooking oil, as well
as low stock levels which make prices more vulnerable to any
supply disruptions, may continue to support prompt crude palm
oil prices, Chen said.  May-delivery soybeans advanced as much as 0.5 percent to
$13.885 a bushel in  Chicago  and traded at $13.8525 at 4:22 p.m.  Singapore  time. Prices fell for a fourth straight day yesterday,
losing 2.5 percent to $13.8125.  “Traders continued to reduce risk exposure in the face of
improved South American crop prospects and diminished export
demand,” Phillip Futures Pte said in a report today. “With
record projected Brazilian crops doing well and Argentina
receiving beneficial rains, South American crops are looking
bigger.”  September-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity
Exchange  dropped 1.9 percent to close at 9,848 yuan ($1,495) a
ton. CME Group Inc.’s most-active May palm-oil contract, pegged
to the Malaysian benchmark price, declined 2 percent to $1,235 a
ton at 4:09 p.m. in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  