-- 
Pan American Silver Shifts Assets to Canadian Dollars

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 
2011-02-16T22:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/pan-american-silver-shifts-assets-to-canadian-dollars-update1-.html
  Pan American Silver Corp ., the
world’s fourth-largest silver producer, said it’s shifting its
currency holdings into Canadian dollars, betting the U.S. dollar
may fall further.  The world’s reserve currencies are struggling to maintain
their value amid “ridiculous” debt levels, Chief Executive
Officer Geoffrey Burns said today on a conference call with
analysts. Gold and silver look “extremely appealing” as
alternative long-term investments, he said.  “We diversified some of our currency holdings into
Canadian dollars away from U.S. dollars to provide more
stability in the event we do see continued weakness in the U.S.
dollar,” Burns said. “It’s not just the U.S. dollar -- the
euro, the Japanese yen are going to have extreme difficulty
hanging onto their long-term values as a commodity of trade.”  The dollar fell against most of its major counterparts
today, while gold rose to the highest price in almost five weeks
on speculation that the accelerating pace of inflation will
boost demand for the precious metal as an investment hedge.
Wholesale prices rose for a seventh straight month in the U.S.,
led by higher prices for fuel.  Gold futures for April delivery rose $1, or 0.1 percent, to
settle at $1,375.10 an ounce at 1:34 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Silver futures for March delivery fell 6.7 cents, or 0.2
percent, to $30.629 an ounce.  Vancouver-based  Pan American  expects  Argentina ’s Chubut
province to overturn a ban on open-pit mining after local
elections in March, allowing the company to develop its Navidad
silver deposit, Burns said. The company’s silver output will
fall to 23 million ounces this year from 24 million ounces in
2010, he said.
Industria Penoles SA, BHP Billiton Ltd. and KGMH Polska Miedz SA
are the world’s largest silver producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 