-- 
Panamericano Accounting Loss Hits 4.3 Billion Reais

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 
2011-02-16T20:28:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/panamericano-accounting-loss-hits-4-3-billion-reais-update3-.html
  Banco Panamericano SA , the Brazilian
lender under investigation for alleged fraud, said its loss from
“significant accounting distortions” reached 4.3 billion reais
($2.6 billion), exceeding its initial 2.5 billion-real estimate.  The bank was bailed out in November and January with a
total of 3.8 billion reais from  Brazil ’s deposit insurance fund,
FGC, via the bank’s controlling shareholder Grupo Silvio Santos,
the Sao Paulo-based lender said in a regulatory filing today.
The bank covered the remaining loss by activating a tax credit
of 700 million reais. The 200 million reais difference was used
by Panamericano Administradora de Cartoes de Credito, the bank’s
credit-card company, according to the filing.  Panamericano, Brazil’s biggest lender for used cars,
received the rescue funds after police and the central bank
began probing losses stemming from what they said were improper
accounting of sales of credit portfolios. The probe is the
biggest in the industry since Banco Santos SA collapsed after
filing for bankruptcy in 2004.  Silvio Santos , the 80-year-old
Sunday television host, sold his controlling stake in
Panamericano on Jan. 31 to Banco BTG Pactual SA.  The bank announced earnings data for December rather than
third- and fourth-quarter results. It opted to use Nov. 30 as a
base-date for a pro-forma earnings statement showing “all
rights and obligations” held by the company, it said today.  Asked why Panamericano released December data, Chief
Executive Officer Celso Antunes said that  Deloitte & Touche LLP ,
hired to work on the bank’s accounts, said that “was the
possible and trustworthy presentation.”  “The data in the third-quarter earnings report isn’t
consistent, we don’t recommend any analysis based on it,”
Antunes said at a press conference in  Sao Paulo  today.  The bank posted a net loss of 133.6 million reais, or 142.2
million reais excluding other units, for the month of December,
it said today. Panamericano’s losses will appear in the first-
quarter results of Caixa Economica Federal, the Brazilian state
savings lender said on Feb. 11. Caixa has a 49 percent voting
stake in Panamericano.  “The decision by Panamericano’s management to consider
November 2010 as the date for its pro-forma earnings reflects
the complexity of the adjustment mechanisms and comparisons with
previous periods,” Ceres Lisboa, senior credit analyst at
Moody’s America Latina Ltda. in Sao Paulo, said in e-mailed
response to questions today. She said a conference call with
analysts would be helpful to clarify the adjustments made and
provide more data for comparison.  Panamericano fell as much as 5 percent today to 5.50 reais
before closing 0.5 percent lower at 5.82 reais. The benchmark
Bovespa index advanced 1.9 percent.  Delayed Accounting  Panamericano said today it would be “totally
impracticable” to break down the consistency of accounting for
the quarters leading up to Nov. 9, when the probe of
irregularities was announced and the board was replaced. The
lender had delayed the publication of third-quarter earnings at
least five times since then.  The complexity of the methods used in generating accounting
inconsistencies “made it impossible to define the exact date
that the accounting irregularities and the internal control
weaknesses inherent to the bookkeeping first began,”
Panamericano said in the filing. “Management found no other
alternative than to establish a new trustworthy accounting
base.”  Of the 4.3 billion-real loss, 1.6 billion reais of the
amount is related to the bank’s “inflated” credit portfolio,
while 1.7 billion reais represents loans that were sold to other
banks and remained in Panamericano’s books as assets, according
to the filing.  Brazilian federal police seized documents and computers
from the homes of former executives of the bank on Dec. 16 as
part of the investigation. Caixa is now running the bank’s
operations.  Panamericano created a new controls and risks department to
guarantee better corporate governance practices, it said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Adriana Brasileiro} in Rio De Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  