-- 
Polish Wage Growth, Job Gains Buttress Argument for Rate Increase in March

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-02-16T19:32:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/polish-wage-growth-job-gains-buttress-argument-for-rate-increase-in-march.html
Polish corporate wage growth reached
5 percent annually for the second month and job gains quickened,
buttressing the case for an interest rate increase next month
after January’s faster-than-expected surge in inflation.  Wages rose 5 percent on the year in January, the  Central
Statistical Office  reported in Warsaw today, compared with 5.4
percent in December. The figure was below the median forecast of
5.2 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 23 economists. Employment
increased 3.8 percent in January from the same period last year,
exceeding the 2.5 percent median forecast by 20 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “We had phenomenal job gains in January,” central bank
Governor Marek Belka said late today at a meeting with Warsaw
University students. “That shows the situation on the job
market isn’t bad even with catastrophic unemployment data.”  Poland’s economic growth more than doubled last year,
helped by recovering demand in  Germany , the country’s main
trading partner, as well as  consumer spending . The central bank
said it will be alert to wage and price pressures as companies
boost employment to meet rising orders. The inflation rate
jumped to 3.8 percent in January, the highest in 21 months,
exceeding the central bank’s 3.5 percent tolerance limit.  Last month, the central bank increased borrowing costs for
the first time since June 2008, lifting the key interest rate to
3.75 percent from a record-low 3.5 percent. The  unemployment
rate  rose to 13.1 percent in January from 12.3 percent in
December, according to Labor Ministry estimate on Feb. 4.  ‘Quicker Increase’  “The labor market trends constitute another argument for
continued monetary tightening,”  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist
at Citigroup’s Bank Handlowy SA unit in Warsaw, said in a
research note. “We think a scenario of a quicker rate increase
at the March 1-2 meeting is becoming more likely.”  The zloty traded at 3.9095 per euro at 8:20 p.m. in Warsaw,
up 0.2 percent on the day. On the year to date, the zloty has
strengthened 1.4 percent against the euro, the fourth-biggest
gain among 25 emerging-markets currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The Monetary Policy Council probably won’t want to risk
greater zloty volatility and will increase rates in March,” BRE
Bank analysts wrote in a research note today.  Employment rose 2.3 percent on the month in January, in
part due to the statistical office’s annual addition of new
companies to its database.  “The slowdown in job growth and investment spending seems
to be ending and companies are returning to their pre-crisis
mode,” said Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at Societe
Generale in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at  