-- 
Polish Central Bank Urges Budget-Deficit Reduction Before Pension Changes

-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-02-16T11:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/polish-central-bank-urges-budget-deficit-reduction-before-pension-changes.html
  Poland  should give priority to other
ways of trimming the country’s budget deficit before introducing
permanent changes to the pension system, the central bank said.  While pension transfers to private pension funds increase
the country’s budget deficit by 1.6 percentage points of gross
domestic product each year, “more than twice that amount” is
generated by tax breaks and reductions introduced in 2007 to
2008, the Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski said on the
 government’s website .  “It would be reasonable first to take measures aimed at
curbing the deficit and only then to reduce temporarily
transfers to the private pension funds,” the bank said.  The Polish government plans to cut transfers to private
pension funds by more than two thirds from April 1, moving the
rest to the state-run pension system, in an effort to curb the
soaring budget deficit and keep public debt below a legal
threshold of 55 percent of gross domestic product.  Monetary policy maker  Jerzy Hausner  wrote in an article for
daily  Gazeta Wyborcza  published on Feb. 14 that the plans seemed
aimed at “liquidating” the private pension funds and would not
be “nearly enough” to prevent public debt from rising above
the 55 percent mark this year. The Polish  Business Roundtable 
called the plans “no more than creative accounting.”  As many as 58 percent of Poles consider the plans to be
harmful for future pensioners, a Feb. 4-6 survey of 1,005 adults
for opinion pollster PBS DGA showed. 15 percent of respondents
were in favor of the changes, according to the poll.  The government proposals mean Poland would suffer “a
partial loss” of the advantages brought by its overhauled
pension system, which divides pension contributions between a
pay-as-you-go state-run system and privately managed funds, the
central bank said. The changes would hurt the long-term
stability of the state-run system, the statement said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  