-- 
Polish, Hungarian, Czech Interest Rates May Diverge on Inflation, Growth

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-02-16T11:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/polish-hungarian-czech-interest-rates-may-diverge-on-inflation-growth.html
  Hungary  may pause and  Poland  may
continue monetary tightening, while the Czech Republic may raise
rates later than investors are betting after inflation diverged
and as policy makers weigh the impact on growth, analysts at
UniCredit SpA, Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley said.  Hungarian inflation slowed in January for the first time
since August, while Polish consumer prices rose at the fastest
pace in 21 months, statistics offices in the two countries said
yesterday. The Czech inflation rate unexpectedly fell below the
central bank’s target, according to a report this month.  "January inflation data are likely to weigh on all three
central banks," Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based economist at
UniCredit, said in an e-mail today. "The doves will probably win
out and leave rates on hold" in the  Czech Republic  and Hungary,
while Poland’s inflation "significantly increases the chances of
a hike at the March meeting."  Policy makers globally are struggling to weigh accelerating
inflation, driven by food and fuel prices, against an economic
recovery. Rate setters in the three largest economies among the
European Union’s eastern members are split on the pace of
monetary tightening to tame inflation.  Hungary, with the highest inflation rate, was the first to
begin raising rates in November. Poland followed in January.  The Czech koruna is the second-best performer among the 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, having gained 2.9 percent
against the euro this year. The Hungarian forint is the third,
with a 2.9 percent advance, and the Polish zloty is the sixth,
up 1.3 percent.  Rate Decisions  Hungary’s next decision on the 6 percent benchmark rate,
raised by 0.75 percentage points since November, is scheduled
for Feb. 21. Polish policy makers will weigh on March 1-2
whether to follow last month’s quarter-point increase by lifting
the 3.75 percent main rate again. Czech central bankers are due
to meet on March 24 to discuss the record-low 0.75 percent rate.  Rate setters in Budapest needed a second round of voting
last month to break a tie between policy makers wanting a
quarter-point rate increase and those urging a pause to
tightening,  minutes  of the meeting published on Feb. 9 showed.  Inflation slowed to 4 percent in January from 4.7 percent
in December, which was the highest in six months, even as food
and energy prices continued to soar, the Budapest-based
statistics office said yesterday. The central bank targets 3
percent inflation. Rates will remain unchanged this month,
according to all of the 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Ease Concerns’  "Lower inflation in January should help ease concerns of
Hungarian central bankers who were hiking rates in previous
months in an attempt to bring the  consumer price index  lower,"  Piotr Kalisz , a Warsaw-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said
in a research note.  In Poland, inflation accelerated to 3.8 percent in January
from 3.1 percent in December, the statistics office said
yesterday.  There is "an even chance" the central bank may raise  interest rates  or leave them unchanged next month, PAP newswire
cited Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of Poland’s rate-setting
Monetary Policy Council, as saying yesterday. Central bankers
increased the benchmark rate last month for the first time since
2008 and Governor  Marek Belka  said the move shouldn’t be
regarded as a one-time adjustment.  ‘Increased Considerably’  "The likelihood of an interest-rate hike taking place
already at the March meeting increased considerably" after the
inflation release, Maja Goettig, chief economist at Bank BPH SA
in Warsaw, said in a note to investors.  In the Czech Republic, central bank board members are
debating when to start raising interest rates. Policy makers
left the benchmark two-week repurchase rate unchanged on Feb. 3
after three of the seven board members voted for a quarter-point
increase.  Forward rate agreements locking three-month interest rates
indicate Czech rates will rise by 0.5 percentage points in six
months.  Czech inflation was 1.7 percent in January, the slowest in
seven months and below policy makers’ 2 percent target, from 2.3
percent in December. Gross domestic product rose an annual 2.9
percent in the fourth quarter, the statistics office in  Prague 
said in a preliminary flash estimate yesterday. The rate missed
the median forecast of 3.2 percent by 15 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  "Hawks are unlikely to prevail for a few more months,"
Pasquale Diana, a London-based economist at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  