-- 
Prince William, Kate Middleton Plan July Canada Visit After Royal Wedding

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-02-16T15:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/prince-william-kate-middleton-plan-july-canada-visit-after-royal-wedding.html
  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton 
will visit  Canada  for nine days after their wedding in April, in
their first overseas tour as a royal couple.  The visit from June 30 to July 8 will include stops in the
capital Ottawa, the provinces of Alberta, Prince  Edward Island 
and Quebec and the Northwest Territories, according to
 statements  today from Canadian  Governor General  David Johnston
and the royal family’s office.  “Canada looks forward to welcoming the young couple this
summer and providing them with all that our country has to
offer,” Prime Minister Stephen Harper said in a statement.
“Their decision to come to Canada first is a testament to our
country’s very close relationship with the Royal Family.”  The marriage is scheduled for April 29 at Westminster Abbey
in  London  and the day will be marked by a U.K. public holiday.
William, second in line to the throne, has been dating Middleton
since 2003 and their engagement was announced on Nov. 16, ending
years of speculation about whether they would marry.  William, 28, is the grandson of Queen Elizabeth II and son
of the late Diana, Princess of Wales. The couple met while they
were studying at St. Andrews University in Scotland.  Middleton, 29, is now in line to become the first non-
aristocrat to be queen in modern times. Royal consorts have
traditionally come from the ranks of Britain’s aristocracy or
other European royal houses.  William proposed to Middleton with  Princess Diana ’s
engagement ring, a sapphire surrounded by diamonds, while the
couple were on holiday in Kenya.  Prince Harry will be the best man and the bride’s sister,
Pippa Middleton, will be the maid of honor, Prince William’s
office said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 