-- 
Protecting Wildlife May Produce New Offset Market

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-02-16T18:04:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/protecting-wildlife-habitats-may-produce-new-offset-market-investor-says.html
Protecting plants, animals and
habitats could generate offset credits and a market that is
bigger than  United Nations  emissions trading, according to
Climate Change Capital.  The U.K. government is likely to require or encourage
property developers and other companies to mitigate ecological
damages from their operations, said Ben Caldecott, head of U.K.
and European Union policy for the London-based investor in
greenhouse-gas certificates.  Companies could generate credits by funding projects that
protect endangered species or ecosystems, Climate Change Capital
said in a  report on its website.  Protecting or restoring 1
hectare of a highly sensitive habitat might provide 100 credits
that could be used to build homes or a factory on a less-
disruptive 100-hectare site, it said. Determining the correct
price for each habitat is a key to creating the market, the
report said.  “Virtually all economic activity has a direct or indirect
impact on biodiversity that is not currently priced,”
Caldecott, an author of the report, said in a phone interview.
“There’s no reason why it should not be much, much bigger than
the Clean Development Mechanism,” the world’s second biggest
emissions market after the EU carbon program.  The CDM, overseen by the United Nations, has produced about
$30 billion of investments in projects to reduce  greenhouse
gases  in the developing world since 2005, the report said.  The U.K. has the opportunity to develop standards and
regulations forming the backbone of a global market, it said.  ‘Pivotal Role’  “As a center of global finance and trade, the U.K. can
play a pivotal role in creating market rules that are workable
and possess robust environmental integrity,” Climate Change
Capital said. “Getting it right in the U.K. could then,
hopefully, transform the way we value nature and finance its
protection globally.”  Because such a program wouldn’t call on taxpayer money,
governments may find it attractive, Caldecott said. “In the
current fiscal environment, this is a very workable scheme.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  