-- 
Pujols, Cardinals Unable to Reach Deal Before Spring Training

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-02-16T18:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/pujols-cardinals-unable-to-reach-deal-before-spring-training.html
  Albert Pujols  and the  St. Louis
Cardinals  failed to agree on a new contract before today’s self-
imposed deadline, when the three-time National League Most
Valuable Player reports to spring training.  Pujols had said he would suspend negotiations today until
after the Major League Baseball season to avoid interfering with
the team’s focus. He’ll become a free agent unless he’s re-
signed.  The Cardinals made at least one offer to the 31-year-old
first baseman, General Manager John Mozeliak said in a televised
press conference in Jupiter, Florida, that was attended by other
team officials, including Chairman William O. DeWitt Jr.  “We started the process early and we had good dialogue
throughout,” DeWitt said. “It wasn’t that we ran out of time,
it’s just that we were unable to reach agreement.”  Pujols, entering the final season of an eight-year, $111
million contract, led the National League with 42 home runs and
115 runs scored last year. In his 10-year career, spent entirely
with the Cardinals, he has batted .331, averaged 42 homers and
128 runs batted in per season and was an All-Star nine times.  The Cardinals offered Pujols an eight-year contract that
may have been worth more that $200 million, Sports Illustrated
reported today, citing people familiar with the negotiations.
Pujols is due to make $16 million this season. The  New York
Yankees ’  Alex Rodriguez  has the major leagues’ biggest contract,
at $275 million over 10 years.  Mozeliak refused to discuss financial details of the
Cardinals’ offer, and said the team “made every effort” to
reach a deal.  ‘Iconic Status’  “We felt very good about the offer we made,” he said.
“We felt that it recognized his iconic status and still allowed
us to put a successful club out there.”  Mozeliak said the team has conducted midseason negotiations
in the past and is prepared to do that if Pujols agrees.
Otherwise, Mozeliak said he believed the Cardinals were in
position to resume negotiations following the season.  “I don’t think any bridges were burned in this process,
and as we look forward to next year, I don’t think we put
ourselves in a bad position,” Mozeliak said.  Team Chairman William O. DeWitt Jr. said he believes that
Pujols wants to remain in  St. Louis . Pujols has said repeatedly
that he wants to spend his entire career with the Cardinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  