-- 
Quaden Calls for Indexation Overhaul as Belgian Prices Surge

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/quaden-calls-for-indexation-overhaul-as-belgian-prices-surge.html
  Belgium ’s indexation mechanisms are
more deeply rooted than linking pay increases to inflation and
should be revised to prevent second-round effects eroding the
nation’s competitiveness, National Bank Governor  Guy Quaden 
said.  “It’s wage indexation that draws attention from the  European Central Bank  and other institutions, but in Belgium
there are lots of other indexation mechanisms which are less
favorable for the population,” Quaden told reporters on Feb. 14
in Brussels. His comments were embargoed until today.  Belgian inflation accelerated to more than 3 percent in
December, exceeding the 2.2 percent average rate for the euro
region, as a surge in commodity prices fed through into consumer
prices at a faster pace. Belgian households spend proportionally
more on energy, and suppliers of electricity and gas link prices
on most contracts to a measure of inflation on a monthly basis.
A quarter of all services, equal to an additional 10 percent of
the  consumer price index , are subject to indexation as well.  Wage indexation covers 98 percent of workers in Belgium,
and for companies, rising labor costs are eroding
competitiveness in a country where exports accounted for 80
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months through
September. Belgium’s net exports boosted economic growth by 1.9
percentage points last year, the central bank said. The nation’s
economy expanded 2 percent.  Quaden didn’t formulate concrete recommendations to curb
the volatility in Belgian inflation figures, apart from a
general call to cut energy consumption. Energy accounts for 11.2
percent of Belgian living costs, compared with 9.6 percent in
the euro region as a whole, he said.  Price Control  Belgian authorities could force suppliers of electricity
and gas to seek regulatory approval before instituting price
increases, the national bank said in its annual report released
today.  GDF Suez  SA’s Electrabel unit is Belgium’s biggest
producer and supplier of electricity.  While Belgium’s measure for wage indexation -- the health
index -- excludes tobacco, alcohol and motor fuels, it includes
home heating oil, gas and electricity. The 35 percent increase
in Brent crude-oil futures in the past six months pushed the
index to its biggest annual gain in almost two years in January.  “In the short term, the situation is extremely
unpleasant,” Quaden said. “It shows some resemblance to the
situation at the end of 2007 and the start of 2008.”  Inflation as measured by the national method peaked at 5.9
percent in July 2008, earning public-sector workers their third
2 percent pay increase of that year. Pensioners and those on  unemployment benefits  also receive an automatic increase in
payments when the four-month average of the health index crosses
a trigger level.  Inflation Prospects  The average increase in consumer prices will accelerate to
2.7 percent this year from 2.2 percent last year, Belgium’s
 federal planning bureau  forecast on Jan. 26. The health index is
projected to rise 2.4 percent on average and the trigger level
for public-sector wages, social benefits and house rents will be
crossed again in June after passing the threshold for the last
time in August 2010.  The increase in Belgian private-sector labor costs has also
surpassed two-year targets each time since 2005 because of
faster-than-predicted inflation.  Employers and labor unions set a nationwide maximum range
for pay increases every two years, taking into account both
inflation prospects and a forecast for the weighted average wage
increase in the nation’s three largest trading partners --  Germany , the Netherlands and  France .  Salary Increase  The maximum range for this year and next takes into account
average inflation of 3.8 percent over the two-year period,
leaving a margin for a 0.3 percent salary increase in 2012.  Two of the nation’s three largest labor unions rejected the
preliminary wage agreement earlier this month and the employers’
federations declined this week to resume negotiations on the
basis of a mediation proposal put forward by Belgium’s caretaker
government.  The government’s proposal maintained the 0.3 percent margin
for 2012 wage increases and removed a paragraph calling for a
study into Belgium’s indexation mechanism aimed at minimizing
its volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  