-- 
RBA’s Lowe Sees Elevated Commodity Prices, Global Rate Pressure

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-02-16T22:08:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rba-s-lowe-sees-elevated-commodity-prices-global-rate-pressure.html
Global commodity prices are likely
to remain elevated for an extended period and tighter monetary
policy in regions including  Asia  may be needed to contain
inflation,  Reserve Bank  of Australia official Philip Lowe said.  “What does seem clear is that the world economy is going
through a change in relative prices, and that this change is
likely to be quite persistent,” Lowe, an assistant governor,
said in the text of a speech today in Sydney. “At least for the
time being, it would appear that the ability of the world to
produce commodities is becoming a key constraint on non-
inflationary growth for the global economy.”  Lowe, who heads the central bank’s economics department,
didn’t specifically address RBA monetary policy in his prepared
remarks. He focused on the rise of commodities and signs of
Australian consumer restraint -- both of which he said would
have an “important bearing” on the nation’s economy in the
next year.  Lowe said the rise in commodity prices is occurring at a
time when many advanced economies are operating “well below
full capacity” and with “very high” unemployment. That’s
unusual, he said, because sluggish growth and weak demand in
earlier economic cycles sent prices lower for raw materials.  “We are experiencing the co-existence of strong commodity
prices and large output gaps in advanced economies,” Lowe said.  Some central banks in the Asia-Pacific region have already
boosted borrowing costs this year to avert economic overheating.  China  raised rates for the third time in fourth months on Feb. 8,
joining  India ,  Indonesia ,  Thailand  and  South Korea  in tightening.  China’s Inflation  A report two days ago showed China’s inflation exceeded the
government’s 2011 target for a fourth month, escalating pressure
on the central bank to keep raising rates.  An intensification of inflationary pressure in Asia would
mean “a stronger policy response than seen to date would be
likely, increasing the risk of a subsequent sharp slowdown in
the region,” Lowe said.  He also reiterated the main forecasts for Australia’s
economy released Feb. 4, adding that the destruction of crops in
northeastern Australia by Cyclone Yasi this month would see a
surge in fruit and vegetable prices that would push inflation to
about 3 percent in the year through June.  The assistant governor said he expects a “strong rebound”
in  Australia ’s gross domestic product in the second quarter and
that the RBA assumes the nation’s savings rate -- 10.2 percent
in the third quarter of 2010 -- will remain high.  “In putting together our forecasts, we have assumed a
middle path, with the saving rate staying high, but consumption
growth broadly matching income growth over the next couple of
years,” Lowe said. “We will, of course, be looking very
closely to see if this is how things evolve.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  