-- 
Treasuries Decline Before U.S. Economic Reports as Equity Markets Favored

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-02-16T09:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/treasuries-fall-on-speculation-industrial-production-producer-prices-rose.html
Treasury 10-year notes declined
before reports that economists said will show manufacturing and
producer prices gained, adding to evidence of a sustained U.S.
economic recovery, as stocks rallied around the world.  Thirty-year bonds also declined before the release of the  Federal Reserve ’s January meeting minutes, which may shed more
light on policy makers’ discussions on growth, inflation and the
labor market. The central bank also will issue updated
forecasts. The Commerce Department may report homebuilding
remains constrained, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  “The data have continued to print relatively strongly and
that’s bound to keep the market on the defensive,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
in London. “So far, the housing sector hasn’t joined the party
so any signs of life there will be very encouraging to a
broader-based expectation of a recovery and will probably be
market negative.”  The 10-year yield increased two basis points to 3.63
percent as of 8:54 a.m. in  London , according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021 fell
5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 30/32. Two-year
yields were little changed at 0.85 percent after yesterday
reaching 0.88 percent, the highest in more than eight months.  Yields on 10-year notes have risen in each of the past four
months, the longest run of monthly increases since 2006, as
investors add to bets prices will increase if the U.S. economic
recovery takes hold.  ‘Inflation Risk’  “People are concerned about inflation risk,” said Tsutomu Komiya, who invests in  U.S. debt  in Tokyo for Daiwa Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $102.8 billion
and is part of Japan’s second-biggest brokerage. “Bond yields
reflect that.”  U.S. industrial production increased 0.5 percent in
January, after gaining 0.8 percent a month earlier, according to
a Bloomberg survey before the Fed report. Producer prices rose
0.8 percent last month, following a revised 0.9 percent in
December, the Commerce Department will say, according to a
separate survey.  Another government report today will show U.S. housing
starts at an annual rate of 539,000 in January, up from 529,000
in December, yet less than half the five-year average of 1.211
million, a survey showed. Permits, an indicator of future
construction, likely slumped after builders rushed to fill
applications in December before changes in building codes took
effect this year.  ‘Galloping’ Yields  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index both rose 0.4 percent. Futures on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index added 0.5 percent.  Treasuries have handed investors a 1.2 percent loss this
year, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures. The MSCI
World Index of stocks gained 5.3 percent.  U.S. yields have risen enough to attract some investors,
said  Peter Jolly , Sydney-based head of market research for the
investment-banking unit of National Australia Bank Ltd., the
nation’s largest lender.  “I don’t think they’re going to keep galloping up,” Jolly
said. “Ultimately, yields could push higher, but for now they
have quite a lot of good economic news priced into them.” Ten-
year rates will climb to 4 percent by year-end, he said.  The difference between two-year yields and the upper end of
the Fed’s target range was 59 basis points. It widened to 60
basis points on Feb. 8, the most in eight months.  The central bank cut its benchmark to a band of zero to
0.25 percent in December 2008 and has pledged to keep it low for
an “extended period.”  The Fed is  scheduled  to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of
Treasuries maturing from May 2021 to November 2027 today as part
of its $600-billion effort to pump money into the economy, known
as quantitative easing.  Treasuries rose yesterday as traders debated the strength
of the U.S. economic recovery, after government figures showed
retail sales rose less than analysts forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net 
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  