-- 
Renesas Aims to Boost Car-Navigation Chip Market Share

-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-02-16T09:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/renesas-aims-to-boost-car-navigation-chip-market-share-update1-.html
  Renesas Electronics Corp ., which
dominates Japan’s market for chips used in car-navigation
systems, aims to boost its share of the global market as drivers
overseas adopt the technology.  Japan’s second-largest semiconductor maker plans to
increase its share of overseas sales of the chips to 65 percent
by 2013 from 57 percent last year, Renesas said today in a
statement. Europe and Asia will account for most of the growth
in a global market that may expand 25 percent to 5 million units
a year in the period, said Shinya Hirao, a manager at Renesas’s
automotive systems unit.  “The Japanese market is saturated,” Hirao said after a
briefing today in Tokyo. “The growth will come in Europe and  Asia , especially  China , where demand for luxury cars is
increasing.”  Chips made by Renesas were used in 97 percent of navigators
installed in Japan last year, and the company aims to extend
that dominance to overseas markets, Hirao said. A reliance on
the domestic market has prevented the company from benefiting
from a rebound in global chip demand that helped European rival  STMicroelectronics NV  return to profit last year.  Sales Forecast  Renesas last month cut its sales forecast for the year
ending March 31 by 1.7 percent to 1.15 trillion yen ($13.7
billion) and reiterated it won’t be profitable until the year
ending March 2012. The company, formed last April in the merger
of two money-losing chipmakers, is cutting jobs and outsourcing
production to lower costs.  Renesas rose 9.6 percent, the most in six weeks, to 986 yen
at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, after BNP
Paribas SA raised its rating on the stock to “buy” from
“hold.” The benchmark  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 0.6
percent.  The company will start shipping samples of two new chipsets
for navigation systems starting in May, it said in a statement.
Mass production of the chips will begin in June 2012, starting
at 30,000 units a month and increasing to a planned 400,000 a
month by 2014, the statement said.  Samples of the chipsets are priced at 5,500 yen and 6,000
yen, according to the statement. Hirao declined to give a sales
target for the chips.  Japan, with its twisting roads and infrequent use of street
signs, is the world’s biggest market for navigation systems,
accounting for 50 percent of global unit sales, according to
Renesas. About half of the cars sold in the country last year
were equipped with navigators, compared with as few as 20
percent in  Europe  and fewer in the U.S., the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  