-- 
Revolution Germ Will Spread in the Arab World: Joshua Muravchik

-- B y   J o s h u a   M u r a v c h i k
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/revolution-germ-will-spread-in-arab-world-commentary-by-joshua-muravchik.html
Few bets are safer today than that
we will see more uprisings in the Middle East in 2011, though
maybe not everywhere. One of the ironies of revolution is that
it is hardest to do where it is needed most.  Hosni Mubarak  was a
dictator, but his rule was neither absolute nor bloodthirsty.  Revolutions often produce something worse than they
replace. But in the case of Egypt the nature of the protests
gives strong reason for optimism because history teaches that
peaceful uprisings are likely to lead to real freedom, while
violent ones usually end in a new tyranny. The violence that
did take place in Egypt was mainly perpetrated by Mubarak’s
supporters trying to disperse the crowds of people.  One of the remarkable things about the protest movement has
been how small a role Islamists have played. There is every
reason to discount the sincerity of recent claims of democratic
intent by Muslim Brotherhood representatives. They have felt
constrained to sound like liberals to fit the public mood.  The Muslim Brotherhood wants quick elections because it is
the only force that is organized. The military should resist
this demand. Instead, it should resume the dialog with civil
society and share power with a collection of civic figures. This
would signal that the generals don’t intend to keep power. And
it would buy time to devise and hold fair elections.  Presidential Ballot  The presidential vote scheduled for September should be
pushed back. While it might be possible to hold a balloting for
the top office that soon, the same isn’t true for legislative
elections. These are more complicated in structure; and the
voters are less familiar with the candidates, making parties
more important. Yet, it might be dangerous to elect a president
without a parliament as a check on his power.  So the best choice would be to delay polling until, say, a
year from now to assure a true reflection of popular will.  At the moment, tremors are being felt in Yemen, Jordan,
Bahrain and  Algeria  -- all of them relatively mild
dictatorships. Probably none of them are willing to mow down
thousands of their own citizens as the Syrian regime did in Hama
in 1982 and  Saddam Hussein  did in  Iraq  more than once.  Even though they are gloating over the demise of Mubarak’s
secular pro-Western regime, the biggest losers may well turn out
to be Iran’s mullahs. They have shown they have few scruples
about shedding their countrymen’s blood. But if massive violence
is required to prevent a second outpouring of support for  Iran ’s
Green movement, even the Revolutionary Guard may split.  Matter of Time  Although the Greens were successfully repressed in 2009,  Egypt ’s revolt has breathed new life into them, just as they
inspired the Egyptians. It is only a matter of time -- and not
too much of it -- before the next, and perhaps decisive, round
of protests erupts.  Even if Iran’s rulers get their wish, and the Muslim
Brotherhood takes over Egypt, they will rue their victory. The
rivalry between a Sunni Islamist regime in Egypt and the Shiite
one in Iran will quickly resemble the Sino-Soviet competition
that undermined communism. But it seems less likely now than
most observers would have predicted a month ago that the Muslim
Brotherhood will prevail in Egypt.  In the Arab world, not a single regime can feel secure.
Revolutions are contagious. The fever that brought down Egypt’s
dictator was caught from  Tunisia . But the germ appeared 18
months earlier in Iran. Back then, Egypt’s cyberspace was filled
with lamentations on the theme “Why are we so lame?”  These were young people desperate for change who marveled
that a million Iranians were marching for their freedom while
protests in Cairo drew only hundreds. But the images from Tehran
spurred more activism among Egyptian youth -- some of it in the
streets, some on the Web -- climaxing in Tahrir Square.  Soviet Empire  We’ve seen these contagions before. Strikes in Silesia in
1988 rekindled the embers of  Poland ’s Solidarity movement, and
by the end of 1989 the whole Soviet empire was gone, followed
within two years by the  Soviet Union  itself.  The replacement of military dictatorships in Portugal and  Spain  in the mid-1970s hit Latin America’s autocrats like a
plague. In 1977, Freedom House counted 10 free countries in the
Americas; a decade later it found 25. In 1848, a rising in  Palermo ,  Italy , proved rather catchable, and before the year was
out, some 50 cases of revolution had been spotted across Europe.
Of course, the model of revolution in  Europe  came from  France  in
1789, where it had been carried from the American colonies.  The spirit of the Egyptian revolution was constructive, not
destructive. The mood of the protesters was patriotic and
brotherly rather than rancorous. The day after, brigades of
protesters came back as volunteers to clean the streets. This
bodes well for the country and the region. If the Egyptians can
make a successful transition to democracy, others will follow.  (Joshua Muravchik is a fellow at the Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies and the
author of “The Next Founders: Voices of Democracy in the Middle
East.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joshua Muravchik at  jmuravchik@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  