-- 
Rifle-Toting Fiennes Mows Down Rebels in Bloody ‘Coriolanus’

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rifle-toting-fiennes-mows-down-rebels-in-bloody-coriolanus-berlin-film.html
A scarred, shaven, tattooed  Ralph Fiennes  in combat gear and wielding an assault rifle shoots up
independence fighters in a burned-out city. This is Shakespeare,
Fiennes-style.  His first full-length feature as director, “Coriolanus,”
is showing in competition at the  Berlin Film Festival . It’s a
blood-soaked, action-packed update of one of Shakespeare’s
trickier plays to stage. Fiennes and scriptwriter John Logan
kept the original text though they cut large chunks and added
scenes.  Shot in Belgrade, “Coriolanus” is a violent political
thriller with iambic pentameter dialogue, homoerotic undertones
and some fine acting from  Royal Shakespeare Company  veterans
including  Vanessa Redgrave  as Fiennes’s dominant, ambitious
mother, the majestically named Volumnia. As with most
Shakespeare plays, the story is universal: War-mongering
political leaders who care little for ordinary folk are sadly
just as present on the world stage today as they were in the
17th century.  Rioting Romans, demanding bread, storm the central grain
store at the opening of the movie: Caius Martius (later
Coriolanus) confronts them with his brutal, ferociously equipped
troops. Meanwhile, the neighboring Volscians, led by Gerard Butler as Tullus Aufidius, are threatening Roman territory.
Martius’s victory, secured in an improbable one-on-one knife
fight with Aufidius, brings him glory and honor.  Bid for Consul  His iron-nerved, militaristic mother (she would have made a
decent general herself as played by Redgrave) sees this as an
opportunity to launch his political career. Yet Coriolanus
messes up by showing contempt for the people of  Rome  when he is
supposed to be canvassing for their votes. Pressing the flesh is
just not his thing -- he prefers ripping it apart.  Othello had jealousy, Macbeth got ambition: Coriolanus’s
fatal flaw is tactlessness. Banished from Rome, Fiennes spends
time in the wilderness, emerging with lots of hair to seek out
Aufidius and exact his revenge.  The relationship between these two warriors is fascinating:
They swear to hate each other, and yet as he accepts
Coriolanus’s offer to lead an attack on Rome, Aufidius also
declares his passion.  It’s all in Shakespeare’s original, so this is not about
sexing it up for a modern audiences: “But that I see thee
here,/ Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt heart/ Than when I
first my wedded mistress saw/ Bestride my threshold.”  Grisly End  Volumnia’s impassioned plea to Coriolanus changes his mind
about attacking Rome and leads him to sign a peace agreement
with the Volscians. Yet things get grisly again before the end.  Newscasters on a 24-hour channel called Fidelis narrate
off-stage events -- in blank verse -- accompanied by video
footage. Believe it or not, that almost works.  The conviction of all of the actors in delivering their
lines injects freshness and immediacy into Shakespeare’s text.
It rarely seems incongruous, and sometimes the language is so
economical it takes your breath away.  Fiennes, 48, has played Coriolanus many times on stage and
told a Berlin press conference he had the project in mind for
many years, seeing it as natural fodder for an action movie.
Funding for the film, which according to Premier Public
Relations Ltd. will be released by year end, proved difficult.  It’s bold of Fiennes to try to make a film that will appeal
to Shakespeare fans and action-movie addicts alike. He just
might pull it off.  Rating: ***  For more information on the Berlin Film Festival, go to
 http://www.berlinale.de/en .  (Catherine Hickley is a writer for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 