-- 
Rising Employment No Inflation Rebound as Wages Affirm Bernanke

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-02-16T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rising-employment-no-inflation-rebound-as-wages-affirm-bernanke.html
Amy Valle is caught in a labor-
market recovery that’s forcing some Americans to settle for
less. Before she lost her job as a full-time health-department
case worker last November, she was making $23 an hour. Now she’s
paid $10 an hour as a part-time assistant coordinator in an
after-school program.  “From here on out, it will be a struggle,” said Valle,
32, whose husband lost his $50,000 government job and still is
out of work after a year. “I don’t feel like there’s any place
we can go to get what we were getting paid.”  The improvement in the unemployment rate to 9 percent in
January from a two-decade peak of 10.1 percent in October 2009
masks a new reality: Many of the jobs people are taking as the
economy rebounds offer lower pay, fewer hours and worse benefits
than some of the 8.75 million positions that disappeared because
of the recession, according to  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S.
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto.  This may restrain income growth, limiting bigger gains in  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy . It also underscores Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s contention that wages, which increased 1.7 percent
on an average hourly basis last year, have acted as a constraint
on inflation, allowing the central bank to keep  interest rates 
at record lows to sustain growth.  “In the last recovery, we were adding management jobs at
this point, and this time it’s disappointing,” said Ashworth,
who published a report on Jan. 27 about pre- and post-slump
employment based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
“The very best jobs, we’re still losing those.”  Reinforce Pessimism  Projections  from the bureau reinforce his pessimism. While
the number of openings for food preparation and serving workers,
including those at fast-food restaurants, will grow by 394,300
in the decade ending in 2018, the median wage is only $16,430
including tips, based on 2008 data. Meanwhile the number of
posts for financial examiners, who earn $70,930, will expand by
just 11,100.  “We have to be sad that the economy has suffered a
diminution of its power to create high-paying and more
interesting jobs,” said Edmund Phelps, who won the  Nobel Prize 
for economics in 2006 and directs the  Center on Capitalism and
Society  at  Columbia University  in  New York .  Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, typifies the reshuffling of the U.S. workforce. The
Mooresville, North Carolina-based chain said Jan. 25 it is
eliminating 1,700 managers responsible for store operations,
sales and administration as profit growth trails that of larger  Home Depot Inc . in Atlanta. Meanwhile, Lowe’s said it will add
8,000 to 10,000 weekend sales positions and is creating a new
assistant store manager position.  Frugal Households  Such shifts are one reason why many households remain
frugal, even as their spending is forecast to grow 3.2 percent
this year, compared with 1.8 percent in 2010, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News from
Feb. 2 to Feb. 8. A more-robust labor market would provide an
even bigger lift, according to Ashworth.  “In addition to the paucity of net jobs being created, the
poor quality of those jobs is another reason to expect income
growth to remain muted, which in turn will constrain
consumption,” he wrote in the Jan. 27 report.  Valle in Oswego,  Illinois , is having trouble keeping up
with the monthly bills now that she’s earning much less than the
$41,860 a year she got at her old job. She has eliminated the
telephone land line, cut back on cable TV and reduced food
spending.  “We can maintain like this for a while, but I’ll get real
nervous if my husband has his  unemployment insurance  taken
away,” she said.  ‘Tried and True’  Consumers also are becoming more picky, with “trusted,
tried and true” brands poised to benefit, such as Cupertino,
California-based  Apple Inc .,  Nike Inc . in Beaverton, Oregon, and
Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co ., said Marshal Cohen,
chief industry analyst at market researcher NPD Group Inc. in
Port Washington, New York.  Sixty-four percent of respondents to NPD surveys are
looking for such brands and only 36 percent want to experiment,
a significant change from before the economic slump, when 57
percent were looking to experiment, Cohen said.  “During the recession, the consumer would buy the cheapest
paper towel they could find,” he said. “Now that they’re
emerging out of it, what you’re seeing is a return back to
trusted products, saying ‘I want my Quicker Picker-Upper,’”
referring to the marketing slogan for Bounty paper towels, a
brand of Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co .  Eliminating Workers  Even though the economy began  expanding  in the third
quarter of 2009, private employers continued to cut workers
through February 2010. Companies last year eliminated about
550,000 jobs in management and 250,000 in construction,
occupations with average hourly salaries of $38.34 and $21.03,
according to Ashworth. In the same period, businesses added
about 900,000 positions in production and 500,000 in services,
which average $16.27 and $11.57.  The trend is troubling for the country’s long-term
prospects, Phelps said.  “Businesses aren’t innovating as much, they’re not as
forward-looking as they used to be,” so companies that “find a
reason to pay pretty well just don’t seem to require all those
relatively high-paid workers they once did,” he said.  The health-care industry is one example, the BLS said in a
December report on the occupational outlook. As costs continue
to rise, “tasks that were previously performed by doctors,
nurses, dentists or other health-care professionals increasingly
are being performed by physician assistants, medical assistants,
dental hygienists and physical-therapist aides.”  Durable Pickup  Bernanke and the Fed’s Open Market Committee are waiting
for proof of a durable pickup in employment as they continue
their plan to buy $600 billion in  Treasury securities  through
June and keep the benchmark federal funds rate near zero. With
about 13.9 million people out of work in January, the labor-
force participation rate has fallen to the lowest level since
1984, and 6.2 million people have been looking for jobs for more
than half a year, according to the Labor Department.  It will be “several years before the  unemployment rate  has
returned to a more normal level,” because output growth likely
will “be moderate for a while” and businesses are “reportedly
still reluctant to add to their payrolls,” Bernanke told the
House Budget Committee on Feb. 9.  Michael Greenstone, a former staff member for the White
House Council of Economic Advisers, says it’s “premature to
“make too much of where the particular  job creation  is
occurring,” because the “immediate issue is that there are too
many people” out of work.  ‘Scourge of Society’  “I’m not in favor of ditch-digging, but the first thing is
to get more people employed,” said Greenstone, an economics
professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
Cambridge and director of the Brookings Institution’s  Hamilton
Project  in  Washington . “Unemployment is a scourge of society
right now, and it has to be the front and center issue.”  Job hunters are adapting to the new reality, with 60
percent prepared to settle for a full-time position they don’t
really want, said Dennis Jacobe, chief economist for Washington-
based  Gallup , according to a survey he conducted last month.  Ken Niswonger, 51, a machine builder by training, spent
five months on the hunt for work after losing his job in October
2009. Unable to find anything in his field, he enrolled in a
college computer-security program to learn new skills.  “I’m hoping I can find something entry-level,” he said,
adding that he’ll have to begin his search for an information-
technology job before he completes his program. “I’m well aware
I might not get what I used to make,” he said. “Who knows?
Might get a job at $12-14 an hour; that’s not even $30,000 a
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  