-- 
Rudloff Says ‘No Scale’ in Barclays Russia Retail Unit

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-02-16T16:32:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rudloff-says-no-scale-in-barclays-russia-retail-unit-update1-.html
  Barclays Plc , the U.K.’s third
biggest lender, will sell its Russian retail unit because it
sees “no scale” in the business, Hans-Joerg Rudloff, the
chairman of Barclays’  investment banking  arm said today.  “Subscale businesses don’t belong in our portfolio,”
Rudloff said in an interview in  London . “Like oil companies
don’t like low-yielding wells.”  The bank will focus instead on organizing bond sales,
initial public offerings, cross-border deals and participating
in the Russian government’s asset sale program, he said. “We
will concentrate on what we know best.”  The bank is planning to sell its Russian retail and
commercial banking unit to focus on investment banking, Barclays
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  announced yesterday.
Barclays bought Russian lender Expobank for $745 million in
March 2008 before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
pushed the economy of the world’s largest energy exporter to its
steepest contraction on record the following year as commodity
prices tumbled.  Barclays is pursuing a “very aggressive strategy” to
become the leading foreign investment bank in Russia within
three years, Bob Foresman, the bank’s Russia country chief, said
last year.  Barclays Capital  was one of the four arrangers of
Russia’s first sovereign Eurobond since the government defaulted
in 1998. It was also added to a list of banks chosen by the
Russian government to advise on its three-year, 1 trillion ruble
($34 billion) privatization program.  Russia’s economy expanded 4 percent last year, rebounding
from a 7.8 percent contraction in 2009, as the global economic
recovery drove commodity prices higher. Corporate loans rose
12.1 percent while lending to households increased 14.3 percent
in 2010, according to central bank data. The economy is set to
expand 4.2 percent this year, according to government forecasts. 