-- 
Rudloff Says Russia Vote, Mideast May Deter Investors

-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 
2011-02-17T11:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rudloff-says-investors-may-avoid-russia-on-election-mideast.html
Russia’s upcoming elections and
political turmoil in the Middle East may dissuade investors from
buying the nation’s assets this year, said Hans-Joerg Rudloff,
chairman of  Barclays Plc ’s investment banking group.  “Going into an election year, some people may be
hesitant,” Rudloff, 70, who pioneered the Eurobond market in
the 1980s, said in an interview in  London  yesterday. “People
are even more hesitant after the events in Egypt, in  Tunisia ,
now in  Bahrain , where there are differences in wealth
distribution.”  Protests in North Africa in the past six weeks drove
Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile and forced
Hosni Mubarak to give up power in Egypt. Anti-government
demonstrators rallied in Bahrain yesterday, while there were
more clashes in Yemen and reports that unrest spread to  Libya ,
the holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves.  Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter, is scheduled
to hold parliamentary elections in December and a presidential
vote next year. The wealthiest 10 percent of Russians accounted
for 31 percent of all income last year, while the poorest 10
percent had a 2 percent share, according to the Federal
Statistics Service. One in 10 people earned less than 5,000
rubles ($170.90) a month, the statistics office said.  The difference in wealth distribution that fueled pro-
democracy protests abroad “isn’t only obvious in the Middle
East,” Rudloff said.  “Today we live in a world that is very transparent,” he
said. “It is not so easy to be oppressive. Everywhere, we are
well advised to take these developments into account.”  Stock Performance    Russia ’s Micex stock index has climbed 1.1 percent this
year, beating the 2.5 percent loss for  Brazil ’s Bovespa index,
the 11 percent retreat for  India ’s Sensex and the 3.7 percent
drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing
nations’ equities. Russian stocks have trailed the 4.1 percent
gain for  China ’s Shanghai Composite index. The ruble has risen
4.5 percent against the dollar this year, the third-best
performance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Huge efforts by many government officials to sell Russia
as an investment opportunity, to convince Western investors that
it’s a good place, a profitable place to be” are paying off,
Rudloff said.  Russia raised $3.3 billion this week selling a stake in VTB
Group in the largest state asset sale since the bank’s initial
public offering almost four years ago. Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s government sold 10 percent of the bank to investors for
95.7 billion rubles, the country’s second-biggest lender said in
a statement. The sale was the first major deal in a three-year
program aimed at raising about $34 billion to help plug a budget
gap and lessen the government’s role in the economy.  Cohesive  While the government’s “cohesive message” has helped
Russian stocks beat other emerging-market equities this year,
that outperformance may not continue, Rudloff said. The  Micex
index  has fallen 3.6 percent from a two-and-a-half year high on
Jan. 17, a week before Egypt’s street protests began. The
index’s price relative to reported earnings climbed to 9.6 on
Feb. 7, the most expensive level since April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 