-- 
Rusal Trails Alcoa With Owner’s $12.8 Billion Snub to Investors

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-02-17T08:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/rusal-trails-alcoa-with-owner-s-12-8-billion-snub-to-investors.html
United Co. Rusal, the biggest
aluminum producer, is trailing  Alcoa Inc . and all other peers as
billionaire founder  Oleg Deripaska  snubs shareholders’ pleas to
end a two-year battle for control of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel.  Rusal, trading at about 6.5 times estimated 2011 earnings,
has the lowest valuation on that measure among its five main
peers, with Alcoa at about 12.3 times earnings and Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd. at 11.9 times,  Deutsche Bank AG  data show.
Moscow-based Rusal has also lagged behind Alcoa’s share gains
since the Russian company listed in Hong Kong on Jan. 27, 2010.  Chief Executive Officer Deripaska, who rebuffed two offers
last year for Rusal’s 25 percent holding in Norilsk, received a
sweetened $12.8 billion bid last week from the nickel company to
buy back most of its stake. Deripaska rejected that price in an
 interview  with CNBC. The holding’s market value has risen 52
percent in a year to $11.4 billion, almost half Rusal’s value.  “A sale of the Norilsk Nickel stake at a premium to the
market may prove to be the best outcome for UC Rusal, putting
the company in a solid net cash position and opening the door to
development opportunities, both organic and through M&A,” Marat Gabitov, an analyst in Moscow at UniCredit SpA, said in a note.  Investors in Rusal’s initial public offering a year ago,
including billionaire  Li Ka-shing  and New York hedge-fund
manager Paulson & Co., saw the stock tumble as much as 38
percent before recovering. Rusal’s 19 percent gain since its
listing compares with a 32 percent jump for Alcoa. While the
rebound was helped by an increase in Norilsk’s value, Rusal
would do best to sell the stake, according to some analysts.  Let Battle Commence  “Rusal has benefited from its premiums from Norilsk but if
it were to sell its stake at a premium, then that would also be
well received by investors,” said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at UOB-Kay-Hian Ltd. “The key issue now is the
company’s relationship with Norilsk.”  Deripaska has been embroiled in a dispute over control of
Norilsk with fellow shareholder  Vladimir Potanin  since 2008. The
battle has also drawn in Rusal investors including Glencore
International AG and  Mikhail Prokhorov , who favors a sale, and
Trafigura Beheer BV, which agreed to buy 8 percent of Norilsk.  Rusal investor and Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  also sought
to maintain talks with Norilsk over the stake in the face of
opposition from his CEO, Interfax reported Jan. 24.  Rusal said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 11 that its
board would consider the latest offer received from Norilsk.
Maria Uvarova, a Norilsk spokeswoman, and Vera Kurochkina, a
spokeswoman for Rusal, declined to comment further.  Higher Bid  Norilsk, the largest nickel and palladium producer, on Feb.
11 raised its bid to buy back its shares to $12.8 billion for a
20 percent stake, from $12 billion for 25 percent. That followed
talks in late December when Deripaska demanded $16 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said Jan. 19.  Glencore, the biggest commodity trader and Trafigura rival,
may not be awarded any contracts by Norilsk, said the person,
declining to be identified because the talks were private.  By holding out, Deripaska has forced Norilsk to offer about
$3.5 billion above the odds for Rusal’s stake, a transfer of
value from the nickel producer to the billionaire’s company,
said Dmitry Smolin, an analyst at UralSib Capital in Moscow.
Rusal would be able to pay off all its debt and still have about
$1 billion in cash as a result, he wrote in a Feb. 14 note.  Rusal May Soar  “Norilsk made a beneficial proposal to Rusal,” Prokhorov
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement, adding that his Onexim
Group will support the deal. “The situation has obviously come
to a dead-end, so one of the parties should take the decision to
sell.” Rusal, valued at about HK$196 billion ($25 billion)
based on prices in  Hong Kong , could increase to as much as $35
billion should it sell out of Norilsk, Prokhorov said Dec. 23.
The billionaire owns 17 percent of the company.  Deripaska on Jan. 27 said he expects Norilsk’s market value
to surge to at least $70 billion this year. That would boost the
value of Rusal’s stake to $17.5 billion and add to a buyback’s
cost. He also said Rusal’s debt will fall within four years.  “Debt will be so insignificant, it won’t be worth
mentioning,” he said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland .  Rusal’s net borrowings fell to below $12 billion as of
Sept. 30 after almost doubling to as much as $16.6 billion
following the company’s purchase of Norilsk shares in 2008.  “Though many investors were first skeptical about Rusal,
the company has been aggressively repaying its debt,” said
Alexandre Starinsky, a  fund manager  at Atria Advisors Ltd. in
Moscow, with $300 million in assets including Rusal IPO shares.
“Rusal performed well due to rising aluminum prices and its
cost leadership based on access to cheap electricity.”  Catch Up  Of the 23 analysts who track Rusal surveyed by Bloomberg,
17 rate the stock a “buy,” five a “hold” and one a “sell.”  Part of the attraction for investors is the potential for
Rusal’s market valuation to begin to catch up with its peers
should the company resolve the battle over Norilsk’s ownership.  Rusal trades at just over half the price-to-earnings ratio
of Alcoa and Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the Russian company’s
closest rival on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, according to
Deutsche Bank’s latest figures, sent by e-mail on Feb. 15.  The ratios, prepared before Norilsk’s most recent offer,
were 20 times for Alumina Ltd., 18.6 times for  India ’s National
Aluminium Co. and 13 times for Norsk Hydro ASA. Rusal fell 1.2
percent to HK$12.88 by the 4 p.m. close of Hong Kong trading.  “Rusal’s decision to stick with the Norilsk stake has been
curbing its development,”  Vladimir Zhukov , an analyst at Nomura
International Inc., said in Moscow. “Some of its investors are
questioning the rationale. Selling this stake would enable Rusal
to eliminate completely its debt and unlock significant organic
growth potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 