-- 
Spy Anna Chapman Seen Running on Putin's Party List for Russian Parliament

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-02-16T15:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/russian-spy-chapman-may-join-putin-s-party-to-run-for-parliamentary-seat.html
Anna Chapman, one of the Russian
spies expelled from the U.S. last year, will probably run for
parliament as a member of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
United  Russia  party.  Chapman, praised by Putin for her service to the country,
is officially a "party supporter" and will be eligible for full
membership in the summer, said Frants Klintsevich, a senior
United Russia official and a lawmaker in the State Duma, the
lower house of parliament. Elections are scheduled for December.  Chapman has been the most visible of 10 Russian agents
deported from the U.S. last July. She has her own weekly
television show, "Mysteries of the World With Anna Chapman," and
has appeared on the cover of Maxim magazine in  lingerie , holding
a gun, as well as in the nude in the U.S. edition of Playboy.  "The party needs young beautiful girls," Klintsevich said
by phone from Moscow today. "She can bring more supporters with
her. She’s a smart, sharp person. She needs to fulfill her
potential. She’s a patriot who really suffered for her country."  Klintsevich, who is also a chairman of party supporters’
organization, said that he would recommend Chapman for
membership and would be happy to see her in the parliament.
Chapman didn’t respond immediately to requests for comment in e-
mail or via her Facebook page.  Putin, a KGB officer who was posted to East Germany during
the  Cold War , told reporters last July that the agents would
have "interesting, bright" lives in Russia. He also hosted a
dinner for the group to discuss "life" and sing patriotic songs,
according to the government’s website.  Another member of the spy ring, Natalia Pereverzeva, who
went by the name Patricia Mills, was hired by state-run pipeline
operator OAO Transneft as an adviser on international projects
to Chief Executive Officer Nikolai Tokarev.  A third agent, Andrei Bezrukov, who lived in the U.S. as
Donald Heathfield, is working as an adviser for state-run oil
company OAO Rosneft.  Chapman, who turns 29 next week, has worked as an adviser
to Fondservisbank, which invests in aerospace and high-
technology industries, since October, according to the Moscow-
based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  