-- 
TSA Officers Will Lose Jobs Following Theft From Luggage at JFK

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-02-16T22:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/tsa-officers-will-lose-jobs-following-theft-from-luggage-at-jfk.html
Two Transportation Security
Administration employees charged with stealing $40,000 from
luggage at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport will
lose their jobs, the U.S. agency that oversees  aviation security 
said.  TSA officers Persad Coumar, 44, and Davon Webb, 30, both of
New York, are awaiting arraignment in Queens Criminal Court in
New York, said Kevin Ryan, a spokesman for the Queens County
District Attorney’s office, in an e-mail. They are accused of
stealing the money on Jan. 30 from a piece of checked luggage
containing $170,000 inside the American Airlines terminal, Ryan
said. The charges include conspiracy, grand larceny and
possession of stolen property.  “TSA has a zero tolerance policy for theft in the
workplace,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement. “TSA is
working closely with law enforcement authorities to ensure the
individuals responsible are prosecuted and we will move swiftly
and decisively to end the federal careers of any employee who
engages in illegal activity on the job.”  The pair allegedly worked together to take the cash after
Coumar x-rayed the bag and saw it inside, the district
attorney’s office said in an e-mailed statement. Coumar
telephoned Webb, who was working in a baggage belt area of the
American terminal, to tell him about the bag. Webb searched the
bag and marked it with tape. Coumar then used an identification
card to enter the baggage handling area, found the bag and took
some of the money inside, according to the statement.  Tip Off    Port Authority  police officers found $23,980 at Coumar’s
home after $20 had been spent on food, and $16,000 at Webb’s
residence, the district attorney’s office said.  Another TSA employee tipped police off about the theft, the
district attorney’s office said.  “TSA agents hold a position of trust and are supposed to
search passengers and their baggage to ensure the safety of the
flying public -- not to enrich themselves,” Queens District
Attorney Richard A. Brown said in the statement. “Passengers
must feel secure when they pass through our airports here in
Queens County that they are not being targeted by those who
would use their position of authority to steal.”  From 2008 to 2010, 12 TSA officers lost their jobs due to
thefts at security points or from checked baggage, Ann Davis, a
TSA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The arrests by Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
police were reported earlier by the  New York  Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  