-- 
Sanofi-Genzyme Bankers to Reap $125 Million for Advice

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-02-16T20:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/sanofi-genzyme-investment-bankers-to-reap-125-million-for-merger-advice.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  and  Genzyme
Corp .’s bankers, after shepherding the companies through nine
months of negotiations, are set to reap an estimated $125
million in fees for advising on the biggest takeover of a
drugmaker since 2009.  Genzyme advisers  Credit Suisse Group AG  and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . may together earn as much as $65 million in fees,
while  Evercore Partners Inc . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Sanofi’s
main bankers, may make as much as $60 million, according to
estimates by New York-based research firm Freeman & Co. Morgan
Stanley, which also provided advice to Paris-based Sanofi, will
get a portion of the fees.  Sanofi said today it agreed to pay $74 a share in cash, or
$20.1 billion, plus an additional amount based on the
performance of an experimental Genzyme drug. The acquisition is
the biggest announced drug deal since Merck & Co. agreed to buy
Schering-Plough Corp. for $47.1 billion, including debt, in
March 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The investment bankers and lawyers are bigger winners
than the Genzyme shareholders,” said Erik Gordon, who teaches
at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business in  Ann
Arbor . “Genzyme’s bankers couldn’t come up with the crucial
competing buyer who would have bid up the price -- the one way
they could have added the most value to the deal.”  French banks  Societe Generale  SA and BNP Paribas SA, as
well as JPMorgan, may share in as much as $120 million for
providing financing based on the $15 billion in loans for
Sanofi’s bid, Freeman said. The fees will be distributed among
other banks who participated in the financing, the firm said.  Deal Rankings  Sanofi’s team at Evercore was led by Chairman Roger Altman,
senior managing director Francois Maisonrouge and managing
director John Honts. The group included Jeff Goater, Fausto
Borotto and Eddy Kim. Sanofi’s team at JPMorgan was led by
Robbie Huffines and included Henry Gosebruch, Isabelle Seillier
and Laurent Dhome.  Sanofi’s legal adviser is Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, which
ranked eighth among law firms advising on deals in 2010,
according to Bloomberg data. Genzyme, based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, is represented by Ropes & Gray LLP and Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz.    Morgan Stanley  advised on about $485 billion in announced
deals in 2010, according to Bloomberg data. That made the bank
the top M&A adviser for a second straight year, followed by
Goldman Sachs. JPMorgan Chase ranked third. Sanofi’s takeover of
Genzyme, announced in August, was the seventh-largest deal of
last year, the data show.  Sanofi Financing  Sanofi said in October that banks agreed to provide as much
as $15 billion of loans to fund its offer to buy Genzyme. The
unsecured financing included a $10 billion 18-month term loan,
which can be extended by six months, and a $5 billion 42-month  term loan , Sanofi said Oct. 4.  JPMorgan, based in New York, and nine other banks lost an
estimated $120 million in advisory fees last year when  BHP
Billiton Ltd .’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. was blocked by the Canadian government,
Freeman said Nov. 4.  U.K. insurer Prudential Plc also failed last year in its
$35.5 billion bid to buy  American International Group Inc .’s
Asian unit  AIA Group Ltd . That deal would have generated about
$660 million in advisory and financing fees, according to
Freeman’s estimate at the time the deal was announced.  While big banks emphasize their full-service capabilities,
boutiques such as Evercore Partners, which advised Sanofi, often
tell clients the lack of those services makes them less likely
to have conflicts of interest.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP, another advisory boutique,
served as the main financial adviser to NYSE Euronext on its
planned merger with Deutsche Boerse AG and was the sole adviser
to NYSE before the exchange agreed to the combination yesterday.  There have been 3,017 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $269.3 billion, a 28 percent increase from the $210.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;  Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 