-- 
Sanofi to Buy Genzyme for Sweetened $20.1 Billion After Nine-Month Pursuit

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-02-16T21:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/sanofi-aventis-agrees-to-buy-genzyme-for-74-a-share-in-19-2-billion-deal.html
  Sanofi-Aventis SA  agreed to buy  Genzyme Corp ., ending a nine-month pursuit of the U.S.
biotechnology company with a sweetened offer of at least $20.1
billion that gives  France ’s biggest drugmaker treatments for
rare diseases.  Genzyme’s stockholders will get $74 a share in cash, Paris-
based Sanofi said today in a  statement . They also will receive
so-called contingent value rights that entitle them to payments
of as much as $14 a share depending on the performance of
Genzyme’s experimental multiple-sclerosis drug Lemtrada and
production levels of two other products, the company said.  Acquiring Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines
for rare genetic disorders, will help Chief Executive Officer
Chris Viehbacher offset revenue losses as some of Sanofi’s
biggest-selling products face competition from generic versions.
Sanofi gains treatments for Fabry, Gaucher and Pompe diseases.  “This deal buys him time,” Jerome Forneris, who helps
manage $12 billion, including Sanofi shares, at Banque Martin
Maurel in Marseille, said in a telephone interview. “The
problem is the same for all drugmakers. They lose revenue as
their top sellers go generic.”  The offer represents a 48 percent premium over Genzyme’s
price of $49.86 before Bloomberg News reported July 2 that the
company may be a target of Sanofi. The French company announced
a $69-a-share, $18.5 billion cash bid on Aug. 29, and made a
hostile tender offer to shareholders at the same price Oct. 4.  Genzyme’s History  The purchase values Genzyme at 4.7 times sales, compared
with a median multiple of 4.3 for U.S. drug and biotechnology
companies in the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The agreement will end Genzyme’s 30-year history as an
independent drug developer. Manufacturing glitches in 2009 led
to shortages of the Cerezyme and Fabrazyme drugs and drove
shares down, leaving the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company
vulnerable to a takeover. The sale also may mark the end of the
career of Genzyme Chief Executive Officer Henri Termeer, 64, a
biotechnology pioneer who transformed the company from a start-
up into a drugmaker with $4.5 billion in annual sales.  Since joining Sanofi in December 2008, Viehbacher, 50, has
been hunting outside the company’s laboratories for products
that will help replenish its pipeline of new drugs. Sanofi’s
top-selling medicines, including the blood thinner Plavix and
the cancer drug Taxotere, are facing competition from generics.  Earnings Boost  Sanofi rose 1.75 euros, or 3.5 percent, to 51.55 euros in
Paris. Genzyme gained 80 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $75.10 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  The difference between Genzyme’s share price and Sanofi’s
offer reflects the worth investors are putting on the contingent
value right, said Lionel Melka, co-manager of Paris-based
Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva Synergy Fund, which focuses on
acquisition targets.  The transaction will be completed early in the second
quarter, Sanofi said today. The deal will add to Sanofi’s
earnings in the first year after closing, and will add 75 cents
to 1 euro to earnings per share by 2013, the company said.  Genzyme holders will receive one contingent value right per
share. Sanofi will pay $1 per CVR if Genzyme produces specified
levels of Cerezyme and Fabrazyme this year and another $1 if the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approves Lemtrada to treat
multiple sclerosis. CVR owners will receive $2 if Lemtrada sales
exceed $400 million within specified periods per territory, $3
if sales exceed $1.8 billion, $4 if they surpass $2.3 billion
and $3 if they top $2.8 billion.  ‘Important Tool’  The right, which will be publicly traded, will terminate on
Dec. 31, 2020, or earlier if the sales goals have already been
reached.  The contingent value right enabled Genzyme and Sanofi to
overcome disagreements on whether Lemtrada will be a blockbuster
drug, Viehbacher said on a conference call with reporters.
Sanofi proposed the idea at a meeting in September, he said.  “The CVR was an extremely important tool to bridge
differences in value,” he said. “Genzyme’s own forecasts for
Lemtrada were very significant.”  Genzyme has projected peak sales of $3.5 billion for
Lemtrada, known as Campath when used for blood cancer. Sanofi
said in October that analysts’ estimates of about $700 million
were a valuation “probably closer to the reality of the
product.” Lemtrada is in the final stages of testing and
Genzyme expects data from those trials this year.  Viehbacher’s Pursuit  The acquisition is the biggest industry takeover since
Merck & Co. bought Schering-Plough Corp. for about $47 billion
in November 2009, according to Bloomberg data. It’s also the
biggest U.S. purchase by a European company since Roche Holding
AG’s $46.8 billion acquisition of Genentech Inc. in 2009.  Viehbacher began pursuing Genzyme last year when the U.S.
company was focused on fixing manufacturing snags that cut into
sales of its biggest products after a 2009 virus contamination
at a factory in Allston,  Massachusetts .  Shire Plc  took market
share from Genzyme, and Genzyme’s stock sank as much as 43
percent from a 2008 high, causing unrest among shareholders.  The Sanofi chief told Termeer of his interest in acquiring
Genzyme in a May 23 conversation, according to a Sanofi filing
last year with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sanofi announced the bid after Genzyme’s board spurned the offer
as too low and refused to negotiate.  The Window  Sanofi said the offer enabled Genzyme shareholders to cash
out after “quite a lengthy period” when the stock
underperformed. Genzyme fired back that the offer was
“inadequate and opportunistic.” The company had been targeted
by activist investors Ralph Whitworth of Relational Investors
LLC and Carl C. Icahn, who gained four of 13 board seats last
year in compromises brokered with Genzyme to avoid a proxy
battle.  “There was a window after Genzyme’s manufacturing problems
and the proxy fight, and Viehbacher took advantage of it,”
Melka said in a telephone interview. “Genzyme is a good deal
for him, a beautiful company with a lot of potential. It was
what Sanofi needed.”  The companies later began negotiations over the proposal
and said Jan. 31 that they had started due diligence. Genzyme
agreed to provide data such as profit margins and customer
lists, which Sanofi agreed not to divulge. The $69-a-share
tender offer had been set to expire last night.  Evercore, JPMorgan  Sanofi was advised by  Evercore Partners Inc . and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co .  Genzyme’s top-selling medicine, which garnered $722 million
in sales in 2010, is Cerezyme, a mass-produced version of a
human enzyme missing in patients with the inherited illness
 Gaucher disease . The medicine had sales of more than $1 billion
in 2007 and 2008 before shortages caused by the plant
contamination.  Fabrazyme, used to treat the genetic illness Fabry disease,
and Myozyme and Lumizyme for Pompe disease, similarly provide
patients with enzymes their bodies fail to make or produce
adequately on their own.  Unlike the pills produced by traditional drug companies,
Genzyme’s medicines are made using biological processes and
can’t be readily copied by generic-drug makers. Genzyme garners
premium prices from insurers and government payers because the
therapies provide life-saving benefits.  Genzyme  has about 10,000 employees and 12 manufacturing
facilities worldwide, according to the company’s website. Its
products are available in almost 100 countries.  While Genzyme asked its bankers at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
and  Credit Suisse Group AG  to see what the company might fetch
from another bidder, according to an Oct. 7 filing, none
surfaced. That forced Termeer’s hand, said Bernheim, Dreyfus &
Co.’s Melka.  “They had no other option,” Melka said. “No white knight
ever emerged.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 