-- 
Sanofi's Viehbacher Secures Genzyme Growth With Hard Line Offer

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W a l d h o l z
-- 
2011-02-16T23:01:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/sanofi-s-ceo-viehbacher-secures-genzyme-growth-with-hard-line-fine-wine.html
When Chris Viehbacher, the chief
executive of Paris-based drugmaker  Sanofi-Aventis SA , was trying
to keep details of his unsolicited bid last year for  Genzyme
Corp . under wraps, he couldn’t resist drawing on his beloved
Bordeaux.  “I really like French wines,” the 50-year-old German-
Canadian said yesterday after sealing his sometimes rancorous
nine-month pursuit of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, an
acquisition valued at $20.1 billion.  “We had to have a code name. It was largely around P for
Paris and M for Massachusetts, so we said Petrus for us and
Margaux for them,” he said in an interview. “The project was
 Grand Cru . I couldn’t find a good wine that started with a G.”  Buying the world’s largest maker of biotech drugs for
inherited diseases marks the 29th and largest deal since
Viehbacher joined Sanofi in December 2008. In little more than
two years, he has added everything from Gold Bond medicated
powder to Chinese cough remedies and an Indian vaccine maker as
part of his plan to broaden the company’s revenue base. That’s
critical as Sanofi’s best-selling pharmaceuticals, including its
blockbuster blood thinner Plavix, face generic competition.  “Genzyme is a huge achievement for Chris Viehbacher,”
said Lionel Melka, co-manager of Paris-based Bernheim, Dreyfus &
Co.’s Diva Synergy Fund. “It turns the company from being a
value stock into a growth stock.”  Shot in Arm?  The question remains whether the long list of businesses
Sanofi has amassed will provide the shot in the arm Sanofi was
looking for when it hired Viehbacher, who months earlier had
lost out in a three-way competition for the top job at London-
based GlaxoSmithKline Plc. His task now is to meld these
disparate operations into a coherent whole to produce years of
growth.  Viehbacher’s resume suggests he may be able to pull it off.
At Glaxo, he played a critical role in the company’s successful
integration with rival SmithKline. At the same time, all the
skill he has brought to bear to acquire companies for Sanofi
hasn’t always yielded pay dirt. Ten weeks into the job he
personally oversaw the courtship of BiPar Sciences Inc., a
fledgling biotech with an innovative approach to cancer. Yet,
last month, BiPar’s flagship drug failed in a study to benefit
patients.  “The toughest part has yet to begin for Viehbacher,”
Frederic Aubel, a sales trader at Global Equities in Paris, said
in a telephone interview. “He will have to deliver now and make
sure that the $20 billion he put on the table becomes profitable
for Sanofi. It won’t happen overnight.”  Gold Bond  Sanofi has returned 32 percent including reinvested
dividends since Viehbacher became CEO, outpacing the 28 percent
return in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. Sanofi’s
consumer-health sales jumped 46 percent last year, most notably
because of the $1.9 billion purchase of Chattem Inc., the maker
of Gold Bond. The company’s generic-drug business has also risen
42 percent following the purchases of Medley SA and Zentiva NV
in 2009.  Yet investors place a lower valuation on the French company
than on almost any large drugmaker, reflecting skepticism that
Viehbacher’s buying spree will pay off as advertised. Sanofi
yesterday rose 1.75 euros, or 3.5 percent, to 51.55 euros in
Paris. The shares have climbed 19 percent since Viehbacher
became CEO.  “Viehbacher must rebuild Sanofi but he also needs to help
the company find once again the profile of a growth stock, like
the Sanofi we knew in the past,” said Jerome Forneris, who
helps manage $12 billion, including Sanofi shares, at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille. “This is the challenge for
Viehbacher, finding strong growth once again.”  Want a Dividend  Sanofi itself was created through the merger of more than
five different companies, including the German chemical maker
Hoechst AG. Viehbacher acknowledges that he will be measured by
how well he can combine the new operations into a top-tier
performer.  “People want a dividend at the end of the year, they want
a higher share price, and employees want an increase in pay,”
he said in an interview yesterday. “You can’t do that unless
you have a company that’s growing. And it has to be sustained
growth.”  Viehbacher took over a company that had failed to develop
enough drugs to replace those losing patent protection. In 2007,
U.S. regulators rejected Sanofi’s once-heralded obesity pill,
Acomplia. When the Multaq heart medicine won the backing of the  Food and Drug Administration  in 2009, it was the company’s first
major U.S. approval in seven years. The result of the drought:
Sanofi’s sales and profit in 2013 and before before the Genzyme
acquisition will be the same as they were in 2008, the company
has forecast.  ‘Cheap Debt’  Viehbacher began pursuing Genzyme last year. At the time,
Sanofi had decided it was a good time to make a larger
acquisition than it had completed until then because “debt was
cheap,” Viehbacher said. In addition, Genzyme, which reached a
high of $83.25 in August 2008, fell to $47.16 last June after
manufacturing snags cut into sales of its biggest products
following a 2009 virus contamination at a factory in Allston,  Massachusetts .  Sanofi also wanted to avoid getting into a bidding war. As
Sanofi’s competitors appeared to be “tied up with other
things,” Viehbacher said, “we weren’t surprised when no other
bidder showed up.”  Genzyme was also appealing because it would bootstrap
Sanofi into biotechnology, an area in which the French company
was weak, as well as provide a research presence in the U.S. to
attract scientists there. Viehbacher said that by early last
year the company had five targets on its list and that, finally,
“Genzyme kind of came up at the top.”  Approached Termeer  In a May 23 conversation, according to a Sanofi filing last
year with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Viehbacher approached Henri Termeer, Genzyme’s 64-year-old chief
executive, about a bid. Termeer, who built Genzyme beginning in
1983 by developing treatments for rare diseases other companies
ignored, rebuffed Viehbacher’s unsolicited offer for months. In
a regulatory filing, he described the $69 offer as “an
opportunistic proposal with an unrealistic starting price that
dramatically undervalues” the company.  Still, Termeer had few bargaining options, and Viehbacher
refused to raise the offer. When no other buyers surfaced,
Viehbacher waited as pressure from Genzyme shareholders built.  “Viehbacher played better poker than Termeer,” said Erik Gordon, who teaches at the  University of Michigan ’s  Ross School
of Business  in  Ann Arbor .  Cell Phone Calls  It wouldn’t be the first time Viehbacher would need to use
his personal skills. A year earlier, Viehbacher phoned Hoyoung
Huh, the CEO of BiPar, the South San Francisco-based cancer
biotech company. Viehbacher asked Huh, who was getting on a
flight to Geneva, to drop by for a chat, lunch and some “good
French wine,” Huh recalled in an interview. Viehbacher
explained he was trying to transform Sanofi and persuaded Huh to
consider the French drugmaker as a potential buyer, as there
were other suitors.  “He called on my cell phone on a weekly basis” over the
next few months, Huh said. “He would call as he was walking his
dog and I was at soccer with my kids, just to make sure our
teams weren’t getting bogged down in the deal mechanics.”  It took until Sept. 20 to get the Dutch-born Termeer to sit
down and discuss the offer. The tension between the two parties
is apparent from U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings
that detail conflicting accounts of the talks.  In its filing, Genzyme says that Viehbacher indicated the
company might be willing to raise the bid to as much as $80 if
Termeer named a price at which bargaining could begin. Termeer
refused, according to the document, even though Viehbacher said
doing so might cause him to make a hostile tender offer.  Tender Offer  After the filing was made public in October, Sanofi
spokesman Jean-Marc Podvin said no such price was mentioned and
that Sanofi “strongly disagreed with Genzyme’s characterization
of the meeting.”  Two weeks later after beginning the tender offer,
Viehbacher said in a Bloomberg Television interview, “I’m not
going to bid against myself” to explain his unwillingness to
raise the bid. Viehbacher also told advisers he wouldn’t budge
until he was able to look over Genzyme’s books, according to two
people familiar with the discussion.  By last month it was clear that Viehbacher had convinced
Genzyme holders and that even Termeer was resigned to the deal.
Both men attended the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in  San
Francisco , where it was clear a resolution was being worked out.  ‘Not a War’  “This is not a war,” Termeer said in a Jan. 11 interview
at the conference. At the beginning, “it was a little bit
tense. But it never deteriorated; it actually improved. We found
a way to talk.”  The previous day both companies said their financial
advisers and other representatives from both firms had met to
discuss a contingent value right plan, or CVR, related to
milestones for Genzyme’s multiple sclerosis drug.  The men met when they were both attending the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , the last week of January.
At the meeting, they discussed a way to raise the offer. All
along Termeer argued that Sanofi’s bid didn’t account for the
potential of Genzyme’s most promising product, the multiple
sclerosis drug called Lemtrada.  To value the drug, while also hedging his bet, Viehbacher
suggested attaching a contingent value right, or CVR, to the
offer that would rise in value if the drug reached certain
milestones. At a mountainside hotel at the Swiss ski resort the
CEOs discussed the CVR over a glass of scotch.  Favorite Wine  The final agreement, which came together in the past few
days, will give Genzyme holders one contingent value right per
share that may ultimately be worth $14 if Lemtrada reaches $2.8
billion in sales.  The solution let Viehbacher win Genzyme, without having to
pay up unless the drug’s promise is proved. Viehbacher says he
will gladly pay if that happens.  “I told Henri that if we have to pay the last milestone,
I’ll bring him the check personally and with his favorite wine
to accompany that,” Viehbacher told analysts yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net 
Michael Waldholz in New York at 
 mwaldholz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  