-- 
HSBC’s Neumann Says Philippines to Raise Benchmark Rate in May

-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 
2011-02-16T09:46:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hsbc-s-neumann-says-philippines-to-raise-benchmark-rate-in-may.html
Frederic Neumann, a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, comments on inflation and
interest rates in the  Philippines . He spoke in a press
conference in  Manila  today.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept its overnight borrowing
rate at a record low 4 percent for the 14th straight meeting on
Feb. 10. The next policy meetings are on March 24 and May 5. The
inflation rate was 3.5 percent in January, the fastest pace in
four months. The peso closed 0.2 percent higher to 43.595 per
dollar today.  “Interest rates will go up in May by 25 basis points. The
earlier the better, because the Philippines is a standout across
the region for not raising rates yet, to reassure the market
that it’s prudent to act preemptively rather than reactively.  “Bangko Sentral can easily afford to raise  interest rates 
without any meaningful effect on economic growth.  A 25-basis point increase “will not have an appreciative
impact on growth but will reassure the bond markets that the
central bank is hawkish and takes inflation seriously.  “That will have a positive impact on growth because it
will help to keep bond yields lower and encourage long-term
lending. As long as there’s no consensus reached between the
market and the central bank, we’ll probably see continuous
steepening of the yield curve.”  On inflation risks:  “Philippine inflation is very sensitive to what happens on
food. Food prices have exploded around the region, we can expect
some catch-up here, where 10 percent of rice consumption is
imported. Food prices have a high correlation with core prices.
If food prices continue to push up, that would affect core
prices. It’s the second-round effects that we need to be
vigilant about.”  On  Philippine peso :  “The peso will end the year at 37.50 against the dollar
and next year at 35.50. Growth in the Philippines is strong
because of a very persistent and large balance of payments
surplus driven by remittances.  “The appreciation has slowed recently but this must be
seen in the context of a strengthening U.S. dollar. We expect
the dollar to weaken again in the second half. The attraction
for the central bank is it can allow the peso to do some of the
lifting, rather than raise interest rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in Manila at   mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  