-- 
Scene Last Night: Fashion Prince Bibhu Mohapatra's Goat Hair, Baroness Bea

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-02-16T17:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/scene-last-night-fashion-prince-bibhu-mohapatra-s-goat-hair-baroness-bea.html
High above Manhattan, Bibhu
Mohapatra celebrated his Fashion Week outing with cocktails last
night on the 46th floor of the  Trump SoHo .  Floor-to-ceiling windows offered stunning pictures of the
Brooklyn and Manhattan bridges and beyond.  The skyline provided backdrops for guests such as fellow
designer Prabal Gurung and model Anjhula Singh Bais, a blogger
for Vogue  India .  It was a tranquil scene compared with Fashion Week’s
Lincoln Center base, where temporary tents were sandwiched
between the David H. Koch Theater and the Metropolitan Opera
House.  Earlier, the designer’s 33 models sported crow’s feathers
at their neck or long gowns in blue and plum. For the woman who
needs to be noticed, there was a bolero in long goat hair.  “The collection is about the conflict of extreme opposites
that we carry in our minds: good versus evil, darkness versus
light,” Mohapatra said.  The Baroness  Meanwhile, the loafer-and-pumps crowd gathered at the
Center for Fiction in midtown  Manhattan  to celebrate the
patronage of an Italian baroness with an inspirational property
near Florence.  Since 2000, Beatrice Monti della Corte, the widow of author
Gregor von Rezzori, has welcomed writers and botanists to Santa
Maddalena.  At the retreat, writers enjoy Italian cooking, scenic
accommodations and the encouraging company of the baroness, now
into her 80s and not inclined to waste time.  “Don’t be stupid: You’re a great writer and you’ll write a
great book,” Andrew Sean Greer remembered her saying when he
was dithering about a new novel.  The event, hosted by Edmund White, included readings by
such other past fellows as Michael Cunningham, Zadie Smith, Mary
Gaitskill, Colm Toibin and Gary Shteyngart, who said he only
learned to really bathe when confronted by his immense tub.  Smith, who said she has permission to call the baroness
“Bea,” thanked her for infusing her with a love of dogs.  The evening attracted potential donors, super-agent Lynne
Nesbit and author Wallace Shawn, who refused to disclose what
book he was reading. “That’s too personal. I don’t tell people
what I read,” he said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story: Amanda Gordon at
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 