-- 
Scottish National Party Leads Labour in Poll Before May 5 Vote

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T11:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/scottish-national-party-leads-labour-in-poll-before-may-5-vote.html
The  Scottish National Party , which
won power four years ago for the first time, may still emerge as
the largest group in the Edinburgh parliament after May 5
elections, according to a poll of voting intentions.  The pro-independence SNP, led by First Minister  Alex Salmond , led the  Labour Party  by 37 percent to 36 percent in the
constituency vote and by 35 percent to 33 percent in the
regional vote, an Ipsos MORI survey for the  Times newspaper 
found. Voters cast two ballots in Scottish elections, one for a
specific lawmaker and one for a party in the region.  The poll indicates a change in fortunes for the SNP, which
has been trailing Labour in recent surveys by as much as 16
percentage points. Labour, led in  Scotland  by Iain Gray, had
been picking up support from defecting Liberal Democrats, which
formed a coalition in the U.K. government with Prime Minister
David Cameron’s Conservatives in May last year.  Labour led the SNP by 49 percent to 33 percent in the
constituency vote and by 47 percent to 33 percent in the
regional vote, according to a survey of voting intentions by
 TNS-BRMB  published on Jan. 17.  The Scottish government has powers over justice, health,
education, the environment and some financial affairs under the
devolution agreement that re-established the Scottish Parliament
in 1999. Broader economic policies such as taxes and regulation,
as well as foreign affairs, defense and energy, are reserved for
the U.K. Parliament at Westminster in  London .  The Ipsos MORI poll for the Times asked 1,019 adults in
Scotland between Feb. 10 and Feb. 14. The support for the
parties was based on 627 people who said they were certain to
vote. No margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 