-- 
Arizona Medicaid Reduction Is Approved by Sebelius, Governor Brewer Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-02-16T20:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/sebelius-lets-arizona-cut-people-from-medicaid-rolls-governor-brewer-says.html
  Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer said
U.S. Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  has
granted permission to cut people from the state’s Medicaid
rolls.  Brewer, 66, has proposed eliminating 250,000 childless
adults from the joint state-federal health-care program for the
poor to help save $541.5 million in the coming fiscal year.  “Secretary Sebelius’s letter clearly indicates that
Arizona may take the steps it requires to manage its Medicaid
program and balance its budget,” Brewer said in a statement
yesterday, referring to a document dated Feb. 15.  The 16th-largest state by population faces a $1.2 billion  budget deficit  for the year that begins July 1. More than 70
percent of that is due to Medicaid costs.  The health overhaul that President  Barack Obama  signed last
year requires states to maintain coverage for their Medicaid-
eligible populations. Brewer, a Republican, asked permission
from Sebelius last month to drop some recipients from the rolls
to cut costs.  The state has a federal waiver that expires Sept. 20
allowing it to cover childless adults, according to Monica
Coury, a spokeswoman for the Arizona Health Care Cost
Containment System, which administers Medicaid.  Any reduction in eligibility caused by the expiration
wouldn’t violate the overhaul’s rules, Sebelius said in her
letter.  Expiring Waivers    Jessica Santillo , a spokeswoman for the Health and Human
Services Department, referred to the letter when asked for
comment. No other states have asked to drop people from
Medicaid, said a department official who asked not to be
identified because the person wasn’t authorized to speak.  Under Medicaid law, states don’t have to renew waivers they
have used to expand Medicaid coverage and can trim people from
their rolls by allowing waivers to expire.  “The federal government will be torn on this issue,” said
Vernon Smith, a health-policy consultant in Lansing, Michigan
and former director of  Michigan ’s Medicaid program. “I think
they realize the enormity of the fiscal problems in the
states.”  Indiana uses a health plan with high-deductible insurance
and a savings account for medical expenses to cover childless
adults up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level. That
program expires at the end of 2012.  Minnesota has a waiver that expires in June and expands
Medicaid to some pregnant women and children up to 275 percent
of the federal poverty level.  Delaware, Hawaii, Massachusetts,  New York  and Vermont have
similar waivers to expand coverage, according to Coury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  