-- 
Senate Republicans Seek Time, Analysis on Dodd-Frank

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-02-16T20:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/senate-republicans-seek-more-time-cost-analysis-on-dodd-frank.html
U.S. regulators implementing Dodd-
Frank Act rules must conduct “rigorous” cost-benefit analysis
and allow adequate time for public comment to ensure the law
doesn’t do more harm than good, Republican lawmakers said.  “The potential harm to our already-weak economy and the
public from ill-conceived rules cannot be underestimated,”
 Senate Banking Committee  members wrote in a letter dated
yesterday to regulators including Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .  Bernanke and other regulators are scheduled to testify
tomorrow at a Banking Committee hearing marking a half year
after passage of Dodd-Frank, the biggest financial rules
overhaul since the 1930s. In advance of the hearing, the panel’s
10 Republicans -- led by Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama --
asked the regulators for responses to six questions about
implementation of the law, including whether they’re giving at
least 60 days for public comment on proposed rules and studies.  “I am concerned that some agencies view economic analysis
as nothing more than a nuisance or a mere formality,” Senator
Mike Crapo, an Idaho Republican, said today in a statement.
“Given the grave economic conditions we have experienced,
implementation of these reforms is too important to get it
wrong.”  Shelby, who led Republican opposition to the financial-
regulation law in the Senate last year, said in a statement
today that regulators “must not compound the mistakes of Dodd-
Frank by promulgating uninformed rules.”  Primary Focus  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Banking Committee, plans to make Dodd-Frank implementation a
primary focus of the panel, according to a draft agenda sent to
members on Feb. 2.  The committee is planning to conduct oversight of
derivatives rules being written by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Fed’s plan to cap debit-card “swipe” fees and the Volcker rule
barring banks from proprietary trading, according to the agenda.  “The scope and pace of agency rulemakings under the Dodd-
Frank Act make it more important than ever that agencies engage
in deliberative and rational rulemaking,” the Republicans wrote
in their letter, which was also sent to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , and Acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  