-- 
Senate Elder Hatch Embraces Tea Party `Tough Bunch' in Effort to Survive

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-02-16T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/senate-elder-hatch-embraces-tea-party-tough-bunch-in-effort-to-survive.html
When David Kirkham answers the phone
at his Provo,  Utah , custom-made-auto company, the caller is
sometimes a six-term U.S. senator who has more than specialty
cars on his mind.  Kirkham, founder of a 10,000-member Utah Tea Party  chapter ,
has been hearing a lot during the last 18 months from  Orrin Hatch , who faces voters in 2012 and has been drawing fire from
some fellow Republicans over his past work with Democrats. Hatch
asks Kirkham what he thinks about the  tax code , lawmakers
“earmarking” home-state projects, and the senator’s push for a
balanced-budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  “He has certainly pivoted toward Tea Party ideals in the
past two years, so I think many people are certainly happy with
what he’s done lately,” said Kirkham, 44, who helped topple
three-term Utah Republican Senator  Robert Bennett  last year and
says he still hasn’t made up his mind about Hatch.  That ambivalence owes to Hatch’s past willingness to work
with Democrats on everything from bailing out the nation’s banks
to a pathway to citizenship for some illegal immigrants to
federal funding for stem-cell research. In 1997, he incensed
Republican leaders by joining forces with Senator Ted Kennedy to
create a children’s health program.  Hatch’s efforts now to win over the Tea Party activists
underline the difficulty many Republicans up for re-election
will have trying to manage the demands of a new movement that
offers an energized voter base yet allows few compromises on
conservative principles such as reining in government power.  Rightward Tilt  His outreach to Tea Party groups is broad-based, including
town-hall meetings and personal calls before Senate votes, and
comes with a rightward tilt on policy by the legislator,
considered one of the Senate’s great dealmakers.  Hatch, 76, is working to peel back parts of last year’s
health-care overhaul, taking a tougher stance on immigration,
and vowing to push back on any tax increases proposed by
President  Barack Obama .  Late last year, Hatch bowed to the movement’s call and
dropped requests for more than $1 billion in home-state
earmarks.  “Typically, he’s the one going out and making the deal and
then other people could use him as political cover,” said
 Matthew Burbank , an associate professor of political science at
the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. The shift won’t make
it easy for other lawmakers “to get things done in a fairly
divided Congress.”  ‘Tough Guy’  In an interview, Hatch said any impression that he’s
pandering to a fledgling movement is off base, saying he’s only
espousing views he has long held. He’s still seeking
opportunities to work with Democrats, he said, pointing to a
revamp of a  patent law  he has written with Senate Judiciary
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat.  Still, Hatch said that while he isn’t joining the Senate’s
four-member Tea Party Caucus, he feels ideologically close to
the activists he’s wooing -- except the few who shout him down
at events.  “Do I identify with them? Yes,” he said. “Do I like
them? Yes, for the most part.”  Hatch said he’s a “tough guy” determined to be re-
elected, and that his key goal -- and top selling point to Utah
activists -- is to take the gavel of the finance panel if
Republicans win the Senate in 2012. With that, he said, he’ll
battle with Democrats over cuts to Social Security and other
entitlement programs, and over the health-care law.  “This boy is going to solve those problems, no matter how
badly I’m hated in this doggone town,” Hatch said.  Public Apology  He has attended two Tea Party picnics, held eight town-hall
meetings, and called activists, including before a December
Senate vote on an $858 billion bill extending for two year the
Bush-era tax cuts. Last week, he publicly apologized for
supporting the 2008 financial bailout before a heckling crowd at
the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, addressing
concerns about an issue that helped jettison Bennett’s 2010
Senate re-election bid.  Hatch’s closest embrace came Feb. 8, when he joined a
televised town hall of the Tea Party Express, competing for the
limelight with movement luminaries like Representative  Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota Republican, and first-term Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican.  “We don’t need a break,” Hatch said when a moderator
suggested one. “We might not look like much, but we’re a tough
bunch, I’ll tell ya.”  Longest-Serving Republican  Elected in 1976, he and another Tea Party target -- Senator  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana  -- are the Senate’s longest-serving
Republicans. Hatch has often been at the forefront, helping to
lead a defense of Supreme Court nominees  Robert Bork  and  Clarence Thomas , facing down a Democratic majority in a months-
long filibuster of a labor bill in 1978, and making a quixotic
bid for the White House during the 2000 campaign.  He’s best known, though, for forging deals, such as the
measure with Kennedy authorizing $24 billion to get states to
offer health insurance to children of low-income working
parents. He also split from many in his party by supporting
embryonic stem-cell research, and once wrote a measure that
would grant citizenship to some younger illegal immigrants.  That’s coming back to haunt him, as he faces 3,500
delegates at a Republican Party nominating convention in Utah
next year, the same venue where Bennett was ousted.  Representative Jason Chaffetz, a second-term Republican
backed by the Tea Party, is being urged by some activists to
run. Senator  Mike Lee , who swept past Bennett last May with Tea
Party backing in the first of a series of 2010 Republican
incumbent upsets, says he won’t endorse Hatch before the
convention.  Hatch ‘Inconsistent’  Hatch also risks the opposition of the Club for Growth, a
Washington-based group that advocates smaller government and
which spent $211,000 to help defeat Bennett.  “Hatch has been inconsistent,” said Chris Chocola,
president of the Club for Growth. “We look for people with core
principles, who stick with those principles.”  Amy Kremer, chairwoman of the Tea Party Express, also said
Hatch can’t count on their support.  “A lot of people in the state are upset with him,” Kremer
said. “No decisions have been made. We’re not providing cover
for anybody.”  Some home-state activists say it may be good to keep Hatch
around.  “Bennett was in the right place at the right time to be
made an example of,” said Larry Jensen, the founder of a  Salt
Lake City  Tea Party group who also gets calls from Hatch.
“Hatch is in a different position -- he could help our cause.”  Hatch said he’s confident that more and more Tea Partiers
will see that their views aren’t much different from his.  “I’ve been very open to them, and I’ve learned from
them,” Hatch said. “When they’re right, they’ve got me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  