-- 
Serbian Cabinet Changes Won’t Affect Investments, Officials Say

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-02-16T11:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/serbian-cabinet-changes-won-t-affect-investments-officials-say.html
Serbia’s outgoing Deputy Prime
Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who supported government subsidies for
foreign investors, said the state should keep the program
regardless of his departure and a looming Cabinet reshuffle.  Two days after Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  announced he
would fire Dinkic over policy and personnel disputes, the
outgoing deputy government leader and economy minister, who also
offered to resign, said conditions won’t change for foreign
investors who receive up to 10,000 euros ($13,527) for each job
created.  “It’s the best program this government made,” Dinkic told
B92 television in a live broadcast today, crediting the
incentives as a reason for Serbia’s 24 percent increase in
exports in 2010. He said his political party G17 Plus would
continue supporting the ruling coalition to prevent instability
or the risk of early elections.  “I want the government to continue working, we have to
continue attracting foreign investments” Dinkic said, referring
to the incentives extended so far to  Fiat SpA , South Korea’s
Yura Corp.,  Benetton Group SpA  of Italy, French Sagem SA,
Slovenian Gorenje Group d.d.,  Germany ’s  Grammer AG  and others.  Dinkic’s party is to propose a replacement for him and
another Cabinet member, National Investment Plan Minister Verica
Kalanovic, who decided to step down along with Dinkic.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic confirmed in an interview to
 Blic  newspaper that he would propose a broader government
shuffle by the end of the month, following an internal analysis
of the work of all ministries.  Cvetkovic moved against Dinkic after he questioned his
authority and ability to lead the government, dominated by the
Democratic Party of President  Boris Tadic . The prime minister
also announced the dismissal of Deputy Finance Minister Slobodan Ilic, who recently clashed  with Dinkic over a Gorenje
investment.  Serbia’s 250-seat parliament is to discuss and vote on the
dismissals next week. Parliamentary elections are due next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  