-- 
Sharma Urges Singh to Consider Rate Impact on Indian Industry

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-02-16T06:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/sharma-urges-singh-to-consider-rate-impact-on-indian-industry.html
Indian Commerce & Industry Minister  Anand Sharma  said he has asked the prime minister to consider
industry’s need for credit at lower rates after the central bank
raised borrowing costs last month.  Sharma told reporters in Tokyo today that he “urged the
Prime Minister, who is the senior leader in my country, to look
into the needs of industry, and accordingly to seek the  Reserve
Bank  to ensure that credit remains available to industry at
flexible rates, cheaper rates because we have to add
capacities.”  Reserve Bank of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Jan. 25
raised rates for the seventh time in a year and said the central
bank will maintain its “anti-inflationary monetary stance.”
The move had the support of Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee
and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s top economic advisers.  “There isn’t adequate comfort in the present inflation
levels,” said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at Kotak Mahindra
Bank Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s very difficult to see the RBI pause
rate increases.”  Pan expects the RBI to boost rates by 75 basis points in
2011.  On Jan. 18, Sharma said raising rates may not be a suitable
action to curb inflation.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate stood at
8.23 percent in January. The RBI aims for inflation of 4 percent
to 4.5 percent.  The central bank’s key repurchase rate is 6.5 percent.  The decision to increase rates is a “strong signal” that
the RBI is keen to tackle inflation, Mukherjee said on Jan. 25.
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s
Economic Advisory Council, said Jan. 7 that “some action” by
the RBI may be needed to contain prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  