-- 
Shekel Gains to 3-Week High on Growth, Inflation; Bonds Decline

-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 
2011-02-16T15:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/shekel-gains-israel-bonds-drop-on-higher-than-expected-prices.html
The shekel climbed to the highest in
three weeks and Israeli  government bonds  fell for the first time
in seven days as higher than expected growth and inflation
fueled bets interest rate increases may be more rapid.  The economy grew at the fastest pace in four years in the
last quarter of 2010, expanding 7.8 percent, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said today. The consumer-price
index rose 0.2 percent in January, above the median forecast of
13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg for zero inflation.  “The strength of growth and the faster inflation profile
justifies an accelerated normalization of rates starting next
week,” said  Tevfik Aksoy ,  Morgan Stanley & Co .’s chief
economist for  Turkey , the Middle East and North Africa. “The
shekel will stick out as the currency to face significant
appreciation pressures and Israeli foreign currency reserves
will continue to rise.”  The shekel strengthened as much as 1 percent and was 0.9
percent higher at 3.6083 per dollar at 4:54 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .
The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  jumped 1.5 percent to 1,334.55,
at the 4:30 p.m. close, the highest since Jan. 23.  The central bank bought a “small amount” of dollars to
weaken the Israeli currency, Moshe Nir, a trader at Mercantile
Discount Bank Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said. Governor  Stanley Fischer 
began buying foreign currency in March 2008 and has more than
doubled reserves since to a record $73.4 billion at the end of
January.  Rising Rates  Fischer, who last month boosted the interest rate to 2.25
percent, may increase the benchmark lending rate to 3.5 percent
by year-end as credit expands, housing prices increase,
inflation expectations rise and the economy recovers, Aksoy said
Feb. 10. The rate will likely rise to 2.5 percent at the next
policy setting meeting on Feb. 21, according to 10 of 16
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The remaining six, all polled
before yesterday’s inflation data, expect no change to the rate.  Gross domestic product growth accelerated from 4.4 percent
in the previous quarter, and exceeded the 4.2 percent median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer
prices increased an annual 3.6 percent, above the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target range.  “Inflation is now above the Bank of Israel’s target,”
said Arie Tal, chief strategist at Alumot-Sprint Investment
House Ltd. in Herzliya,  Israel . “This pushes up inflation
expectations in the market” and there is “certainly” a chance
the rate will increase for a second month, he said.  The yield on the benchmark Mimshal Shiklit note due January
2020 rose 4 basis points to 5.01 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  