-- 
Singapore Exchange’s ‘Pig in Dress’ Offer for ASX No Sure Thing

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-02-16T04:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/singapore-exchange-s-pig-in-dress-offer-for-asx-still-faces-resistance.html
  Singapore Exchange Ltd . has a “long
way to go” in its bid to win approval from Australian
regulators and lawmakers for its bid to buy  ASX Ltd ., the head
of New Zealand’s stock exchange said.  Mark Weldon, chief executive officer of  NZX Ltd ., said that
a group headed by his exchange withdrew an application last
month to start up a rival bourse in  Australia  after it got “sat
on” for three years and was ultimately “beaten by Canberra.”  “I think there’s a long way to go on both competition and
the merger,” Weldon said in an interview.  Singapore Exchange, pursuing a A$7.78 billion ($7.78
billion) takeover of Australia’s major bourse operator,
yesterday offered to give more board seats to Australians to win
support from lawmakers who oppose the merger on national
interest grounds.  Bob Katter , one of four independent
politicians whose vote may be needed to approve the deal, said
the revised offer was “like putting a pig in a dress.”  Mergers of the  New York  stock exchange and  Europe ’s  Deutsche Boerse AG , and of operators in London and Toronto,
bolster the case for the Singapore-Australia deal, ASX Chairman
David Gonski said in a statement yesterday.  Australia’s ruling Labor government, headed by Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , has a minority in parliament and needs
the support of opposition parties or independent lawmakers to
pass bills allowing the merger to go ahead.  Senate Inquiry  Katter has introduced a private member’s bill to parliament
calling on lawmakers to “oppose any sale of the Australian
Securities Exchange that would provide majority foreign
ownership.” Independent South Australian Senator Nick Xenophon
told Bloomberg he will seek a Senate hearing of Singapore
Exchange’s latest proposal.  “I would not support the sale of the ASX,” Tasmanian
independent lower house lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie  said in an
interview in Canberra. “I think it would be unacceptable and
the majority of Australians would agree.”  Greens party leader  Bob Brown  remains opposed to the merger,
saying in an e-mail statement today he urges “the government
not to be fooled by window-dressing” in a deal that would
“short change Australia and leave the nation vulnerable to
further loss of control of a key financial institution.”  ASX’s shares fell as much as 1.7 percent in Sydney trading
today, erasing yesterday’s gains. Singapore Exchange lost as
much as 0.7 percent, extending yesterday’s 0.6 percent decline.  Singapore Exchange’s concession yesterday came as  Deutsche
Boerse  and NYSE Euronext agreed to merge, and after  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc ’s said it would buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc .,
increasing pressure on rival exchanges to expand.  Further Concessions  “I don’t think we’re done with this consolidation round,”
said Peter Kovalski, manager of two financial-services mutual
funds at Alpine Woods Investments in Purchase, New York, which
manages $6 billion. “In order to fend off any new upstart
exchanges, the established exchanges have to continue to drive
their costs down so that it would be cost-prohibitive to put
together the infrastructure needed to form an exchange.”  Magnus Bocker, chief executive officer of Singapore
Exchange, offered further concessions, including a pledge to
keep key staff in Australia and to invest in services --
including an Australian dollar interest-rate-swaps clearing
facility -- in the country, according to an ASX statement on the
restructure.  The bid, which won approval from Australia’s competition
regulator on Dec. 15, still requires the support of Treasurer  Wayne Swan , the Foreign Investment Review Board, the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia, the Australian Securities & Investments
Commission, and parliamentarians, several of whom have opposed
the sale.  `Merger of Equals'  Chew Choon Seng, current chairman of  Singapore Exchange ,
will be chairman of the combined group and ASX’s Gonski will be
the merged company’s deputy chairman. Bocker, who will be
managing director and CEO, said yesterday the latest proposal
was “a merger of equals.”  Singapore Exchange, which runs the city’s securities and
derivatives market, offered to buy ASX in October in a cash and
share deal then valued at A$8.4 billion. It would be the first
merger between two exchange companies in the Asia-Pacific region.  The announced value of the merger represented a 42 percent
increase on ASX’s share price. That’s five times more than that
offered by LSE for TMX.  Singapore Exchange’s bid values ASX at 19.5 times earnings
before interest and taxes, almost twice as much as the 10.4
times involved in LSE’s bid for TMX Group. That also compares
with the 22.8 times earnings before interest and taxes NYSE
Group Inc. paid for Euronext NV in 2007 and the 21.4 times EBIT
that CME Group Inc. valued Nymex Holdings Inc. at a year later,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Corporations Act  The Deutsche Boerse and LSE deals, announced on Feb. 10,
represented the biggest day ever for mergers of securities
exchanges. The boards of Deutsche Boerse and  NYSE Euronext 
agreed yesterday to combine the companies.  Even if Singapore Exchange’s takeover wins all regulatory
approvals in Australia, laws amending the Corporations Act will
need to be passed in both houses of parliament. The minority
Labor government needs the support of four independent or Greens
lawmakers to pass a bill to raise ASX’s foreign ownership cap to
make way for the takeover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .;
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 