-- 
Singapore May Plan ’Bountiful’ Budget Before Election

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-02-17T03:04:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/singapore-may-unveil-bountiful-2011-budget-as-election-looms.html
Singapore may boost handouts in its
2011 budget, seeking to narrow the  income gap  and help
households cope with inflation that’s accelerated to a two-year
high ahead of elections due within 12 months.  The city-state may announce as much as S$10 billion ($7.8
billion) in so-called special transfers such as cash handouts
and tax rebates for the year starting April 1, according to  Citigroup Inc . That compares with S$5.2 billion allocated in the
2010 plan. Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam will unveil
the annual budget in parliament at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow.  Singapore raised its 2011 inflation forecast today after
the economy expanded a record 14.5 percent last year, lifting
state revenue as rising company earnings and the opening of two
casinos boosted taxes.  Asia ’s rebound from the global recession
has led to surging prices from  China  to  India  while the gap
between rich and poor widened, forcing policy makers to raise  interest rates .  “Budget 2011, being the last budget before elections are
slated to be held, looks likely to be a bountiful one,” said
Chow Penn Nee, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. It “will probably be focused on how  Singapore  can
sustain its growth rates, do more to drive productivity gains.
This budget will also have to address the increasing cost of
living, especially for the lower-income group,” she said.  Inflation Forecast  The government expects inflation to average 3 percent to 4
percent this year, up from a previous forecast of 2 percent to 3
percent. Consumer prices may rise 5 percent to 6 percent in the
first few months of 2011, the trade ministry said today.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who needs to call for an
election by February 2012, has pledged to ensure lower-income
families aren’t left out of the island’s growth, saying a
widening income gap is affecting countries from the U.S. to
China and India.  The island’s inflation rate in December rose to the highest
level since 2008 as accelerating growth added about 112,500 new
jobs to the economy last year, boosted earnings at companies
including  DBS Group Holdings Ltd ., and pushed unemployment to
the lowest in more than two years. The  Singapore dollar  has
risen about 10 percent in the past 12 months as the central bank
allowed faster appreciation to curb price gains.    Budget Surplus   Economists including Kit Wei Zheng at Citigroup predict
Shanmugaratnam will report a budget surplus for 2010, with
forecasts ranging from S$3 billion to S$6.4 billion compared
with an initial government estimate for a S$3 billion deficit,
according to a Bloomberg compilation of the expectations of six
economists. For 2011, the estimates range from a surplus of
S$100 million to a deficit of S$4.6 billion.  Betting taxes may have added about S$2.5 billion to
government revenue, said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. The country’s first casinos opened last
year as part of resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and Las
Vegas Sands Corp., attracting millions to their baccarat tables
and slot machines.  “The political-economic backdrop -- impending general
elections, rising inflation, growing concerns over the income
gap and policy shift towards inclusive growth -- suggests the
overriding priority will be to redistribute the large
accumulated surpluses of the past few years,” said Kit of
Citigroup. That will “buffer real incomes of lower and middle-
income citizens from rising costs of living,” he said.  Income Gap  The gap between Singapore’s most affluent and poorest
people widened last year as higher wage earners got bigger
increases in income. The Gini coefficient, a measure of  income
inequality , climbed to 0.48 in 2010 from 0.478 in 2009,
according to the  government . A reading of zero reflects a state
of equality.  “We are striving to ensure that the broad majority of
Singaporeans benefit from growth, including lower-income, less-
skilled workers, and the middle group who feel sandwiched in
between,” Lee said Dec. 31. While the government has lowered
income tax rates and enhanced assistance for the poor, the most
important programs are “efforts to upgrade our people and
workers,” he said.  In the budget before the last election in 2006, the
government spent S$2.6 billion on a “progress package” that
included distributing its surplus to citizens.  Foreign Workers  Last year, the government announced S$5.5 billion of
spending to spur productivity as it sought to reduce the
economy’s dependence on foreign workers. In 2009, the government
cut corporate taxes and tapped the country’s reserves for the
first time to give employers cash grants to retain local workers.  The People’s Action Party led by Lee has been in power
since the city-state’s independence in 1965 and holds 82 of the
84 elected seats in parliament. At the last election, the ruling
party won about 67 percent of votes, 8 percentage points lower
than the previous poll.  Economists at United Overseas and  Capital Economics  say the
government is unlikely to cut company taxes further this year
after shaving nine percentage points off the rate in the decade
to 2009, to 17 percent. Singapore’s top income tax rate of 20
percent was last lowered in 2006 and will also be left unchanged
this year, they predict.  Hong Kong  has a corporate tax rate of
16.5 percent, while personal income is levied at a maximum 17
percent.  The government expects economic growth to slow to 6 percent
or less this year. The city of 5 million people has remained
vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas demand for manufactured
goods even after the government boosted services.  Gross domestic product increased an annualized 3.9 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, after contracting a
revised 16.7 percent from July to September, the government said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  