-- 
Small Nuclear Reactors May Spur Factory Jobs, Exports, U.S. Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-02-16T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/small-nuclear-reactors-may-spur-factory-jobs-exports-u-s-says.html
The Obama administration’s plan to
develop a new generation of small nuclear reactors may spur U.S.
manufacturing jobs and exports, the Commerce Department said.  Building “small modular reactors,” about a third the size
of the nuclear units now used by power companies, may provide
“tremendous new commercial opportunities for U.S. firms and
workers,” the department’s International Trade Administration
said today in a report.  Most U.S. reactors have capacities from 800 megawatts to
1,200 megawatts, according to the report. President Barack
Obama’s budget request for fiscal 2012 seeks $67 million to help
companies such as Westinghouse Electric Co., a unit of Tokyo-
based  Toshiba Corp ., and  Babcock & Wilcox Co . of Charlotte,  North Carolina , develop small reactor designs and win approval
from U.S. nuclear regulators.  The nuclear plants generating 300 megawatts or less would
be built in retooled U.S. factories and shipped by rail, unlike
large reactors that are assembled on site and depend on
components from Japan and  South Korea , according to the report.
If small-reactor manufacturers can “prove their designs in the
domestic market” for new power plants, they will likely start
making export sales, the report said.  The Obama administration is “very, very positive about
small modulars,” even as it supports the construction of larger
reactors with federal loan guarantees, Energy Secretary Steven
Chu told reporters Feb. 14.  Small reactors power more than 80 U.S. Navy vessels. While
those units are allowed to use more highly enriched nuclear fuel
than civilian facilities, small nuclear units developed for  power plants  may “resemble the naval reactors that have been
operating for decades,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 