-- 
SNB’s Hildebrand Sees Danger Unless Excess Liquidity Absorbed

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-02-16T16:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/snb-s-hildebrand-sees-danger-unless-excess-liquidity-absorbed.html
Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said policy makers can’t wait too long to reduce
excess liquidity, indicating he’s concerned about potential
inflation pressures.  “The situation we are in can indeed become dangerous” if
excessive liquidity is coupled with a “booming economy,”
Hildebrand told German weekly newspaper Die Zeit in a pre-
release of an interview to be published tomorrow. While the SNB
isn’t in that situation yet, “we must not miss the right point
in time” to absorb liquidity.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  has more than halved
the liquidity it sets aside for domestic banks since May,
curbing their ability to lend and reducing long-term inflation
risks. It said at its monetary policy assessment in December
that the “current expansionary monetary policy” can’t be
maintained over the next three years “without jeopardizing
long-term  price stability .”  “We have very much liquidity in the system,” Hildebrand
said. “But it was necessary to create that liquidity to avoid
an economic slump” and deflation. “Since summer 2010, we have
already absorbed 50 billion francs in  bank deposits . Our
instruments are working.”  Hildebrand also said that it’s “not the question whether
one is able to absorb liquidity but whether we have the right
timing in using our instruments.”  SNB spokesman  Werner Abegg  confirmed Hildebrand’s remarks
in the interview, which took place last week.  Recovery  The Swiss central bank is issuing bills and using so-called
reverse repo operations to mop up funds available for banks
after liquidity ballooned during the global financial crisis as
the central bank battled the recession.  The SNB has forecast that the Swiss economy will expand 1.5
percent this year. It sees inflation accelerating to 1 percent
in 2012 from an expected 0.4 percent this year.  Inflation will average 2.14 percent in the third quarter of
2013, the SNB said in December, surpassing the 2 percent limit
the central bank sees as compatible with price stability. The
forecasts are based on the assumption that SNB’s benchmark
interest rate remains unchanged.  Hildebrand defended proposals to strengthen the biggest
Swiss banks’ balance sheets to cushion them against potential
losses, saying they are the “minimum of what  Switzerland 
needs.”  A government-appointed committee proposed in October
that  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , the country’s biggest
banks, should hold almost double the capital required under the
Basel III rules and use contingent convertible bonds to satisfy
part of the requirement. The changes still have to be approved
by lawmakers.  If there are any attempts to soften the proposals, “I will
seriously weigh in the discussion and, if needed, explain again
and again what’s it about,” Hildebrand said. “It’s about the
essence of Switzerland’s economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  