-- 
SocGen Fourth-Quarter Net Jumps on Investment Bank

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-02-16T09:21:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/socgen-fourth-quarter-net-income-quadruples-on-russia-drop-in-writedowns.html
  Societe Generale  SA,  France ’s
second-largest lender, said fourth-quarter profit quadrupled,
helped by a turnaround at its Russian unit and on fewer
writedowns at the corporate and investment bank.  Societe Generale, based in Paris, rose as much as 4.2
percent after saying today that net income climbed to 874
million euros ($1.18 billion) from 221 million euros a year
earlier. That beat the 865 million-euro average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  is counting on the
revival of earnings at the Russian retail unit, which has been
unprofitable since at least 2009, to help the bank reach a goal
of 6 billion euros of annual profit by 2012. That plan is being
buoyed as the company posts lower writedowns after recording
losses of more than 11 billion euros during the credit crisis.  “SocGen hasn’t disappointed and it’s a cheap share,” said  Simon Maughan , the co-head of European equities at London-based
MF Global Ltd. “It’s a leading indicator for all of the banking
industry.”  Societe Generale rose as much as 2.04 euros to 50.90 euros,
its highest price in a year, and traded at 50.88 euros at 9:57
a.m. in Paris trading. That gives the bank a market value of
37.6 billion euros.  The company in 2010 “embarked on a far-reaching
transformation of the group,” Oudea, 47, said in a statement.
“We are determined to continue” with the plan and meet next
year’s profit target, he said. Full-year earnings surged almost
sixfold to 3.92 billion euros.  Writedowns  The lender had gross losses of 164 million euros in the
quarter from risky assets including asset-backed securities and
debt backed by U.S. bond insurers, down from about 1.6 billion
euros a year earlier, according to company data. For the full
year, the bank booked 625 million euros in writedowns and
provisions for risky assets, less than its forecast of as little
as 700 million euros.  The Russian consumer-banking business had a 13 million-euro
profit in the quarter compared with a loss of 58 million euros a
year earlier, according to a presentation on the bank’s website.  Russia , the lender’s second-largest market by employees, should
become the biggest contributor to international-retail earnings
in 2015, it said on June 15.  Societe Generale plans to pay a 2010 dividend of 1.75 euros
a share compared with 25 cents a year earlier. The company
reiterated it doesn’t need to sell new shares to comply with new  capital requirements  as the bank can reach a core Tier 1 ratio,
a key measure of financial strength, of about 8.5 percent at the
end of 2013.  Share Rally  The Russian turnaround and the drop in writedowns are
helping the company, which had a record trading loss in 2008
from unauthorized bets by  Jerome Kerviel , regain favor with
investors as it narrows the earnings gap with larger French
competitor  BNP Paribas  SA.  Societe Generale, whose shares trailed those of BNP Paribas
every year from the start of the credit crisis in 2007 through
2010, has gained 45 percent since June 15, when Oudea announced
the 2012 profit target. That’s more than the 23 percent advance
of BNP Paribas, which is slated to report earnings tomorrow.  BNP Paribas’s market value, at about 70 billion euros, is
85 percent larger than Societe Generale’s. In May 2007, before
the financial crisis took hold, the gap was as small as 12
percent.  Risky Assets  That comes as investors bet Oudea’s plan to balance
earnings from corporate- and investment-banking with higher
revenue from  consumer lending  in countries such as Russia will
pay off.  The corporate- and investment-banking unit had a 311
million-euro fourth-quarter profit compared with a 562 million-
euro deficit last year as Societe Generale trimmed losses from
risky assets it’s winding down.  Corporate- and investment-banking revenue more than doubled
to 2 billion euros, beating analysts’ estimates of 1.84 billion
euros. Societe Generale had said it expected the unit to have
about 2 billion euros of quarterly revenue last year.  Sales at the capital-markets division rose 20 percent to
1.14 billion euros in the fourth quarter. The markets business
had a “rather good” start in 2011, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Severin Cabannes said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  French Boost  Profit at the French retail networks rose 53 percent to 302
million euros, in line with analysts’ estimates for 306 million
euros. Societe Generale posted a profit of 94 million euros from
its insurance and financial-services division from a loss of 37
million euros a year earlier.  Overall earnings at the bank’s international-retail
networks gained 4 percent to 104 million euros, helped by the
Russian business returning to profit, while the Romanian and
Greek subsidiaries “suffered the effects of the recession,”
Societe Generale said.  The company last year probably made more than a quarter of
its total revenue from emerging countries, mostly in central and
eastern  Europe , where economic growth is higher than in France,
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. analyst Jean Pierre Lambert said in
a note to investors last month. That compares with 15 percent at
BNP Paribas and 9 percent at  Credit Agricole SA , France’s third-
biggest lender, according to KBW.  Egyptian Business  The French lender, owner of  Egypt ’s second-largest listed
bank, has probably the most at risk among European banks in the
Arab world’s most populous country, analysts and economists have
said. The Egyptian army said this week it will rule for six
months or until general elections are held after a popular
uprising led to the toppling of President Hosni Mubarak’s 30-
year-old-long regime.  Overall, French banks have the most at stake among
international lenders in Northern Africa.  They had a combined $52.3 billion of loans in Algeria,
Egypt, Libya,  Morocco  and  Tunisia  at the end of September,
according to data from the Bank for International Settlements.
That’s 65 percent of the total claims European banks have on
borrowers from these five countries.  Even so, French banks’ exposure to Northern Africa is
smaller than the $59.4 billion on  Greece , where both Societe
Generale and  Credit Agricole  operate unprofitable consumer-
banking networks.  Societe Generale owns 88 percent of Greece’s  Geniki Bank 
SA, which has been unprofitable each year since 2003. The French
lender posted a loss of 66 million euros in the fourth quarter
for the Greek business, compared with a 26 million-euro deficit
a year earlier.  Societe Generale had a combined net risk of 9.3 billion
euros tied to the sovereign debt of Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  