-- 
Somali Pirate Muse Gets 34-Year Prison Sentence for Indian Ocean Hijacking

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-02-16T18:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/somali-pirate-muse-gets-34-year-prison-sentence-for-indian-ocean-hijacking.html
Somali pirate Abduwali Muse was
sentenced to 33 years and nine months in prison for hijacking
the container ship Maersk  Alabama  in the  Indian Ocean  in 2009.  U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  in New York handed down
the sentence today. Muse pleaded guilty in May to two counts of
hijacking maritime vessels, two of kidnapping and two of hostage
taking. Prosecutors said he led pirates who captured the  Maersk
Alabama  and held its captain, Richard Phillips, for five days.  The sentence is at the top of a range in an arrangement
between Muse’s lawyers and prosecutors. The defense asked for
the minimum, 27 years. The government sought the maximum because
of what it called the “extraordinarily depraved and violent
nature of Muse’s crimes.”  “Today’s sentence makes it clear that piracy on the high
seas is a crime against the international community that will
not be tolerated,”  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said
in a statement.  Muse and his cohorts began their piracy spree in March
2009, boarding two other ships in the Indian Ocean and taking
hostages before boarding the Maersk Alabama, a 500-foot U.S.-
flagged container ship headed to  Kenya  from  Djibouti  with a load
of food aid for the region, on April 8, prosecutors said.  Accomplices Slain  Armed with an AK-47 assault rifle, Muse boarded the Maersk
Alabama, fired at Phillips and forced him to stop the ship,
demanding $30,000, prosecutors said. The pirates agreed to leave
after Muse was captured by members of the crew, then took
Phillips hostage when he attempted to show them how to use a
motorized lifeboat and held him in the vessel for four days.  Muse was taken into custody after snipers from the USS
Bainbridge, a U.S. Navy missile destroyer, shot and killed his
three accomplices, and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
brought Muse to New York.  His attorneys, Fiona Doherty and Philip Weinstein, argued
that their client grew up in poverty in Somalia, sometimes
hunting through garbage for food, and worked in fishing
communities in the coastal area known as Puntland, where pirate
gangs have their roots, they said.  “There’s no doubt that the conditions in Somalia that he
experienced up until the time he was arrested will continue to
have a powerful effect on him,” Doherty said.  His attorneys have argued that Muse was just 16 at the time
of the hijacking, although a U.S. magistrate judge has rejected
that claim and prosecutors have said that he told one of his
hostages he was 24.  ‘Youthful Appearance’  “The defendant has used his youthful appearance as a tool
for leniency” since his arrest, Assistant U.S. Attorney Brendan McGuire said during today’s hearing.  Before he was sentenced, Muse, speaking through a
translator, said he was “very sorry” and asked for forgiveness
from those he harmed and the U.S. government, saying he was
“deluded” by people who were smarter and more powerful.  “I got my hands into something that was more powerful than
me,” said Muse, who tried to commit suicide several times since
his arrest, according to his defense attorneys.  Colin Wright, 44, of Galveston,  Texas , who was the third
officer on the Maersk Alabama that day, testified during today’s
hearing that the incident permanently changed him and asked the
judge to sentence Muse to the maximum penalty possible.  “It was a very, very scary experience,” said Wright, who
detailed being shot at during the hijacking and listening to
bullets ring off the bulkhead next to him.  ‘Only Justice’  Preska took off her glasses and appeared to get emotional
while reading letters from victims including Phillips, who said
he wrote on behalf of all merchant mariners asking “not for
revenge or brutality, only justice.”  Piracy “affects us in our daily lives and it is not a
Disneyland-esque problem,” Phillips wrote. “These are not
Johnny Depps.”  The judge said that a longer sentence was necessary to
deter piracy.  “General deterrence of this type of conduct is the most
important sentencing factor,” Preska said.  The Maersk Alabama is owned by Maersk Line Ltd., a Norfolk,
Virginia-based unit of Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S.  The case is U.S. v. Muse, 09-cr-00512, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  