-- 
South Africa's Consumer Inflation Rate Accelerates for Third Month in Four

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-02-16T08:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/south-african-consumer-inflation-accelerates-for-a-third-month-in-four.html
South African inflation accelerated
to a six-month high of 3.7 percent in January as gasoline costs
and food prices climbed, closing the door on further interest-
rate cuts to spur the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The inflation rate rose from 3.5 percent in December, the
Pretoria-based statistics office said on its  website  today. That
was in line with the median estimate of 20 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Prices rose 0.4 percent in the month.  The government increased gasoline prices by 3.3 percent on
Jan. 5 as crude  oil prices  surged, while the futures price of
white corn, a staple in  South Africa , climbed 35 percent in the
past six months. Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus , who cut the
benchmark interest rate three times to 5.5 percent last year,
said on Feb. 4 that inflation may reach the upper end of the 3
percent to 6 percent target range sooner than expected if oil
and food prices continue to increase.  “Food prices are starting to bite, and are likely to go
one way only,” said Elna Moolman, an economist at Renaissance
BJM, a Johannesburg-based stockbroker. “We are at the start of
the pressure” on inflation.  “While there’s no likelihood of
further rate cuts, we think the  Reserve Bank  won’t hike rates
until early 2012.”  The inflation rate has risen in three of the past four
months, after declining in 24 of the previous 26.  Marcus left the key rate unchanged on Jan. 20 as rising oil
prices pushed up the bank’s inflation forecast. The inflation
rate will probably average 4.6 percent this year, she said at
the time, compared with the previous estimate of 4.3 percent.  Food, Transport  Food prices, which account for about 14 percent of the  consumer price index , rose an annual 3.1 percent in January from
1.5 percent in the previous month, the statistics office said.
Transport costs climbed 2.5 percent from 1.6 percent.  The rand has reversed some of its 2010 gains, sliding 9.6
percent against the dollar since the beginning of January and
adding to price pressures. The currency was at 7.3226 per dollar
as of 10:29 a.m. in Johannesburg from 7.3376 before the data was
released.  The Reserve Bank cut its key rate to a 30-year low last
year to spur  consumer spending  and economic growth, which the
bank expects to reach 3.4 percent this year. The bank probably
won’t increase interest rates until it’s confident that growth
will reach 4 percent on a sustainable basis, Moolman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 