-- 
South Korea to Push Tax Exemption on Islamic Bonds

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 
2011-02-16T08:26:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/south-korea-to-push-tax-exemption-on-islamic-bonds-update1-.html
  South Korea  will renew its push to
allow tax exemptions on Islamic bonds issued by companies to
help local borrowers tap growing Muslim wealth.  The government’s “top priority” at a parliament session
starting on Feb. 18 will be to pass a bill on Islamic bonds and
another to impose a levy on banks’ foreign-currency debt, Park
Cheol Kyu, deputy minister for planning & coordination at the  finance ministry , said by telephone today from Gwacheon, south
of Seoul.  South Korean borrowers may raise more than $1 billion from
sales of Islamic bonds within a year should the bill pass,
according to Korea Investment & Securities Co. Approval would
follow  Thailand , where the financial markets regulator said Feb.
10 it has completed rules to permit institutions to sell
Shariah-compliant bonds.  A parliamentary committee failed in December to approve the
legislation on Islamic bonds, or sukuk, after opposition from
church leaders. Should the bill pass this time, South Korean
builders, refiners and state-run companies involved in natural
resources will be able to fund their business or projects in the
Middle East, Lee Yul Hee, head of the Islamic finance team at
Korea Investment & Securities, said by phone on Feb. 15.  Assets held by Islamic financial institutions may climb to
$1.6 trillion in 2012, from about $1 trillion last year,
according to an April report by the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic
Financial Services Board.  Infrastructure Funding    Korea Electric Power Corp ., the nation’s biggest
electricity producer, won a $20 billion contract to build
nuclear  power plants  in the United Arab Emirates in December.
Samsung Engineering Co., its biggest engineering company, won a
$1.5 billion contract in April to build utility and offsite
facilities for a gas project in  Abu Dhabi . Samsung C&T Corp.,
the second-biggest contractor, built the world’s largest tower
in Dubai.  Thailand’s state-owned Islamic Bank aims to raise 5 billion
baht ($163 million) from selling sukuk this year, while the
government may sell 40 billion baht to 50 billion baht of
Islamic bonds to fund infrastructure projects, Dheerasak
Suwannayos, president of the state-run lender, said in October.  Global sales of sukuk fell 15 percent to $17.1 billion in
2010, with offerings so far this year of $3 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stronger Growth  Shariah-compliant debt in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and the
United Arab Emirates returned 13.6 percent last year and 17.8
percent in 2009, the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index
shows. Global sukuk gained 12.8 percent in 2010, and bonds in
developing markets rose 12.2 percent,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates growth in the
Middle East and North Africa will outpace  Europe  and the U.S.
this year. Economies in the region will expand 4.6 percent after
growing 3.9 percent in 2010, the IMF forecast in its report on
Jan. 25. The U.S. will grow 3 percent and the euro-region 1.5
percent, according to the Washington-based fund.  Deputy Finance Minister Park also said the ministry will
submit the bill on bank levies to parliament.  The government plans to impose a duty of as much as 0.5
percent on non-deposit foreign-currency liabilities held by
domestic and foreign banks under normal circumstances, The levy
may be increased to more than 0.5 percent when the economy is
threatened by a financial crisis or there’s a sudden change in
capital flows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  