-- 
Southern Sudan Considers Building Oil Pipeline

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-02-16T12:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/southern-sudan-considers-building-oil-pipeline-update1-.html
Southern Sudan  may build an oil
pipeline to ease its dependence on routes through the north if
new discoveries of crude are large enough, a leader of the
region’s ruling party said.  When landlocked  Southern Sudan  becomes independent in July,
“it will develop different alternative routes to access the
seas,”  Pagan Amum , secretary-general of the  Sudan People’s
Liberation Movement , told reporters today in Juba, the regional
capital.  Southern Sudan will pay the north a transit fee for the use
of a pipeline to  Port Sudan  on the  Red Sea  to carry oil exports
when it becomes independent, Amum said yesterday. The region’s
voters last month chose to secede from Sudan in a referendum
that was a key part of a 2005  peace agreement  that ended a 21-
year civil war between the north and south in which 2 million
people died.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of  Sudan ’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  Lamu Proposal  Garang Diing Akuong, Southern Sudan’s minister for energy
and mining, said in November that regional authorities were in
talks with  Toyota East Africa  to build an oil pipeline to a port
in Lamu,  Kenya .  There may be large oil discoveries in the southern states
of Lakes and Jonglei, where Total SA has a concession, Amum
said.  Paris-based Total SA owns 32.5 percent of a 118,000 square-
kilometer (45,560 square-mile) concession in Jonglei and Lakes
states. Total has said there is no set date to start drilling
because of security concerns.  “The security on the field has to meet our standards,”
Vinita Batra, a spokeswoman for Total, said Jan. 24 by phone
from Paris. “It doesn’t yet. The context is still not completely
stabilized in the south.”  Clashes between Southern Sudan’s army and forces led by
renegade general George Athor last week in Jonglei killed 197
people, Amum said yesterday. Fighting also broke out this month
in neighbouring Upper Nile state among units from the northern
army stationed in the south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 