-- 
Spanish Exports Accelerate as Austerity Hits Spending

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-02-16T12:35:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/spanish-exports-accelerate-as-austerity-hits-spending-update1-.html
Spanish exports accelerated in the
fourth quarter, offsetting weaker demand at home as the deepest
austerity measures in three decades undermined the economic
recovery.  Exports rose 3.9 percent from the previous three months,
when they increased 0.5 percent, and expanded 10.5 percent from
a year earlier, the  National Statistics Institute  in  Madrid  said
today. Spending was flat in the fourth quarter, with household
spending increasing 0.3 percent, after a 1 percent decline in
the previous three months, and government consumption falling
0.7 percent.  Spain’s economy emerged from an almost two-year recession
in 2010, just as the Socialist government started to trim public
wages and cut benefits. While austerity measures and rising
unemployment undermined consumption at home, exports underpinned
the recovery.  “Today’s expenditure breakdown confirms that solid exports
remain a swing factor for the recovery,” said Tullia Bucco, an
economist at Unicredit SpA in Milan. “The ongoing correction in
construction will take time to unfold,” and it’s “unlikely”
consumers can fund spending with savings “for long,” she said.  Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa expects “even
better performance” from exports this year, as well as
“sustained” improvements in household spending and investment
by companies, he told a news conference in Madrid today.  Spanish exports grew 14 percent in the first 11 months of
2010, according to Eurostat.  Yield Spread  In response to contagion from the Greek crisis last year,  Spain ’s government cut public wages 5 percent last year, froze
pensions and slashed investment spending. In July, the main rate
of value-added tax rose to 18 percent from 16 percent.  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs was
narrowed to 212 basis points today from 213 yesterday. That
compares with a euro-era high of 298 basis points on Nov. 30 and
an average of 15 basis points in the first decade of monetary
union.  Spain’s Ibex-35 share index rose 1.5 percent in the
second increase this week.  Gross domestic product advanced 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from the previous three months, the National Statistics
Institute said, confirming an initial estimate on Feb. 11. From
a year earlier, the economy expanded 0.6 percent and contracted
0.1 percent in the full year.    Interest Rates   Budget cutting is set to accelerate as Spain has pledged to
trim the deficit to 6 percent of GDP this year from a targeted
9.3 percent in 2010 and 11 percent in 2009. Rising interest
rates may also squeeze households in a country with one of the
heaviest private-debt burdens in the euro area and almost nine
of 10 mortgages on floating rates. Unemployment remains the
highest in the euro region at more than 20 percent.  Spain’s government, which forecasts growth of 1.3 percent
this year, is stepping up efforts to restore investors’
confidence, raising the  retirement age  and giving lenders a
September deadline to bolster capital levels. The crisis has
eroded support for Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero,
polls show.  The opposition  People’s Party  would win 43 percent of the
vote if elections were held now, compared with 28 percent for
the Socialists, El Pais reported on Feb. 6. Regional and local
elections are scheduled for May and a general election is due by
March 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  