-- 
Starr Lawyer Says Restitution Deal Reached With U.S.

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-02-16T21:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/starr-lawyer-says-restitution-deal-reached-with-u-s-.html
  Kenneth I. Starr , the money manager
who admitted to defrauding his celebrity clients of as much as
$50 million, has reached a restitution agreement with the U.S.
government, his lawyer said in a letter to a federal judge.  The amount to be repaid to the victims wasn’t specified in
the Feb. 8 letter from Flora Edwards to U.S. District Judge
Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan. Starr, who pleaded guilty in
September to  wire fraud ,  money laundering  and investment adviser
fraud, faces 121 to 151 months in prison when he’s sentenced
March 2.  “We’re filing a letter next week that sets down the
details of the restitution agreement,”  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , said in a telephone
interview. Victims will have until April 4 to submit documents
related to their losses, she said.  Starr, 67, was arrested in May and accused of defrauding
clients including heiress Rachel “Bunny” Mellon. Actors
Sylvester Stallone and  Wesley Snipes  were also clients. Edwards
and the government agreed, for sentencing purposes, that the
amount lost in the fraud totaled from $20 million to
$50 million.  “Mr. Starr has been unable to prepare a financial
affidavit because the receiver appointed in the SEC case has
refused to turn over his personal records,” Edwards said in the
letter, referring to a civil suit brought against her client by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Starr’s capacity to compensate his victims is uncertain,
according to court papers.  ‘Pools of Funds’  His efforts to raise money to “create a pool of funds
from which restitution could be made” were unsuccessful,
Edwards said in a Dec. 22 letter to the judge seeking revocation
of his bail.  At a hearing yesterday, Assistant U.S. Attorney William Harrington told Scheindlin that some of Starr’s victims are
entitled to more than they are promised in the restitution
agreement, the  New York  Post reported.  According to a Dec. 22 court document, there were nine
victims of Starr’s fraud, owed $47 million. Three of the victims
were repaid a total $11.5 million, leaving a balance of $35.5
million, “much of which is contested.”  Edwards didn’t return messages seeking comment.  Starr agreed, as part of the guilty plea, to forfeit a
condominium on Manhattan’s Upper East Side that cost at least
$7.5 million.  Criminal Counts  Starr was arrested in May 2010 and charged with 23 criminal
counts.  The defendant’s firm, Starr & Co. LLC, managed assets and
provided financial planning to high net-worth individuals.  Starr in some cases “exercised direct control over the
personal bank accounts of his clients” and made transfers of
funds to himself, according to the indictment. He also induced
some clients to invest in “risky illiquid business ventures in
which he, his wife and/or his close associates often held
material financial interests.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Starr, 10-00520, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The civil suit
is SEC v. Starr, 1:10-CV-04270, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 