-- 
U.K. Lawyer Wanted for Bribery in U.S. Drops Extradition Appeal

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-02-16T16:50:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-k-lawyer-wanted-for-bribery-in-u-s-drops-extradition-appeal.html
A British lawyer wanted over
allegations he bribed Nigerian officials to win contracts for  KBR Inc . on a $6 billion natural gas project will be sent to the
U.S. to face charges after dropping an appeal of his
extradition.  Last month the Court of Appeal ruled Jeffrey Tesler should 
be sent to Houston. Tesler’s lawyers had argued he shouldn’t be
extradited because the case has “strong links” to the U.K. and
because British prosecutors are carrying out their own
investigation.  “Jeffrey Tesler has withdrawn all appeals of his
extradition,” his U.S. attorney Brad Simon said in a telephone
interview. “I am currently in discussions with the U.S.
Department of Justice about his situation.” He declined to give
further details.  As he has dropped his appeal, Tesler will be sent to the
U.S. within a month, Crown Prosecution Service spokesman Tim
McAtackney said in a telephone interview. Tesler and another
U.K. citizen were indicted on Feb. 17 last year by a federal
grand jury in Houston, accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act. If convicted of all charges, each faces a maximum
prison sentence of 55 years.  The case is part of an investigation into Houston-based KBR
over claims it paid bribes to win contracts to build a liquefied
natural gas project in  Nigeria . KBR in February 2009 agreed with
former parent  Halliburton Co . to pay $579 million to resolve
related U.S. criminal and regulatory charges.  Tesler’s U.K. lawyers applied to withdraw their appeal last
week, Simon said. Earlier today, Justice Malcolm Pill formally
ruled that the case wouldn’t be sent to the  Supreme Court ,
ending the appeals process.  M.W. Kellogg Ltd., a unit of KBR, agreed to pay 7 million
pounds ($11.2 Million) as a result of actions taken by the
U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office, the agency said in a release today.  To contact the reporter for this story:  James Lumley  in  London  at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 