-- 
U.K. Gives Police Control of Sex-Offenders Register After Ruling

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T14:08:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-k-gives-police-control-of-sex-offenders-register-after-ruling.html
Sex offenders in  England  and Wales
will have to appeal to the police for their names to be removed
from a national register after a court decision forced changes
to the rules, Home Secretary Theresa May said.  Convicted sex offenders will only be able to apply to be
taken off the register after they’ve been out of prison for 15
years. It will also be compulsory for them to tell police if
they move into a household that has people under age 18.  May was forced into the change after a  Supreme Court  ruling
last year that gave two convicted sex offenders the right to
challenge their inclusion on the register, which was set up in
1997, on human-rights grounds. Currently a 30-month jail
sentence for a sexual offense means automatic inclusion on the
register for life.  “We are disappointed and appalled by the decision that
came out of the  Supreme Court ,” May told lawmakers in  London 
today. “It is time to assert that it is  Parliament  that makes
our laws, not the courts. The rights of the public come before
the rights of criminals and above all we have a legal framework
that brings sanity to cases such as these.”  Under the new regime, any offender travelling abroad, even
for one day, must inform the police, a tighter restriction than
the current three days they are allowed to travel without
telling officers.  The Scottish government, which operates under a separate
legal system from England and Wales, already allows offenders
the automatic right to appeal for their name to be removed from
the register after 15 years. The rules in England and  Wales  will
be tougher than  Scotland , May said, with no automatic right to
seek the removal of a name.  “The final decision as to whether an offender should
remain on the register will be down to the police, not the
courts as in Scotland,” she said.  Earlier today, Prime Minister  David Cameron  told lawmakers
there is “broad support” across the country to make sex
offenders remain on the register for life, saying the government
would take the “minimum possible approach” to the Supreme
Court’s ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 