-- 
Pound Slumps, Gilts Rally After King Damps Expectations of Early Rate Rise

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-16T16:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-k-gilts-extend-gains-boe-s-king-sees-inflation-fall-to-target-in-2012.html
The pound slumped and government
bonds surged as investors pared their bets on higher  interest
rates  after  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King said borrowing
costs may need to stay at a record low to revive the economy.  Sterling depreciated against all of its 16 most-actively
traded peers. The central bank hasn’t laid the ground for an
interest-rate increase, King told reporters in  London  today
following the release of the quarterly inflation report.
Inflation in the U.K. may peak at about 4.4 percent this year
before reaching the central bank’s 2 percent target by the
middle of 2012, the report said.  “The market has gotten it into its head that there would
be three, maybe four interest rate hikes by the end of the year,
but that’s too excessive,” said  Neil Mellor , a London-based
currency strategist at BNY Mellon. “There is clearly a fear
that there will be downside risks to the economy.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent to $1.6054 at 4:36 p.m. in
London, following earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent.
Sterling weakened 0.8 percent versus the euro to 84.31 pence.  The Bank of England has faced mounting pressure to raise
interest rates from a record low of 0.5 percent after inflation
exceeded its target for more than a year. A report yesterday
showed consumer prices jumped 4 percent in January from a year
earlier, forcing King to write another letter to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to explain why it remains above the
3 percent upper limit.  “Some people are running ahead of themselves in saying
that we are pre-announcing, or we’re laying the ground, for a
rate rise,” King said today after the inflation report was
released. “That decision has not been taken and it won’t be
taken until we get to the next meeting, or the following
meeting. It may be many quarters before we do anything.”  ‘Listen to King’  Short-sterling futures rose today, reducing the implied
yield on the contract expiring in December by six basis points
to 1.70 percent. A lower yield indicates investors reduced bets
that policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  “People are clipping away their expectations for higher
rates,” said Mellor. “You’ve got to listen to King. The market
has focused too much on the inflation figures and too little on
what  Mervyn King  has been saying.”  The inflation report still prompted  Barclays Capital  and
Royal Bank of  Scotland  to bring forward their estimates for the
first U.K. rate increase this year. Barclays predicts 25 basis-
point increases in May, August and November, bringing the key
rate to 1.25 percent by the end of the year. The brokerage had
previously forecast a 50 basis-point increase in November.  ‘Dovish’ Comments  The pound is weakening today because investors are
disappointed by King’s “dovish” comments, said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London.  “The economy remains fragile and the BOE is not going to
follow the normal pattern of putting up rates soon and
regularly,” said Dixon. “If the economy continues to struggle,
then King and some of the more dovish members of the MPC will
continue to hold the view that inflation pressures will
diminish.”  The growth outlook has worsened because of a “weak”
fourth quarter, the central bank said today. King yesterday
dismissed the inflation spurt as temporary, saying raising rates
quickly to tame the surge may hurt the economy, according to his
letter to Osborne.  U.K.  government bonds  rallied, pushing the yield on the
two-year note down by five basis points to 1.50 percent. The 4.5
percent security due March 2013 rose 0.10, or 1 pound per 1,000
pound face amount, to 106.04. Ten-year gilt yields slid four
basis points to 3.81 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  