-- 
U.K. Government Raises Horse-Race Levy on Bookmakers to 10.75 Percent

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T16:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-k-government-raises-horse-race-levy-on-bookmakers-to-10-75-percent.html
The U.K. government increased a levy
on bookmakers that generates money for horse racing to 10.75
percent from 10 percent, Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said.  The annual fee on the profits of bookmakers, including  William Hill Plc  and  Ladbrokes Plc , from bets on British
horseracing helps fund the racing industry through veterinary
science, prize money, training and breeding programs.  Hunt brokered the compromise fee after talks between
bookmakers and the racing industry broke down. “It is really
disappointing that two important industries have been unable to
come to a sensible commercial agreement,” Hunt said in a
written statement to Parliament today.  Shares of William Hill rose 5 percent to 192.1 pence as of
4 p.m. in London. Ladbrokes advanced 4.6 percent to 142.3 pence.  The levy planned for the year starting in April will
generate between 73.7 million pounds ($118 million) and 80.8
million pounds, Hunt said.  Along with the increase in the rate, the threshold below
which betting shops pay a reduced levy will fall to 50,000
pounds from 88,740 pounds.  Hunt said there will be no change to the program in
relation to foreign racing because the levy supports British
horseracing. It will only be collected in relation to bets on
races in  England ,  Scotland  and Wales.  Next Stage  “The next stage has to deliver what is due from remote
betting, particularly offshore operators and betting
exchanges,” Paul Roy, chairman of the  British Horseracing
Authority , said in an e-mail welcoming today’s announcement.
“The range this decision sets is therefore short of the full
amount the entire betting industry should be contributing.”  Will Roseff, chairman of the  Bookmakers’ Committee , the
official negotiating body for the betting industry, said he was
pleased Hunt had not extended the levy to foreign racing. He
expressed “major concerns” over the new thresholds.  “While welcoming the decision not to abolish them
entirely, we believe that lowering the threshold will result in
shop closures and lost jobs,” Roseff said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  