-- 
U.K. Pound Climbs for Third Day Against Dollar Before BOE Inflation Report

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-16T09:59:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-k-pound-climbs-for-third-day-against-dollar-before-boe-inflation-report.html
The pound rose against the dollar
for a third day before the  Bank of England  delivers its
quarterly outlook for U.K. growth and inflation.  The U.K. currency pared its gains versus the greenback as
data showed British unemployment claims unexpectedly rose in
January. Sterling is up 3.4 percent against the dollar this year
as accelerating inflation spurred speculation policy makers will
be forced to raise borrowing costs. Governor  Mervyn King 
presents the central bank’s forecasts at 10:30 a.m. in London.  “The market is looking for rate hikes as early as May, so
today’s inflation report is key,” said Sara Yates, a foreign-
exchange strategist at Barclays Plc in London. “Expectations
for higher short-term  interest rates  would generally be
supportive of sterling.”  The pound climbed 0.2 percent to $1.6154 at 9:37 a.m. local
time in London and earlier reached $1.6279. Sterling weakened
0.3 percent versus the euro to 83.88 pence.  The number of people receiving  unemployment benefits  rose
2,400 to 1.46 million, the  Office for National Statistics  in
London said today. The median of 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 3,000 drop. Unemployment based on
International Labour Organization methods rose by 44,000 in the
fourth quarter to 2.49 million.  Inflation Letter  Above-target inflation has forced King to write another
letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to explain
the bank’s monetary-policy stance. A report yesterday showed
inflation accelerated to 4 percent in January from a year
earlier, the 14th consecutive month that it has exceeded the
central bank’s 2 percent limit.  King has dismissed the inflation spurt as temporary, saying
raising rates “quickly” to tame the surge may hurt the
economy, according to the letter published in London yesterday.  The U.K.’s two-year government note yields were little
changed at 1.53 percent. Ten-year gilt yields slipped one basis
points to 3.84 percent.  Short-sterling futures rose, lowering the implied yield on
the contract expiring in December by one basis point to 1.75
percent. A lower yield indicates investors reduced bets that
policy makers will increase borrowing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  