-- 
U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Feb. 11 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-02-16T15:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-feb-11-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 13.9 million barrels per
day during the week ending February 11, 481 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
81.2 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging 9.2 million barrels
per day. Distillate fuel production decreased last week,
averaging 4.0 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.3 million barrels per day last
week, down by 643 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.9 million barrels per day, 598 thousand barrels per day above
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 935 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 211 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 0.9 million barrels
from the previous week. At 345.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
0.2 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories decreased by 3.1 million barrels and are above
the upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 3.8 million barrels
last week and are below the lower limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories decreased by 8.4 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period has
averaged 19.3 million barrels per day, up by 1.5 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline products supplied has averaged 8.6 million
barrels per day, remaining virtually unchanged from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel products supplied has averaged
3.8 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 2.7
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel products
supplied is 1.4 percent higher over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  