-- 
House Considers Amendments to Budget-Cutting Plan

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-02-16T15:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-house-considers-hundreds-of-amendments-to-61-billion-budget-cut-plan.html
The U.S. House will likely vote
today on a bid to kill a backup engine program for the F-35
Joint Strike Fighter, part of efforts by Republican lawmakers
for deeper cuts in a $61 billion spending-reduction plan offered
by their leaders.  The lawmakers, taking advantage of House Speaker  John Boehner ’s promises to allow a free-flowing debate, offered more
than 400  amendments  to the proposed budget measure. The
amendments included spending cuts for foreign aid,  farm
subsidies  and the Environmental Protection Agency. Another would
bar the Pentagon from sponsoring Nascar races.  The multibillion-dollar engine program was criticized
yesterday as “an extravagance we can’t afford, pure and
simple,” by Representative Lynn Westmoreland, a Georgia
Republican. “At a time when our country is drowning in more
than $14 trillion in  debt , every penny we can save the American
people counts,” he said in a statement.  Boehner backs the program, being developed by  General
Electric Co . and Rolls Royce Group Plc, in part because it
employs people in his home state of  Ohio .  The budget plan for the remainder of the 2011 fiscal year
that Boehner and other House Republican leaders have proposed
would kill more than 100 government programs and slash hundreds
more in its bid to save $61 billion. The  Peace Corps  would face
a 20 percent reduction, and Pell college tuition grants would
drop by 15 percent.  Veto Threat  President  Barack Obama ’s budget office  threatened  a veto
should the Republican plan arrive at his desk, saying in a
statement it would “sharply undermine core government functions
and investments key to economic growth and job creation” and
would harm national defense.  A House-passed budget is unlikely to survive the
Democratic-controlled Senate. Still, a spending bill is needed
to fund the government through Sept. 30 after a current stopgap
measure expires on March 4.  Senate Democrats plan today to endorse the president’s call
for a five-year freeze of non-security discretionary spending to
help reduce the deficit, according to a Senate Democratic
leadership aide. Such a freeze would save $400 billion over 10
years.  Republicans aim to complete work on their plan by the end
of this week, though they voted yesterday on just a handful of
amendments after Democrats using stalling tactics to delay
action.  Funds for Osprey  A Democratic amendment to cut funding for the V-22 Osprey,
a military aircraft the Pentagon has said is dogged by
unreliable parts, was defeated on 105-326 vote. Seventeen
Republicans joined 88 Democrats in supporting the proposal.  “The Republicans say their proposal makes ‘tough choices,’
but this turkey should be a no-brainer,” said Representative
Luis Gutierrez, an Illinois Democrat, in urging support for the
amendment.  “Cutting health care for women and children and slashing
Head Start and community health centers should be the last cuts
we make, not the first, especially when we are buying
multimillion-dollar airplanes that don’t fly like they’re
supposed to,” he said.  Lawmakers are simultaneously considering Obama’s budget
request for fiscal 2012, which Republicans attacked because it
didn’t propose overhauling the Social Security, Medicare and
Medicaid entitlement programs.  ‘Why Did You Duck?’  “Why did you duck? Why are you not taking this opportunity
to lead?” House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, asked White House budget director  Jacob Lew  at a hearing yesterday. Ryan said his party’s budget for
2012 will include “real entitlement reforms.”  Lew said “the president’s budget, if you look at the
bottom line, addresses the fiscal challenges that we face in the
short and medium term, and he has called it a down payment,
acknowledging that we need to work together in the long term.”  A number of Republicans are seeking further cuts in the
stopgap 2011 measure on the House floor because they argue it
still falls short of campaign promises by party leaders to cut
spending by $100 billion.  Boehner said allowing his colleagues to offer so many
amendments, which would expose intraparty disputes over
spending, put his colleagues in “uncharted waters.” He added,
“I’m ready to expect whatever.”  Asked about concerns the legislation would force the
government to furlough employees, Boehner said “so be it”
because “we’re broke.”  ‘Healthy’ Debate  Boehner predicted there would be a “healthy” debate on
the engine program, which Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  On Feb.
14 called an “unnecessary and extravagant expense.” Boehner
said the program would save money over the long term.  “Let’s have the policy debate out in the open on the House
floor and let the House work its will,” Boehner told reporters.  Former President  George W. Bush ’s administration also
opposed the backup engine project. Last May, the House voted
231-193 to keep funding for the GE engine.  Pratt & Whitney , a
unit of  United Technologies Corp ., supplies the primary engine
for the  Lockheed Martin Corp . jet.  Other amendments awaiting votes include Ohio Republican Jim Jordan’s proposal to cut the leadership plan by an additional
$20 billion and Texas Republican  Ron Paul ’s proposal to cut aid
to  Egypt ,  Israel , Pakistan and Jordan by $6 billion.  The bill is H.R. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  