-- 
U.S. January Industrial Production and Capacity Report (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-02-16T14:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-january-industrial-production-and-capacity-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.  industrial production  and capacity utilization report for Jan.
released by the Federal Reserve.  Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization  Industrial production decreased 0.1 percent in January 2011 after
having risen 1.2 percent in December. In the manufacturing sector,
output increased 0.3 percent in January after an upwardly revised
gain of 0.9 percent in December.  Excluding motor vehicles and
parts, factory production rose 0.1 percent in January. The output
of utilities fell 1.6 percent in January, as temperatures moved
closer to normal after unseasonably cold weather boosted the
demand for heating in December; the output of utilities advanced
4.1 percent in that month.  In January, the output of mines
declined 0.7 percent.  At 95.1 percent of its 2007 average, total
industrial production in January was 5.2 percent above its level
of a year earlier.  The capacity utilization rate for total
industry edged down to 76.1 percent, a rate 4.4 percentage points
below its average from 1972 to 2010.  Market Groups
-------------  The production of  consumer goods  increased 0.1 percent in January.
The index for consumer durables advanced 1.4 percent, and the
index for consumer nondurables declined 0.3 percent.  Within
durables, the production of automotive products rose 3.0 percent
and the output of miscellaneous  consumer durables  gained 0.6
percent, but the index for home electronics decreased 0.8 percent
and the index for appliances, furniture, and carpeting fell 1.0
percent.  Among consumer nondurables, the output of non-energy
goods rose 0.2 percent, as solid gains in clothing, chemical
products, and paper products were partly offset by a decline in
the production of foods and tobacco products.  The output of
consumer energy products fell 2.0 percent in January after having
risen 5.4 percent in December.  The decline in energy production
in January reflected drops both in the production of fuels and in
residential sales by electric and natural gas utilities.  The output of business equipment rose 0.9 percent in January, and
all of its major component indexes increased:  Transit equipment
advanced 1.2 percent, information processing equipment increased
0.6 percent, and industrial and other equipment gained 1.0 percent.
The output of business equipment has risen in each of the past 11
months and in January stood 11.4 percent above its level 12 months
earlier.  The production of defense and space equipment moved up 1.2 percent
in January after having declined, on balance, over the previous
four months.  Within nonindustrial supplies, the output of construction supplies
fell 0.2 percent in January, but it was 7.2 percent above its
year-earlier level.  The production of business supplies declined
0.3 percent; a decrease in the output of commercial energy
products more than accounted for the loss.  The production of materials fell 0.4 percent in January after
having risen 1.5 percent in December. A decline of 0.6 percent in
nondurable materials and a decrease of 1.0 percent in energy
materials were partially offset by an increase of 0.5 percent in
durable materials.  The gains in durable materials were widespread
across its major components.  Among nondurables, the index for
chemical materials, which jumped 3.2 percent in December, fell 0.9
percent in January, and the indexes for textile materials and
paper materials each recorded smaller declines.  Industry Groups
---------------  Manufacturing output rose 0.3 percent in January after having
increased 0.9 percent in December; the level of output in January
was 5.5 percent above its year-earlier level.  Capacity
utilization for manufacturing was 73.7 percent, a rate 5.4
percentage points below its average for the period from 1972 to
2010.  The output of durable goods moved up 0.6 percent in January.  A
large gain was recorded in the index for motor vehicles and parts;
smaller increases were recorded for many other industries,
including fabricated metal products, machinery, computer and
electronic products, aerospace and miscellaneous transportation
equipment, furniture and related products, and miscellaneous
manufacturing.  Output decreased for wood products; nonmetallic
mineral products; primary metals; and electrical equipment,
appliances, and components.  Nondurable manufacturing declined 0.1 percent in January after
having advanced 1.0 percent in December.  The decline in
production in January reflected decreases for food, beverage, and
tobacco products; textile and product mills; printing and support
products; and petroleum and coal products.  The production of
apparel and leather products moved up more than 1 percent, and the
output indexes for paper, for chemicals, and for plastics and
rubber products recorded smaller increases.  The index for non-
NAICS manufacturing industries, which comprises publishing and
logging, rose 0.3 percent.  In January, mining output fell 0.7 percent, and capacity
utilization declined to 88.1 percent, a rate 0.7 percentage point
above its 1972-2010 average.  After a sizable increase in December,
the output of utilities dropped 1.6 percent in January, as
production declined in both electric and natural gas utilities.
The utilization rate for utilities fell to 81.2 percent.  Capacity utilization rates in January at industries grouped by
stage of process were as follows:  At the crude stage, utilization
fell 0.8 percentage point to 88.6 percent, a rate 2.2 percentage
points above its 1972-2010 average; at the primary and
semifinished stages, utilization declined 0.3 percentage point to
73.2 percent, a rate 8.1 percentage points below its long-run
average; and at the finished stage, utilization increased 0.3
percentage point to 74.7 percent, a rate 2.7 percentage points
below its long-run average.  Note:  Preliminary Estimates of Industrial Capacity  The data in this release include preliminary estimates of
industrial capacity for 2011.  Measured fourth quarter to fourth
quarter, total industrial capacity is projected to rise 1.2
percent this year after having declined 0.3 percent in 2010.
Manufacturing capacity is estimated to increase 0.7 percent in
2011 following decreases of 0.2 percent last year and 1.2 percent
in 2009.  Mining capacity is estimated to rise 2.0 percent in 2011
after having been unchanged in 2010, and utilities capacity is
projected to expand 3.6 percent this year, which is 2.1 percentage
points faster than the rate of expansion recorded last year. These
estimates will be updated with the publication on March 25, 2011,
of the annual revision to industrial production, capacity, and
capacity utilization. Notice Revision of Industrial Production and
Capacity Utilization  The  Federal Reserve  Board plans to issue its annual revision to
the index of industrial production (IP) and the related measures
of capacity utilization on March 25, 2011.  The revised IP indexes
will incorporate detailed data from the 2009 Annual Survey of
Manufactures, conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. Data from
selected editions of the Census Bureau’s 2009 Current Industrial
Reports and annual data from the U.S. Geological Survey regarding
metallic and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels) for 2009 will
also be incorporated.  The update will include revisions to the
monthly indicator (either product data or input data) and to
seasonal factors for each industry.  In addition, the estimation
methods for some series may be changed.  Any modifications to the
methods for estimating the output of an industry will affect the
index from 1972 to the present.  Capacity and capacity utilization will be revised to incorporate
additional data from the Census Bureau’s Quarterly Survey of Plant
Capacity, which covers manufacturing, along with new data on
capacity from the  U.S. Geological Survey , the  Department of Energy ,
and other organizations.  Once the revision is published, it will be available on the
Board’s website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17.  Further
information on the revision can be obtained from the Board’s
Industrial Output Section 