-- 
U.S. House Votes to Kill GE Engine for F-35 Fighter

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-02-17T01:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-house-votes-to-kill-f-35-backup-engine-from-ge-rolls-with-funds-cut.html
The U.S.  House of Representatives 
today voted to kill funding the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter backup
engine made by  General Electric Co . and Rolls Royce Group Plc.  By a vote of 233-198, the House voted to cut $450 million
for the engine from legislation funding the Pentagon for the
remainder of the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.  It is the first time in more than four years of votes that
the House has come out against the GE-Rolls Royce engine for the
F-35, the stealth fighter made by  Lockheed Martin Corp . In May,
2010, the House voted 231-193 to continue the program.  President  Barack Obama  has singled out the engine as
wasteful spending. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said today the
alternate engine “would be a waste of nearly $3 billion.”  Republicans won control of the House of Representatives and
gained seats in the Senate in November with candidates who
promised to cut spending and reduce the federal deficit.  Backers of the amendment defied House Speaker  John Boehner ,
Republican of Ohio, who supports the alternate engine. GE has
about 1,000 employees working on the engine in a facility near
Cincinnati.  The primary engine for the F-35 is built by Pratt &
Whitney, a unit of  United Technologies Corp .  GE fell 2 cents to $21.44 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, while Hartford, Connecticut-based
United Technologies rose 56 cents to $85.06.  ‘Always Another Day’  Representative Tom Rooney, Republican of  Florida , offered
the amendment to eliminate funding. It was co-sponsored by
Representatives Lynn Westmoreland, Republican of  Georgia , John Larson, Democrat of  Connecticut , and Chellie Pingree, Democrat
of Maine. Both Democrats have constituents working for United
Technologies on the primary engine.  Among those who voted to eliminate funding for the GE-Rolls
Royce engine were 123 Democrats and 110 Republicans. In favor of
keeping the $450 million in the Pentagon bill were 130
Republicans and 68 Democrats.  “Today’s vote sends a message to the American people that
Congress heard their call to eliminate wasteful spending and put
an end to business as usual,” Rooney said in a statement.  The amendment is part of a spending bill that will go next
to the Senate if the House approves it.  Today’s House vote “would make it harder for the Senate”
to support the engine, Pingree said in a telephone interview.
“There is always another day and another fight around the
corner. This was an important victory today and it makes it much
harder for the other side to bring it up.”  Senate Next  Two House Republican freshmen, Tim Griffin of Arkansas and
Robert Dold of  Illinois , this week also pressed their colleagues
to support the elimination of the GE engine.  “I am sure that we will now join the House to end this
wasteful, unnecessary program once and for all,” said Senator  Joe Lieberman , independent of Connecticut, where  Pratt & Whitney 
builds the primary F-35 engine.  Defense Secretary Robert Gates has insisted repeatedly that
the Pentagon is comfortable with one supplier of engines for the
F-35 fleet.  “We are pleased the House of Representatives voted to
eliminate funding for the extra engine,” Stephanie Duvall, a
spokeswoman for Pratt & Whitney, said in a statement. “Their
courageous vote confirms the president’s and Secretary Gates’s
unwavering trust and confidence in the proven performance” in
Pratt’s engine.  GE’s Fighter Future  “We will continue to press the case for competition,”
said  Rick Kennedy , a spokesman for GE Aviation. GE will focus on
the Senate after the House approves legislation to fund the
government for the remainder of the current fiscal year and the
fiscal 2012 year which starts Oct. 1, according to Kennedy.  The defeat, if sustained, may mean GE’s eventual exit from
the fighter engine business because the F-35 is designed to
replace all manned U.S. fighter aircraft. The market has been
estimated as high as $100 billion over the life of the F-35,
including parts and service.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, in October reported
spending $8.2 million starting in mid-2009 to urge Congress to
fund the alternate engine.  About 2,500 jobs, including in  Ohio , Massachusetts and
South Carolina, are tied to the development of the engine with
employment forecast to swell to as much as 4,000 if GE and
Rolls-Royce had reached their projected peak production,
according to Kennedy.  Gates ‘Gratified’  Gates was “gratified” by the House vote, said  Geoff Morrell , the Pentagon press secretary. “He understands this
afternoon’s vote is but one step although a very important one,
on the path to ensuring that we stop spending limited dollars on
unwanted and unneeded defense programs.”  The $382 billion F-35 program is the most expensive in U.S.
history.  For two years in a row, the Senate Appropriations Committee
and the Senate Armed Services Committee didn’t include money for
the additional engine in the Pentagon spending and policy bills.
The chairmen of those two panels, Senator Daniel Inouye,
Democrat of Hawaii, and Senator  Carl Levin , Democrat of  Michigan , both back the second engine. They decided against
including funding because the Senate has enough votes to strip
funding from the defense bills.  “It is doubtful that the alternate engine would have a
better fate” in the Senate, said Steve Ellis, vice president of
Taxpayers for Common Sense, a non-partisan group in  Washington .
“The House has really carried the water on the alternate
engine. It is really hard to see the Senate ginning up the
support to fight both the House and the administration over the
alternate engine in this budget environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  