-- 
Treasuries Decline as Housing Starts, Wholesale Prices Rise

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-02-16T14:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-treasury-10-year-government-notes-erase-decline-yield-slips-to-3-60-.html
Treasuries Fell after data showed
U.S. housing starts rose more than forecast in January and
wholesale prices increased for a seventh straight month.  Ten-year note yields remained higher after the U.S.
industrial production unexpectedly declined in January, dragged
down by a decline in utilities as milder temperatures curbed
demand for heating. The  Federal Reserve  releases minutes of its
January policy meeting today and the central bank is  scheduled 
to buy $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion of Treasuries maturing from
May 2021 to November 2027 today.  “The PPI data this morning was a little hotter than
expected, which is renewing inflationary concerns,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York . “Any data that corroborates a higher inflation story
means weakness for the Treasury market.”  Yields on U.S. 10-year notes rose one basis point to 3.62
percent at 9:27 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The price of the 3.625 percent security maturing in
February 2021 decreased 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 2/32.  Yield Swings  Two-year note yields rose threebasis point to 0.84 percent
after touching 0.88 percent yesterday, the highest level since
May 13.   Yields on 10-year notes have risen in each of the past five
months, the longest stretch of monthly increases since 2006, on
evidence the U.S. recovery is gaining momentum.  Builders began work on more homes than forecast in January,
reflecting a surge in multifamily units that may signal a
turnaround in the rental market.  Housing starts climbed 15 percent to a 596,000 annual rate,
the most this year, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 539,000 rate. Work started on 78 percent more
dwellings with two or more units, overshadowing a drop in
single-family houses that indicates the housing market continues
to struggle.  Wholesale costs in the U.S. increased for a seventh
consecutive month in January, led by higher prices for fuel.  PPI Trends  The  producer price index  rose 0.8 percent, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The figure matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.5
percent, the biggest rise since October 2008.  “The fear of inflation may be a little bit more real than
people had thought,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director
and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in
New York. “You are running the risk that inflation is starting
to creep up on us and that’s bad for fixed-income.”    Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  predicted at a press
conference in London today that the U.K.’s inflation will fall
back toward the central bank’s 2 percent target by 2012 and
below it within two years. The central bank hasn’t laid the
groundwork for an increase in the 0.5 percent main rate,
according to King.  “There is no inflation panic within the Bank of England,
and this is good for bonds,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-
income strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “In the absence
of U.S. input this morning, the Treasury market is reacting to
what is going on in  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  