-- 
U.S. Bonds May Risk Repeat of the 1994 Bear Market, Goldman's O'Neill Says

-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-16T13:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-bonds-may-risk-repeat-of-1994-bear-market-o-neill-says.html
U.S. government bonds may post
losses like those seen in 1994 if “vigorous” economic growth
causes the  Federal Reserve  to change policy, said  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  “I’ve been around for 30 years and that includes having
gone through 1994 when we probably had about the only savage  bear market  in bonds” over those three decades, O’Neill, 53,
said in an interview in  London  today on Bloomberg Television’s
“On The Move” with Francine Lacqua. “There are a number of
circumstances that could lead to a repeat of that, probably the
most important one being a very dramatic recovery in growth.”  Treasuries lost 3.3 percent in 1994, according to data from
Bank of America-Merrill Lynch & Co., as the Fed almost doubled
the target for the federal funds rate to 5.50 percent in
response to inflation threats. Treasuries returned 5.9 percent
last year even after a 2.7 percent loss in the fourth quarter,
the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch data show.  “If we have continued signs of a vigorous U.S. recovery,
at some stage the Fed’s going to change their view of the world,
and that’s what caused the damage in 1994,” O’Neill said. “So
I’m very mindful and on the lookout for that because it might
not be very pleasant if it happens.”    Bull Market   Pacific Investment Management Co. Co-Chief Investment
Officer Bill Gross said last month that while he anticipates the
end of the bull market in bonds, it’s not the beginning of a
significant bear market as economic growth and government
stimulus fail to translate into broader employment gains. Pimco
reduced its holdings of government related debt to the lowest
level since January 2009 last month.  O’Neill said today the U.S. won’t suffer the same fate as
debt-stricken euro-area members over its  budget deficit . The
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  last year
approved rescue packages for Ireland and Greece after concerns
about mounting shortfalls pushed up bond yields and eroded
confidence in the single currency.  European leaders meet on March 11 at a special 17-nation
euro-region summit to agree on a comprehensive package to
resolve the region’s debt crisis.  “I don’t think we have a sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe .
It’s a crisis about European Monetary Union structure and
leadership,” O’Neill said. “It’s a test in some ways of
Germany’s desire and if Germany stands behind this thing in
March full square and simple, European bonds will turn out to be
one of the best investments this year.”  In a separate radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene  today, O’Neill said mounting concerns about a
pickup in global inflation was “good” because it will prompt
policy makers to act.  “If one of the consequences of getting out of this mess is
that we sow the seeds for a big pickup in inflation, undoing
arguably the best thing that’s happened to the whole world,
developed and developing, in my 30 years, that would be bad,”
he said. “But in that sense, we’re all sort of vigilantes and I
think it’s very difficult for inflation to pick up significantly
because it forces a policy response to stop it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 