-- 
U.S. Variable-Annuity Sales Increase as Prudential, MetLife Report Gains

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-02-17T05:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-variable-annuity-sales-rise-led-by-prudential-metlife.html
Variable-annuity sales in the U.S.
rose for the fourth straight quarter amid gains by the two
biggest U.S. life insurers,  MetLife Inc . and  Prudential
Financial Inc ., as stock markets advanced.  Sales climbed to  $38.5 billion  in the fourth quarter from
 $33 billion  a year earlier, trade group Limra International said
yesterday in data posted on its website. Prudential said on Feb.
9 that gross individual annuities sales rose to $6.1 billion in
the fourth quarter from $4.8 billion a year earlier. New York-
based MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, posted a 38
percent increase in variable annuity sales to $5.1 billion.  Sales of equity-linked variable annuities have increased as
stock markets rebounded from March 2009 lows, cutting the risk
companies will take losses on customers’ guaranteed returns. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index surged 23 percent in 2009 and 13
percent in 2010.  “The public companies in the variable annuities business
had very strong sales,”  Steven Schwartz , an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc., said in an interview. “The
equity markets are strong. That helps variable annuity sales.”
He rates MetLife “market perform” and Prudential
“outperform.”  Sales may increase further as investors regain confidence,
said Robert Sollmann, executive vice president of retirement
products at MetLife.  Growth Coming  “The industry is poised for growth,” he said at a
conference in Miami on Feb. 11. “As people become more
confident about putting their money back into the stock market,
the VA industry, and certain companies in particular, are
incredibly well positioned to capture a potentially very large
share of those flows.”  Insurers lost money on the products in 2008 and 2009
because the funds backing them are generally invested in stocks.
The  S&P 500  declined 38 percent in 2008.  Major sellers of variable annuities, including MetLife,
Prudential and  Lincoln National Corp . may have increased sales
as representatives advertised the products to investors before
terms changed, said Schwartz.  MetLife is reducing the guaranteed payout rates for its
main variable annuity product to control risk, according to
Sollmann. Prudential made a “modest price increase,” Stephen Pelletier, president of Prudential’s U.S. annuities business,
said in an interview on Jan. 24.  “We’re always looking at our product design, looking at it
from the standpoint of being competitive in the business and
responsible as far as the risk,” he said.  Annual Sales  Industrywide, sales for the full year climbed to $141
billion from about $128 billion a year earlier, according to
Limra. MetLife and  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential have
boosted sales in the U.S. since 2008.  Prudential, which declined a bailout in 2009, jumped to No.
1 among sellers of variable annuities in the U.S. that year.
MetLife was the No. 2 seller through the first nine months of
2010, according to Limra  data . The trade group hasn’t published
market-share rankings for the fourth quarter.  “The big guys are getting bigger,” said Schwartz. “Some
of the small guys have left.”    Genworth Financial Inc . said last month that it was ending
sales of new retail and group variable annuities and would take
a  $12 million  charge in the first quarter associated with the
action. The Richmond, Virginia-based mortgage guarantor and life
insurer wasn’t among the top 20 sellers of variable annuities in
the U.S. in the first nine months of 2010, according to Limra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 