-- 
U.S. Forming Task Force to Probe Shooting in Mexico

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-02-17T02:40:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-forming-task-force-to-probe-shooting-in-mexico-update1-.html
The Obama administration is forming
a  task force  to investigate the shooting of two U.S. customs
agents in Mexico, an attack that killed the second U.S.
government employee across the border in a year.  The probe into the attack will involve the Homeland
Security and Justice Departments, White House press secretary
Jay Carney said. The agents were shot in the line of duty in San
Luis Potosi state yesterday by unknown assailants as they drove
on a federal highway between Mexico City and Monterrey, the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said.  ICE special agent Jaime Zapata, a native of Brownsville,
Texas, was killed in the shooting,  John Morton , director of the
agency, said in an e-mailed statement. The other agent, who was
shot in the arm and the leg, remains in stable condition, Morton
said, without giving his name.  “U.S. law enforcement agencies are working closely with
Mexican authorities to investigate the shooting,” Carney said.
“The resources of the federal government are at the disposal of
our Mexican partners.”  President  Barack Obama  called the parents of the agent
killed to express condolences, Carney said.  Ambush  The ICE agents appeared to be ambushed while driving a
sports-utility vehicle on a routine business trip yesterday,
although there is conflicting information regarding how the
agents were stopped, said a U.S. official who asked to remain
anonymous because the investigation isn’t complete.  The Zetas drug cartel has claimed responsibility, although
the group’s involvement hasn’t been confirmed, the official
said.  The assailants stopped the agents’ vehicle and proceeded to
fire on Zapata and his partner even after they said they worked
for the U.S. government, according to a report today from the
New York Times, which cited Michael McCaul, a U.S.
representative from  Texas .  The agents were driving a dark blue Chevrolet Suburban with
diplomatic license plates when were they were attacked around
3:20 p.m. local time yesterday 47 kilometers (29 miles) from the
city of San Luis Potosi, newspaper Reforma  reported .  The Milenio network broadcast images of the Suburban pulled
to the side of a highway, its windows punctured by bullet holes.  San Luis Potosi state Governor Fernando Toranzo said in an
interview with Mexico City-based W Radio today that organized
crime was responsible for the attack as territorial battles
between drug cartels have intensified in the state.  He said the agents were passing through San Luis Potosi and
weren’t working with any local officials.  The Mexican  attorney general’s office  said in a statement
today that it had begun an official investigation.  Tourism, Investment  The killing may hurt U.S. tourism and investment in Mexico
by deepening concern over violence, said  Jorge Chabat , a
political science professor at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City.  “This clearly doesn’t help the image in the U.S. media and
some parts of the government that Mexico can’t control organized
crime,” Chabat said in a telephone interview.  Zapata, who joined ICE in 2006, was most recently assigned
to work as the agency’s attache at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico
City and had previously served in the human smuggling and
trafficking unit in Laredo, Texas, Morton said in the statement.
Zapata had also worked at the Homeland Security Department and
as a member of the U.S. Border Patrol.  Zapata is the fourth agent since 2001 to die in the line of
duty, and the only one to die in Mexico, said Kelly Nantel, an
ICE spokeswoman.  Spokesmen at the Mexican attorney general’s office and
Public Security Ministry said they didn’t have further
information when contacted by telephone. Officials at President
Felipe Calderon’s office and the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City
declined to comment.  Juarez Shooting  In March of last year, a drive-by shooting in  Ciudad
Juarez , which borders El Paso, Texas, killed a U.S. citizen who
was an employee of the U.S. consulate in that city, her husband
and the husband of a Mexican citizen employee.  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year and total more than 34,000 since
Calderon took office in December 2006. The government estimates
the violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  The U.S. government has taken more measures in the past
year to warn and protect its employees in Mexico. The State
Department  authorized the departure  of dependents of U.S.
consulate personnel in cities along the U.S.-Mexico border after
the employees in Ciudad Juarez were killed.    Mexico ’s peso rose 0.5 percent to 12.0884 per dollar at
2:25 p.m. New York time. The benchmark IPC index, which has
climbed 17.4 percent from a year earlier, rose 0.5 percent to
37,128.88.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jens Erik Gould at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  