-- 
U.S. Housing Starts Rise More Than Economists Forecast on Multifamily Jump

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-02-16T13:48:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/u-s-housing-starts-rise-more-than-economists-forecast-on-multifamily-jump.html
Builders began work on more homes
than forecast in January, reflecting a surge in multifamily
units.  Housing starts climbed 15 percent to a 596,000 annual rate,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a 539,000 rate. Work started on 78 percent more dwellings
with two or more units, overshadowing a drop in single-family
houses that indicates the housing market continues to struggle.  As unemployment hovers around 9 percent and lenders continue
to foreclose on delinquent owners, homebuilders must compete with
a surfeit of unsold properties. Companies like Hovnanian
Enterprises Inc. anticipate falling prices and low borrowing
costs will lift homebuyer traffic later this year.  “Housing activity is going to remain at depressed levels
this year,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior macro economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York  who forecast a rate of
555,000. “We’ve got  home prices  that have taken another leg down
and will probably stay down through midyear.”  Wholesale costs in the U.S. increased for a seventh
consecutive month in January, led by higher prices for fuel, a
report from the Labor Department also showed today. The  producer
price index  rose 0.8 percent. The so-called core measure, which
excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.5 percent, the
biggest rise since October 2008.  Shares Rise  Stock-index futures held earlier gains following the reports
and  Treasury securities  were little changed. The contract on the
Standard & Poor’s Index maturing in March rose 0.4 percent to
1,331.1 at 8:47 a.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-
year note was 3.61 percent, the same as late yesterday.  Estimates of 76 economists in the Bloomberg News survey
ranged from 475,000 to 590,000. December’s pace was revised to
520,000 from a previous estimate of 529,000.  Building permits, an indicator for future construction,
dropped 10 percent to a 562,000 annual pace in January. Permits
had climbed 15 percent in December after builders rushed to
complete applications before new building codes went into effect
this year.  Single-Family Drops  Construction of single-family houses decreased 1 percent to
a 413,000 rate in January from the prior month, the fewest since
May 2009. Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and
apartments, jumped to a 183,000 pace, the most since February
2009, from 103,000 rate in December.  Starts rose in three of four regions last month, led by a 42
percent jump in the Northeast. Work began on 9.7 percent fewer
houses in the West.  While other parts of the economy have rebounded from the
recession, the housing market must improve “to ensure a
complete, stable, and sustainable recovery,” according to
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , who last week urged
mortgage companies and investors to help revive housing.  “The government can only do so much, and relevant private
sector actors need to think beyond their bottom line and focus on
how their firms’ actions are or are not contributing to the
economic recovery,” Raskin said Feb. 11 at a mortgage conference
in Park City,  Utah .  Fed Policy Maker  Housing prices may face “more downward pressure” because
of “a pipeline full of distressed properties,” she said, noting
too that “the persistent high rate of unemployment is further
depressing housing demand, creating uncertainty about housing
prices, and impeding that robust recovery in the housing sector
that we generally see.”  With high joblessness and bank seizures poised to resume
after a slowdown, foreclosure filings will climb about 20 percent
in 2011, reaching a peak for the housing crisis, RealtyTrac Inc.
said last month. Those foreclosures may further discourage
construction and hurt home values.  Developers’ confidence stagnated in February, reflecting
competition from foreclosed properties and a lack of credit. The
National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index
held at 16, the same as the past four months, figures showed
yesterday. Readings less than 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  Prices Fall  There were 190,000 new houses on the market at the end of
December, the fewest since January 1968, the Commerce Department
said Jan. 26. Home values in the U.S. fell during the fourth
quarter because potential buyers anticipated prices would decline
further. The median price of a single-family home dropped from a
year earlier in 71 of 152 metropolitan areas tracked by the
National Association of Realtors, the group said last week.  “Affordability is the least of the problems right now,”  Ara Hovnanian , chief executive officer of  New Jersey ’s largest
homebuilder, said this week on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “The issue is
unemployment, fear and lack of confidence, and that’s what’s got
to turn right now.”    Hovnanian Enterprises Inc . on Dec. 22 reported a fourth-
quarter loss bigger than analysts expected as revenue fell 19
percent. The company has cut about 75 percent of its workforce in
the past four years, Hovnanian said during the interview. He said
he expects the industry “to start building some momentum” in
the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  