-- 
United Says 96 Boeing 757 Jets Need Computer Checks

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 
2011-02-16T00:38:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/united-says-96-boeing-757-jets-need-computer-checks-some-flights-canceled.html
  United Continental Holdings Inc .
said 96 of its  Boeing Co . 757-model jets need computer checkups
and that some flights may be canceled as it performs the
unscheduled maintenance.  The computers, which handle data on items such as air
pressure and temperature, recently underwent upgrades in which
some steps needed to return the units to service weren’t
completed or were performed out of sequence, Megan McCarthy, a
spokeswoman, said today in a telephone interview.  All the affected computers have been working normally, she
said. The work takes 60 to 90 minutes and began “immediately”
when the Chicago-based parent of United and Continental airlines
identified the issue earlier today, she said.  Passengers on certain United flights scheduled for tonight
and tomorrow morning may face delays or cancellations, according
to McCarthy, who said she didn’t have a total number.
Continental’s Boeing 757s aren’t affected.  “This was voluntary by United,” a Federal Aviation
Administration spokeswoman, Laura Brown, said in an interview.  The issue stems from an airworthiness directive from 2004,
Brown said. The directive required that new circuit breakers,
relays and related components be installed in air data computers
on the 757, a twin-engine, single-aisle jet used by U.S.
carriers on domestic and international routes. Chicago-based
Boeing ended  23 years of production  of the model in 2005.  Some United 757s may be in flight right now, and the checks
will be done as soon as the planes land, McCarthy said at about
6:30 p.m. New York time. Other jets are being checked by
maintenance crews that are on site before they depart, she said.  United Continental was formed by the merger of United
parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc. in an all-stock
deal in October, creating the world’s largest carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  