-- 
United Says Computer Tests on Boeing 757s Almost Done

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-02-16T21:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/united-says-computer-tests-on-boeing-757-jets-are-almost-done.html
  United Continental Holdings Inc .
said it’s almost finished with computer checkups on 96 of its  Boeing Co . 757-model jets after canceling 15 flights while
performing the unscheduled maintenance yesterday.  Any disruptions today will be “very minimal,” Megan McCarthy, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. The
“majority” of the tests on air data computers had been
completed by mid-morning New York time, she said.  Some flights were delayed yesterday in addition to those
scrubbed while mechanics worked on the computers, which handle
data such as air pressure and temperature, McCarthy said.  The computers on the twin-engine, single-aisle 757s
recently underwent upgrades in which some steps needed to return
the units to service weren’t completed or were performed out of
sequence, she said yesterday.  All the computers involved in the checkups have been
working normally, McCarthy said. The Chicago-based parent of
United and Continental airlines identified the issue at midday
yesterday and began the tests immediately, she said.  Continental’s Boeing 757s aren’t affected. United and
Continental merged in October, forming the world’s largest
airline.  “This was voluntary by United” and not a mandatory
grounding, Laura Brown, a Federal Aviation Administration
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an interview.  The issue stems from an airworthiness directive from 2004
that required the installation of new circuit breakers and
related components in air data computers on the 757, which U.S.
carriers fly on domestic and international routes. Chicago-based
Boeing ended  23 years of production  of the model in 2005.  United rose 29 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $27.48 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  