-- 
Turkish Lira Gains Most in Two Weeks on Bets Rate Cuts Are Over

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-02-16T16:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/turkish-lira-gains-most-in-two-weeks-on-bets-rate-cuts-are-over.html
The lira gained the most in two
weeks on speculation Turkey’s decision to keep  interest rates  on
hold yesterday signaled an end to its series of cuts.  The Turkish currency strengthened 1 percent to 1.5817 per
dollar at 5:34 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest intraday jump since
Feb. 1. It lost 5.6 percent against the dollar between Dec. 13,
when the bank’s Deputy Chief Erdem Basci signaled rate cuts were
being considered to narrow the current-account deficit, through
Feb. 14, underperforming more than 20 emerging-market currencies
except for South Africa’s rand.  “The lira is trading up on the expectation that the
interest-rate cuts have come to an end and the movement in rates
will be upwards from now on,” Eren Yardimci, a currency trader
at Akbank TAS in Istanbul, said by telephone.    Turkey ’s central bank said yesterday that rising energy and
other commodity prices “pose supply side risks on the inflation
outlook” and it expects consumer-price growth to slow this
month before a period of volatility from the second quarter.
Inflation decelerated to a four-decade low of 4.9 percent in
January.  China ,  Brazil ,  India , Indonesia, Hungary and Poland are
among emerging-market nations that are raising rates to combat
faster inflation.  “The central bank talked about inflationary pressures in
the coming months for the first time yesterday,” Cem Tozge, a  fund manager  at Ata Yatirim Menkul Degerler AS, said by
telephone. “Everyone is betting that inflation will first hit a
trough of around 4.5 percent in March, but later on, will
accelerate sharply to 6 percent.”  Targets  The central bank targets 5.5 percent inflation for this
year, down from last year’s 6.5 percent target. The trade
deficit swelled to $8.7 billion in December, the biggest since
compilation of the data began in 1984.  “Inflationary pressures have started to emerge and the
central banks in the world have started taking contraction
measures,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Istanbul, said by telephone. “For that reason I don’t think
our central bank can continue with rate cuts.”  The  ISE National 100 Index  of stocks advanced 559.64 or 0.9
percent, to 65,361.78. The yield on two-year bonds fell 8 basis
points to 8.26 percent, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark
Bond Index.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  