-- 
Vietnam’s Dong Strengthens at Banks, Slumps in Black Market

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T09:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/vietnam-s-dong-strengthens-at-banks-slumps-in-black-market.html
  Vietnam ’s dong rose the most in two
years at the nation’s lenders after the central bank
strengthened its  reference rate .  The dong gained 0.6 percent to 20,730 per dollar as of 3:45
p.m. in Hanoi, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The State Bank of Vietnam set the daily reference
rate at 20,698, compared to 20,703 yesterday, according to its
website. The currency, which was devalued by about 7 percent
last week, can trade 1 percent either side of the daily fixing.  Vietnam’s banks have “plentiful” foreign exchange,
central bank Governor Nguyen Van Giau said last week. The
monetary regulator “will manage the dong’s exchange rates
flexibly in both directions, with strengthening and weakening
rates, suiting the money market’s supply and demand,” Giau said
on the central bank’s website on Feb. 11.  The dong slumped in the unofficial market, trading as low
as 21,840 as of 3:45 p.m. at gold shops in  Hanoi , compared with
21,750 yesterday, according to an information service run by
state-owned Vietnam Posts & Telecommunications.  “There are concerns in the market that the dong will drop
later as demand for  U.S. dollar  is still high, especially with
companies buying the foreign currency to pay import contracts,”
said Pham Phuong Lan, Hanoi-based head of the fixed-income and
currency trading desk at Bank for Investment & Development of
Vietnam.    Government bonds  were little changed, keeping the yield on
the benchmark five-year note at 11.50 percent, according to a
daily fixing price from about 10 banks compiled by Bloomberg.  --Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen. Editors: James Regan, Ven Ram  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  