-- 
Vietnam Government Calls for Fairness in Rolling Power Blackouts

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T11:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/vietnam-government-calls-for-fairness-in-rolling-power-blackouts.html
  Vietnam ’s government told regional
authorities to handle rolling power blackouts in an
“equitable” fashion as it said the Thua Thien Hue province
will experience electricity cuts starting next month.  “Politically or socially important” events should be
given priority in receiving power during the current dry season,
the government said in a statement on its  website  today, without
providing clarification of what events meet those criteria.
Provincial authorities should approve a list of users that can
be exempt from power cuts, according to the statement.  Thua Thien Hue Power Co. plans to cut power in the central
province by 9.3 percent in March and April, by 21.1 percent in
May and 13.7 percent in June, the government said. Priority will
be given to industrial production and agricultural irrigation,
according to the statement.  Blackouts were set to affect some of the country’s 91
million people from Feb. 15, Vietnam News reported Feb. 10.
Record-low levels at water reservoirs are cutting hydropower
production, state-run  Electricity of Vietnam , known as EVN, said
yesterday. The utility said last month it faces a shortfall of 3
billion kilowatt-hours in this year’s dry season.  Vietnam may increase the cost of average household
electricity by a record 15 percent next month, Vietnam News
reported Feb. 14. EVN sells electricity at 30 percent to 40
percent below production cost, it said in a statement today.  Rolling outages may inconvenience overseas manufacturers
using Vietnam as an export base. Severe power cuts “would make
it very difficult for me to explain to the board that we want to
stay here and want to develop the company here,” Boy Schallert,
managing director of  Aalborg Industries A/S  in the northern city
of Haiphong, said by telephone this week. The company has no
imminent plans to leave the country, he said.  Vietnam depends on hydropower for about 37 percent of its
electricity, followed by gas at 36 percent and coal at 16
percent, according to  statistics  from the Association of the
Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia and the Western Pacific.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net . 