-- 
WestLB Proposes Bank Breakup, Asset Reduction to Win Aid Approval From EU

-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 
2011-02-16T01:59:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/westlb-proposes-bank-breakup-asset-reduction-to-win-aid-approval-from-eu.html
WestLB AG, the German state-owned
lender bailed out during the financial crisis, said it will
reduce assets and split up the bank as part of a reorganization
aimed at winning European Union approval for state aid.  The bank will cut assets by about one-third on top of
reductions previously mandated by the EU, the Dusseldorf-based
bank said in an e-mailed  statement  today. It will also split the
lender into four business segments, which may later be sold off
or be included in mergers, the lender said.  WestLB’s owners and the federal government were given a Feb.
15 deadline by European Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
to present a reorganization plan after the lender received
government aid.  Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund provided
WestLB with about 3 billion euros ($4 billion) in capital in
2009 to help the lender shift toxic and non-strategic assets to
a so-called bad bank.  “The bank believes the current, revamped reorganization
plan will be approvable by the European Commission,” WestLB
said in the statement. The reorganization will result in
“burdens” that will need to be shouldered by the owners and
the federal government in Berlin, it said, without specifying.  The four segments that the bank would be split into are
core banking and corporate finance, specialty banking,
transaction banking and group and service functions, WestLB said.
It didn’t provide details on their functions.  Cut in Half  WestLB is owned by the two regional savings-bank
associations of Rhineland and Westphalia-Lippe as well as the
state of North Rhine-Westphalia. In 2009, WestLB was ordered by
the EU to reduce its size by half and sell itself by the end of
2011 in return for approving a previous bailout package it
needed following the 2007 subprime crisis. The bank had total
assets of about 220 billion euros at the end of September.  WestLB has been unprofitable in five of the last eight
years, accumulating about 5.7 billion euros in losses from
trading, soured U.S. subprime mortgage investments and asset
writedowns. WestLB, which employs about 5,000 people, shifted
about one-third of its assets, or 77 billion euros, to  Erste
Abwicklungsanstalt , the bad bank it established with the help of
the Soffin fund in December 2009.  Parallel to the efforts to reorganize WestLB, the lender’s
owners commissioned lawyer  Friedrich Merz , a former politician,
to oversee the sale of WestLB. Merz said Feb. 11 that he
received “concrete” offers from potential buyers, without
naming them or disclosing the number of parties. The bidders are
interested in buying the state-owned bank as a whole, according
to the statement at the time.  WestLB has also been seeking to sell its Westdeutsche
ImmobilienBank AG real-estate division. The bank failed to meet
a Dec. 31 deadline for the disposal that was set by the EU after
rejecting offers for the unit as unacceptable and has sought
more time to find a buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jann Bettinga in  Frankfurt  at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 