-- 
When Keeping Your Mouth Shut Doesn’t Make Sense: Ann Woolner

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-02-16T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/when-keeping-your-mouth-shut-doesn-t-make-sense-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Clarence Thomas comes from my part
of the country, the American South, where it’s just plain rude
to interrupt someone who’s speaking.  But ever since he (narrowly) won confirmation to the U.S.  Supreme Court  in 1991, Thomas has held a job where he’s expected
to interrupt. He doesn’t.  Lawyers arguing their cases before the Supreme Court want
to know what issues are bugging the justices and which way
they’re leaning. That makes it easier to try to sway them on
what could be a critical point for a justice. So it’s kind of
rude not to interrupt.  And yet, day after day, hour after hour, argument after
argument, Thomas is the one justice, the only justice, who never
opens his mouth.  OK, almost never. The last time Thomas spoke during
argument was five years ago this week, according to the New York
Times.  The most talkative justice,  Antonin Scalia , engages lawyers
in lively exchanges.  Stephen Breyer  spins elaborate
hypotheticals.  Sonia Sotomayor  tells lawyers where their
arguments are flawed, or may chastise them for their client’s
bad conduct.  Even  Samuel Alito , the second quietest justice on the
bench, asks something every now and then. Not Thomas.  “If we invite a person in, we should at least listen to
what they have to say,” he said in 2009 to a bar group in  Virginia , sounding very much like a Southerner. But this is only
one of many explanations he has given through the years.  Polite or not, by sitting mute he literally puts himself
outside the conversation.  Sending Signals  Often the justices speak to signal each other where they
stand. They use oral argument to win votes and build coalitions
for their viewpoint, says  Timothy R. Johnson , a  University of
Minnesota  political science professor who researches and writes
about Supreme Court argument and decision-making.  Read the  transcript  of any Supreme Court argument and
you’ll see that lawyers spend the bulk of their time answering
justices’ questions and very little time reciting the speech
they’d prepared. Some on the bench seem to be enthralled by the
sound of their own voices.  But by staying silent, Thomas is surely giving up
potential influence. (This is fine by me because the less sway
he has, the freer the rest of us are from his cramped view of
the law).  It also makes him look weird.  His Explanations  “What’s wrong with him,” a high school teacher asked one
of her co-workers, a woman who had known Thomas in childhood,
during a school trip to the high court, according to the 2007
 book , “Supreme Discomfort: The Divided Soul of  Clarence
Thomas .”  Why Thomas so easily cedes some of the power that comes
with his position remains something of a mystery. His
explanations, offered up in public appearances, vary. They
include:  -- His  Geechee  accent (also known as Gullah, rooted among
some African-Americans from the southeastern U.S. coast) made
him self-conscious as a poor child from Pin Point,  Georgia . And
as a high schooler at a virtually all-white seminary outside the
city, he got into the habit of not speaking.  -- He  thinks  it’s counterproductive to interrupt lawyers as
they’re making their points.  -- He learns more by listening than talking.  -- Other justices usually ask the questions he wants
answered, anyway.  -- He thinks there’s too much chatter from the bench
already.  He’s got something there on that last point. During the
past 13 years of arguments that Johnson has studied, justices
spoke an average of 127 times per hour-long argument. That’s
twice a minute, Johnson pointed out yesterday in a telephone
interview from his office in  Minneapolis .  Much of that may be unnecessary, but Thomas’  colleagues 
often speak out for a reason.  They don’t delve into the issues with each other where
you’d expect them to, which is during their closed door
conferences on the cases, according to available evidence,
Johnson says.  Others have said that live, oral arguments aren’t important
because the lawyers have already laid out their positions on
paper. But that’s not why Thomas appears disengaged.  “You can win or lose your case at an argument,” Thomas
told the Arkansas Bar Association in 1998, according to
“Supreme Discomfort,” by Kevin Merida and Michael A. Fletcher.  Different Man  Observers have suggested that his humiliating confirmation
 hearing  embittered him against public participation in the
court. Friends speculate that he stays mum because he dislikes
engaging in open conflict.  What makes Thomas’s silence more peculiar is that off the
bench he is often amiable and gregarious, not to mention
articulate and sometimes self-revealing. I’ve seen him in and
outside the court, and he is a different person when he is
giving speeches or promoting his  autobiography  than the man who
stares at the ceiling during oral argument.  Thomas’s silence helps feed the view that he is an
outsider. After overcoming the barriers of poverty and race to
attain lifetime appointment to one of the most powerful
positions in the country, he seems intent on marginalizing
himself.  However deep his voice and distinctive his views, Thomas’s
inability to let them out into the great hall of the court
diminishes them. And to some degree, it also shrinks the justice
from Pin Point.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  