-- 
Wholesale Prices in U.S. Increase 0.8%, Led by Fuel Rise

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-02-16T13:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-increase-on-higher-fuel-prices-match-forecasts.html
Wholesale costs in the U.S.
increased for a seventh consecutive month in January, led by
higher prices for fuel.  The  producer price index  rose 0.8 percent, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The figure matched the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The so-called core
measure, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.5
percent, the biggest rise since October 2008.  Growing economies in  Asia  and Latin America are boosting
global demand for oil and other imported commodities, raising
input costs for American factories. As the manufacturing
industry rebounds, U.S. companies find it easier to pass along
higher costs to corporate clients than to consumers, a sign the
recovery is still broadening out.  “There is more pricing power at the producer level because
of the strength in the manufacturing recovery,”  Jonathan
Basile , chief U.S. economist at Credit Suisse in  New York .
“Businesses that have been hoarding cash have more purchasing
power.”  Food, Energy  Estimates for January producer prices in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from 0.3 percent to 1.4 percent. Prices excluding
volatile food and energy costs were forecast to rise 0.2 percent
for a second consecutive month.  The cost of food rose 0.3 percent in January from a month
earlier, spurred by a 14 percent gain in vegetables. Energy
prices rose 1.8 percent, led by higher diesel fuel and gasoline.  The cost of passenger cars fell 0.1 percent last month and
were down 2 percent for the prior 12 months.  Prices of capital goods rose 0.3 percent last month after a
0.1 percent gain in December.  Expenses for intermediate goods rose 1.1 percent from the
prior month and were up 6 percent from a year earlier, today’s
report showed.  Prices of crude goods increased 3.3 percent in January from
the previous month, and surged 10 percent for the 12-month
period.  Even with soaring commodity costs, the Fed remains
concerned that consumer inflation is below its annual target of
1.6 percent to 2 percent.  “Although commodity prices have risen, longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable, and measures of
underlying inflation have been trending downward, the Fed said
Jan. 26 after its latest policy meeting.  “Although the
Committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of
resource utilization in a context of  price stability , progress
toward its objectives has been disappointingly slow.”    Unemployment Rate   An unemployment rate that’s held at or above 9 percent
since May 2009 is also restraining labor costs. The threat of
deflation, or a prolonged decline in prices that’s harmful to
the economy, prompted Fed policy makers November 3 to announce
the central bank’s purchase of $600 billion in additional  Treasury securities  by the end of June.  Producers are having varying degrees of success in raising
prices for wholesalers.  PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, last
week posted a drop in fourth-quarter profit and projected full-
year earnings growth that trailed analysts’ estimates as
commodity costs increase.  PepsiCo Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  said the
forecast reflects “extraordinary” costs for raw materials, and
that raising prices likely will be difficult.  PepsiCo’s commodity costs may rise by $1.4 billion to $1.6
billion this year, Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said on
a conference call. The company, which plans to make up for some
of that by raising prices, probably won’t be able to recover the
full expense.  Illinois Tool Works, a Glenview, Illinois-based diversified
manufacturer of engineered products and specialty systems, is
one company that has been able to pass on higher costs to
customers.  “Costs have continued to rise, even in the first quarter,
for things like steel,” Ronald D. Kropp, chief financial
officer, said in a conference call on Jan. 31. “We have put
price increases in place.  Our goal is to recover not just the
cost, but also the margin.”  Goods Imported  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. Prices of goods imported into
the U.S., released yesterday, rose 1.5 percent in January from
the prior month, more than the Bloomberg survey median.  Consumer prices, the broadest of the three measures,
probably climbed 0.3 percent in January from the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey. The figures, due tomorrow,
may also show the cost of living excluding fuel and food rose
0.1 percent for a third month.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  