-- 
Williams To Spin Off Oil, Gas Exploration and Production Unit in an IPO

-- B y   M i k e   L e e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-02-17T00:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/williams-plans-to-split-pipeline-owner-into-two-publicly-traded-companies.html
Williams Cos., the fourth-largest
U.S. pipeline operator by market value, will sell as much as 20
percent of its oil and natural-gas exploration unit in an
initial public offering.  Williams also said it will raise its quarterly dividend by
60 percent to 20 cents per share for the first quarter 2011, to
be paid in June. It plans an additional increase of as much as
15 percent next year.  The IPO is scheduled for the third quarter, the company
said in a statement. The remainder of the oil business will be
spun off to Williams shareholders next year. After the
transactions, Williams’ shareholders will own stakes in two
publicly traded companies: a pipeline company and an exploration
company.  “Williams has generated significant value by operating as
an integrated natural-gas company, Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong said in a statement. ‘‘As we look to the future,
though, we are convinced that the capital efficiency created by
separating into two distinct investment opportunities will allow
shareholders to realize greater value.’’  Williams’ oil exploration division produced $841 million in
revenue in the third quarter, a fivefold increase over the 2009
third quarter as  oil prices  rose during the year. The company’s 
pipeline and storage operations generated $1.4 billion in
third quarter revenue, a 25 percent decline from the third
quarter 2009.  Enterprise Value  The new exploration and production company will have an
enterprise value of about $7 billion, which includes debt and
equity, Carl Kirst, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in
Houston, said in an telephone interview today. The IPO may raise
more than $1 billion, he said.  Williams rose $3.74, or 13 percent, to close at $31.50 in
after-hours trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  BMO said in a Feb. 14 note to clients, when Williams was
trading at about $27, that the exploration and production unit
may be worth about $10 a share if separated from Williams.
Williams’s core pipeline business would then be worth about $17
a share, which might rise to $26 or $27 by 2013, BMO estimated.  Investors have been expecting Williams to spin off its oil
and gas business, said Kirst, who has an ‘‘outperform” on
Williams shares and owns none.  Kinder IPO  “It’s come a few months earlier than we expected,” he
said. “What changed the calculus a little bit was the very
strong reception and IPO of  Kinder Morgan ,” he said.  Kinder Morgan Inc., a Houston-based energy and pipeline
company, sold 95.5 million shares at $30 each to raise $2.9
billion, or 23 percent more than it first sought, in a Feb. 11
initial public offering.  Credit ratings agencies responded positively to Williams’s
planned spinoff.  Standard & Poor’s  put the company on
“CreditWatch with positive implications,” saying it expected
the separation of the exploration and production business to
improve the company’s credit profile.  “We view the E&P business as notably riskier than
Williams’ pipeline and midstream segments, due to its cash flow
volatility and the significant  capital requirements  needed to
maintain production levels and reserves,” the agency wrote in a
note after the announcement.  Moody’s Investors Service said it may upgrade its ratings
of Williams’ pipeline subsidiaries.  Improved Risk Profile  “The announced separation of the E&P business will improve
Williams’s consolidated business risk profile while also
facilitating debt reduction at the parent company,” Moody’s
Vice President Peter Speer said in a statement.  Williams, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , was founded by brothers
Miller and  David Williams  in 1908. Williams’s pipeline division
owns or operates more than 15,000 miles of natural-gas
pipelines, according to the company website. Its exploration
division reported the equivalent of 4.5 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas in proven reserves as of Dec. 31.  Williams acquired Denver-based Barrett Resources in 2001
for $2.86 billion, tripling its natural gas reserves. Williams
paid $925 million to acquire 85,800 acres in  North Dakota ’s
Bakken crude oil formation in November.  The initial public offering will not require shareholder
approval, the company said. Williams did not disclose how many
shares would be sold or at what price.  Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are
serving as financial advisers. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP is
Williams’s legal adviser.  Williams will report its earnings tomorrow before the 
stock market opens, and has scheduled a conference call for
investors at 9:30 a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mike Lee  in  Dallas  at 
 Mlee326@blooomberg.net .
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 