-- 
Two Iranian Warships May Pass Through Suez Canal, Israel's Lieberman Says

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-17T03:29:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/two-iranian-warships-may-pass-through-suez-canal-israel-s-lieberman-says.html
Two Iranian warships in the Red Sea
are preparing to transit Egypt’s Suez Canal en route to  Syria ,
Israel’s foreign minister said, calling it another of Iran’s
“provocations.”  The Suez Canal Authority’s head of traffic, Ahmed El Manakhly, speaking by telephone, said yesterday that he hadn’t
been informed of any Iranian warships planning to pass through
the waterway. El Manakhly said military ships passing through
the canal must first obtain permission from the Ministry of
Defense and the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs .  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said yesterday
that Iran has not sent warships through the canal in “many
years.” Their route to Syria would involve sailing through the
eastern Mediterranean, off Israel’s coast. The ships are a
British-built, 1960’s-vintage Mk-5 frigate and a supply vessel,
according to  Israel ’s Yedioth Ahronot newspaper.  “Regretfully, the international community isn’t showing
readiness to deal with the recurring Iranian provocations,”
Lieberman said yesterday in a speech to U.S. Jewish leaders in
Jerusalem. “The international community must understand that
Israel can’t ignore forever these kinds of provocations.”  Lieberman cited the October visit to southern Lebanon by
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who he compared to Hitler
in a December interview in Newsweek, as another provocation.  Oil Rises  Gasoline climbed to a 28-month high on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, rising with crude oil and heating oil on
concern that Middle Eastern oil shipments will be disrupted.
Crude oil for March delivery rose 67 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
settle at $84.99 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
yesterday.  Brent crude  for April delivery, the European
benchmark, added $2.14, or 2.1 percent, to $103.78 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Heating oil for March
delivery gained 4.58 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $2.7748 a gallon
on the Nymex.  The U.S. is monitoring two Iranian ships in the  Red Sea ,
said State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley . The canal
authority said no Iranian warship has used the waterway since
the 1979 Iranian Revolution, according to a BBC News report.  “What their intention is, what their destination is, I
can’t say,” Crowley told reporters in  Washington . “We’ll be
watching to see what they do. We always watch what Iran is
doing.”  There is no legal barrier in this situation to Iranian
warships passing through the canal, according to Commander James
Kraska, professor of international law at the U.S. Naval War
College in Newport, Rhode Island. In addition to treaties dating
back to the late 19th century, the Camp David peace accords that
Egypt signed with Israel said the canal is open to all traffic,
he said.  Refusing Passage  The Egyptians can refuse passage to the ships if “they are
carrying nuclear arms or nuclear materials or there are drugs or
there are terrorists on board,” said said Roy S. Lee, an
adjunct professor at  Columbia Law School  in New York and
executive secretary to the International Criminal Court
Conference. “If they refuse, they cannot board the Iranian
ship. The Iranian ship cannot go through. Then they have an
incident.”  The USS Enterprise Carrier Strike Group transited the  Suez
Canal  Feb. 15 on a pre-planned mission to the Fifth Fleet area
to help with operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, according to
the U.S. military.  “Our ability to use the Suez Canal in a routine manner and
according to long-standing plans demonstrates the ongoing
stability of this important waterway,” said Rear Admiral Terry
B. Kraft, commander of the group, in an e-mailed statement.  Israeli Monitoring  Israel is monitoring the movements of the Iranian ships and
“has briefed friendly nations on this subject,” Defense
Minister Ehud Barak said late yesterday in a statement.  Israeli leaders have voiced concern that Iran may exploit
the period of political instability in the region following the
ousting of President  Hosni Mubarak  in  Egypt . Iran has sought to
crush anti-government protests at home.  “Iran is interested in shifting attention away from the
internal demonstrations, and a military confrontation is always
a convenient means of doing this,”  Gerald Steinberg , professor
of political science at Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan,
Israel, said in a telephone interview. “This is currently a
test of Israel and Egypt and the U.S. in the wake of the regime
change that is taking place in Egypt.”  Israel and the U.S. suspect Iran’s nuclear program is aimed
at producing atomic weapons. Iran says its nuclear installations
are for generating power. The  United Nations  has imposed four
rounds of sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program.  Market Reaction  Concern that anti-government unrest in Egypt would disrupt
canal traffic sent  oil prices  to a two-year high on Feb. 2. The
Egyptian armed forces, which patrol the waterway, stepped up
security and, seeking to prevent groups from taking advantage of
the confusion to stage terrorist attacks, won Israeli approval
to send troops into the demilitarized Sinai Peninsula for the
first time since 1979.  The 120-mile (190-kilometer)  channel  carries about 2.5
percent of world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., and is crucial for container ships carrying Asian consumer
goods to  Europe .  The canal handles 40 percent of container volume of Asian-
made consumer goods shipped by  Maersk Line , the world’s biggest
container line, spokesman Michael Christian Storgaard said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Business on the canal, the world’s longest man-made
waterway, accounts for about 4 percent of Egypt’s gross domestic
product and 8 percent of its current-account receipts, according
to Turker Hamzaoglu, emerging markets economist at Bank of
America Corp.-Merrill Lynch & Co. in  London .  Of the 17,930 vessels that passed through the canal in
2010, 6,901 ships were container carriers, while 2,740 were dry-
bulk ships and 884 were crude oil tankers, according to Oslo-
based Leth Suez Transit Ltd, a shipping agency specializing in
Suez Canal transits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in London at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  