-- 
Two U.S. Customs Agents Shot in Mexico, One Killed

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-02-16T17:59:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/two-u-s-customs-agents-shot-in-mexico-one-killed-as-violence-escalates.html
Gunmen related to organized crime
attacked two U.S. customs agents in  Mexico  yesterday, wounding
one and killing the other in the second murder of a U.S.
government employee across the border in a year.  The agents were shot in the line of duty in San Luis Potosi
state yesterday by unknown assailants as they drove on a federal
highway between Mexico City and Monterrey, the U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agency said. The Zetas drug gang may be
responsible, said a U.S. official, who asked to remain anonymous
because the investigation isn’t complete.  ICE special agent Jaime Zapata, a native of Brownsville,
Texas, was killed in the attack,  John Morton , director of the
agency, said in an e-mailed statement. The injured agent, who
was shot in the arm and the leg, remains in stable condition,
Morton said, without giving his name.  The killing may hurt U.S. tourism and investment in Mexico
by deepening concern over violence, said  Jorge Chabat , a
political science professor at the Center for Economic Research
and Teaching in Mexico City.  “This clearly doesn’t help the image in the U.S. media and
some parts of the government that Mexico can’t control organized
crime,” Chabat said in a telephone interview.  Ambush  The ICE agents appeared to be ambushed while driving a
sports-utility vehicle on a routine business trip yesterday,
although there is conflicting information regarding how the
agents were stopped, the anonymous U.S. official said.  The Zetas drug cartel has claimed responsibility, although
the group’s involvement hasn’t been confirmed, the official
said.  The agents were driving a dark blue Chevrolet Suburban with
diplomatic license plates when were they were attacked around
3:20 p.m. local time yesterday 47 kilometers (29 miles) from the
city of San Luis Potosi, newspaper Reforma  reported .  The Milenio network broadcast images of the Suburban pulled
to the side of a highway, its windows punctured by bullet holes.  San Luis Potosi state Governor Fernando Toranzo said in an
interview with Mexico City-based W Radio today that organized
crime was responsible for the attack as territorial battles
between drug cartels have intensified in the state.  He said the agents were passing through San Luis Potosi and
weren’t working with any local officials.  Investigation  The Mexican government and U.S. law enforcement officials
are investigating the shooting, according to the ICE statement.
U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said in a
statement that her department had made resources available for
the investigation.  “Any act of violence against our ICE personnel is an
attack against all those who serve our nation and put their
lives at risk for our safety,” Napolitano said in the
statement.  The Mexican  attorney general’s office  said in a statement
today that it had begun an official investigation.  Zapata, who joined ICE in 2006, was most recently assigned
to work as the agency’s attache at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico
City and had previously served in the human smuggling and
trafficking unit in Laredo,  Texas , Morton said in the statement.
Zapata had also worked at the Homeland Security Department and
as a member of the U.S. Border Patrol.  Zapata  Zapata is the fourth agent since 2001 to die in the line of
duty, and the only one to die in Mexico, said Kelly Nantel, an
ICE spokeswoman.  Spokesmen at the Mexican attorney general’s office and
Public Security Ministry said they didn’t have further
information when contacted by telephone. Officials at President
Felipe Calderon’s office and the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City
declined to comment.  In March of last year, a drive-by shooting in Ciudad
Juarez, which borders El Paso, Texas, killed an U.S. citizen who
was an employee of the U.S. consulate in that city, her husband
and the husband of a Mexican citizen employee.  Deaths related to drug trafficking increased almost 60
percent in Mexico last year and total more than 34,000 since
Calderon took office in December 2006. The government estimates
the violence shaves 1.2 percentage points off economic output
annually.  Public Perception  Public perception  of security has worsened in the past
year, according to a poll released this month by the national
statistics agency. The index measuring Mexicans’ view of how
safe they are fell to 98.2 in January from 100.5 a year earlier.  The U.S. government has taken more measures in the past
year to warn and protect its employees in Mexico. The State
Department  authorized the departure  of dependents of U.S.
consulate personnel in cities along the U.S.-Mexico border after
the employees in  Ciudad Juarez  were killed.  Even as violence escalated last year, the country’s economy
expanded faster than forecast. Gross domestic product probably
rose 5.3 percent to 5.6 percent in 2010, Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said last week. The government in October had
forecast that GDP would grow 4.8 percent.  Tourism revenue in Mexico grew 5.3 percent to $11.8 billion
last year compared with 2009, when the global financial crisis
and the H1N1 flu virus caused the number of visitors to drop,
the Tourism Ministry said Feb. 13.  Mexico’s peso rose 0.5 percent to 12.0964 per dollar at
12:32 p.m. New York time. The benchmark IPC index, which has
climbed 17 percent from a year earlier, rose 0.3 percent to
37,066.15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  