-- 
World Risks ‘Scary’ Tightening as Rates Hobbled, JPMorgan Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-16T06:42:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/world-risks-scary-tightening-as-rates-hobbled-jpmorgan-says.html
Emerging-market central banks are
failing to counter rising inflation, risking a “scary” and
“synchronized” global monetary-policy tightening as early as
next year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Real  interest rates  in emerging markets remain at
“recession lows” because policy makers believe increases would
pressure currency pegs to the dollar and risk exacerbating
capital inflows, said chief economist Bruce Kasman in an
interview in Beijing today.  The risk is that emerging markets tighten policy only after
inflation leaks into developed economies and the U.S. Federal
Reserve reacts, prompting simultaneous interest rate increases
across the world after a longer period of “financial excesses,”
Kasman said. JPMorgan strategists cut their year-end target for
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index to 1,300 from 1,500 yesterday on
expectations that accelerating inflation in developing nations
will spur tighter monetary policy.  “The pressures are building and we don’t see policy makers
addressing them in a serious way,” New York-based Kasman said.
“A more synchronized adjustment globally is kind of a scary
prospect down the road for how this stuff ultimately unwinds.”    China  and  India  are among nine of 15 Asian nations where
inflation is outpacing benchmark interest rates even after
central banks acted this year to counter price gains, Bloomberg
data show.  The willingness of China to tolerate faster price increases,
underscored by an inflation target of 4 percent this year
compared with 3 percent in 2010, and its reluctance to allow
“significant” appreciation of its currency, are also slowing
monetary-policy adjustments in emerging markets, Kasman said.  “China is an anchor in the region in terms of policy
setting,” Kasman said. “The idea that they are still reluctant
to allow for any significant appreciation of their currency
means that it’s much harder to get normal monetary policy in
places like  Singapore ,  Korea ,  Taiwan  and a number of other
countries.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  