-- 
Hydro Says AMAG Is on ‘Radar,’ Studies Acquisitions

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-02-16T17:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/hydro-says-amag-is-on-radar-studies-acquisitions-update1-.html
  Norsk Hydro ASA , the Norwegian
aluminum company buying $4.9 billion of assets from  Vale SA , is
studying other acquisitions and has Austria Metall GmbH on its
“radar,” according to its chief executive officer.  “This is one of the targets on the radar that’s coming
up,” CEO Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said today in an interview in
London. Hydro’s primary focus is to complete the Vale deal this
quarter, achieve full output at its Qatari smelter and reduce
operational costs, he said.  One Equity Partners LLC, the buyout arm of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., is preparing to sell its stake in Austria Metall, three
people with knowledge of the process said last month. Austria
Metall, also known as AMAG, may attract bids of more than 1
billion euros ($1.4 billion), according to one of the people.  Metal producers are seeking to add assets as rising
commodity prices boost earnings. Oslo-based Hydro returned to
profit in the fourth quarter as demand rose and costs fell, the
company said today, while  Alcoa Inc ., the largest U.S. aluminum
maker, reported its highest profit in nine quarters last month.  Hydro, which is seeking to reduce operational expenses by
$300 a ton by the end of 2013, achieved a $50-a-ton cut last
year and plans to expand that to $175 in 2011, the CEO said.  Profit was also boosted by a 300 million-krone ($52
million) gain from an insurance payout at Qatalum, Hydro’s
joint-venture plant with  Qatar Petroleum , after primary aluminum
output was halted in August because of a  power failure . That’s
less than half the total payout expected, Brandtzaeg said.  Hydro plans to reach full annual output of 585,000 tons at
the Qatalum plant in June, later than a previous first-quarter
target after commissioning of power-plant steam turbines was
delayed. Hydro is in talks with insurers to receive the rest of
the payment this quarter, Brandtzaeg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  