-- 
Zimbabwe Tobacco Production May Rise 38% This Season

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a
-- 
2011-02-16T12:40:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-16/zimbabwe-s-tobacco-output-may-climb-38-to-170-million-kilograms-this-year.html
  Zimbabwe ’s tobacco production may
climb 38 percent to 170 million kilograms this season as more
farmers start growing the crop, according to the country’s
Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board.  Output may rise from 123 million kilograms last year, said
Andrew Matibiri, the board’s chief executive officer, by phone
today from Harare, the capital.  Tobacco production in Zimbabwe is still below peak levels
of about 236 million kilograms achieved in 2000, before
President Robert Mugabe’sZimbabwe African National Union-Front
party sponsored often-violent seizures of most white-owned
farms. Output slipped to a low of 58.6 million kilograms in
2009, reflecting the effects of a political and economic crisis
which peaked during 2008.  “Our well-considered estimate is that we could reach 170
million kilograms this year,” Matibiri said. “The stable
economic environment, which makes it easier for farmers to plan,
is a major factor that has drawn more farmers into the tobacco
industry.”  Small-scale tobacco farmers currently account for more than
half of Zimbabwe’s output of the leaf, said Agriculture Minister
Joseph Made, as he opened the 2011 marketing season in Harare
today. As production rises, farmers should now focus on
improving quality, he said.  Zimbabwe earned $347.8 million from tobacco sales last
year, the Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board has said. China
was the main buyer of Zimbabwe’s crop, replacing Western
companies that were traditionally the biggest buyers, it said.  Zimbabwe is the world’s sixth-largest exporter of the flue-
cured variety of the leaf, which is also known as Virginia
tobacco. It lags behind  Brazil ,  India , the U.S., Argentina and
Tanzania, according to the website of Universal Corp., the
world’s biggest tobacco-leaf merchant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  