-- Aberdeen Buying Widows Fortifies Edinburgh Before Scotland Votes
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-11-19T12:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/aberdeen-buying-widows-fortifies-edinburgh-before-scotland-votes.html
Aberdeen Asset Management (ADN)  Plc’s
purchase of  Scottish Widows Investment Partnership  helps cement
Edinburgh’s position as a financial center as politicians spar
over whether  Scotland  should gain independence.  The 560 million-pound ($902 million) acquisition of  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s (LLOY)  fund management business will make Aberdeen
the largest publicly traded fund manager in Europe by assets,
overseeing about 336 billion pounds. More than half of that will
be managed in Edinburgh, Aberdeen Chief Executive Officer Martin Gilbert said yesterday.  “We have had a clear declaration about maintaining assets
in Edinburgh,” said Colin McLean, who oversees $970 million as
managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“So from that point of view it’s good.”  Since the 2008 financial crisis,  fund management  has
outstripped banking and life insurance to become the linchpin of
Scotland’s finance industry. Along with North Sea oil and
tourism, it’s one of the pillars of the semi-autonomous Scottish
government’s vision for full independence from the rest of the
U.K. A referendum is scheduled for Sept. 18,  Banks, insurers and money managers account for 8 percent of
the Scottish economy, employ more than 100,000 people directly
and a further 100,000 jobs are dependent on them, according to
 Scottish Financial Enterprise .  Endorsement  “It’s a ringing endorsement of Scotland as an
international financial center,” Owen Kelly, chief executive
officer of the lobby group, said by e-mail. “This deal brings
about the formation of the largest independent asset manager in
 Europe , which chimes with the strong performance we are seeing
across the asset management sector in Scotland.”  While Scottish Financial Enterprise is officially neutral
about independence, it has said there are more questions than
answers about issues such as financial services regulation and
what currency an independent Scotland might use.  Aberdeen CEO Gilbert has backed Scotland having more
responsibility for raising taxes and spending, without saying
whether he supports leaving the U.K. A poll published this month
showed support for independence trailing backing for remaining
in the U.K. by 18 percentage points.  The Scottish government in Edinburgh welcomed the Aberdeen
acquisition, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
deal will expand asset management expertise in Scotland and help
to develop new markets, it said.  U.S. Railroads  Money management runs deep in Scotland, which developed
closed-end funds in the 1870s to help finance the development of
U.S. railroads. While about 500 billion pounds is overseen from
Edinburgh and more than 800 billion pounds in Scotland overall,
it compares with an  estimated 5.4 trillion pounds  managed in the
U.K. at the end of 2012, mostly in  London .  Aberdeen,  Standard Life Investments  and Baillie Gifford &
Co., three of Scotland’s biggest fund managers, have grown funds
under management rapidly in the past decade. Together with
Scottish Widows Investment, they oversee $1 trillion, or 617
billion pounds, of assets today. That’s almost three times the
211 billion pounds they oversaw a decade ago.  Assets at London’s four largest fund managers increased
almost 80 percent over the period.  The growth of Scottish asset managers has attracted U.S.
fund companies including BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest
fund manager, and  Bank of New York Mellon . BlackRock employs 550
people in its Edinburgh office after setting up a global
operations center there in 2011.  That contrasts with the travails of the two largest
Scottish banks and its  life insurance  industry.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  received the biggest government bailout of
any lender in the world, while HBOS Plc, created by the takeover
of  Bank of Scotland  by Halifax Plc in 2001, had to be rescued by
Lloyds, now 33 percent owned by the government.  As for life insurance, 25 years ago Scotland had at least
10 independent companies, mostly customer-owned. Apart from
Standard Life Plc, they have all been acquired by other insurers
including Aegon NV and Prudential Plc.  “Edinburgh will be a very important center for us,”
Gilbert said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  