-- Census Sees No ‘Systemic Manipulation’ of U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-11-19T21:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/labor-department-says-it-contacted-commerce-on-jobs-charges-1-.html
There is no sign U.S. jobs
statistics have been compromised by broad-based employee
fabrication of data, according to the Census Bureau.  “We have no reason to believe that there was a systematic
manipulation of the data described in media reports,” the
agency said today in a statement.  An article in the New York Post alleged employment figures
heading into the 2012 presidential election were manipulated.
Under pressure from supervisors to boost response rates in the
Philadelphia region, Julius Buckmon, a former Census Bureau
employee, said he made up information for people he couldn’t
reach two years before the 2012 election, according to the Post.  The newspaper, citing an unnamed source, then said the
practice went beyond a single employee, escalated in the year of
the election and continues to this day. Attempts by Bloomberg to
locate Buckmon were unsuccessful.  “The Census Bureau takes allegations of fraud by its
employees very seriously,” according to the statement.
“Fabrication of data by an employee is grounds for disciplinary
action, including dismissal and possible criminal action.” The
agency said it has reported the allegations to the Office of the
Inspector General.  “We learned about the information today, and we’re
reviewing the information contained in that article,” said Luiz
Santos, the acting director of the division of congressional
liaison and communications in the Department of Labor’s
inspector general’s office. Santos said he could neither confirm
nor deny whether the IG’s office had opened an investigation.  Opening Investigation  The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which
has jurisdiction over the Census Bureau, announced it will open
an inquiry into the matter.  “The allegation that data gathered by the Census Bureau is
being manipulated for any reason is extremely serious,” Blake Farenthold, a Republican from  Texas  who chairs the panel that
directly overlooks the Census Bureau, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The story is “obviously misleading,” White House
spokesman Jay Carney said today in response to questions from
the press. He said he has “absolutely not” heard that there’s
anything to the report.  The Census Bureau is the government agency that contacts
households to get data used to calculate the monthly
unemployment rate. It shares those figures with the Labor
Department, which issues the employment report. The Census
Bureau is part of the Department of Commerce.  ‘Limited’ Impact  “It’s a bit of a scary story, but I think the impact is
limited” if one person were manipulating the data, said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in New York.
Further, “if you have more people manipulating the data, how
likely is it that they’re all Democrats if you do it across the
country? Some probably have an incentive to lift the number.”  The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 7.8 percent in
September 2012 from 8.1 percent the month earlier, the Labor
Department reported on Oct. 5 of that year, one month before the
presidential election. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg at the time projected an increase to 8.2
percent.  The report at the time also showed employment in the
household survey conducted by the Census Bureau jumped by
873,000 in October, the biggest gain since June 1983, excluding
the annual Census population adjustments.  Obama’s Re-Election  Jack Welch, the former chief executive officer of General
Electric Co. who charged in October 2012 that the unemployment
report had been manipulated to help President  Barack Obama ’s re-election effort, declined through his assistant to comment on
the latest allegations. Welch turns 78 years old today.  Welch’s wife Suzy Welch, in a Twitter message this morning,
wished her husband a happy birthday and cited the New York Post
story.  Messages seeking comment from Commerce Department Secretary
Penny Pritzker or her aides have not been answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  