-- Abu Dhabi’s Cepsa Pays $2.2 Billion for Coastal Energy
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-11-19T12:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/abu-dhabi-s-cepsa-to-buy-coastal-energy-for-c-2-3-billion.html
Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA , the
Abu Dhabi-owned oil refiner, agreed to buy  Coastal Energy Co. (CEO) 
for C$2.3 billion ($2.2 billion) as the Middle East sheikhdom
adds to crude and natural-gas assets in  Southeast Asia .  Cepsa, as the Madrid-based company is known, and partner
Strategic Resources (Global) Ltd. agreed to pay C$19 a share, 28
percent more than Coastal Energy’s closing price yesterday, the
Houston-based company said in a statement. The venture will take
on Coastal Energy’s C$51 million of net debt as part of the
deal, due to close in the first quarter.  Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates and
holder of about 6 percent of global oil reserves, is boosting
access to energy assets abroad through government-owned
companies like International Petroleum Investment Co., Cepsa’s
owner. Buying Coastal gives IPIC indirect stakes in production
and exploration in the Gulf of  Thailand , where a unit of  Abu
Dhabi ’s Mubadala Development Co. also holds concessions.  “Coastal’s business comprises a high-quality portfolio of
upstream assets located in Southeast Asia,” Cepsa Chief
Executive Officer Pedro Miro said in the statement. Coastal
Energy’s board unanimously backs the deal, CEO Randy Bartley
said in the statement.  Thailand, Malaysia  Coastal Energy fell 3.8 percent to C$14.81 per share at the
close in Toronto yesterday. The stock is down 26 percent this
year,  compared with  an 8 percent increase in the S&P/TSX
Composite Index. Media representatives at IPIC were not
immediately available for comment on the deal today.  The acquisition is the biggest purchase since 1999 for
Cepsa, Spain’s fourth-largest industrial group. Cepsa holds oil
production and refining, petrochemical and electricity
generation assets in  Algeria ,  Brazil ,  Canada , Colombia and
Panama among others. Coastal Energy also holds onshore
exploration concessions in Thailand and is a partner in a
service contract for a series of fields in  Malaysia .  Coastal Energy directors, management and shareholders, who
together hold about 36.5 million shares in the company, have
agreed to support the acquisition, according to the statement.
The deal has a break-up fee of $76 million.  Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG are financial
advisers for Coastal Energy. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the
financial adviser for Cepsa, and PriceWaterhouseCoopers is
advising both Cepsa and Strategic Resources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  