-- Madoff Said ‘We All Know What We Do Here,’ Jury Is Told
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-11-20T17:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/madoff-said-we-all-know-what-we-do-here-jury-is-told.html
Bernard L. Madoff’s ex-controller
told a jury the con man held a meeting of his inner circle in
2005 to discuss ways to hide mounting losses in his legitimate
broker-dealer unit, saying, “We all know what we do here.”  Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, who pleaded guilty to aiding
Madoff’s $17 billion fraud and faces as long as 50 years in
prison, didn’t know what Madoff was talking about at the time
and “just kept quiet,” she testified in the trial of five
former colleagues yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court.  “I was almost embarrassed,” Cotellessa-Pitz told the
jury, adding that the gathering was her first closed-door
meeting with Madoff in almost three decades of employment. “I
was not really sure what we do here.”  Cotellessa-Pitz, who joined Madoff’s firm in 1978 and
became controller a decade before it collapsed, is one of about
half a dozen former employees who pleaded guilty in the case and
plan to testify. It’s the first criminal trial stemming from the
scheme, which prosecutors say started in the early 1970s and
imploded at the peak of the financial crisis.  Daniel Bonventre, who ran the broker-dealer unit and is one
of the five on trial for allegedly helping Madoff hide his
fraud, attended the 2005 meeting, as did  Frank DiPascali ,
Madoff’s finance chief, Cotellessa-Pitz testified.  She told the jury that while she helped inflate profit at
Madoff’s broker dealer, she didn’t know about the  Ponzi scheme 
at the investment advisory unit, where thousands of customers
were made to believe they owned securities that didn’t exist.  False Records  Cotellessa-Pitz admitted filing false records with
regulators and lying in accounting documents about the source of
millions of dollars she helped funnel from the investment
adviser to the broker-dealer, where real trading took place and
where losses were mounting in the years before Madoff’s arrest.  At the meeting, Madoff suggested hiding the losses by
accounting for the transfers as wires from his London-based
unit. When Cotellessa-Pitz pointed out that trading in the
 investment adviser  was already taking place in  London , she
inadvertently revealed she believed one of the main lies used to
hide the scheme, she said. No such trading took place.  An “uncomfortable silence” fell over the meeting and it
ended “very quickly” after her remark, Cotellessa-Pitz said.
“Bernie said, ‘We can think about doing that.’”  London Ruse  After Madoff’s arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, investigators
determined the purported London trading was a ruse to make it
difficult for anyone to find out the business was fake. Instead
of investing new customers’ money, Madoff used it for
withdrawals by earlier investors.  The other defendants are Annette Bongiorno, a Madoff
employee for 40 years who ran the investment advisory business
at the center of the fraud; Joann Crupi, who managed large
accounts; and computer programmers George Perez and Jerome O’Hara, who allegedly automated the production of fake account
statements for customers of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC.  Cotellessa-Pitz testified today that Bonventre sought loans
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. using as collateral bonds that
belonged to Madoff’s investment advisory clients. Bonventre told
the bank the bonds belonged to Madoff, she said.  Jurors were shown numerous documents related to the loans,
including a letter to JPMorgan in January 2006 that had been
typed by Cotellessa-Pitz and signed by Bonventre. The letter
requested an additional $50 million be added to Madoff’s
existing $95 million loan.  Broker Dealers  Cotellessa-Pitz said the general accounting ledger for the
company, which was overseen by Bonventre, didn’t include the $50
million loan when it was produced at the end of that month, and
a copy of the document was shown to jurors as evidence.  Cotellessa-Pitz testified yesterday she witnessed Bonventre
work with Madoff in the early 1990s on an eight-week project to
create a template for fake statements from Depository Trust Co.,
which holds physical securities for broker dealers.  Bonventre and another employee worked for weeks to make the
document look realistic, Cotellessa-Pitz said, including by
choosing the right kind of paper and font and determining the
correct placement of asterisks used by the DTC.  ‘Unusually Formatted’  “I saw the change in paper, the change in font, the format
changes -- I saw the evolution of the work,” Cotellessa-Pitz
said. “The DTC statement was an unusually formatted report”
and the fake one “looked like a DTC report,” she said.  The reports ultimately tricked regulators into believing
Madoff traded in securities for his investment advisory clients,
prosecutors have said.  Cotellessa-Pitz also testified yesterday that she helped
Bonventre and Madoff by falsifying historical records to fool
regulators during audits, and by carrying out Madoff’s plan to
pay less personal taxes by understating the profit at his firm,
which was his sole proprietorship.  “We had to change the back office numbers to agree with
Bernie’s numbers,” Cotellessa-Pitz said. It was “a cumbersome
task” and “I felt it to be quite difficult,” she said.  First Interview  Cotellessa-Pitz began her testimony Nov. 18 by describing
her first interview at the securities company, where she sought
a receptionist position after graduating from high school in
1976. Though she wasn’t hired, she met DiPascali during the
interview and started a three-year relationship with him, she
said.  She pleaded guilty in 2011 to four counts including broker-dealer fraud and filing false reports with regulators. At a plea
hearing two years ago, Cotellessa-Pitz said she wasn’t aware of
the Ponzi scheme during almost a decade of working on the
company’s accounting.  DiPascali pleaded guilty in August 2009 to 10 counts,
including conspiracy, fraud and  money laundering . He is to be a
prosecution witness and is cooperating with prosecutors. He
hasn’t been sentenced.  All five defendants have pleaded not guilty. Their lawyers
said in opening statements to the jury that the government
witnesses are willing to lie and implicate others to win lighter
sentences.  Savings, Earnings  Irving Picard , the trustee who’s liquidating Madoff’s
company to help repay victims, sued Cotellessa-Pitz and her
husband, Thomas Pitz, in 2010, seeking the return of money he
said they received from the fraud. Picard claims she knew about
the fraud and made at least $3.25 million in compensation for
her role.  Cotellessa-Pitz testified that her $3.5 million personal
investment advisory account at Madoff’s firm disappeared when
the fraud was exposed. She said she started the account in 1986
with $30,000 obtained by refinancing her home, and continued to
add savings and earnings over the years. When Bongiornio in 2006
told her “as a friend” that she should consider withdrawing
some of her money -- as Madoff family insiders were doing at the
time -- Cotellessa-Pitz said she spoke directly to Madoff before
deciding to leave her money in.  “I told Bernie everything I own is in there and asked if I
should diversify,” Cotellessa-Pitz testified. “He said to me
‘absolutely not’ and there was ‘no reason to worry.’”  Madoff, 75, pleaded guilty to fraud and is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  