-- U.S. Has Deal on Afghan Pact Before Tribal Leaders Meet
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-11-22T03:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/afghans-know-future-depends-on-u-s-accord-carter-says.html
(Corrects month of election in ninth paragraph of story
published Nov. 20.)  U.S. and Afghan officials have
reached an accord permitting some American forces to remain in
 Afghanistan  after next year, U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said today.  Kerry said that he and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  spoke
today and resolved remaining differences on the accord. About
3,000 Afghan tribal, political and intellectual leaders are set
to weigh a draft tomorrow at a meeting known as a Loya Jirga.  “We’ve reached an agreement as to the final language of
the bilateral security agreement that will be placed before the
Loya Jirga tomorrow,” Kerry told reporters today in  Washington .  While U.S. and allied forces plan to remove combat troops
from Afghanistan by the end of 2014, they propose keeping a
smaller force to train Afghan soldiers and conduct
counterterrorism operations under the security accord. Sticking
points had included circumstances in which American
counterterrorism operations could include raids on Afghan homes.  In comments during an appearance with Australian Foreign
Minister  Julie Bishop , Kerry said the U.S. wouldn’t be
apologizing for past civilian casualties in Afghanistan.  An apology “wasn’t even on the table,” Kerry said.  Kerry and Karzai had discussed whether the U.S. would,
through a letter or other means, “reassure Afghanistan” about
America’s “commitment to and the importance of our
relationship” and to address issues such as civilian casualties
during the conflict, State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki told
reporters earlier today.  Caitlin Hayden, a spokeswoman for the National Security
Council, said in an e-mailed statement, “We continue to
consider how we can best provide the government and people of
Afghanistan appropriate assurances as the Loya Jirga considers
the bilateral security agreement.”  U.S. Reassurances  Karzai told Kerry yesterday that the country would accept
U.S. demands to enter Afghan homes in “exceptional and special
cases” if the secretary of state personally participates in the
Loya Jirga, and suggested the security pact be signed after
presidential elections scheduled for April. In response, Kerry
offered to send a letter of “reassurances and clarification”
on the raids, Karzai said.  Kerry won’t be able to attend the Loya Jirga, Psaki said.  The dispute over raids concerns whether U.S. troops,
operating jointly with Afghan military forces, may enter Afghan
homes, according to a U.S. official who spoke yesterday and
asked not to be identified discussing the sensitive talks. The
U.S. is seeking to preserve the right in situations involving
self-defense, the official said.  The issue gained new attention yesterday after the New York
Times quoted Karzai spokesman Aimal Faizi saying the two sides
agreed on allowing home raids if Obama writes a letter
acknowledging mistakes by the U.S. military in Afghanistan.
Faizi didn’t answer calls to his mobile phone today.  No Apologies  “No such letter has been drafted or delivered,” National
Security Adviser  Susan Rice  said yesterday in an interview with
 CNN . “There is not a need for the  United States  to apologize to
Afghanistan.”  The Afghan government yesterday declared a six-day public
holiday to tighten security during the Loya Jirga. The security
agreement will go to both houses of the Afghan parliament for
approval if endorsed by the Loya Jirga, Karzai said on Nov. 16.  The move to tighten security came three days after a
Taliban suicide car bomb near the location for the Loya Jirga
killed 13 people and wounded dozens more.  An accord will be reached because Afghan officials and
citizens “know that the future of their country depends on” an
agreement with the U.S. on a continued military presence after
next year, U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter  said
yesterday in an interview.  ‘Spectacularly Well’  “The success of the campaign and the support that we
provide to the Afghan security forces, who are doing much better
than I would have told you two years ago -- they’re doing
spectacularly well -- all of that hinges on the” security
agreement, said Carter, who’s visited Afghanistan eight times
since joining the Pentagon in 2009.  Afghans realize “that for a few more years they are going
to need help,” Carter, who is leaving his Pentagon post on Dec.
4, said in the interview. “I am optimistic that the people of
Afghanistan” through the “Loya Jirga, are going to see the
same thing.”  Once a security agreement is reached, Obama will decide
“the size and shape of that enduring” presence, Carter said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has said that about
8,000 to 12,000 troops may remain in Afghanistan to train and
advise the Afghan military and police forces. Marine Corps
General Joseph Dunford, the commander of NATO forces in
Afghanistan, has said that number wouldn’t include forces needed
to carry out counterterrorism missions and to protect U.S.
diplomats.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  