-- Afghanistan Needs U.S. Troops Post-2014 for Aid: Dempsey
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-11-19T03:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/afghanistan-needs-u-s-troops-post-2014-for-aid-dempsey.html
Afghanistan  will need a U.S. and
NATO military presence after 2014 to guarantee the country’s
secure enough to keep receiving development aid promised by
international donors, the top American military officer said.  “After 2014 Afghanistan can live without a ubiquitous
presence of U.S. military forces in their country,” Army
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said tonight at an event in  Washington  organized by the Wall
Street Journal. “They can’t live without any.”  The number of U.S. and alliance troops that remain in
Afghanistan after next year should be determined by whatever it
takes to “guarantee that the money we’ve all committed to
Afghanistan will continue to flow,” he said. “If security
deteriorates to a point” where the $6 billion in annual aid
promised to Afghanistan “dries up, then they can’t survive.”  The long-term presence of foreign troops in the South Asian
nation after 2014 is at the heart of a bilateral accord between
the U.S. and Afghanistan that’s in the final stages of
negotiations. Afghan President Hamid Karzai has called for a
loya jirga, a national consultative assembly of tribal elders,
to meet this month to consider and approve a draft agreement
that was reached in discussions last month led by U.S. Secretary
of State John Kerry.  Agreement on a limited U.S. presence to train Afghan forces
and fight terrorism after next year has foundered in part over
Afghanistan’s demand that the U.S. commit to defending the
nation against external threats, a reference to insurgents
backed by neighboring  Pakistan . Most U.S. and NATO combat troops
are set to depart Afghanistan by the end of 2014.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has said that about
8,000 to 12,000 troops may remain in Afghanistan to train and
advise the Afghan military and police forces. Marine Corps
General Joseph Dunford, the commander of NATO forces in
Afghanistan, has said that the number would not include forces
needed to carry out counterterrorism missions and to protect
U.S. diplomats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  