-- Airport Auction Tests Readiness for World Cup: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n ,   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-11-19T17:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/airport-auction-tests-readiness-for-world-cup-corporate-brazil.html
A $2.6 billion airports auction this
week will test  Brazil ’s ability to attract major operators and
revamp infrastructure before the 2014 World Cup and 2016
Olympics after a first sale drew criticism for failing to do so.  President  Dilma Rousseff  seeks the expertise and innovation
of the world’s biggest airport managers in the Nov. 22 bidding.
In 2012, companies from Brazil,  Argentina  and  South Africa  won
rights to run three airports. Now potential suitors for the new
concessions include  Spain ’s  Ferrovial SA (FER) , overseer of  London ’s
Heathrow airport, and Fraport AG, which directs  Frankfurt ’s hub.  “When the results from the first auction came out, the
government was worried because of the lack of experience in the
players that won,” Victor Mizusaki, an analyst with UBS AG in
 Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “For this next round,
the preference was for more experience.”  The auction for  Rio de Janeiro ’s Galeao and Minas Gerais’
Confins airports is part of Rousseff’s $92 billion privatization
initiative to revamp aging infrastructure including ports,
railroads and highways. Twelve Brazilian cities will host World
Cup matches next year, while Rio de Janeiro will be the site for
the Olympic games in 2016.  Five Groups  Five groups turned in documents yesterday to be able to bid
for the airports.  Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN)  teamed up with Munich and
 CCR SA (CCRO3) , according to a spokeswoman for Flughafen. Schiphol
Group, operator of Amsterdam’s airport, submitted a bid with
 Aeroports de Paris (ADP) , GP Investments and Carioca Engenharia for
the Galeao airport, according to a Schiphol email. Singapore’s
Changi Airport International teamed up with Odebrecht TransPort
Participacoes SA to present bid for both airports, according to
the press department of the Brazilian partner. Ferrovial and
Queiroz Galvao SA also plan to bid for both airports, according
to Queiroz Galvao press department.  “For the great challenge of renovating and modernizing
infrastructure in the country, there is the new possibility that
with international operators -- operators with great experience
-- we can encourage a cultural change in our airports,” Civil
Aviation Secretary Moreira Franco said in a phone interview.  World Cup  Last year’s sale of licenses to three airports reaped 24.5
billion reais ($10.8 billion). A group including pension funds
belonging to employees of state-run companies and  Airports Co.
South Africa , which manages hubs in Mumbai and Johannesburg, won
the rights to Sao Paulo’s Guarulhos airport. A consortium
including construction company Engevix Engenharia SA gained
control of an airport in Brasilia.  The opening of a new terminal at Guarulhos is on track for
its May deadline, and the hub will benefit from Airports Co.
South Africa’s experience at the 2010  World Cup , which was held
in that country, Fernando Sellos, commercial director at the
airport, said in an interview last week.  A representative for Sao Paulo-based Engevix said
construction is on time and will be completed before the World
Cup.  Last year, Brazil required that any bidders already be
managing a terminal handling a minimum of 5 million passengers a
year. For the current go-round, the threshold is 22 million for
suitors for Galeao and 12 million for Confins.  ‘Attractive Hotspot’  Fraport, the Frankfurt airport operator, “will do
everything” to win the auction, Chief Executive Officer Stefan Schulte said in an interview this month. Frankfurt, the main hub
for Deutsche Lufthansa AG, ranks third in  Europe  by annual
passenger numbers, trailing Heathrow and Aeroports de Paris’s
 Charles de Gaulle , according to the airports’ traffic reports.  “Brazil is a very attractive hotspot for aviation,”
Schulte said. Galeao and Confins offer “a lot of opportunity to
have even better processes, to have additional income and
revenues to grow in network traffic.”  Fraport and  EcoRodovias Infraestrutura e Logistica SA (ECOR3)  will
each have a 42.5 percent stake in the group formed with Invepar,
which will have 15 percent, according to the consortium. The
group submitted a bid for one airport.  Spain’s state-owned Aena Aeropuertos SA, which said earlier
this month it would bid for both airports, pulled out, citing
rules that would limit the participation of its partner,
Engevix, to 15 percent. The government is limiting the presence
of companies which have stakes in operating the airports that
were auctioned last year.  Successful Bidders  A representative for Madrid-based Ferrovial said the
company was studying making a proposal and declined to comment
further.  Successful bidders will work with Brazil’s state-run
airport management company Infraero, which will keep a 49
percent stake in the venture.  Besides the minimum bid of 4.83 billion reais ($1.89
billion) for Galeao and 1.01 billion reais for Confins, the
winner is also required to pledge 5 percent of annual revenue to
a fund that supports the country’s other airports.  The government faced challenges in attracting investors for
its tollway licenses this year and had to sweeten the guaranteed
rate of return to 7.2 percent after a 5.5 percent offer got no
interest.  “The Brazilian government is living in a situation of
disorientation,”  Adriano Pires , head of the Brazilian Center
for Infrastructure in Rio de Janeiro, said by phone. “The
investor perceives the government’s indecision, and that the
government wants to change but doesn’t know how. That type of
divergence within the government, that type of chopping and
changing, causes a regulatory uncertainty that winds up hurting
the auctions.”  A representative for the government’s press office declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  