-- Bankrupt Jefferson County Completes $1.8 Billion Sale of Bonds
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-20T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/alabama-s-jefferson-county-completes-1-8-billion-bond-sale.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , raised
yields on some junk-rated junior bonds to attract enough
institutional investors to complete a sale of $1.8 billion of
sewer debt as part of a plan to emerge from bankruptcy.  The county, which has 660,000 residents and is home to
Birmingham, Alabama’s most populous city, increased yields on
subordinated debt maturing in 2051 by about 0.2 percentage point
to 6.7 percent, according to investors familiar with the
offering who requested anonymity because pricing wasn’t final.
Top-grade 30-year municipal debt yields about 4.06 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The borrowing yesterday marks the first time that a
municipality offered long-term debt using its own credit while
still in bankruptcy, according to Matt Fabian, managing director
at research firm Municipal Market Advisors.  “Despite the challenges, all of the county’s new sewer
warrants have been purchased by the underwriters,” county
commission President David Carrington said by e-mail.  The county lowered yields on $600 million of senior bonds
insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. by as much as 0.25
percentage point.  More than 200 investors placed orders, including some from
Europe and Asia, Carrington said. The county will proceed to a
hearing today to confirm its bankruptcy plan, he said in the
statement.  This week’s sale comes two years after the locality of
660,000 residents said it couldn’t pay what it owed on more than
$3 billion of bonds sold for sewer work. Until  Detroit ’s July
filing, it was the nation’s largest municipal bankruptcy.  Pathfinder Deal  The financing may pave the way for other insolvent
municipalities, said Fabian. Citigroup Inc., the lead
underwriter, said it would market the debt to buyers such as
hedge funds, which typically don’t invest in munis.  The senior bonds covered by Assured carried a AA- rating
from Standard & Poor’s and an underlying BBB rating. Fitch
Ratings graded the debt BB+.  The junior bonds aren’t insured and carry a junk BB rating
from Fitch while S&P rates the debt investment grade, at BBB-.  Sewer rates will rise almost 7.9 percent each year from
2014 through 2017, and by almost 3.5 percent thereafter through
2053, according to bond documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  