-- Amazon Sunday Packages Won’t Stem Postal Losses
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/amazon-sunday-packages-won-t-stem-postal-losses.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s new deal with the
U.S.  Postal Service  will put diapers and books into the hands of
its customers on Sundays. Postal Service officials want it to
pave the way for similar deals in the future.  While the Amazon arrangement will offer a limited financial
boost, Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe said in an interview
that he wants to expand the service to other retailers. Amazon
doesn’t have an exclusive deal for Sunday delivery.  “We are certainly, as we always do, talking with other
people in this market,” Donahoe said. “We think we offer very
reasonable prices and assurances with scanning that customers
like.” He wouldn’t name names.  The arrangement may become a template for similar delivery
contracts with Best Buy Co., EBay Inc., LL Bean Inc., Sears
Holdings Corp., Target Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., said Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for Postal Commerce.
The Alexandria, Virginia-based group’s members include Bank of
America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Weekend and custom deliveries are nothing new for the
Postal Service, which trails  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  in express delivery. UPS has 51 percent of the U.S.
small-package shipping market, followed by 34 percent for FedEx
and 15 percent for the Postal Service, according to a Bloomberg
Industries report.  It already offers a Sunday delivery option for Priority
Mail Express, its fastest service, and had 378 negotiated
service contracts in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30,
according to a regulatory filing. It considers the contracts
proprietary information so doesn’t release the terms.  Flower Deliveries  The Amazon Sunday deliveries have started for customers in
 New York  and  Los Angeles . Amazon said in a statement Nov. 11 the
offering will expand to cities including  Dallas , Houston,
Phoenix,  New Orleans  next year. Amazon said shipping prices will
be the same for its Sunday-delivery customers.  Delivering Amazon’s packages on Sundays may add only $1
million in revenue for the Postal Service for rest of this year,
said Satish Jindel, president of SJ Consulting Group, a
logistics advisory firm based in Sewickley,  Pennsylvania . Jindal
said the number is a guess as it is too small to be worthwhile
to calculate. The service had $66 billion in revenue last fiscal
year and lost about $13.7 million a day.  In December 2012, the Postal Service announced an agreement
with 1-800-FLOWERS.com for a trial of same-day delivery in  San
Francisco .  “While the USPS will benefit from increased network
density, it’s unclear how the deal will affect its weak
financial footing,”  Lee Klaskow , a Bloomberg Industries
analyst, said in a Nov. 13 report.  Bill Needed  The service’s ability to find new sources of revenue, even
if they aren’t large, may have unintentionally made it harder to
convince Congress to pass legislation changing the postal
business model, Del Polito said.  The Postal Service, while reporting an annual loss of $5
billion on Nov. 15, said it increased revenue for the first time
since 2008.  “Clearly it’s not going to have the urgency the Postal
Service deserves because Congress loves having the heat taken
off them,” Del Polito said in a phone interview.  “A lot of people are going to be asking why do we need to
do this complicated bill, which makes a number of changes
various people don’t like, when the Postal Service has found a
way to make money?”  Donahoe said the service still needs Congress to change
payments for future retiree health-care costs, a $5.6 billion-a-year obligation that causes most of the service’s losses, and to
cut Saturday letter delivery. Legislation to allow those changes
has stalled in the past two sessions of Congress.  The service has also asked for more leeway from Congress to
expand into new lines of business. Yesterday, the Postal Service
announced a deal with office-supply company  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  to sell
postal products and services at some of its stores.  “If you take a look at our balance sheet right now, the
Congress should have no comfort with anything that’s on there,”
Donahoe said in a phone interview.  “It’s nice to have a positive trend that we’ve seen in the
past year, but I think it would be a big mistake for anyone to
sit back and think the problems would be solved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  