-- Mantega’s Austerity Pledge Doubted on Cheap Loans: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-11-19T16:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/mantega-s-austerity-pledge-doubted-on-cheap-loans-brazil-credit.html
During the depths of the financial
crisis,  Brazil  began providing the nation’s most heavily
discounted loans through state banks. Now, the program is being
extended, deepening skepticism among bond investors the country
has the wherewithal to rein in subsidized credit to avoid a
downgrade.  The Treasury’s Program for Sustainable Investment,
initially aimed at restoring growth, has lent 220 billion reais
($97 billion) since its start in 2009 and is now offering rates
as low as 3.5 percent, versus 14.7 percent for company loans.
Brazil’s borrowing costs in dollars have soared 1.65 percentage
points this year to 5.11 percent, poised for the biggest annual
increase in more than a decade, while the 11 percent loss for
bondholders is almost twice the emerging-market average.  The initiative, which targets loans for machinery, vehicles
and technology, will be prolonged into 2014 on a smaller scale
than this year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters
last month. Mantega is supporting the taxpayer-funded program
even as he pledged to bring Treasury support for state
development bank BNDES, Caixa Economica Federal and other public
lenders to zero after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service cut their outlooks on Brazil’s credit rating.  ‘In Doubt’  “That conflict between actions and discourse is what
leaves the market in doubt,” said Flavio Serrano, an economist
at BES Investimento in Sao Paulo.  Press officials at BNDES and the  Finance Ministry  declined
to comment on the program’s effect on Brazil’s credit rating.  Brazil’s Treasury has lent more than 440 billion reais to
state banks since the financial crisis began in 2008 through the
program, known as PSI, and other initiatives.  The stimulus will cost taxpayers 54 billion reais by 2014
in subsidies to pay for the below-market rates, according to
reports from the Treasury and government auditors.  The loans have helped boost  gross debt  to 59 percent of
gross domestic product from 55 percent at the start of last
year. The ratio could have fallen to 50 percent were it not for
the Treasury transfers since 2008 to BNDES alone, according to
estimates in a Nov. 13 report by economists at Standard
Chartered Plc.  PSI has been extended by the government at least six times
amid faltering economic growth. BNDES said it released 49
billion reais under the program this year through July, already
surpassing the 44 billion reais lent in all of 2012.  Fiscal Accounts  Gross domestic product  will grow 2.5 percent this year and
2.1 percent in 2014, according to the median estimate of about
100 analysts surveyed weekly by the central bank. The economy
grew 0.9 percent last year, down from 2.7 percent in 2011 and
7.5 percent in 2010.  The statistics agency reported today that consumer prices
climbed 5.78 percent in the 12 months through mid-November, less
than the median forecast of 5.87 percent from 24 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s government deficit as a percentage of gross
domestic product swelled to 3.3 percent in September, the
largest in almost four years, the government reported Oct. 31.
S&P may reduce the nation’s BBB credit rating if fiscal accounts
worsen, Regina Nunes, a managing director at the company, said
in an interview this month.  “That perception of higher risk of a downgrade is being
priced in,” Vinicius Botelho, an economist at the Getulio
Vargas Foundation research group, said in a phone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “The changes that the government should be
preparing to avoid risk from worsening fiscal accounts have been
a long time coming.”  Reduced Lending  Mantega said Nov. 1 that BNDES will reduce lending 20
percent next year to help shore up finances. The government also
said it will unwind tax breaks on  consumer goods . Mantega said
he’s reviewing all spending, including an increase in outlays on
 unemployment benefits , which may reach 47 billion reais this
year, or about 1 percent of GDP.  The government shouldn’t cut back on the PSI program, which
has buoyed economic growth and tax collection, said Decio Carbonari, the president of Brazil’s association of auto
financiers. The program includes financing for trucks and buses.  He said the stimulus measure was in line with quantitative
easing by the  Federal Reserve , which hasn’t been scaled back as
policy makers wait for signs of economic growth to pick up.  “It’s the same logic here,” Carbonari, the president of
Banco Volkswagen in Brazil, said in a telephone interview.
“Those loans increase sales of cars, equipment, and support
factories, which pay taxes. Many countries have those kinds of
incentive programs.”  Biggest Increase  Government-controlled banks have boosted lending at five
times the pace of privately run counterparts this year. Brazil’s
central bank has raised its  target lending rate  to 9.50 percent
from a record low 7.25 percent this year, the biggest increase
among 49 nations tracked by Bloomberg, in a bid to cool consumer
demand and hold down prices.  While Treasury loans to BNDES for the PSI program are
contributing to the country’s worsening fiscal outlook, any
changes that the bank makes in that policy will be measured,
said Ernani Torres, a former head of research at the bank.  “The government is gradually going to reduce resources for
BNDES because it wouldn’t be good if it just left BNDES without
money for its commitments,” said Torres, who is now a professor
at Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro. “The question that
remains is whether the government will raise the rates” on PSI
loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  