-- Apple Said to Be in Talks to Buy Israel’s PrimeSense
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-11-19T01:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/apple-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-israel-s-primesense.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is in talks to buy
PrimeSense Inc., the maker of motion-tracking chip technology
that was used in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Kinect  video-game  console,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.  Apple is negotiating to acquire Tel Aviv-based PrimeSense
for about $345 million, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Apple hasn’t used much of its $146.8 billion in cash and
investments for big acquisitions. A deal for PrimeSense would
fit the Cupertino, California-based company’s pattern of buying
less well-known companies whose technology is folded into future
products. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in October that
Apple had purchased 15 companies last fiscal year.  PrimeSense’s technology gives digital devices the ability
to detect movements and objects, and then translates that into
depth and color. With Microsoft’s Kinect, that included
controlling a video game by waving an arm and other body parts.
That collaboration ended when Microsoft built its own technology
for the latest Xbox One.  Apple’s talks with PrimeSense was earlier reported by
Israeli newspaper Calcalist. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for
Apple, declined to comment, as did PrimeSense.  “We do not comment on what any of our partners, customers
or potential customers are doing and we do not relate to rumors
or re-cycled rumors,” PrimeSense said in an e-mailed statement.  Motion Tracking  In addition to its use in gaming, PrimeSense has been
developing new depth-sensing technology that allows for a 3D
camera in a mobile phone to enable apps like indoor navigation
tools or 3D shopping catalogs. PrimeSense also has said its
technology can be used for measuring depth, allowing a person to
take a photo of their living room into a furniture store to
determine if a sofa would fit in the space.  Motion-tracking technology has been a sought-after area for
many large technology companies. Google Inc. recently bought a
company called Flutter, which makes motion-tracking software.
Another startup, Leap Motion Inc., has partnered with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and others to integrate its technology into
computers so people can wirelessly control machines with their
fingers and hands.  Apple has bought several chip companies, including Passif
Semiconductor this year, Intrinsity in 2010 and P.A. Semi in
2008. The company also purchased the Israeli company Anobit last
year to acquire flash-memory technology.  Apple this year also acquired navigation-software company
Embark, online transit-navigation service HopStop.com, business-locations maps company Locationary, and WifiSLAM, which makes
location-identifying technology for when a smartphone user is
inside a building.  Apple shares fell 1.2 percent to close at $518.63.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  