-- Argentina Replaces Economy Minister, Central Bank President
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-11-19T00:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/argentina-replaces-economy-minister-central-bank-president.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  changed her Economy Minister and Central
Bank President today on her first day back to work following
head surgery on Oct. 8.  Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof will replace Hernan Lorenzino as minister while Carlos Fabrega will become the new
central bank chief in place of Mercedes Marco del Pont,
according to a  statement  read by presidential spokesman Alfredo
Scoccimarro. Fernandez also named Jorge Capitanich, the governor
of Chaco province, her new Cabinet Chief.  Fernandez, 60, reappeared today in a pre-recorded video to
thank Argentines for their support during her medical leave
which she described as “very difficult.” Doctors discovered a
blood clot near her brain during a routine heart exam and
decided to operate, Fernandez said.  While  Argentina  posted 8.3 percent economic growth in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the nation has an estimated
annual inflation rate of about 26 percent and has lost $11
billion of international reserves this year. Central bank
reserves  fell  to $32.3 billion today, the lowest since Jan. 2,
2007.  Fernandez’s government has also struggled to close a
widening gap between the official exchange rate of 6 pesos per
dollar and a black market where Argentines pay as much as 9.87
to obtain foreign currency due to restrictions imposed since her
re-election in 2011.  During her convalescence, Fernandez missed Oct. 27
congressional elections in which her ruling alliance garnered
just 33 percent of the votes nationwide and her main candidate
in the province of  Buenos Aires  lost by 12 percentage points.
While her alliance kept their hold on Congress, the results
ended any hopes she may have had of seeking a third consecutive
term when her current period ends in 2015.  Lorenzino, who had been Economy Minister since 2011, will
head a newly created entity called the Executive Restructuring
Unit to oversee attempts at resolving the nation’s legal
conflict with holdout creditors, according to the statement.  Del Pont held the post of central bank president since
2010. Fabrega was previously head of the state-run bank Banco de
la Nacion Argentina. Fernandez also named Carlos Casamiquela as
the new Agriculture Minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  