-- Argentina, Indonesia Hit With EU Tariffs on Biodiesel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-11-19T10:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/argentina-indonesia-hit-with-eu-tariffs-on-biodiesel.html
The European Union imposed five-year
tariffs on biodiesel from Argentina and Indonesia, expanding
renewable-energy trade barriers after similar EU import levies
against the U.S.  The duties punish Argentinian and Indonesian exporters of
biodiesel, a type of biofuel made from vegetable oils and animal
fats for use in diesel engines, for allegedly selling it in the
EU  below cost , a practice known as dumping.  Molinos Rio de la
Plata SA , Aceitera General Deheza SA and Pelita Agung
Agrindustri are among the companies targeted by the levies as
high as 245.67 euros ($332.05) a metric ton, or 25.7 percent.  EU producers including  Verbio AG (VBK)  in  Germany , Diester
Industrie SAS in France and Novaol Srl in  Italy  suffered
“material injury” as a result of dumped imports from Argentina
and Indonesia, the 28-nation bloc said today in Brussels. The
five-year duties are more than twice as high as provisional
levies imposed in May and will take effect after publication in
the EU  Official Journal  by Nov. 28.  The anti-dumping duties to curb competition for European
biodiesel producers in their 12 billion-euro home market
highlight tensions accompanying EU efforts to increase the use
of biofuels, a renewable energy from crops such as rapeseed,
corn, wheat and sugar, amid a crackdown on fossil fuels blamed
for global warming. Ethanol is another kind of biofuel.  The EU decided in 2008 to require at least 10 percent of
land-transport energy in each member country to come from
renewable sources led by biofuels beginning in 2020. This is
part of a goal of more than doubling the total share of
renewable energy in the EU to an average 20 percent.  Import Taxes  In 2009, the EU hit the U.S. with five-year anti-dumping
duties on biodiesel. The bloc also applied separate anti-subsidy
levies on American manufacturers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM)  and Cargill Inc. The import taxes brought $1 billion a year
of trade to a halt.  Argentinian and Indonesian exporters increased their
combined share of the EU biodiesel market to 19.3 percent in the
12 months through June 2012 from 9.1 percent in 2009, according
to the bloc. Indonesian exporters gained ground at a faster
pace, raising their European market share to 8.5 percent from
1.4 percent over the period, according to the EU.  The duties are the outcome of an inquiry that the EU opened
in August 2012 after a dumping complaint by the  European
Biodiesel Board  on behalf of manufacturers that account for more
than 60 percent of EU production of biodiesel.  Five-Year Duties  The five-year duties against Argentina range from 216.64
euros a ton on Aceitera General Deheza to 245.67 euros a ton on
exporters including Molinos Rio de la Plata. That compares to
provisional levies from 65.24 euros a ton on Molinos Rio de la
Plata to 104.92 euros a ton on exporters including Aceitera
General Deheza.  Depending on the company, the five-year levies against
 Indonesia  range from 76.94 euros a ton to 178.85 euros a ton.
That compares to provisional duties from 24.99 euros a ton to
83.84 euros a ton. One Indonesian exporter, Ciliandra Perkasa
PT, had a zero provisional duty rate and faces a five-year levy
of 76.94 euros a ton.  The EU is also threatening to impose separate anti-subsidy
duties on biodiesel from Argentina and Indonesia. The bloc began
a probe in  November 2012  into possible trade-distorting
government aid for Argentinian and Indonesian exporters and is
due to decide by Dec. 10 on any five-year levies to counter
subsidies. No provisional anti-subsidy duties have been imposed
against the two countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  