-- Asian Stocks Hold Gains After Biggest Rally Since July
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-19T10:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/asia-stocks-halt-three-day-rally-fall-from-two-week-high.html
Asian  stocks  rose after the region’s
benchmark index yesterday completed its steepest three-day rally
since July on optimism  China ’s economic reforms will boost
growth.  China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest insurer,
rose 4.8 percent in Hong Kong after Citigroup Inc. named the
company as one of the beneficiaries of Communist Party policy
measures. Samsung Electronics Co. gained 1 percent as foreigners
bought a net 246 billion won ($233 million) of stocks in South
Korea’s benchmark Kospi index. Honda Motor Co., which gets 83
percent of its revenue outside Japan, lost 1.1 percent as the
yen gained for a second day.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added less than 0.1 percent to
143.05 as of 6:47 p.m. in Hong Kong after earlier falling as
much as 0.2 percent. About five shares fell for every four that
climbed on the gauge. The measure jumped 3.2 percent in the
three trading days through yesterday as China pledged to execute
economic reforms and Federal Reserve chairman nominee Janet
Yellen said she would continue U.S. stimulus.  “There’s some profit-taking pressure,” said  Kenny Tang ,
Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd.
“But sentiment has improved a lot.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong added 0.5 percent, paring an earlier gain of
as much as 2.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index closed
little changed, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index slipped
0.2 percent.  Reform Agenda  China policy makers unveiled the biggest package of
economic reforms since the 1990s last week, with leaders in the
world’s second-largest economy pledging to allow more private
investment in state-run industries, ease the one-child policy
and expand farmers’ land rights.  China Life surged 4.8 percent to HK$24.20, capping its
biggest two-day gain since December 2008. Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co., China’s second-largest insurer, added 0.6 percent
to HK$69.90. The stocks were listed as some of the reform
winners by Citigroup and jumped yesterday amid optimism the
changes will promote development of the sector and market-based
pricing.  “The market is still optimistic about the detailed reform
plan”, said Teresa Chow, a fund manager at RBC Investment
(Asia) Ltd., which oversees $1.5 billion. “Since Hong Kong and
China markets are underweighted by many fund managers, some of
them might want to increase their weighting.”  Regional Gauges  South Korea’s Kospi added 1 percent, with Samsung
Electronics rising 1 percent 1.489 million won. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index rose 0.8 percent.  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  index declined 0.4 percent, its first drop in
four days, after the yen gained 0.2 percent to 99.81 per dollar.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
both lost 0.6 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index fell 0.3
percent.  Energy companies climbed the most on the Hang Seng
Composite Index. China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. rose 1.2
percent to HK$6.99. Kunlun Energy Co., a gas supplier, increased
2.1 percent to HK$13.64. PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest
oil and gas producer, advanced 2.5 percent to HK$9.49.  Oil and energy companies will benefit most from reforms,
 Erwin Sanft , the head of China and Hong Kong equity research at
Standard Chartered Plc, said in an interview yesterday. The
document made clear statements about moving back to market-driven policies, Sanft said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today after the measure dropped 0.4 percent from a record
yesterday. U.S. stocks have risen for the past six weeks as
Yellen signaled she will continue stimulus efforts.  New York 
Federal Reserve Bank President William C. Dudley yesterday said
he’s “getting more hopeful” the U.S. economy is gaining
strength as the drag from fiscal policy wanes. The central
bank’s monetary policy is likely to be accommodative for a long
time, he said.  ‘Bull-Market Environment’  The Federal Open Market Committee won’t taper its purchases
until its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median estimate
of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News Nov. 8.  “The direction is up for everybody,” said Mikio Kumada, a
Hong Kong-based global strategist for LGT Capital Partners. “We
are in a positive bull-market environment. The global economy is
growing, Asia has been underperforming for many years and
valuations are not expensive.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge  traded  at 14 times estimated
earnings, compared with 16.2 for the S&P 500 and 15.1 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese exporters declined as the yen rose a second day.
Honda,  Japan ’s second-biggest car manufacturer by market value,
fell 1.1 percent to 4,095 yen. Bridgestone Corp., Asia’s No. 1
tiremaker, dropped 0.7 percent to 3,675 yen. Sharp Corp., a
television maker that gets about 60 percent of sales outside
Japan, slipped 1.8 percent to 278 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  