-- AutoCanada Rides Alberta Trucks to 187% Return: Corporate Canada
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-19T21:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/autocanada-rides-alberta-trucks-to-187-return-corporate-canada.html
AutoCanada Inc. (ACQ) , the country’s
largest publicly traded chain of  car dealerships , is using sales
of trucks to  Alberta  oil workers to fund higher dividends and
buy out competitors.  Shares of the  Edmonton , Alberta-based company have jumped
187 percent over the past year and reached a record C$42.95 on
Nov. 11. That was after the company said profit rose 61 percent
in the fiscal third quarter from a year earlier and boosted its
dividend for the 11th quarter in a row.  “We are in a good market, good economy,” Pat Priestner,
the 58-year-old chief executive officer of AutoCanada, said in a
Nov. 12 telephone interview. “We sell a lot of trucks and
sports utility vehicles, that’s a big help, because of where we
are, more so in British Columbia and Alberta.”  Canadian new automobile sales are on pace for a record this
year after a recession ended in 2009 and financing rates
dropped.  Consumer spending  has kept increasing even as Bank of
Canada Governor Stephen Poloz warned that imbalances such as
high  home prices  and record consumer debts were the main
domestic risk to the economy.  AutoCanada revenue rose 35 percent to C$403.5 million
($386.8 million) in the third quarter from a year earlier,
according to the Nov. 7 earnings  report , while profit increased
to 51 cents a share from 34 cents a share a year. The company
boosted its dividend to 21 cents from 20 cents, more than
doubling the 10-cent  payou t offered in mid-2011.  Family Owned  AutoCanada owns 32 franchised dealerships including brands
such as Audi and Fiat, has 1,500 employees, sold about 30,000
vehicles and handled 309,000 repair jobs last year. The company
bought two Chrysler outlets in Calgary and Winnipeg, Manitoba,
last quarter and plans to buy another four to seven dealers in
the next 18 months.  “The industry is kind of ripe for consolidation,” said
Priestner. “There are so many family-owned businesses, the
average age is probably over 60 for those.”  The company’s higher share price is helping to make the
cost of financing such acquisitions cheaper than for closely
held dealers, said Priestner, who says he started out as a “lot
boy” moving cars around while in high school.  “I was 16 or 17, and then I started selling cars and just
worked my way up and bought my first dealership for I think
about C$10,000 down,” he said.  Beating Peers  AutoCanada’s one-year return is almost double the next-closest among auto retail stores tracked by Bloomberg, with
Medford, Oregon-based Lithia Motors Inc. gaining 96 percent. It
also exceeds the 13 percent  gain  of the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index. The company’s shares fell 1 percent to C$41.57
at 4:57 p.m. today in Toronto for a market value of C$902.9
million, up from about C$4 in October 2011.  The company’s strength in faster-growing western Canadian
provinces, bolstered by employment in mining and oil-sands
projects, has helped it grow, said Derek Dley, vice president of
equity research at  Canaccord Genuity (CF)  in Toronto.  “Positioning the company around truck sales in these high-growth markets has really allowed AutoCanada to deliver healthy
growth,” said Dley, who rates the company a buy with a C$46
price target.  Car and light truck sales reached 1.5 million through
October, according to DesRosiers Automotive Consultants Inc.,
already greater than full-year sales in data dating to at least
2006.  Discretionary Spending  Sales of cars and light trucks in the U.S. climbed to an
annualized rate of 15.2 million in October from 14.4 million a
year earlier and compared with a  recent  peak of 16 million in
August.  RBC Capital Markets  and Canaccord Genuity raised their
price targets for the company after the last earnings report.
The company has four buys, one hold and one sell and the average
12-month price target is C$46.90, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “This is a discretionary spend, obviously, and because the
focus is on western  Canada  they’re reliant on commodity
prices,” Vivian Lo, who helps manage C$7.9 billion at Aston
Hill Financial Inc. in Toronto, said by phone yesterday. “If
you see a complete slowdown in commodities and consumers stop
spending, this will affect their business.”  Aston Hill has held the stock since May 2013. It has pared
some back a bit at this level, but they still own it and
continue to like it, she said. The firm holds just under 200,000
shares.  ‘Visible Growth’  “It’s visible growth and it’s a visible consolidation play
in Canada in which they’re the only publicly traded way to get
access to this trade,” Lo said.  The economy’s modest growth and banks that have continued
to lend through the crisis should sustain future gains,
Priestner said. Canadian gross domestic product expanded 1.7
percent in the second quarter compared with 2.2 percent in the
first and is forecast to have advanced 2.2 percent in the third
quarter according to the average estimate of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The economy is good and people want new vehicles,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  