-- Automated Airliners Leading to Crashes Need New Training
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/automated-airliners-leading-to-crashes-need-new-training.html
Airline pilots have lost flying
skills as automation takes over mundane tasks and may be
startled when systems don’t behave as expected, both of which
have contributed to crashes, a U.S. government and industry
report concluded.  Airlines need to improve pilot training in autopilots and
other automation in the cockpit, the report obtained by
 Bloomberg News  said.  The issue is growing in importance as the U.S. installs the
$42-billion satellite-based navigation system known as NextGen,
the report found. The report was commissioned by the  Federal
Aviation Administration .  “There are times when the airplane will do something
that’s unexpected and the pilots will go, ‘Why did it just do
that?’” Patrick Veillette, a corporate pilot who wrote his
Ph.D. thesis on cockpit automation, said in an interview.  Auto-throttles, computer navigation systems and other
automation on planes have improved safety, said Veillette, who
didn’t participate in the report. Airline safety is at an all-time high, according to accident statistics.  The downside of these new technologies is that they may be
incorrectly programmed more than previous systems and are so
complex that pilots don’t always understand their actions,
Veillette said.  The report’s findings were reported earlier in the Wall
Street Journal.  Recent Accidents  The report, entitled “Operational Use of Flight Path
Management Systems,” said it studied 26 accidents from 1996 to
2009 in which automation played a role. The authors also relied
on incident reports, cockpit audits and anonymous pilot accounts
gathered by airlines and government agencies.  Several recent accidents that weren’t considered in the
report, including the Feb. 12, 2009, crash of a regional
turboprop approaching Buffalo operated by Pinnacle Airlines
Corp.’s former Colgan unit, are also related to how pilots are
trained on cockpit automation, Veillette said. The Colgan
accident killed all 49 on the plane and a man on the ground.  A pilot on an  Asiana Airlines (020560)  plane that struck a seawall
while attempting to land in San Francisco July 6 said he thought
the plane’s auto throttle was maintaining speed, National
Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said after
the accident.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  777 had slowed to almost 40 miles (64
kilometers) per hour below its target speed before losing
altitude and striking the seawall, Hersman said. The NTSB hasn’t
yet concluded what caused the accident.  ‘Failure Situations’  Pilots accustomed to having autopilots and other devices to
keep a plane on course and at the correct speed have allowed
basic manual skills to erode, the report said.  Pilots also have greater difficulty handling malfunctions
of automated systems because they may not understand the systems
or haven’t been adequately trained, it concluded.  “This is a particular concern for failure situations which
do not have procedures or checklists, or where the procedures or
checklists do not completely apply,” it said.  In other cases, pilots have accidentally put the wrong
information into an airplane’s guidance system, leading to
flying the wrong path or even accidents, according to the
report.  The report included 18 recommendations for better training
on how cockpit devices work, improved design of the systems and
new procedures to minimize the impact of malfunctions or
mistakes.  The FAA, starting when the group that wrote the report
began its work in 2006, has taken action on the 18
recommendations, it said in an e-mail statement.  The agency on Feb. 5 issued new regulations changing pilot
training to emphasize more realistic simulator sessions. That
action addresses several of the report’s recommendations.  FAA Administrator Michael Huerta has called industry
officials to a meeting Nov. 21 to discuss additional steps the
airlines can take to voluntarily improve training, according to
the e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  