-- Tax-Lien Probe Leads to Charges Against Six in New Jersey
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-11-19T17:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/tax-lien-probe-leads-to-charges-against-six-in-new-jersey.html
Four investors and two entities were
indicted by a federal grand jury investigating the rigging of
bids on municipal tax liens throughout New Jersey, the Justice
Department said.  The indictment today in  Newark , New Jersey, charged that
the six conspired to submit collusive bids on liens. Bidders are
supposed to compete fairly for the right to buy liens and
collect taxes on property. Buyers, who seek the return of their
principal investment and interest, are supposed to begin bids at
18 percent interest and lower the rate with each bid.  Prosecutors said the conspiracy began in 1998 and lasted
until 2009. The indictment today raised to 20 the number of
individuals and entities charged by prosecutors in the tax-lien
investigation. Eleven individuals and three corporations have
pleaded guilty, prosecutors said.  Those charged “demonstrated a blatant disregard for the
competitive process by allocating the purchase of certain
municipal tax liens by, from time to time, flipping a coin,
drawing numbers out of a hat or drawing from a deck of cards,”
Leslie C. Overton, deputy assistant attorney general in the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said in a statement.  Those charged were Joseph Wolfson, of Margate, New Jersey;
two entities he co-owned that invested in tax liens, Betty Simon
Trustee LLC and Richard Simon Trustee; Gregg Gehring, of Newton,
New Jersey; James Jeffers Jr., of Burlington, New Jersey; and
Robert Jeffrey, of Bradenton,  Florida , prosecutors said.  Gehring was a vice president for a “major tax lien
investment company,” according to the statement. Jeffers was a
bidder for Crusader Servicing Corp., which pleaded guilty in
2012, and for its successor corporation; and Jeffrey was a
bidder for Crusader and its successor, prosecutors said.  The individuals face as many as 10 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Wolfson, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in federal court in Newark, New Jersey, at  dvoreacos@bloomberg.net  