-- Swedish Regulator May Force Banks to Build Liquidity Hedge
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-20T08:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bank-liquidity-risks-provoke-swedish-financial-regulator-warning.html
Sweden ’s financial regulator
signaled it may enforce measures requiring banks to address
their liquidity risks and hedge against a potential funding
freeze.  “I have to make it very clear that the structural
liquidity risk, as a problem, is something that concerns us”
and which “it is likely that we will do something to address,”
Uldis Cerps, executive director for banking at the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority, said yesterday in an interview
in Stockholm. “With respect to the short-term liquidity
buffers, I think we in Sweden are happy with our reform agenda
and its implementation.”  Moody’s Investors Services said last month Sweden’s banks
“remain highly reliant” on market funding, with 58 percent of
their total capital needs raised in the market. Covered bonds
and short-term funding each account for 20 percent of the total,
Moody’s estimates. Banks in the $540 billion economy generate 35
percent of their funding from deposits while the rest mostly
comes from subordinated debt, according to Moody’s.  Global regulators are thrashing out the details of a
structural liquidity rule, known as a net-stable funding ratio,
that would set out minimum requirements for banks to finance
long-term investments using sources that are unlikely to dry up
in a crisis.  Lagging Europe  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and
SEB AB in June had an average NSFR ratio of 83 percent, which
the watchdog said last week is lower than for most European
banks.  Sweden’s biggest banks have a “large reliance on market
funding and that is a risk,” said Cerps, who also holds a seat
on the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision. “Continuous
reliance on market funding is one of the two biggest risks in
the financial system.” The other is Sweden’s record-high
household debt, he said. “Whether the NSFR will be the perfect
answer we have to see.”  The annual market funding requirement for Sweden’s banks is
more than half the country’s gross domestic product, or 2
trillion kronor ($302 billion), as the industry bridges a gap in
lending and deposits born of a customer preference for placing
savings in stocks and bonds rather than in accounts that accrue
little interest, the regulator estimates. Banks must refinance
15 percent of their total assets every year.  World’s Strictest  The Basel committee is also working to settle the details
of another planned bank requirement that would force lenders to
limit their reliance on debt, Cerps said. The leverage ratio
would require banks to have capital equivalent to 3 percent of
their total assets.  After imposing some of the world’s highest capital
requirements, Sweden now needs to ensure the leverage ratio is
calibrated in a way that doesn’t prompt banks to shift mortgage
assets off their balance sheets, Cerps said.  “We would not like, for instance, to implement regulatory
measures whose effect might be to give up the model of
‘originate and hold’ for household mortgages,” Cerps said.
“This model has served Sweden very well so we have to be
mindful of that effect when we implement the leverage ratio”
and “we have not said that banks are excessively leveraged,”
he said.  Balancing Act  The leverage ratio of Sweden’s four largest banks is 3.4
percent, compared with a global average of 3.8 percent, the
Riksbank said in June.  Sweden’s FSA said last week it plans to tighten reserve
rules further by increasing the risk weights banks apply to
mortgage assets to 25 percent around the middle of next year.
The regulator in May tripled risk weights to 15 percent to
combat record household debt and soaring property prices. From
next year, Sweden’s banks will also face a countercyclical
capital buffer.  “It’s a fine balancing act how you combine those
measures,” Cerps said. “It’s too early at this point to
discuss any particular levels” of the counter-cyclical buffer.
“Our message is to be very conservative in capital planning and
not to take any measures that reduce the bank’s capital adequacy
and also not to be excessive in capital actions.”  Besides stricter capital rules, the regulator has also
limited mortgage lending to 85 percent of a property’s value.
While the lending cap initially helped slow loan growth,
borrowing has started to accelerate again and house prices are
still climbing. That’s left Swedes with debt equivalent to more
than 170 percent of disposable incomes, the highest level on
record.  ‘Quite Powerful’  The government of Prime MinisterFredrik Reinfeldt, which
faces elections next year, has sought to prevent a housing
bubble by forcing banks to comply with ever stricter
requirements and threatened forced mortgage amortization should
homeowners refuse to start paying off more of their debt. Banks
have argued the government should do more to address supply
shortages in the housing market.  “The measures that have already been implemented or that
have been pre-announced can be quite powerful and we want them
to be powerful but it remains to be seen what kind of effect
they will have,” Cerps said. “The question about other actors
and other measures is topical when we come to the summer and
decide on the formal activation of our tools. We have to see
what happens with the market development and what will happen
with household debt levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  