-- Bankers at Danske in Firing Line as Technology Replaces People
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-11-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bankers-at-danske-in-firing-line-as-technology-replaces-people.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  may have to fire
more than the 250 people it dismissed yesterday as competitive
pressures mount and a customer shift to smartphones and tablets
makes branch banking redundant, its human relations head said.  “When we look at what is happening -- how many people are
using branches, how many log on to the Internet, log on tablets
and mobile pay -- we can really see that fewer customers are
using the branches and start using other channels,” Helle
Havgaard, head of group human relations, said.  Denmark ’s largest bank fired the employees yesterday as
part of Chief Executive Officer Thomas Borgen’s October pledge
to expand cost cuts by 1 billion kroner ($180 million). Borgen’s
predecessor, Eivind Kolding, was fired a month earlier after the
Copenhagen-based bank failed to achieve the credit ratings
upgrades Kolding had promised and instead warned the bank might
have to lower its return-on-equity target.  Borgen delivered the lowered forecast Oct. 31, saying the
bank’s ROE target would be 9 percent in 2015, rather than more
than 12 percent. The new CEO also said he would lower the bank’s
nominal costs by 1 billion kroner, to below 23 billion kroner,
after Danske achieved its 2015 goal of below 24 billion kroner
in June.  Yesterday’s job cuts and savings elsewhere put Danske close
to meeting that new savings target, Havgaard said by phone.  Lost Customers  “A bigger portion of the one billion is savings from cuts
outside our own work force: That is consultancy, that is
marketing, that is IT, that is travel,” Havgaard said. “It is
not that we are going to look for 1 billion just by cutting our
workforce.”  Danske employed 20,039 people at the end of the third
quarter compared with a peak of 23,849 workers in the second
quarter of 2008, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Danske has lost 94,000 customers after introducing a new
fee system, and Borgen has said he wants to repair the bank’s
image among clients. The job cuts yesterday won’t affect
 customer service , Havgaard said, because they’re mostly in areas
that are “very much internal-oriented.”  The Financial Services Union Denmark had estimated the bank
would need to fire as many as 2,000 employees to meet its goal,
FinansWatch reported yesterday, citing Kent Petersen, the
organization’s chairman. Havgaard said she doesn’t know how he
arrived at that figure.  Credit Ratings  “That’s not my figure,” she said. “I haven’t any
calculation that says that that is a fair calculation.”  Still, Havgaard said she couldn’t guarantee the bank
wouldn’t fire more people in the years ahead. “We have to
compare our top line with costs to make sure we are
competitive,” she said.  Danske carries a Baa1 grade at Moody’s Investors Service.
That’s four steps below the Aa3 Moody’s gives Stockholm-based
 Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)  At the same time, investors in the Danish bank
get less than half the returns delivered by Nordea and  Sweden ’s
other big three lenders Svenska Handelsbanken AB, SEB AB and
Swedbank AB.  Denmark’s financial system is about a third bigger than
Sweden’s measured by employees even though the country has
almost half as many residents.  The country’s 108 lenders employed 45,335 people last year,
while Sweden’s 103 banks employed 33,904, according to an
October 2013 report by employer associations in the five
Scandinavian countries. Norway’s 149 banks employed 22,626.  “You could imagine that in Norway and Sweden, because they
are so much bigger, that they would need more branches, because
there would be 200 kilometers (125 miles) between one branch and
the next, but that is not the case,” Havgaard said.  “In the next couple of years, there will be fewer
employees in the financial sector” in Denmark, Havgaard said.
“That’s a trend we’ve seen the last five years and that is
going to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  