-- Basci Tightens Turkish Banks’ Access to Credit
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-11-19T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/basci-keeps-turkey-lending-rates-unchanged.html
Turkey ’s central bank tightened
access to credit in a bid to contain exchange-rate volatility
and curb inflation, which it said may stay above its target for
“some time.”  The bank in Ankara decided to stop monthly repurchase
auctions to strengthen its “cautious stance and reduce the
volatility of short-term money market rates,” according to a
statement on its  website . Policy makers also kept the one-week
repo rate at 4.5 percent, as expected by all 10  economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg. They maintained the overnight lending and
borrowing rates, the upper and lower ends of the interest-rate
corridor, at 7.75 percent and 3.5 percent.  The move to stop the monthly auctions means that the bank,
led by Governor Erdem Basci, will only provide money through
overnight lending and weekly repo channels. This could stabilize
interbank rates and cost of central bank lending around 7.75
percent, said Ibrahim Aksoy, chief economist at Gedik Investment
in Istanbul. The weighted average  cost  of central bank funding
to banks rose 26 basis points to 6.6 percent yesterday.  “This is positive for the lira,” Aksoy said by phone.
“It’s also an indication of what the central bank might do in
the future. It may cut funding through one-week repo completely,
which would bring the cost of lending automatically to 7.75
percent.”  Interbank Rates  The lira strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.0119 per dollar at
4:08 p.m. in Istanbul, its highest level since Oct. 31. The
 yield  on two-year lira notes rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 8.78 percent.  Banks will use the overnight lending facility more heavily
as the 10 billion lira cap on one-week repo auctions won’t cover
their financing needs, Burgan economists Haluk Burumcekci and
Asli Savranoglu Seren said in an e-mailed note after the
decision.  “As a result, interbank rates, which currently fluctuate
within the 6.75 percent to 7.75 percent band, will gradually
converge to the upper bound of the range, namely 7.75 percent,”
they said. The average interbank rate since the central bank’s
Oct. 23 meeting was around 7.3 percent, they said.  Basci pledged on Sept. 24 not to increase the benchmark
repo rate unless the two-year inflation outlook worsens. He
revised his year-end consumer-price inflation forecast to 6.8
percent on Oct. 31, from 6.2 percent in July, citing a weakening
lira. After a high-than-expected rate of 7.7 percent was
announced for October, the governor said that a correction in
some food prices in the remainder of the year may slow inflation
toward the bank’s forecast.  “Inflation indicators are likely to hover above the
inflation target for some time due to the exchange rate
volatility observed during the recent months,” the central bank
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  