-- Petronas Abandons Batista’s OGX as Martelo Project Backer
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-11-19T19:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/batista-s-ogx-loses-partner-petronas-at-most-promising-field.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the Brazilian explorer that filed for bankruptcy protection last
month, lost Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. as a financial
backer for its most promising field.  Petronas, as the company is known, canceled a contract to
buy a 40 percent stake in two offshore exploration blocks that
include the Tubarao Martelo field, Rio de Janeiro-based OGX said
in a statement late yesterday. The company, controlled by former
billionaire  Eike Batista , said it’s studying legal options.  OGX was counting on $850 million from the Petronas sale to
develop the Martelo field where it plans to start output this
year. The company, which expects to run out of cash in the last
week of December, needs about $250 million to sustain operations
through April, it said in an Oct. 23 presentation to Rothschild,
the adviser hired by its bondholders.  OGX became the first Brazilian oil producer to seek
protection from creditors last month when it filed in a Rio
state court for a so-called judicial recovery, declaring total
debts of 11.4 billion reais ($5 billion). Petronas had set as a
pre-condition to the Martelo deal that OGX restructure its debt,
Shamsul Azhar Abbas, chief executive officer of  Malaysia ’s state
energy company, said in August.  A press official for OGX, who asked not to be named
according to corporate policy, said the company still plans to
start producing at Martelo this year. Petronas spokesman Azman
Ibrahim in Kuala Lumpur didn’t reply an e-mail seeking comment.  Initial Success  OGX’s initial success finding oil in shallow waters off the
coast of Rio sparked a stock market rally that made it more
valuable than other established producers, including Repsol SA.
The company’s cash fell to about $82 million at the end of
September, it said in a separate document dated Oct. 7 and
released after talks with bondholders collapsed.  Batista founded OGX in 2007 and it became the pillar of his
group of commodities and logistics companies, transforming him
into  Brazil ’s richest man. When OGX moved from exploration to
production it encountered more complicated and compartmentalized
geology than expected and started abandoning projects it had
previously declared commercial.  Martelo may hold as much as 108.5 million barrels of oil,
including proven, probable and possible reserves, DeGolyer &
MacNaughton, an oil-reserves auditing company, said in a report
posted on OGX’s website Oct. 3.  Entering Brazil  OGX dropped 6.7 percent to 14 centavos at the close in Sao
Paulo after  falling  97 percent in the last 12 months, erasing
about 15 billion reais in market value. The company’s $2.56
billion in bonds due in 2018 traded at 9.50 cents on the dollar.  Petronas announced the stake purchase agreement with OGX in
May, saying the company saw the acquisition as an opportunity to
enter into oil exploration and production in Brazil. OGX would
get $250 million from the sale once the deal was completed and
another $500 million when the field started producing oil, the
Brazilian company said at the time. The remaining $100 million
would be paid in three separate installments after meeting some
output targets, OGX said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  