-- Baucus Proposes Minimum U.S. Tax on Foreign Earnings
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-19T22:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/baucus-proposes-minimum-u-s-tax-on-foreign-earnings.html
U.S. companies would face a minimum
tax on the income they earn around the world under a plan
released today by Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus  that marks
his most significant proposal to revamp the  tax code .  Baucus’s plan to restructure the international tax system
would lower the corporate rate by an unspecified amount, end a
rule that has encouraged companies to accumulate about $2
trillion in earnings in their foreign subsidiaries and impose a
20 percent tax on those stockpiled profits.  The proposal is the first of three drafts the Montana
Democrat plans to release this week. It will be followed by
proposals on tax administration and capital-cost recovery.
Baucus, who is retiring from Congress at the end of 2014, said
he wants to kick off discussions about revising the tax system.  “It’s time to move; it’s time to go,” Baucus told
reporters in his office in Washington, saying his tax plan would
prove politically popular. “You can create your own destiny.”  Whether he can succeed is far from clear. Efforts by Baucus
and House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp  to make the biggest
changes to the U.S. tax code since 1986 are stalled, partly
because of a partisan dispute over whether the government should
collect more revenue as part of the changes. Camp is a Michigan
Republican.  Criticizing Plan  Corporate groups, including the  Business Roundtable , issued
statements within hours that criticized the Baucus plan.
Roundtable President  John Engler , who represents chief
executives of large companies, said the senator’s approach would
make many U.S. companies less competitive.  Baucus’s international tax plan is designed to be revenue
neutral in the long run. He would reserve the one-time revenue
of about $200 billion from the tax on accumulated earnings for
an unspecified purpose.  The international system is one of the most technically
complex areas of the U.S. tax code and potential changes are
being watched closely by companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
 General Electric Co. (GE)  that have significant global businesses.  General agreement exists across party lines on moving to a
system that lessens burdens on companies that face lower-taxed
foreign competition while tightening rules on U.S. companies’
tax-avoidance tactics.  President  Barack Obama  said today that the differences
between the parties on business taxation “should be
bridgeable.” Speaking at the Wall Street Journal CEO Council in
Washington, he reiterated the administration’s support for a
“modest, clear” global minimum tax without endorsing Baucus’s
version of it.  Business Location  Each detail in Baucus’s proposal affects companies in
different ways depending on how they have set up their
businesses, where they operate and where they have located their
intellectual property.  His plan will make it tougher for companies to claim
profits in low-tax countries, said Ed Kleinbard, a tax-law
professor at the University of  Southern California .  “This is obviously bad news for tech firms and pharmas and
others that have effective tax rates in the single digits,”
said Kleinbard, a former chief of staff of the congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation. “It’s impossible that they will
maintain foreign effective tax rates in the single digits.”  Federal Rate  Under current law, U.S. companies owe taxes at the full
federal rate of 35 percent on all income they earn around the
world. They receive tax credits for payments to foreign
governments and can defer U.S. taxation until they repatriate
the money.  That system has encouraged companies to accumulate untaxed
earnings in foreign subsidiaries. It also has created incentives
for companies to move intellectual property out of the U.S. and
into low-tax jurisdictions.  U.S. lawmakers such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, have criticized maneuvers by companies including Apple
Inc. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  that have reduced their tax bills.  Many other countries, including the U.K. and Japan, have
shifted to what’s known as a territorial tax system in which
U.S. companies would owe little or no taxes on their foreign
income.  The Let’s Invest for Tomorrow America Coalition, which
advocates for a territorial system, said that Baucus’s proposal
would take the country further from a pro-growth position.
Coalition members include  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   ‘Cannot Support’  “The Coalition cannot support policy provisions that are
punitive against globally engaged American headquartered
companies and make them increasingly vulnerable to takeover by
competitors who are not subject to similar tax regimes either in
the U.S. or in their home country,” Claire Buchan Parker, a
coalition spokeswoman, said in a statement.  Baucus, in suggesting a hybrid between current law and a
territorial system, is proposing two options for his minimum
tax. The first would tax all income from foreign sales and
services immediately at a rate equal to 80 percent of the new
U.S. rate.  Baucus has said he hopes to lower the new tax rate to less
than 30 percent. If it were set at 28 percent, for example, the
minimum tax would be set at 22.4 percent.  That rate would apply to a company’s earnings in each
jurisdiction, so that companies operating in high-tax areas
would owe no incremental U.S. tax on their foreign earnings. A
company operating in Ireland, by contrast, would effectively
have to pay the U.S. the difference between the Irish tax rate
of 12.5 percent and 22.4 percent.  Narrowing Definition  The second option would set a lower minimum tax rate, 60
percent of the U.S. rate, while narrowing the definition of
income eligible to only income from active business operations.
Other income would be taxed at the full U.S. rate immediately.  The earnings that companies have accumulated under the
current system would be taxed at 20 percent over eight years,
regardless of whether companies have the money in liquid form
and regardless of whether they bring it back to the U.S.  That tax would generate more than $200 billion, and Baucus
hasn’t decided what to do with the revenue. Some could be used
to ease the transition to the new system. Some could be used, as
Obama has suggested, for infrastructure.  Devoting that revenue to rate reduction would make the plan
increase the deficit in the long run.  “ Tax reform  isn’t going to be done in 15 minutes,” said
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat. “Starting with the
international reform is, I think, very sensible, because this
goes right to the heart of what you get asked about at town hall
meetings, which is how do you make it more attractive to create
jobs here.”  Camp’s Plan  In several ways, Baucus’s proposal is tougher on companies
than the draft that Camp released in 2011. In particular, Camp’s
one-time tax is smaller, at 5.25 percent. And Camp uses that
revenue to make the permanent international tax system more
generous for companies than Baucus does.  Senator  John Thune  of  South Dakota  said he prefers Camp’s
approach.  “I want to see a territorial system, and I want to see a
system that encourages people to to keep jobs in this country
and to keep investment in this country,” said Thune, a Finance
Committee member who is the third-ranking Republican in the
Senate. “And I think today we don’t do that.”  Added Tax  Other features in Baucus’s draft include imposing immediate
U.S. taxes on almost all income earned by companies from sales
to U.S. customers.  It eliminates the so-called check-the-box rule that
companies can use to have the  Internal Revenue Service  disregard
some foreign subsidiaries for tax purposes.  Baucus is seeking comments from companies and senators by
Jan. 17.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the
Finance Committee, said he disagreed with Baucus’s decision to
release the drafts while Democrats are proposing tax increases
in a budget conference committee.  “My staff worked alongside the chairman’s for months, but
the fact is that significant policy differences remain between
both sides and a final agreement was never reached,” Hatch
said. “I hope that once the budget conference negotiations have
concluded that we can renew our discussions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  