-- Billionaire Koplowitz Said to Work With Messier on Debt Deal
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-11-19T17:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/billionaire-koplowitz-said-to-work-with-messier-on-fcc-tied-debt.html
Spanish billionaire Esther Koplowitz
asked  Jean-Marie Messier  to advise on reorganizing debt tied to
her controlling stake in Spanish builder FCC, people familiar
with the matter said.  Messier Maris & Associes, the firm of the former Vivendi SA
chief executive officer, is helping Koplowitz’s  investment
company  B-1998 SL negotiate new terms for loans used to build a
majority stake in FCC, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. FCC drew
investor attention last month after Microsoft Corp. founder  Bill
Gates  bought a 5.7 percent stake in the construction company.  Koplowitz, who is worth more than $1 billion, is
reorganizing about 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) of debt, 60
percent of which is owned by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) 
and 40 percent by  Bankia SA (BKIA) , three of the people said. FCC, as
 Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA  is known, is seeking to
refinance about 5 billion euros of its own loans. Weil, Gotshal
& Manges LLP is providing legal advice to B-1998, one of the
people said.  Morgan Stanley is advising FCC on those negotiations, three
people familiar with the matter said.  The builder has a market value of about 2 billion euros.
Koplowitz owned 89.7 percent of B-1998, an investment company
with a 53.8 percent stake in FCC, according to the construction
company’s 2012  annual report . She has no plans to change the
level of her majority stake, one of the people said.  Controlling Stake  Representatives for B-1998, FCC, Messier, Morgan Stanley,
BBVA and Bankia declined to comment on Koplowitz’s debt
reorganization. A spokesman at Weil, Gotshal & Manges couldn’t
immediately comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News  today.  Esther Koplowitz raised her stake in the company in 2004
and increased her holding in B-1998 in 2008 and 2010. Vivendi
has owned a stake in FCC, and Messier previously served as a
board member of the construction company.  The Spanish builder stopped paying dividends this year. FCC
had a net loss of 674.9 million euros in the first nine months
of 2013 compared to profit in the year-earlier period. Analysts
expect the company to earn 44.8 million euros next year,
according to the  average  of eight estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  FCC wants its banks to agree to convert part of its loans
into payment-in-kind debt, which allow borrowers to roll up
interest so that it’s paid when the debt comes due, people
familiar with the matter said last month.  FCC (FCC) ’s lenders are
pushing for the company to reduce its debt and bolster equity
through selling assets or retaining profit, the people said.  The stock fell 3.7 percent to 15.30 euros. It has gained 73
percent in the past year, though it’s trading at a fifth of the
level of its 2007 peak.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  