-- BioMarin Gets U.S. Panel’s Backing on Rare Disease Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-19T21:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/biomarin-gets-u-s-panel-s-backing-on-rare-disease-drug.html
BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. (BMRN) 
received the backing of U.S. advisers for a drug to treat a rare
metabolic disease that can affect growth.  The drug, Vimizim, should be approved for  Moriquio A
syndrome , which can cause joint deformities and contractures, a
panel of advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  voted
today. The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to clear the drug
for sale by the end of February, though it isn’t required to
follow the advisers’ recommendations.  BioMarin, which drew $501 million in 2012  revenue , has a
slate of experimental treatments for rare diseases and cancer
that analysts estimate will boost company revenue by at least 20
percent in 2014 and 2015. Vimizim may generate $278 million in
sales in 2016 and surpass $500 million in annual revenue in
2018, according to the average of  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Shares of Novato, California-based BioMarin, which gained
36 percent this year through yesterday, were halted today for
the advisory panel meeting.  The panel voted 20-1 the drug should be approved though at
least one person only supported approval in some who may respond
best to the treatment.  While most panelists seemed comfortable using a six-minute
walk test to evaluate whether the drug works, the FDA was
hesitant about whether patients’ ability to walk further
indicated the drug has a meaningful effect on quality of life.  Orphan Drugs  The panel voted 20-1 that the clinical trial data BioMarin
submitted for Vimizim proved the medicine works, though at least
seven panelists said the data showed the drug is effective only
for some patients.  BioMarin is among companies developing drugs for diseases
that affect as few as 5,000 to 10,000 patients worldwide and are
priced at as much as $400,000 a year per patient.  Medicines for such small patient populations, known as
orphan drugs, get exclusive marketing rights as an incentive for
their development in the U.S. and  Europe , while the small
patient populations mean fewer participants are needed for
clinical trials. They’ve drawn the interest of large
pharmaceutical companies looking to fend off a drop in sales as
patents on blockbuster drugs expire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  