-- Bitcoin to ‘Separate Wheat From Chaff’ to Thrive, Schumer Says
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-11-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bitcoin-to-separate-wheat-from-chaff-to-thrive-schumer-says.html
Senator Chuck Schumer, a Democrat
from  New York , called on Bitcoin companies to figure out ways to
stop criminals from using the virtual currency.  “In order for the legitimate uses of Bitcoin to flourish,
there must be a way to separate the wheat from the chaff,”
Schumer said at a Senate hearing yesterday.  Schumer and other senators interviewed a number of
witnesses who appeared at “The Present and Future Impact of
Virtual Currency”  hearing  at the National Security and
International Trade and Finance subcommittee yesterday. The
meeting was the second in two days involving government agencies
and private companies to discuss Bitcoin, following a price
surge of the virtual currency to record levels.  In yesterday’s hearing, Schumer and others raised questions
about the risks of Bitcoin, including a lack of consumer
protections and regulations and the currency’s use by criminals.
The price of Bitcoin declined  18 percent  from Nov. 18 to about
$543 yesterday, on exchange Bitstamp.  “We can’t assume Bitcoin will become the next great thing
in the financial system,” Jennifer Shasky Calvery, director of
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, who also testified on Nov.
18, said at yesterday’s meeting.  The comments contrasted with the Nov. 18 hearing, where the
 U.S. Department of Justice  described the digital currency as a
“legal means of exchange,” bolstering the prospect of wider
acceptance of Bitcoin as an alternative payment system.  More Protection  Introduced in 2008 by a programmer or group of programmers
going under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin is being used
to pay for everything from Gummi bears to smartphones on the
Internet. There are 12 million Bitcoins in circulation,
according to Bitcoincharts, a website that tracks activity
across various exchanges. Bitcoins can potentially reduce
banking-transaction fees, making it an attractive tender for
those seeking to trade via the Web or in stores.  Several of those who appeared at yesterday’s hearing
suggested ways to beef up Bitcoin protections.  Mercedes Kelley
Tunstall , a partner at law firm Ballard Spahr LLP, recommended
getting rid of features that make Bitcoin transactions
anonymous.  Bitcoin exchanges and merchants should provide guarantees
of redemption and information on a dispute resolution process,
 Sarah Jane Hughes , a university scholar and fellow in commercial
law at the University of  Indiana , said at the hearing.  Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat from  North Dakota , said
many tax issues, such as how to collect sales taxes on Bitcoin
transactions, are yet to be clarified.  “This is going to be a big challenge,” Heitkamp said.
“This is going to become an increasing problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  