-- BlackRock’s Fink Says ‘Less Worried’ About Markets Now
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-11-19T20:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/blackrock-s-fink-says-less-worried-about-markets-now.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink, who last week predicted a chance of a
15 percent correction in stock markets, said he’s “less
worried” now as  China  announced economic reforms and signs are
mounting that U.S. policy makers will pass a budget deal.  “It looks to me like China has had substantial reforms,”
Fink said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “I would say overall, it
appears the policy changes in China are good for forward
growth.”  Fink said there may be a small bipartisan deal in
 Washington  that happens next week or the week after
Thanksgiving, which may lead to a “true grand bargain” in the
future.  Stocks have been pushed to record highs in three rounds of
bond purchases by the Federal Reserve, which have channeled
money into risk assets such as equities. Investors who are fully
invested in stocks should stay there, even as pension funds will
probably reduce their stock holdings by year-end and add to
bonds in a “reverse rotation,”  Fink said.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rallied 25 percent in 2013,
forcing pension funds to rebalance before the end of the year,
Fink said.  ‘Noisy Quarter’  “There is going to be some pressure into year-end from
their rebalancing,” Fink said. “So I think we’re going to have
a noisy quarter.”  Reforms in China laid out last week by President Xi Jinping
will boost the private sector by looser state controls, while
local government officials will be evaluated not only on
increases in GDP but also on indicators such as energy
consumption, overcapacity and new debt. The changes are the
biggest since the late 1990s, when Premier Zhu Rongji’s shake-up
of state industries cost millions of jobs, according to Shen
Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong
Kong.  In the U.S., the backlash against Washington after the
political stalemate on the debt ceiling will force lawmakers to
do a small deal and then wait for a bigger accord “where you
could have a lot more gnashing of the teeth,” said Fink.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation Oct. 17 to
suspend the debt ceiling until Feb. 7. The deal between
Democrats and House Republicans sets the stage for another
possible showdown early next year.  Volcker Rule  The deadlock also led to creation of a Senate-House
conference committee with a Dec. 13 deadline to offer ways to
resolve the fiscal disputes between Democrats and Republicans.
U.S. lawmakers are at odds over whether ending some tax breaks
for wealthier Americans should be part of a deal to replace the
automatic spending cuts approved in 2011 that have trimmed
funding for defense and domestic programs.  Fink said while he’s optimistic about a budget deal, he
expects less liquidity in financial markets as the Volcker Rule,
which prohibits banks from doing speculative trades on their own
accounts, is being implemented. Banks, which have already shut
down proprietary trading desks, will face “severe
restrictions” on taking positions as regulators look closely at
whether they are holding assets to make markets or to make an
investment profit, Fink said today.  “What is the definition of flow trading versus proprietary
trading?” Fink said. “The bottom line is we have not seen the
full effect yet” of the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  