-- Blackstone’s China Chairman Leung Said to Be Exiting Firm
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-11-19T06:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/blackstone-s-china-chairman-leung-said-to-be-exiting-firm.html
Antony Leung,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s
Greater  China  chairman, is stepping down to become Nan Fung
Group Holdings Ltd.’s chief executive officer after seven years
at the U.S. asset management firm.  Leung, who turns 62 in January, will take charge of the
 Hong Kong  property developer in February, the companies said in
a joint statement today. He will become a senior adviser to New
York-based Blackstone and a member of its International Advisory
Board, according to the statement.  The former Hong Kong financial secretary joined Blackstone
in 2007 and brokered a $3 billion investment by China’s
sovereign wealth fund into the U.S. firm’s initial public
offering the same year. Including dividends, China Investment
Corp. is estimated to have profited about $300 million from the
 stake , according to people familiar with the matter and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “During his seven years with Blackstone, Antony has helped
build some of our most important relationships in China,”
Blackstone CEO Stephen Schwarzman wrote in an internal memo
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Leung helped Blackstone forge ties with CIC and raised
money from state-backed institutional investors in China for the
firm’s global funds. He oversees more than 120 Greater China
employees for the firm, which has more than 220 staff members in
the Asia-Pacific region.  Blackstone is in talks to sell Chiswick Park, a London
office development that includes buildings leased to PepsiCo
Inc. and Walt Disney Co., to CIC for about 800 million pounds
($1.3 billion), a person with knowledge of the matter said on
Nov. 11. Blackstone gave CIC exclusive rights to review the
asset, one of the people said.  CIC Investment  Blackstone agreed to sell a non-voting stake of less than
10 percent to CIC in May 2007 at about a 4.5 percent discount to
the firm’s $31 IPO price. The private-equity firm has
distributed $5.32 in  dividends  per share since its offering.
Based on last week’s closing price of $27.56 and including the
dividends, CIC’s shares are worth about $32.88 apiece, or 11
percent more than its entry price.  CIC’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call or an e-mail seeking comment about Blackstone’s investment.  Leung, who sits on Blackstone’s executive committee, has
helped bolster the company’s purchases of real estate assets in
China. The firm is stepping up real estate investment in Asia,
seeking to raise $4 billion for Blackstone’s maiden property
fund focused on the region.  Largest Investment  Blackstone earlier this month agreed to buy a 40 percent
stake in SCP Co., a Chinese shopping mall developer and
operator, for about $400 million, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. It is the firm’s largest mall
 investment  in  Asia  to date, said Chris Heady, head of
Blackstone’s regional real estate business.  The company is also investing in property projects
including distribution centers and a skyscraper in  Shanghai ,
Schwarzman said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Oct. 24.  Blackstone hasn’t invested much in private equity in China
since it established its presence in Asia in 2007 because the
prices of those assets are too high, Leung said April 7. The
firm named Michael Chae in December 2010 as the head of its
Asian private equity business.  The firm purchased a 20 percent stake in China National
BlueStar Group for as much as $600 million in October 2008,
Blackstone’s first Chinese acquisition. That investment has yet
to make a profit because of overcapacity in the  chemical
industry , a person familiar with the situation said.  Government Venture  Among Blackstone’s recent investments in China, Pactera
Technology International Ltd. agreed last month to be bought in
a transaction that values the Dalian-based provider of
technology outsourcing services at $645 million.  Leung was Hong Kong’s financial secretary from May 2001 to
July 2003. He joined Chase Manhattan Corp. in 1996 before it
became JPMorgan Chase & Co., and left as Asia-Pacific chairman
in 2001. Prior to that, he spent 23 years at Citicorp, which
became Citigroup Inc.  Blackstone was the first global private-equity firm to set
up a fund with the Chinese government, agreeing in August 2009
to a 5 billion  yuan  ($821 million) joint venture to target
investments in Shanghai and neighboring areas.  Nan Fung was founded in 1954 by D.H. Chen, father of the
company’s current Chairman Vivien Chen, according to today’s
statement. The company owns residential, commercial and
industrial properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  