-- Blasts Near Iranian Embassy in Beirut Kill at Least 23
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-11-19T13:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/blasts-near-iran-embassy-in-beirut-kill-at-least-17.html
Suicide bomb blasts near the Iranian
embassy in  Beirut  killed at least 23 people including a
diplomat, in the third attack in the Lebanese capital since
Hezbollah militants joined the civil war in neighboring  Syria .  Ibrahim Ansari, a cleric who acted as the embassy’s
cultural attache, died in the explosions, which also wounded at
least 147 people, Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency said.
A group affiliated with al-Qaeda claimed responsibility for the
attack, the  Associated Press  reported.  Sectarian violence has surged in Lebanon since May when
Hezbollah, a Shiite militant group supported by Iran,
acknowledged it had joined Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces in his war against mainly Sunni Muslim rebels. Two bombs
in Beirut’s southern suburb, a Hezbollah stronghold, killed more
than a dozen people in July and August.  The blasts are the work of Syria’s armed opposition,
showing it’s “fighting back, and hard, against high-value
targets,” said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai.
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham said in an
interview that the explosions were the work of “the Zionist
regime and its agents.”  One attacker used a motorbike while the other was driving a
four-wheel-drive car, the Lebanese army said in a statement.
Television footage from the scene showed charred vehicles and
blast-damaged buildings, with rescue workers picking through the
wreckage.  ‘Fighting Back’  “This was an attack on Iran for its support for the Syrian
government,” said Fawaz Gerges, a professor of Middle Eastern
politics and international relations at the  London School  of
Economics and Political Science, in a phone interview.  In addition to military support through Hezbollah,  Iran  has
been bankrolling Assad’s war efforts. The Iranian government
signed a $3.6 billion oil credit line with Syria and offered $1
billion in loans to help Syria import goods.  Tomorrow, Iran resumes talks on its nuclear program with
the U.S. and other world powers in Geneva. U.S. under secretary
of state for political affairs, Wendy Sherman, who’s leading the
country’s delegation, is also expected to attend a United
Nations-hosted meeting on Syria in the Swiss city next week.
Diplomatic efforts have failed to halt Syria’s war, which the UN
says has killed more than 100,000 people since 2011.  Sectarian Rifts  Hezbollah’s involvement in the war has deepened rifts
between Sunnis and Shiites in Lebanon, leaving the country
without a permanent government since April as the group’s
opponents demand it pulls its fighters out. The Shiite group
said extremists linked to the Syrian rebels were behind the
August bombings, which were followed by attacks targeting Sunni
mosques in Lebanon’s northern city of Tripoli. Hezbollah is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S. and the European
Union.  Lebanon’s economy has suffered amid the turmoil, growing at
an average pace of 1.5 percent since 2011, compared with 7
percent in 2010, according to International Monetary Fund data.
The country’s credit rating was cut one level by  Standard &
Poor’s  on Nov. 1 to B-, six levels below investment grade.  The cost of insuring Lebanon’s dollar debt against default
rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 400, at
3:46 p.m. in Beirut, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Lebanon persistently looks to be on the edge of a
sectarian civil war, but recently there have been a number of
ominous signs of increased violence,” Emad Mostaque, strategist
at Noah Capital Markets in London, said in an e-mailed note that
pointed to the increased presence of radical Sunni Islamists in
the north.  Embassy Siege  Attacks on Iranian diplomatic missions since the creation
of the Islamic Republic in 1979 have been rare. In 1980, a group
of six armed men stormed Iran’s embassy in  London , taking 26
hostages and demanding Arab sovereignty in the southern region
of Khuzestan in Iran. After six days, troopers from the British
Special Air Service entered the embassy, killing five of the six
terrorists and rescuing the hostages.  In 1982, three Iranian diplomats and a photographer
disappeared in Lebanon during  Israel ’s invasion and are still
reported as missing. In 1998, 11 Iranian diplomats and a
journalist were killed by Taliban forces in western  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  