-- BOE Tells Bankers Covering Up Misconduct to Pay Back Bonuses
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-11-19T13:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/boe-tells-bankers-covering-up-bad-behavior-to-pay-back-bonuses.html
Bankers that fail to report
colleagues’ misconduct should be forced to pay back a portion of
their bonuses, the  Bank of England  said as it seeks to rein in
practices that tarnished the reputation of lenders.  Banks should penalize staff that don’t “take adequate
steps to promptly identify, assess, report, escalate or
address” poor behavior by colleagues by taking away some of
their deferred bonus awards, the BOE’s Prudential Regulation
Authority said in a  policy note  on its website.  “Risk management failures and misconduct can take years to
come to light,” the PRA said in the document, dated Oct. 28.
“This should not prevent firms from applying ex-post risk
adjustment to the extent that the relevant individuals have
variable remuneration capable of reduction.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. this year recouped about 302
million pounds ($487 million) by cutting its bonus pool and
clawing back compensation to help meet the 381 million-pound
cost of fines in the Libor rigging-scandal. The PRA’s bid to
improve banker behavior follows a European Union deal in March
to outlaw bonuses that are more than twice fixed pay in the 28-nation bloc.  Clawbacks should also apply to senior managers directly or
indirectly responsible for misconduct, the PRA said in the
statement. Individuals that are under investigation for
wrongdoing should have all of their deferred awards frozen until
the probe is finished, it said.  The PRA told lenders to write provisions for clawbacks into
employment contracts with staff and to take into account the
costs of fines, financial losses and reputational damage of poor
behavior when calculating how much to take back.  Higher Salaries  The U.K. prefers clawing back pay to capping bonuses, which
PRA chief  Andrew Bailey  has said will lead to higher salaries.
The U.K. Treasury challenged the legality of the EU’s limits on
variable pay at the  European Court  of Justice in September. The
EU gave too much power to a regulator, the European Banking
Authority, to set the parameters of the bonus caps, the Treasury
said at the time.  The caps, which will apply to anyone at a European bank
earning more than 500,000 euros ($676,000), breach treaties
protecting the “rights and interests of employed persons,” the
Treasury said in its statement in September.  More than half of global banks said they would increase
salaries to offset the effect of European Union bonus caps,
according to a study by human-resources consultants Towers
Watson & Co. in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  