-- Bond Dealer Retreat Seen in Trades Shrinking 39%: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-11-19T16:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bond-dealer-retreat-seen-in-trades-shrinking-39-credit-markets.html
Corporate-bond trades have shrunk to
the smallest in a year, exchanging hands in chunks that have
contracted 39 percent from before the credit crisis in another
sign of a dealer pullback that threatens to drive up borrowing
costs.  The average investment-grade bond transaction declined 9.4
percent to $501,635 in the three months ended Sept. 30 from
$553,410 in the first quarter, according to Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority data. Trade sizes have contracted from
$815,828 in 2007, even as the total amount of corporate-debt
outstanding swelled 92 percent during the same period.  The smaller transactions illustrate conditions that money
managers including BlackRock Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink say have
driven up costs for clients and made it more difficult to buy
and sell debt. That may accelerate a surge in borrowing costs
and exacerbate investor losses if a Federal Reserve pullback
from unprecedented stimulus efforts triggers a cash exodus.  “When the market turns, if there are no counterparties to
step in, the lack of liquidity could push prices down pretty
quickly,” Brian Rehling, chief fixed-income strategist at Wells
Fargo Advisors in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview.
“Back in May and June, when interest rates increased, you
definitely saw some of the illiquidity push prices down.”  Dealer Pullback  Five years after the financial crisis that pushed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. into bankruptcy, new regulations are
deterring Wall Street banks from buying larger chunks of
corporate debt to sell at a profit, fueling a 76 percent decline
in a Fed measure of dealer holdings of the debt.  Even after the dollar-denominated corporate-bond market
almost doubled to $4.3 trillion the past six years, trading has
failed to keep pace, increasing 48 percent during the same
period. Both large and small investors have been affected by the
shrinking trade sizes, with transactions bigger than $5 million
falling 13 percent to an average $11.3 million this year from
$13 million in 2007, according to a Nov. 15 report from Barclays
Plc strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff.  “Even if dealers had the ability to take inventory on
their balance sheet, there wouldn’t necessarily be the
conviction to do that,” Rogoff, head of global credit strategy
in New York, said in a telephone interview. With the swings of
cash in and out of mutual funds getting bigger, he said,
“investors seem to be going in the same directions all at
once.”  Investor Withdrawals  After pouring $1.26 trillion into bond funds the previous
six years, investors yanked a record $61.7 billion from them in
June amid mounting speculation that the Fed was poised to start
tapering $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, data from
TrimTabs Investment Research show.  Investors pulled $13.6 billion from U.S. corporate-bond
funds the same month, according to data compiled by Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc. Dollar-denominated, investment-grade debt
lost 2.76 percent in June after declining 2.3 percent in May,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  During the four months since June, the funds reported $24.4
billion of deposits as the Fed maintained the pace of its
purchases, RBS data show.  BlackRock’s Fink, whose company is the world’s largest
money manager with $4.1 trillion in assets, said last month that
the Fed’s policy is contributing to “bubble-like markets.”  The New York-based firm last year said it planned to start
a bond-trading system to allow investors to bypass investment
banks to lower transaction costs.  ‘Better Exchanges’  “We’re going to need a vehicle in which there are better
exchanges of buyers and sellers,” Fink said in a July 10
Bloomberg Television interview.  With dealers cutting
inventories in response to risk-curbing rules, he said, “that’s
why we’re experiencing at this moment some stress in the markets
of buying and selling bonds, especially corporate bonds.”  Average trade sizes in investment-grade bonds in the U.S.
are the lowest since they reached $472,055 in the three months
ended Sept. 30, 2012, according to  Trace (NTMBIV) , Finra’s bond-price
reporting system.  While the amount of dollar-denominated investment-grade
notes has soared from $2.2 billion at the end of 2007, the
average daily trading volume has climbed more slowly, to $12.79
billion this year from $8.61 billion six years ago, Trace data
show.  Dealer Inventories  “Average overall trade sizes have been steadily
declining” since the second quarter of 2009, the Barclays
analysts said in the Nov. 15 report. While the growth of
exchange-traded funds and electronic platforms may mitigate the
effects by providing newer trading outlets, “we do not believe
that e-trading flows are yet robust enough to provide much
liquidity in a volatile environment,” the analysts wrote.  Primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed reduced
their  corporate-debt inventories  from $235 billion in October
2007 to $56 billion as of March 27, when the central bank
revamped the way it calculates and reports the data. Banks
globally have cut more than 500,000 jobs in the past five years
and lowered riskier holdings as they comply with rules from the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the U.S. Dodd-Frank
Act.  “What’s driving a lot of the big trends in this area is
the changing cost of dealers holding inventory; the cost has
gone up a lot,” Oliver Randall, assistant professor of finance
at Emory University, said in a telephone interview. “Dealers
are not willing to do the size of trades they were before.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose for a second day,
with the Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increasing 0.5 basis point to a mid-price of
71.9 basis points as of 11:04 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.13 basis point to 10.88 basis points.
The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
government securities and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate debt.  Bonds of T-Mobile US Inc. are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 6.1 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, Trace data show. The fourth-biggest wireless
carrier raised $2 billion yesterday in a two-part offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  