-- China Overseas Grand Markets Dollar Bond After Xi’s Reform Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-19T04:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bond-risk-increases-in-asia-pacific-credit-default-swaps-show.html
China Overseas Grand Oceans Group
Ltd. (81)  is marketing a U.S. dollar-denominated bond amid optimism
 China ’s economic reforms will boost growth in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The developer, a unit of China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd., is offering five-year notes at about 350 basis points more
than Treasuries, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.
Chinese issuers’ borrowing costs fell to a one-week low of 6.02
percent yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  President  Xi Jinping ’s reforms, which may be the most
sweeping since  Deng Xiaoping ’s liberalization in 1978, are aimed
at giving more influence to market forces and loosening state
controls. The changes outlined include allowing more private
investment in state-run industries, easing the one-child policy
and expanding farmers’ land rights.  “Many industries will benefit as the reforms are a good
blueprint for the long-term economic growth of China,” said
 Steve Wang , a Hong Kong-based head of fixed-income research at
BOCI Securities Ltd., a unit of Bank of China Ltd. “There are
also other positive factors in the market,” such as
expectations that U.S. tapering will remain delayed, Wang said.  Monetary Stimulus  New York  Federal Reserve Bank President William C. Dudley
yesterday said the U.S. central bank’s monetary stimulus is
likely to be accommodative for a long time even as he’s
“getting more hopeful” the economy is gaining strength.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  won’t taper its asset
purchases until its March 18-19 meeting, according to the median
estimate of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News Nov. 8.  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds in the
Asia-Pacific region from non-payment increased, according to
traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1 basis point to 103
basis points as of 12:20 p.m. in Sydney, according to Citigroup
Inc. The gauge, which declined the previous four trading days,
is set for its highest close since Nov. 14, according to data
provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced 1 basis point to 130 as of 9:21
a.m. in  Hong Kong , Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
prices show. The benchmark, which fell 2.5 basis points last
week, the most since the five days ended Oct. 18, is on track
for its highest close since Nov. 15, according to CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Japan Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 0.5 of a basis point
to 83.3 basis points as of 10:18 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices
show. The gauge is poised to fall 7.4 basis points from Oct. 31,
CMA data show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  