-- Brazil Mid-November Inflation Slower Than All Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-11-19T12:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/brazil-inflation-slower-than-all-estimates-through-mid-november.html
Brazil ’s  consumer prices  rose less
than economists forecast in the month through mid-November as
the central bank carries out the world’s biggest interest-rate
increase. Swap rates fell.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 0.57
percent from Oct. 12 to Nov. 11, the national statistics agency
said in a report published on its website today. That is slower
than every estimate from 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median forecast was for a 0.65 percent increase. Annual
 inflation  of 5.78 percent was below analysts’ 5.87 percent
estimate.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has tried to stem
inflation by holding down some regulated  prices  as policy makers
contribute to the effort by boosting  interest rates . Consumer
prices have risen faster than the 4.5 percent target for more
than three years, and have come under added pressure this year
due to the weakening currency. While the number came in lower
than expected, inflation is still widespread, according to
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco Espirito Santo de
Investimento.  “Of course the central bank is going to celebrate, say
they were right, it’s lower than you were expecting, more proof
inflation is decelerating,” Santos said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “In spite of a better-than-expected headline figure,
inflation is still not good.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell six basis points to 10.68
percent as of 9:36 a.m. local time. The real weakened 0.5
percent to 2.2739 per  U.S. dollar , and has fallen 9.8 percent
this year.  Rate Cuts  Central bank directors will meet next week after raising
the benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  five straight times. Policy makers last
month increased the Selic by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage
point, to 9.5 percent, 225 basis points higher than in March.
Traders are betting on another half-point increase next week.  Economists in the most recent central bank survey of
analysts forecast inflation will accelerate to 5.91 percent next
year from 5.84 percent at the end of 2013.  Food and beverage prices rose 0.84 percent in the month, up
from 0.7 percent the prior period, and had the biggest impact on
inflation. Apparel prices rose 0.96 percent, from 0.88 percent
the previous month.  More Widespread  The diffusion index, which shows how widespread inflation
is across products, rose to 71 percent in November from 66
percent in October, according to Ibiuna Investimentos in  Sao
Paulo .  Regulated prices, which include such items as electricity
and gasoline, rose 1 percent in the year through October,
compared with 7.4 percent for non-regulated prices. The
government has gone nearly as far as it can in holding down
regulated prices, said  Neil Shearing , chief economist for
 emerging markets  at Capital Economics Ltd.  “Today’s number is good news insofar as it’s not as bad as
some people were expecting,” Shearing said by phone from
London. “Inflation is not falling quite as fast as some had
hoped, particularly the food component. That means the central
bank will remain squarely focused on above-target inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  