-- Bumi Holders Should Reject Planned Bakrie Deal, PIRC Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-11-19T19:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/bumi-holders-should-reject-planned-bakrie-deal-pirc-says.html
Bumi Plc (BUMI)  shareholders should oppose
a planned $501 million deal to separate the coal producer from
 Indonesia ’s Bakrie family, said Pensions & Investment Research
Consultants Ltd., a U.K. adviser to institutional investors with
more than 1.5 trillion pounds ($2.4 trillion) in assets.  Changes to the proposed transaction from its original form
last year, uncertainty around how Chairman Samin Tan and the
Bakries will finance it and the failure to recover $173 million
of missing funds underpin the voting recommendations, according
to a PIRC report dated today that was obtained by  Bloomberg
News . A spokesman for Bumi declined to comment.  Bumi shareholders are set to meet in  London  on Dec. 4 to
vote on the plan that will see the Bakries exit the company they
founded with financier  Nathaniel Rothschild  in 2011. Tan has
agreed to buy the family’s holding in London-listed Bumi, giving
him a 47.6 percent stake in the company.  Bumi, owner of stakes in two Indonesian coal suppliers, has
agreed to sell its 29.2 percent interest in Jakarta-based PT
Bumi Resources to the Bakries as part of the two-step
transaction to separate from one of Indonesia’s wealthiest
families. Tan has agreed to buy the Bakries’ 23.8 percent
holding in Bumi Plc for $223 million.  Bumi has received no guarantees of financing from the
Bakries, Chief Executive Officer Nick Von Schirnding said two
weeks ago. Tan is due to provide evidence of financing by
tomorrow, according to a Nov. 8 shareholder document.  ‘Highly Inappropriate’  “It is highly inappropriate to ask shareholders to approve
a transaction where there is no guarantee over the affordability
of the counter-parties to honor their payments,” PIRC said.
While the advisory group sees “major merits” in separating
from the Bakries, shareholders are being asked to approve a deal
with “many uncertainties,” it said.  Funds for the Bakries’ $278 million share of the offer have
been available since January in the form of a “direct cash
investment by the Bakrie family,” Chris Fong, a spokesman for
the Bakrie Group, said Nov. 8.  The deal needs to win the support of 50 percent of
independent shareholders, including Rothschild, 42, who has
railed against the transaction before and owns about 21 percent
of the  voting rights  for Bumi stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  