-- C.A.T. Oil Rises on 300 Million-Euro Expansion Plan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-11-19T13:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/c-a-t-oil-rises-on-300-million-euro-expansion-plan.html
C.A.T. Oil AG,  Russia ’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, rose for a fifth day
in Frankfurt trading after announcing expansion plans.  C.A.T. Oil advanced as much as 2.9 percent, and traded up
1.6 percent at 20.575 euros as of 2:13 p.m. local time. That
extends its five-day increase to 13 percent and would be the
highest close since 2007.  The company has earmarked 300 million euros ($405 million)
to expand operating capacity over the next three years, C.A.T.
Oil said today in a statement on its  website . That investment
will allow the driller to meet rising Russian demand, it said.  President  Vladimir Putin  has urged energy producers to
maintain output in coming decades to safeguard oil-export
revenue, the state’s largest single source of income. The
industry is turning to more advanced drilling technologies to
squeeze more crude from aging fields as the bulk of Russia’s
Soviet-legacy deposits reach maturity.  C.A.T. Oil’s investments will boost fracturing capacity by
33 percent, sidetracking capacity by 55 percent and drilling
services by 170 percent, according to the statement. The Vienna-based company also plans to spend 90 million euros by the end of
2016 on maintenance.  Growth will be “tailored to the needs and short-to-mid-term production plans of our customers,” Chief Executive
Officer Manfred Kastner said in the statement.  “The company seems well prepared for expansion of Russian
tight-oil development, which will potentially be a hot topic
closer to the end of the decade,” OAO Gazprombank wrote in a
research note. The Russian bank raised its estimate of 2017
revenue at C.A.T. Oil by 45 percent to 750 million euros.  Expansion will be financed through a combination of
operating cash and long-term debt, C.A.T. Oil said. Debt will
remain less than twice earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  