-- Campbell Falls After Forecast Cut as Sales of Soup Slow
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-11-19T21:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/campbell-cuts-profit-forecast-after-first-quarter-miss.html
Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  fell the most in
almost five years after saying its annual profit will be less
than it previously estimated as soup and beverage sales slow.  Campbell  declined  6.2 percent to $39.20 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest drop since December 2008. Shares of the
Camden, New Jersey-based company have gained 12 percent this
year, compared with a 25 percent increase for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Soups sales in the U.S. have dragged in recent months for
Campbell, where it competes with private-labels and Progresso-maker  General Mills Inc. (GIS)  after colder temperatures last year
bolstered results. Sales in Campbell’s U.S. soup division fell 6
percent during its fiscal first quarter as retailers reduced
inventory amid a weaker consumer environment, the company said.  “Soup sales were soft once again and continue to present
some risk to earnings for the year,”  Christopher Growe , an
analyst at Stifel Financial Corp. in  St. Louis , said today in a
note. “Sales growth will continue to be challenged in our view
by the weak underlying sales trends across the business.” He
rates the shares hold.  Adjusted profit in the year ending in July will increase by
as much as 4 percent and as high as $2.58 a share, down from a
 prior  forecast for growth of as much as 5 percent, the world’s
largest soup maker said today in a statement. Analysts estimated
$2.59.  V8 Juice  First-quarter adjusted profit was 66 cents a share,
trailing analysts’ 86-cent average estimate. Revenue fell 1.8
percent to $2.17 billion. Analysts had estimated $2.29 billion.  U.S. soup sales declined in part because retailers held
orders until the second quarter because of the late Thanksgiving
holiday. Condensed soup sales fell 7 percent while ready-to-serve varieties declined 11 percent. Beverage sales in the U.S.
fell 8 percent led by V8 V-Fusion juice drinks.  New soups planned for introduction in July and August will
instead be introduced between now and April in an attempt to
boost sales, executives said during a conference call. The
varieties include new Chunky and Hispanic-inspired cooking
soups.  The company also had a recall of some Plum Organics baby
food pouches, resulting in some costs it recognized in the
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  