-- Camp Aide Said to Suggest Tax Plan Possible by January
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/camp-aide-said-to-suggest-tax-plan-possible-by-january.html
A House Ways and Means Committee
aide said Republicans may release a draft tax-revision measure
in December or January, signaling that Chairman  Dave Camp ’s
delay in producing a bill could be temporary.  The staff member made the comment on a conference call
yesterday with the Coalition for Fair Effective Tax Rates and
the S Corporation Association, according to a person on the call
who requested anonymity to discuss the private conversation. A
committee aide, also speaking on condition of anonymity,
confirmed the comment.  Camp last week backed off a pledge to release legislation
revising the  tax code  this year, citing delays caused by the
partial government shutdown in October. He met with Republican
House leaders, who are wary of diverting attention from the
flawed rollout of President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act,
and after that session Camp wouldn’t commit to a specific
timetable for his proposals.  Camp, a Michigan Republican, and Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, have been working
together in trying to produce the biggest tax-code changes since
1986 before the end of next year. That’s when Baucus will leave
office and Camp will end his chairmanship because of Republican
 term limits .  Baucus is scheduled to meet today with lawmakers on his
committee from both parties. He has said he may soon release
draft proposals. The subjects could include taxation of
international income, tax administration and capital cost
recovery, Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican, said last
week.  Moving forward with tax code revisions has been complicated
in part by the divide over whether changes should increase
revenue, as many Democrats want and Republicans oppose.  Closed-Door Meetings  Camp has been meeting privately with Republican members of
the Ways and Means panel members for several months as they try
to complete work on a bill. Several Republican lawmakers,
including Representative Dave Reichert of Washington and
Representative Charles Boustany of  Louisiana , said the bill is
close to being completed.  Republicans want to lower the top individual  tax rate  to 25
percent from 39.6 percent and reduce the top corporate rate to
25 percent from 35 percent.  They want to make those changes in ways that would neither
increase nor reduce revenue for the government or shift the tax
burden from top earners to others.  To do that, they would have to consider curtailing tax
breaks such as the exclusion from income of employer-provided
health insurance and the deduction for state and local taxes.
Those details could prove politically unpopular.  Camp has released discussion drafts on the taxation of
companies’ foreign income, derivatives and partnerships.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  