-- Canada Stocks Drop as Technology Slump Offsets Gains by Miners
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-11-19T22:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/canada-stocks-fluctuate-as-energy-producers-sink-miners-advance.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, after reaching
a two-year high last week, as a slump in technology and
industrial shares offset a rise in gold producers while
investors watched for signs the U.S. Federal Reserve will
continue monetary stimulus.  TransCanada Corp. retreated 1.2 percent after the natural-gas transmission company pushed the start date for the Keystone
XL pipeline project into 2016. Alacer Gold Corp. and Barrick
Gold Corp. gained at least 1.3 percent, pacing advances among
gold miners.  Sears Canada Inc. (SCC)  climbed to a two-year high after
the retailer reported a rise in same-store sales and said it
will pay a special dividend to shareholders.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell 15.46
points, or 0.1 percent, to 13,442.6 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, after
gaining as much as 0.3 percent earlier in the day. The  gauge has
climbed  8.1 percent this year.  “We’re at the end of the earnings cycle, so the focus goes
away from individual stocks reporting earnings to more macro
events like tapering,”  Ian Nakamoto , director of research with
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc., said in a phone interview
from Toronto. The firm manages about C$4 billion. “The FOMC
release their minutes tomorrow, so any other hints on what
they’re thinking in terms of tapering might give us some
clues.”  Equities have rallied this year as the U.S. Fed embarked on
a monthly $85 billion bond-buying program to stimulate the
economy. Fed policy makers will probably scale back the pace of
asset purchases at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median of 32 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists on
Nov. 8. The central bank tomorrow releases the minutes from the
October meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  Global Growth  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its global growth forecasts for this year and next as
emerging-market economies including India and  Brazil  cool. The
world economy will probably expand 2.7 percent in 2013 and 3.6
percent in 2014, instead of the 3.1 percent and and 4 percent
predicted in May, the Paris-based OECD said in a semi-annual
report today.  The  Bank of Canada  will probably raise its benchmark
lending rate at the end of next year to avoid a build-up of
inflation, the OECD said. The first increase in the 1 percent
rate since 2010 is projected to be in the fourth quarter of
2014, with the central bank raising it to 2.25 percent by the
end of 2015, the OECD said.  Investors have been paring bets on higher borrowing costs
after Governor Stephen Poloz unexpectedly dropped the central
bank’s rate-increase bias at its last announcement Oct. 23,
citing greater slack in the economy.  BlackBerry Falls  Six of 10 S&P/TSX  industries  fell on trading volume in line
with the 30-day average. Technology companies declined 1.2
percent for the worst performance. BlackBerry Ltd. fell for a
fourth straight session losing 1.7 percent to $6.31. Industrial
shares slipped 0.7 percent today.  TransCanada retreated 1.2 percent to C$46.75, the lowest
since Oct. 24. Facing delays from a U.S. review of its Keystone
XL pipeline, the natural gas transmission company pushed the
forecast startup date for the $5.4 billion project into 2016.
Calgary-based TransCanada hopes for U.S. approval in early 2014,
Chief Executive OfficerRuss Girling said today at an investor
presentation in Toronto.  The S&P/TSX Gold Index gained 0.6 percent as miners
advanced. Barrick Gold rose 1.3 percent to C$18.67 and Alacer
Gold added 2.3 percent to C$2.25.  Precious Metals  Gold and silver equities are “bottoming” and will go on
to outperform the metals when a recovery finally begins, said
Peter Grosskopf, the chief executive officer of Canadian money
manager Sprott Inc. While both commodities have declined this
year, they will eventually erase the losses and rise to records
as more money is printed around the world, Grosskopf said in a
Nov. 15. phone interview. Gold and silver producers will emerge
stronger from the downturn as the weak are “weeded out,” he
said.  Coastal Energy (CEN)  Co. surged 27 percent to C$18.84 after Cia.
Espanola de Petroleos SA, an oil refiner owned by  Abu Dhabi ,
agreed to buy Coastal Energy as the Middle East sheikdom adds to
crude and natural-gas assets in  Southeast Asia . The venture will
take on Coastal Energy’s C$51 million of net debt as part of the
deal, due to close in the first quarter.  Sears Canada  jumped 6.4 percent to C$17.87, the since June
2011, after the company said it will pay a special dividend of
C$5 on Dec. 6. The retailer also posted its first quarterly
same-store sales increase since 2008, boosted by stronger demand
for apparel, accessories and home items.  Intertape Polymer Group Inc., a producer of plastic
packaging for industrial use, jumped 6.8 percent to C$13.37 for
the biggest increase in the benchmark index. The company was
upgraded to a buy rating from market perform by Cormark
Securities analyst Sarah Hughes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in  New York  at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  