-- Canada’s Murray Says Currency Markets are Operating Soundly
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-11-20T00:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/canada-s-murray-says-currencies-have-periods-of-overshooting.html
Bank of Canada  Deputy Governor  John Murray  said that even though currencies and other assets have
periods where they overshoot fundamental values, the
relationship between exchange rates and retail prices is working
as it should.  “As with any asset price, bouts of temporary overshooting
and excess volatility are common,” Murray said in a speech at
Mount Allison University in Sackville,  New Brunswick . “However,
the broad trends and behavior of these markets are more positive
than many believe and earlier evidence might indicate.”  Murray’s  speech , “Price Puzzles and the Exchange Rate,”
focused on price gaps between similar goods in  Canada  and the
U.S. and didn’t touch on the central bank’s policy interest rate
or the Canadian dollar’s current value.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has criticized Canadian
retailers for prices on some items that are higher than in the
U.S. at a time when Canada’s dollar trades for close to parity,
and he has asked some companies for ways to close the gap.  Canada’s dollar is down about 5 percent this year versus
the  U.S. dollar , poised for its biggest annual decline since
2008. The central bank last month dropped a bias to raise a
policy interest rate because of slack in the economy including
sluggish exports and business investment.  The Canadian currency depreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0461
in Toronto today. One Canadian dollar buys 95.63 U.S. cents.  Governor Stephen Poloz and Senior Deputy Governor Tiff
Macklem will testify tomorrow to the Senate’s banking committee
at 4:15 p.m. in Ottawa.  Pronounced Gaps  Although aggregate prices in Canada have been lower than in
the U.S. for much of the past three decades, “things have
changed in the past 10 years,” Murray said, adding the Canada-U.S.  exchange rate , rather than acting as a buffer for price
gaps between the two countries, seems to be making them more
pronounced.  Intervening in  currency markets  to bring down the cost of
local goods would be counterproductive, Murray said, because
depreciating the exchange rate would drive inflation higher,
leading to increased prices. The exchange rate is driven by
“fundamental determinants” such as commodity prices and
interest rate differentials that can’t be suppressed forever,
the deputy governor said.  Evidence from recent studies at the Ottawa-based bank
suggests exchange rates and aggregate prices are moving in the
right direction and broad trends are “positive,” Murray said.  The Bank of Canada will stay focused on its inflation
mandate, Murray told the audience after his speech. Although the
central bank closely monitors exchange rates, it doesn’t target
them, and the currency’s level is only one variable in making
decisions in  interest rates , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Sackville, New Brunswick at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  