-- Canadian Dollar Drops as Crude Oil Reaches Lowest in Five Months
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-19T22:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/canadian-dollar-falls-as-crude-oil-at-almost-lowest-in-5-months.html
Canada ’s dollar fell versus most
major counterparts as futures of crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, touched the lowest level in more than five months.  The currency dropped from yesterday’s one-week high versus
the U.S. dollar before a report on Nov. 22 that’s forecast to
show Canadian inflation fell in October. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development cut its global growth
forecasts for this year and next. The discount Canadian oil
producers face versus U.S. benchmark prices widened.  “Oil isn’t doing the Canadian dollar any favor,” said
Adam Button, a currency analyst at forexlive.com, by phone from
 Montreal . “Canada will continue to sell oil at a big discount.
It’ll pose a considerable headwind for the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slid 0.4 percent to C$1.0469
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It gained to C$1.0415
yesterday, the strongest level since Nov. 7. One Canadian dollar
buys 95.52 U.S. cents.  The currency fell versus all of its 16 most-traded peers
tracked by Bloomberg except  Mexico ’s peso.  The cost to insure against declines in the loonie against
its U.S. counterpart increased for the first time in three days.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk-reversal rate rose to
1.168 percent after earlier touching 1.055 percent, the lowest
since Oct. 23. Risk reversals measure the premium on options
contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts
that do the opposite. The 2103 average is 1.27 percent.  Higher Volatility  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar against its Canadian peer also rose for the first time in
three days. It reached 5.72 percent after falling earlier to
5.53 percent, the lowest intraday level since Oct. 23. The
measure is used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace
of currency swings. The 2013 average is 6.69 percent.  The OECD said in a semi-annual report the world economy
will probably grow 2.7 percent this year and 3.6 percent next
year, versus estimates in May of 3.1 percent and 4 percent.  Futures of crude oil sank as much as 0.6 percent to $92.43
per barrel in  New York , the lowest level since June 4, before
trading at $93.35, up 0.3 percent. The  discount  applied to the
benchmark Western Canada Select crude oil grade versus its U.S.
counterpart swelled to $37 a barrel after reaching a two-week
low of $34.25 on Nov. 15.  Commodities Index  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities fell 0.4
percent to 611.7. It reached 604.6 on Nov. 7, the lowest on an
intraday basis since June 24.  “It could be that the fall in commodities prices lately
hasn’t been fully priced in the currency yet,” Greg T. Moore, a
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said of the loonie
in a phone interview from Toronto. “I still do think
commodities prices will pull most of the weight in dollar-Canada.”  Canada’s government bonds dropped, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year  security  up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.56 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent
debt maturing in June 2023 lost 27 cents to C$91.11.  The  Bank of Canada  will probably raise its benchmark
lending rate at the end of next year to avoid a build-up of
inflation, the OECD said in its world economic outlook.  The first increase in the 1 percent  rate  since 2010 is
projected to be in the fourth quarter of 2014, with the central
bank increasing it to 2.25 percent by the end of 2015, the
Paris-based organization said in the report.  “With spare capacity narrowing by the end of 2015,
monetary-policy tightening may need to begin by late 2014 to
avoid a buildup of inflationary pressures,” it said.  Paring Wagers  Investors have been paring bets on higher borrowing costs
after central-bank Governor Stephen Poloz on Oct. 23
unexpectedly dropped policy language in place for more than a
year about the need to raise  interest rates . He cited greater
slack in the economy.  “They’re obviously seeing something no one else is seeing
in the marketplace,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst at the
online currency-trading firms Oanda Corp., said of the OECD
forecast by phone from Toronto. “Growth is tenuous at best, and
employment is even more suspect, and that’s not just in the
U.S., that’s in  North America  and  Europe .”  Consumer prices  in Canada rose 0.8 percent in October from
a year earlier, below the Bank of Canada’s 1 percent to 3
percent target band, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
before this week’s report. Prices gained 1.1 percent the
previous month.  The Canadian dollar declined 1.4 percent over the past
three months against nine other developed-nation currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index.  Australia ’s
dollar rose 3.8 percent, while the U.S. dollar fell 0.7 percent.  U.S. Stimulus  The greenback slid today against 11 of its 16 most-traded
peers amid concern more Federal Reserve policy makers including
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may say economic growth in America,
Canada’s biggest trade partner, isn’t strong enough to reduce
monetary stimulus. The Fed’s $85 billion in bond purchases have
fueled risk appetite worldwide while tending to debase the U.S.
currency.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak to the National Economists
Club in Washington at 7 p.m.  Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  told U.S. lawmakers Nov. 14 at a
hearing on her nomination to run the central bank that the
American economy and labor market are performing “far short of
their potential.” She said she’s committed to promoting a
strong recovery and will ensure that the stimulus isn’t removed
too soon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  