-- Canada’s TD Bank Helping U.S. Taxpayers’ Market Retreat
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-19T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/canada-s-td-bank-helping-u-s-taxpayers-market-retreat.html
Canada ’s  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  is
expanding its U.S. mortgage lending by holding loans on its
books -- a business model U.S. banks are just starting to revive
as policy makers seek to reduce the government’s dominant role.  Toronto-Dominion, Canada’s second-largest bank, made about
$8 billion of home loans in the past 12 months through its U.S.
unit, known as TD Bank, according to Malcolm Hollensteiner, the
division’s director of retail lending sales and production. It
retained almost all of that debt, more in keeping with Canadian
practices, and in contrast to most U.S. banks, which usually
package their originations into government-backed securities.  U.S. regulators and lawmakers want to draw more private
capital into the $9.3 trillion  market  after the fallout from the
housing crash left taxpayer-backed programs financing about 85
percent of new loans. TD Bank, which operates on the East Coast,
where it’s open seven days a week and late into the evening, is
among lenders flush with  deposits  that are chipping away at the
government’s share. The bank plans to hire 140 loan officers to
more than double staff and bolster originations as higher
 interest rates  choke off refinancing, Hollensteiner said.  “We’re an institution that’s interested in growing,” he
said in a telephone interview. “We’re still a very young player
on the scene.”  Toronto-Dominion’s success in the market is poised to
become even more important to the company with Canadian
consumers’ record debt burdens set to stifle borrowing in its
home country, according to Barclays Plc analyst  John Aiken .  U.S. Expansion  The Toronto-based company began its U.S. expansion in 2004,
with the announcement it would acquire 51 percent of  Portland ,
Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. for about $3.8 billion, and
about two years later said it would buy the rest. It agreed in
2007 to purchase  Cherry Hill , New Jersey-based Commerce Bancorp
Inc. for $8.5 billion and added South Financial Group Inc. in
May 2010 for about $61 million.  Along the way, TD Bank embraced Commerce’s branding as
“America’s Most Convenient Bank” and its unusual  branch  hours
-- including being open as late as 8 p.m. on weekdays and on
Sundays when other banks are closed.  The result has been “what normally would be a great
problem: an amazing deposit-gathering capability,” saidPeter Routledge, a Toronto-based analyst at National Bank Financial.
The catch is that the cheap funding needs to be used to lend to
maintain the margins of the business, and the banks it acquired
weren’t as good at adding loans, he said.  Auto Lending  In response, TD Bank also agreed in December 2010 to buy
auto lender Chrysler Financial Corp. for about $6.3 billion from
private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP, and this
year  acquired  $5.7 billion of credit-card balances from Target
Corp. and entered into an agreement to help provide new debt to
the retailer’s customers.  U.S. mortgage lenders are fighting over fewer originations
after 30-year rates increased to 4.35 percent from a record low
3.31 percent a year ago, stalling refinancings, according to
 Freddie Mac  data. After reaching $2 trillion last year, volumes
will fall to $1.7 trillion this year and $1.2 trillion in 2014,
the Mortgage Bankers Association  forecasts .  TD Bank’s hiring of mortgage loan officers will focus on
its banking footprint, which extends from  Maine  to Florida,
including the Boston,  New York  and Philadelphia areas where
“the housing markets are in a sound position and TD Bank has a
strong brand presence,” Hollensteiner said. It expects to boost
the amount of the employees, who work at its bank branches and
other offices, to 230 by the end of next year.  Recruiting Talent  While the company faces a “competitive” market for loan
officers with the experience and relationships needed to find
 home buyers  seeking loans, it’s able to attract talent as rivals
are roiled by falling refinancing and new regulations taking
effect Jan. 1, he said.  “Originators are going to be more focused on making sure
they’re with a well-capitalized institution moving forward,”
Hollensteiner said. “Capital is king.”  Stephen Boyle, chief financial officer of Toronto-Dominion’s U.S. arm, cited mortgages as the biggest reason the
unit has increased its loans faster than American peers during a
September investor conference. Michael Pedersen, the division’s
head, said the previous month he hopes to add to the holdings by
luring more of its deposit customers, as he seeks to expand the
gap between rates on its assets and funding costs.  The company’s C$835 billion ($800 billion) of total assets
as of its fiscal third quarter ended July 31 meant it was North
America’s eighth-largest bank, trailing only  Royal Bank of
Canada  among lenders in its own country.  Mortgage Types  Its C$414 billion of loans included C$106 billion from the
U.S.,  according  to a company presentation. In the U.S., it held
$30.8 billion of one-to-four family residential loans on June
30, up from $24.4 billion at the start of 2012, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. data show.  TD Bank’s use of its balance sheet allows it to offer types
of mortgages not found at many competitors, Hollensteiner said.
That includes providing first and  second mortgages  of as much as
90 percent of a property’s value, with the “piggyback” home-equity loans accounting for 10 percent, he said.  It also retains loans with private  mortgage insurance  to
lower-income, first-time home buyers with down payments as low
as 5 percent, including as little as 3 percent of their own cash
if they can secure gifts or grants, he said. In addition, the
bank offers loans for individuals having custom  homes built  that
then convert into permanent financing.  Jumbo Loans  In the company’s most recent fiscal year ended Oct. 31,
jumbo loans too big to qualify for government programs accounted
for 45 percent of its originations, while 89 percent carried
fixed rates, according to Hollensteiner.  The bank has been among lenders in the U.S. putting 30-year
fixed mortgages with rates near record lows on their books this
year. The type of debt is uncommonly central to the America
market and is said to be reliant on government guarantees, such
as through taxpayer-backed  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac.  Wells Fargo & Co .’s balances of first-lien residential
 mortgages  averaged $254.1 billion in the July through September
period, up from $234 billion a year earlier. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  book  of prime mortgages, excluding certain loans from
banks it bought during the financial crisis, rose to $48 billion
on Sept. 30, up from $41.4 billion a year earlier. Demand for
30-year fixed-rate loans can be seen in the lenders offering 30-year jumbos at lower rates than conventional debt.  That appetite has crimped sales by issuers led by  Redwood
Trust Inc. (RWT)  of private mortgage bonds, a market that had been
growing after a 2011 cut to the upper loan-size limits of  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac and increases in their debt-guarantee fees.  ‘Head-Scratcher’  “It is a bit of a head-scratcher as to why banks would so
aggressively put potentially very long duration assets on their
balance sheets at this point in the interest-rate cycle,”
Redwood Chief Executive Officer Martin Hughesand President
Brett Nicholas wrote this month in a shareholder letter.  During an Oct. 31 Senate banking panel hearing in which
lawmakers examined ways to reform the U.S. market, Federal
Reserve Bank of New York researcher Joseph Tracy and
AllianceBernstein LP’s Michael Canter said that 30-year U.S.
mortgages will require taxpayer backing of some sort.  “Under the presumption that it’s important for the housing
market to have 30-year mortgages and that mortgage availability
is vital to the housing market, we don’t think it’s workable
without a government guarantee,” said Canter, head of
securitized assets at AllianceBernstein, which oversees more
than $250 billion in fixed-income investments.  Capital Requirements  Certain banks’ current demand for 30-year mortgages doesn’t
mean that deposit-takers can replace the $5 trillion market for
government-backed mortgage securities, Canter said later in an
e-mail. It “would be great if that capacity were there, but
given the new capital requirements for banks and legal issues
surrounding mortgages I am not sure that it is,” he said.  Thomas Wind, head of  Everbank Financial (EVER)  Corp.’s mortgage
unit, said that “the thought of putting on a lot of 30-year
fixed-rate loans at 4 percent doesn’t have a lot of appeal” to
many smaller banks, who may remember how long-term mortgages
helped fuel the savings-and-loan crisis of the 1980s after
 deposit rates  rose. While his Jacksonville, Florida-based bank
takes on loans with rates fixed for as long as 10 years, “we
just don’t like that longer-term tail risk,” he said.  Hollensteiner said Toronto-Dominion is comfortable with
managing the risks of 30-year loans, and employs “pretty
rigorous” underwriting to guard against the default dangers of
its products, with protections tied to items such as borrowers’
debt-to-income ratios and credit profiles.  ‘More Catholic’  The company’s culture means that it’s likely being careful
when adding the long-term assets, according to National Bank
Financial’s Routledge. Its corporate treasury department can use
derivatives such as  interest-rate swaps  that can convert fixed
payments to floating ones, he said.  “They’re more Catholic than the Pope in terms of interest-rate risk,” he said.  Aiken of Barclays agrees that’s one of the company’s
strengths. At the same time, he said, because the lives of U.S.
mortgages can vary more with changes in borrowing costs, it’s
“absolutely something that could damp profitability down the
road” as actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve raise deposit
costs from the levels near zero in place since an American
housing collapse caused a global crisis.  In Canada, a housing boom that helped lead the world’s 11th
largest economy out of the 2008 financial crisis was fueled by
some of the lowest  mortgage rates  in decades as the  Bank of
Canada  cut its key rate to a record low 0.25 percent.  Overheating Market  Canadian policy makers and the central bank, concerned
about an  overheating  housing market, have been urging consumers
to curb borrowing, while Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened
rules on insured mortgages for the fourth time in four years in
July 2012 on concern some regional housing markets were
overheating. Canada’s banking regulator released tougher
mortgage-lending standards last year and Flaherty said last week
he would intervene again if needed.  Canada’s economy is predicted by economists to grow next
year and in 2015 at a slower pace than in the U.S., after
mortgage borrowing rose 1.7 percent to C$1.11 trillion in the
second quarter, according to  Statistics Canada , and debt such as
mortgages and credit cards increased to 163.4 percent of
disposable income, among the highest in the world.  The recent “fairly strong contribution” of Toronto-Dominion’s U.S. unit to its profits will likely grow as a
result, which makes adding American loans such as mortgages “a
very important factor in TD’s  valuation ,” Aiken said.  The company’s  shares  rose 17 percent this year through
yesterday, about the same as the eight-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index. The stock slipped 0.3 percent
to C$97.62 in Toronto trading.  Hollensteiner said there’s plenty of room for it to
continue growing in the U.S. mortgage market -- and a jump in
rates and new regulations may create even more.  “We expect there will be disruption in the industry in
terms of who’s doing business today and who’s doing business
tomorrow,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  