-- Canaccord Genuity to Consider Small Deals for U.K. Wealth Unit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-11-19T22:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/canaccord-genuity-to-consider-small-deals-for-u-k-wealth-unit.html
Canaccord Genuity Group Inc. (CF) ,
Canada’s largest non-bank brokerage, would consider small deals
to build-up its U.K.  wealth-management  business even as it shuns
larger acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Reynolds  said.  “We’re not looking to make any more” large purchases,
Reynolds, 50, said today at a conference in New York hosted by
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. “You will see us make small bolt-on
acquisitions in our U.K. wealth-management business.”  Canaccord Genuity, based in Toronto, has expanded in the
past four years through takeovers in  North America , Asia and
Britain, where it bought London-based Collins Stewart Hawkpoint
Ltd. in March 2012. Canaccord Genuity added to that business in
October 2012 with a C$20 million ($19.1 million) purchase of
London-based Eden Financial Ltd.’s wealth-management unit.  “We’ll continue to do acquisitions like that,” Reynolds
said.  Canaccord Genuity may need another two years before its
North American wealth-management business produces consistent
profits, Reynolds said. The unit has posted eight consecutive
quarterly losses, according to  financial statements .  “If the market doesn’t change, I think it’s going to take
us another probably upwards of eight quarters to get that
business toward break-even,” he said. “The worst is behind
us.”  The Canadian wealth business is now at the “right size,”
Reynolds said, after going through a restructuring last year
that included closing 16 offices.  Canaccord Genuity’s investments over the next several years
will be in the U.S. and U.K., where the firm is investing in
 capital markets  and wealth management, Reynolds said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  