-- CFTC Swaps Pushback, Iceland-Hedge Funds, Rabobank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/cftc-swaps-pushback-iceland-hedge-funds-rabobank-compliance.html
The largest Wall Street banks are
mobilizing to fight a new policy by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission that gives the regulator broader authority in
overseas derivatives deals.  The policy, issued Nov. 14, negates a legal interpretation
that banks have been using to keep some swaps trades off
electronic platforms and away from CFTC rules enacted to make
the market less opaque. The firms and their lawyers say the
announcement, which the agency published as a “staff
advisory,” is written so broadly it could expose their overseas
deals to even more U.S. regulation.  Within hours of its release, bank lobbyists met to discuss
possible legal action against the agency and began contacting
members of Congress, according to people involved in the
pushback. The next day, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  was getting
letters from lawmakers saying he was upsetting the $693 trillion
market by issuing policy with little consultation.  The question of how to apply U.S. derivatives rules in
foreign jurisdictions has been debated since the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul began to take shape. The biggest banks
sometimes trade half their swaps with overseas clients. Gensler
has fought to extend his agency’s reach.  He defended the policy in  New York  yesterday at an industry
conference held by swap execution facilities, the new platforms
where most swaps are supposed to trade. Gensler said the policy
ensures equal treatment for market players.  The advisory has also reopened a rift between the CFTC and
European regulators. In July, Gensler had reached an agreement
with his counterparts to defer to foreign authorities when the
CFTC finds their rules to be comparable -- a deal seen as
benefiting the largest banks.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Rabobank Said to Avoid EU Libor Fine After Collusion Bids  Rabobank Groep, the Dutch lender fined 774 million euros
($1.04 billion) by U.S., U.K. and Netherlands regulators for
rigging interbank lending rates, will escape a European Union
antitrust fine this year, two people familiar with the probe
said.  Rabobank isn’t among a group of lenders settling a case
over manipulation of yen Libor and will avoid punishment at this
stage, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the EU’s decision isn’t yet public. More than half a dozen banks
are set to be fined as part of a settlement with the EU in the
yen Libor case, one of the people said.  Rabobank made as many as 384 internal attempts to rig yen
Libor, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority said last month.
As part of a “collusive effort” to manipulate rates, staff
also sent at least 10 requests outside the bank and received
seven from others, the FCA said.  Antitrust regulators have “a harder case to make” than
financial watchdogs because they need to show a conspiracy
between traders, said Robert Fleishman, a lawyer at Steptoe &
Johnson LLP in Brussels.  The Dutch lender declined to comment on whether it would be
fined by the Brussels-based commission. Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the EU regulator, also declined to comment.  Avoiding punishment in the first wave of fines doesn’t mean
the bank is immune from future penalties if the EU antitrust arm
decides to revisit the dossier, said one of the people.  For more, click here.  Iceland Tells Hedge Funds Not to Bet on 75% Claims Writedown  Iceland’s government says speculation by creditors in the
island’s failed banks, many of which are hedge funds, that they
will need to take a 75 percent writedown on their claims is an
exaggeration.  Creditors in Iceland’s failed banks are trying to reach an
agreement with the island’s authorities on how to treat $3.8
billion in krona-denominated claims without triggering a
currency slump. Iceland has said it won’t lift  capital controls 
unless creditors accept writedowns as the nation tries to avoid
a balance of payments crisis.  The government, elected in April after promising to help
households through debt relief, estimates it will be able to
unwind capital controls in place since 2008 within six months of
striking a deal with creditors.  A number of the creditors waiting to get their money back
are hedge funds that had bet on a faster resolution of Iceland’s
banks. Firms including Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC
and Taconic Capital Advisors LP, bought claims on lenders’
assets at prices well below face value.  Though most creditors have yet to be repaid, Iceland’s
crisis management program has won international praise and the
$14 billion economy is now growing faster than the euro area.  Courts  MF Global Brokerage to Pay $100 Million Fine in CFTC Case  MF Global Holdings Ltd.’s brokerage unit was fined $100
million and forced to admit to allegations in a lawsuit filed by
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission over customer
losses sustained in the company’s 2011 failure.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in  Manhattan  on Nov. 8
signed a consent order for the fine, to be paid after MF Global
Inc. fully recompenses customers and certain other creditors.
The penalty is part of a June settlement under which the company
agreed to pay about $1 billion in compensation to customers.
About 90 percent of that money has already been distributed.  The judge yesterday directed MF Global to pay about $290
million of the judgment to a federal bankruptcy trustee within
five business days.  The CFTC sued MF Global and company officials including
former Chief Executive Officer  Jon Corzine  in June for failing
to properly supervise employees as the firm spiraled toward
bankruptcy in 2011. The day the suit was announced, the agency
said it had a settlement with the brokerage unit, MF Global
Inc., to pay about $1 billion in restitution to clients and the
$100 million penalty.  “Judge Marrero’s action is procedural and confirms one of
the bases for the MF Global Inc. trustee’s recent motion and the
bankruptcy court’s order granting authority to make 100 percent
distributions to former commodity customers,”  Kent Jarrell , a
spokesman for the MF Global brokerage trustee, James Giddens,
said in a statement. “The trustee intends go forward with the
distributions subject to possible appeals.”  The Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker is In re MF Global
Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  Interviews  Clegg Presses Case for Higher U.K. Property Tax on Foreigners  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  pushed the case for
raising the tax on top-end properties owned by foreign investors
in  London , as the government examines the idea in the run-up to
its end-of-year financial statement.  Clegg made the remarks at a news conference in London
yesterday.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering
levying capital gains tax on foreigners selling property in the
U.K. to curb rising house prices in the capital, Sky News
television first reported earlier this month. Overseas demand is
adding to pressure on a market experiencing a shortage of
supply.  “There are parts of the London  property market  now which
are entirely divorced from and dislocated from the rest of the
economy,” Clegg said. “That’s partly because they’re driven by
market forces which are global and by very, very large amounts
of money flowing into the residential property market as
investment.”  Clegg’s Liberal Democrats, the minority party in the ruling
coalition, have made higher taxes on the most expensive
properties a key policy with demands for a so-called mansion tax
on homes valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3.2 million.)
Their Conservative partners have rejected the idea.  Mersch Says ECB’s Stress Tests May Cover Three-Year Period  European Central Bank Executive Board member Yves Mersch
said stress tests on euro-area banks will probably simulate
three years of negative economic conditions as part of a check
on the financial system’s health.  “Our deliberations are tending toward these tests having a
three-year horizon, to the end of 2016,” Mersch, who is helping
to oversee the ECB’s preparations to become the currency bloc’s
bank supervisor, said he sees the horizon extending to the end
of 2016.  He made the remarks at a conference in  Frankfurt  yesterday.
Mersch said there would be a base scenario and a so-called
stress- or worst-case scenario.  Setting a time horizon should help banks gauge which
definition of capital under international rules will be used in
the stress tests.  By the end of 2016 banks need to hold 5.125 percent common
equity core tier 1 capital, which includes a buffer against
losses. That rises to 5.75 percent on Jan. 1, 2017.  East Europe Loan Growth Needs to Be Monitored, Nowotny Says  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald
Nowotny said strong loan growth in some eastern European
countries needs close monitoring by regulators to avoid another
bubble like the one that burst in 2009.  It was difficult to tell whether some emerging European
economies had been overheating or converging with western
neighbors before the recession that started in most of eastern
 Europe  in 2009, Nowotny, the Austrian central bank’s governor,
told journalists on the sidelines of a conference in Vienna.
That process may still blur the picture, he said.  Western European lenders led by Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RAIFF) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and UniCredit Bank Austria
AG bankrolled eastern Europe’s boom with cheap loans before the
2008 credit crunch. Bad loans have shot up since 2009 and are
weighing on bank balance sheets.  Credit was still contracting in  Hungary , the Baltics and
Croatia in the second quarter of this year and grew less than 5
percent per year in Poland and Slovakia, the Vienna Initiative
group of international lenders said last month. It continues to
grow by more than 15 percent in  Turkey ,  Russia  and Belarus.  The European Union’s eastern members that aren’t using the
euro -- including Poland, Hungary, the  Czech Republic , Bulgaria,
Romania and Croatia -- should consider joining the ECB-led joint
bank supervision, Nowotny said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 