-- Cheap Eats in Queens, From Florist to Temple via Tibet
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/cheap-eats-in-queens-from-florist-to-temple-via-tibet.html
Fancy lunch in Queens?  How about 10 in a day?  Here are some hidden gems for inexpensive Asian fare in
unlikely locations, from a flower shop to a Hindu temple. They
are to be found on a food safari with the writer  Joe DiStefano .  While you don’t need a big wallet -- prices start at $75 --
you do need a huge appetite. Here’s how we do lunch in Queens.  Taipei Hong : This counter at the back of a small food court
on Roosevelt Avenue, in Flushing, serves salty nuggets of fried
chicken. The meat is cooked to order and is soft beneath the
crunchy coating. It’s $4. Other options include pig-knuckles
rice and fish filet with sour-cabbage soup.  Li’s Lanzhou Hand Stretched Noodles : This is tucked away in
the basement of the New World Mall, where most signs and
customers are Chinese. The guo tie pork-and-leek pot stickers
($5.85) are outstanding. They come topped with a wafer-thin
sheet of batter. You break through with your chopsticks to reach
them. This is a dish with visual appeal that tastes great. Two
other shoppers stopped to take photographs of our food to
discuss it. It was the second-best single dish of the day.  Soy Bean Chen Flower Shop : This Flushing establishment
takes the prize for novelty. Tofu is served from a corner
counter in a florist. It’s soft and fresh and comes with a spicy
or sweet-ginger sauce. You sit amid the flowers on a stool while
the owner -- who just identifies himself as Soy-Bean Chen --
entertains you. While conversation may be limited if you don’t
speak Chinese, the warmth of the welcome needs no translation.  White Bear : This simple restaurant is the place for wonton
with hot sauce, no soup $4.50. There’s a wide choice of
dumplings and this is a place of pilgrimage for aficionados.  Corner 28 : This tiny stall serves Peking duck wraps for $1.
You might not think they could be very good for that price. They
are. Standing on a crowded sidewalk eating duck for a buck is a
treat.  Xi’an Famous Foods : This basement venue may feel like a
hidden gem, but Anthony Bourdain is among  those who have
discovered it . Other branches will soon include one on the Upper
West Side.  Wherever you go, the  spicy cumin lamb burger  ($3.25) is
superb. It was the best of about 15 dishes I tried in Queens.
The tiger vegetable salad ($4.75) with cilantro, green peppers,
green onions, celery and jalapeno peppers, dressed in a sesame
vinaigrette, came close. Information:  http://xianfoods.com/   Ganesh Temple Canteen : The full name of this Hindu temple
is Sri Maha Vallabha Ganapati Devasthanam. It is quite a
mouthful before you even get to the canteen, in a basement
reached via steps at the side of the building. It’s like eating
in a gymnasium, only the vegetarian food is probably better. The
paper dosa ($3.50) -- a crepe that’s bigger than your head -- is
a must. Information: https://nyganeshtemple.org/canteen.  Phayul : Of all the establishments I visited, this small
upstairs restaurant serving Tibetan food was the most charming.
Block out the sounds and sights of Jackson Heights and you might
be in Lhasa. (To be honest, the closest I’ve come is Kathmandu,
but you know what I mean.) Momo dumplings are the house
specialty and there are six varieties, including Ja Sha
(chicken) at $4.99. Another specialty is Tsak Sha Chu Rul beef &
Tibet cheese soup. It is spicy and tangy. Butter tea is served.  Baul Daada Jal Muri  Shop: This is a Jackson Heights food
cart whose owner combines an array of nuts and chickpeas and
dressings by hand into a crunchy mix, squirting in mustard and
other lubricants. It’s like watching a skilled barman creating a
fine martini. Alas, the flavor isn’t that of a fine martini but
in terms of spectacle, it’s up there.  Tawa Food : OK, I admit it. I wasn’t eating this much by
this stage and I’m going to have to take it on trust that it was
authentic Himalayan fare at the Dhaulagiri Kitchen, inside Tawa
Food. My food-spattered notes mention goat offal, beans with
anchovies in spicy sauce, cucumber and green-pea pickle. Rock
music played and a television showed Bollywood movies. Sorry, I
am going to have to lie down now.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for  Bloomberg News .
He is U.K. and Ireland chairman of the World’s 50 Best
Restaurants awards. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  New York  at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 