-- Chile Cuts Key Rate for 2nd Month as Domestic Demand Eases
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-11-19T21:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/chile-cuts-key-rate-for-second-month-as-domestic-demand-eases.html
Chile ’s central bank cut its  key
interest rate  by a quarter point for the second straight month
after domestic demand weakened and the inflation rate fell below
the bottom of the target range.  Policy makers, led by bank president  Rodrigo Vergara ,
reduced the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent today, as forecast by
13 of 21 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The other eight
analysts expected the bank to keep the rate on hold.  Chile,  Mexico ,  Peru  and the  European Central Bank  have all
cut  interest rates  in the past two months as inflation remains
subdued. Price growth in Chile has stayed below the target range
in nine of the past 11 months. More recently, the retail sales
and investment booms that prevented an interest rate cut earlier
in the year began to ease. Investment rose at the slowest pace
since 2009 in the third quarter.  “Third-quarter data and revised figures of earlier
quarters confirm the slowdown of all the components of final
demand,” policy makers said in the statement accompanying
today’s decision.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.7 percent in the third
quarter from the year earlier, even as domestic demand grew 1.3
percent, the slowest pace since the third quarter of 2009.
Investment growth eased to 3.2 percent from 8.6 percent in the
second quarter.  Cutting Rates  “There is an important deceleration in internal demand,”
said Nathan Pincheira, an economist at Banchile Inversiones in
Santiago. “We knew it was coming, but not this strongly.”  As spending growth slows and inflationary pressures remain
weak, the central bank could cut the key rate below 4 percent
next year, Pincheira said. The central bank should give more
guidance on its policy in its quarterly monetary policy report
on Dec. 4, he said.  The three-month swap rate fell to 4.51 percent yesterday
from 4.9 percent on Oct. 17, a level coherent with a rate cut
today and no further changes until March. The yield on five-year
bonds fell to a two-year low of 4.57 percent on Nov. 15.  Annual inflation slowed to 1.5 percent in October from 2
percent the month earlier, below the 2 percent to 4 percent
target range.  Inflation expectations fell, even after the Oct. 17 rate
cut surprised analysts polled by Bloomberg. Traders in the
forwards market for the unidades de fomento accounting unit are
pricing in 2.15 percent inflation this year and 2.39 percent
next year. On Oct. 17 they were expecting prices to rise 2.61
percent next year.  Five-year break-even inflation in the swaps market fell to
2.62 percent on Nov. 18, the lowest since May.  Slowing Down  Economic growth in the third quarter was bolstered by a
20.6 percent jump in copper exports from the year earlier, which
compensated for weaker domestic demand.  The country’s economy won’t match third-quarter growth
again until 2015, when it begins to feel the impact of lower
borrowing costs, said Fernando Soto, senior economist at Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  The central bank lowered its growth forecast for 2013 on
Sept. 4 to a range of 4 percent to 4.5 percent from 4 percent to
5 percent citing weaker global conditions.  Former central bank presidents Vittorio Corbo and Jose De Gregorio have both forecast that the economy may grow less than
4 percent next year, below the bank’s forecast of 4 percent to 5
percent.  Retail sales climbed 7 percent in September from the year
earlier, compared with 12 percent the month before, while
 manufacturing  unexpectedly contracted 1 percent.  “Activity and especially domestic spending are moderating
beyond trend levels,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist at Banco
Security in Santiago who forecast today’s rate cut.  “There are
no inflationary pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  