-- Xiao Says China IPO Rules to Cut Bureaucracy, Boost Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-19T08:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/china-s-xiao-says-ipo-reform-to-cut-bureaucracy-boost-markets.html
China ’s planned new rules for share
sales will boost the role of market forces, securities regulator
Xiao Gang said, as the government pledges to loosen its control
of the world’s second-largest economy.  The switch to a system of registration rather than approval
of IPOs is the key to all capital-market reforms, Xiao said at a
conference in Beijing today, in his first major public speech
since taking over the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
March. Under the rules, regulators will be responsible only for
ensuring companies’ disclosures meet requirements, rather than
approving the share sale itself, he said.  Xiao’s remarks follow a pledge this month by the country’s
top leadership to make markets “decisive” in allocating
resources, in the biggest expansion of economic reforms since at
least the 1990s.  Citic Securities Co. (6030) , the country’s largest
brokerage by market value, has jumped 17 percent this month in
Hong Kong trading, leading peers higher amid speculation the
policy changes may signal the end of a 14-month freeze on IPOs.  “The capital market is still an administration-led one,
and its operation mechanisms aren’t in line with an orientation
to supply and demand,” Xiao said. “Prices remain distorted.”  Under current rules for public share sales, the CSRC’s
listing committee must examine each application and determine
whether a company is fit for listing. The country hasn’t had an
IPO since October last year, leaving more than 700 companies
awaiting regulatory approval.  Avoiding Shocks  The shift to the new system must be gradual to avoid shocks
to the market, Xiao said. Before ending the freeze the CSRC is
also drafting rules to curb misconduct that would establish
stiff penalties for investment banks.  China’s stimulus following the global financial crisis led
banks to advance more loans in the last four years than in the
previous six decades since the founding of the People’s
Republic, Xiao said. Direct financing through  capital markets  is
still too low, he said.  “China can’t rely on such high leverage for its growth --
it has reached the limit,” Xiao said. “This will create a rare
opportunity for the capital market. The situation is crying out
for a change, as the model of dependence on bank loans has
reached its end.”  China will open its capital markets further because the
current Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor channels are
too narrow, Xiao said. The country has no plans to introduce an
“international board” for trading shares of foreign companies,
because the time isn’t ripe, he said.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.2 percent
today, extending this year’s decline to 3.4 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  