-- China Military Chief Sees Large Gap in Modernization of Military
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-19T11:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/china-military-chief-sees-large-gap-in-modernization-of-military.html
There is a “large gap” between
 China ’s military and the needs of national security, the deputy
head of the Communist Party’s top military body said in comments
on the country’s latest reform proposals.  China’s military is quickly developing its  information
systems  yet its level of modernization does not compare with the
world’s advanced armed forces, Xu Qiliang, vice chairman of the
Central Military Commission, wrote in a book explaining reforms
outlined in a Communist Party meeting last week.  In an article praising President  Xi Jinping ’s attention to
defense and the military after a four-day party conclave, Xu
called for strengthening the military to meet the country’s
national security challenges. Xi, who is head of the party’s
Central Military Commission, is likely to head a new national
security committee the party agreed to set up at the meeting
that ended Nov. 12.  Though its military spending is less than one-fifth of the
U.S., China has developed drones, stealth fighters and an
 aircraft carrier  as it expands its presence throughout the
region and presses territorial claims with neighbors more
forcefully.  The Central Military Commission has also set up groups to
inspect party members in the military, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today.  “High-level party committee units and their members --
especially principal officials -- should be the key targets of
the inspection,” Xu said, Xinhua reported.  Hackers with ties to the Chinese armed forces have also
been linked to overseas attacks. In a Feb. 18  report , Mandiant,
an Alexandria, Virginia-based security firm, attributed 141
major cyberattacks to members of a People’s Liberation Army
unit.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  