-- Chinese Skeptics Deepen Biggest A-Share Discount in 3 Yrs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-20T09:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/chinese-skeptics-deepening-biggest-a-share-discount-in-3-years.html
China ’s largest package of economic
reforms since the 1990s is getting a bigger vote of confidence
from foreign investors than from the nation’s own citizens.  The benchmark index for Chinese stocks traded in  Hong Kong 
has jumped 6.2 percent, more than twice as much as the  Shanghai 
gauge, since policy makers led by President  Xi Jinping  pledged
to ease China’s one-child policy and liberalize interest rates
on Nov. 15. That left mainland shares valued at a 5.8 percent
discount, the most in three years, according to the Hang Seng
China AH Premium Index.  In a year when  Asia ’s benchmark stock index is up 10
percent and U.S. shares are rising the most in a decade, China’s
market is getting little respect. The Shanghai Composite is down
3.4 percent, trailing its Hong Kong counterpart by the most
since 2010. Investors saddled with $698 billion of lost market
value since 2010 are proving difficult to win back even as
 valuations  in industries such as cement and transportation offer
some of the biggest discounts ever versus shares traded outside
the mainland.  “I am not in a hurry to buy stocks,” said Chen Yifeng, a
35-year-old accountant at a state-owned company in Shanghai
whose personal investments in the domestic equity market are
valued at about 40,000  yuan  ($6,566). “I need to see exactly
how and when these changes mentioned in the meeting will be
implemented. The confidence in the local market takes time to
recover.”  Relative Value  Perceptions of China, which contributed most to the global
economy’s rebound from the 2008 financial crisis, influence
investment decisions around the world. Laurence D. Fink, the
chief executive officer at BlackRock Inc., the largest money
manager, said he’s “less worried” about the outlook for
markets in part because of China’s reforms.  The Shanghai Composite added 0.6 percent to 2,206.61 at the
close today, while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland shares listed in Hong Kong rose 0.6 percent. The Hang
Seng China AH Premium index dropped for a fifth day.  China’s benchmark 10-year bond yield climbed to the highest
level on record yesterday amid speculation borrowing costs will
rise as the government loosens its grip on financial markets in
the world’s second-biggest economy. Volatility in the yuan
touched a five-month high today.  Performance Gap  Policies detailed by the Communist Party on Nov. 15 include
steps to expand farmers’ land rights, let qualified private
investors set up small-to-medium sized banks, accelerate the
convertibility of the yuan and free-up  interest rates . The
document covers 60 measures designed to help elevate the role of
markets while keeping the state in a “dominant” position.  The Hang Seng China index surged the most since December
2011 on Nov. 18, and narrowed its loss this year to 0.6 percent
as of yesterday. The Shanghai Composite pared its 2013 decline
to 3.4 percent, versus a 10 percent gain for the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  The different performance is also evident in the specific
stocks. Shanghai-traded shares of Anhui Conch Cement Co. closed
yesterday at a 25 percent discount versus the company’s Hong
Kong-traded shares, compared with an average difference of 12
percent during the past five years. Toll-road operator  Jiangsu
Expressway Co. (177) ’s mainland-listed equities trade at a 26 percent
discount, within 1 percent of the biggest gap on record, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investment Caps  The spread between the two markets has existed historically
because of investment limitations in China. The nation restricts
access to its local equity markets through its qualified foreign
institutional investor, or QFII, program. The government
approved $48.5 billion of QFII quotas as of Oct. 30, up from
$47.5 billion a month earlier, according to a statement posted
on website of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. That
accounts for about 1.5 percent of China’s $3.3 trillion market
capitalization.  Foreign investors are less bearish because China’s new
policies will make long-term economic growth more sustainable,
said Chen Li, a strategist at UBS AG in Shanghai. The rally will
probably continue for the next two to three months as the
government unveils further policy details while low valuations
versus the rest of the world lure investors, said Chen, who
favors insurers and makers of discretionary  consumer goods .  ‘Quite Cheap’  The Shanghai Composite trades for 11 times reported
earnings, a 21 percent discount versus the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index, which is valued at 14 times profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng China gauge has a multiple
of 8.5, the data show.  “We still believe it’s a good time to buy China in the
long term,” said Michael Chiu, an investment director for
equities at HSBC Global Asset Management, which oversees about
$419 billion. Chinese shares in Hong Kong and the mainland “are
still quite cheap in valuation,” he said.  Tang Jianhua, a 35-year-old engineer in Shanghai, says he’s
waiting to see how the government executes its reform plans
before adding to his personal stock holdings.  The new policies “are all good but no one knows for sure
about the implementation,” said Tang. “It’s not necessary to
invest in a market where there’s uncertainty and the general
environment isn’t that good.”  Economy Risk  The Shanghai Composite climbed 21 percent in the six months
after former President Hu helmed the Communist Party’s policy
meeting in October 2003, then erased all of its gains to trade
about 4 percent lower by October 2004, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While China’s leaders were focused on “rebalancing” the
economy in 2003, many of the imbalances identified in that
year’s policy document worsened over the next 10 years,  Stephen Green , head of Greater China research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Hong Kong, wrote in a Sept. 2 research report.  Companies with the word Shanghai in their names added about
$45 billion of market value in a month, more than  Vietnam ’s
entire stock market, after China’s commerce ministry said on
Aug. 22 that the government approved a free-trade zone in
Shanghai.  Shanghai International Port Group Co., which led the rally
in stocks linked to the free-trade zone, has tumbled 21 percent
during the past two months as detailed plans for the area
disappointed investors.  Short-Term Drag  “The prospects of Chinese equities are positive for the
long-term, but near-term there are some execution risks with
regard to implementing reforms,” said Teresa Chow, a Hong Kong-based  money manager  who helps oversee about $1.5 billion at RBC
Investment (Asia) Ltd. “Mainland investors seem to have more
reasonable expectations.”  China’s plans to loosen the state’s grip on credit and raw-materials costs, reduce lavish spending by government officials
and improve environmental protection may turn into a short-term
drag on economic growth, said Grace Tam, a Hong Kong-based
global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, which
oversees about $1.5 trillion.  Local companies have postponed or scrapped 73.5 billion
yuan of bond sales in November, up from 29.8 billion yuan last
month, according to filings on the websites of Chinamoney,
Chinabond and Shanghai Clearing House.  The nation’s economy will probably expand 7.6 percent this
year, according to the median of 53 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be down from 7.7 percent in 2012 and the
same pace as 1999, which was the weakest expansion since 1990.  “Foreign investors focus more on the long-term gain,”
said Tam. “The domestic players are more concerned about the
short-term pain.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  