-- China Stock-Index Futures Rise Before Foreign Investment Report
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-11-19T01:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/china-stock-index-futures-rise-before-foreign-investment-report.html
China’s stock-index futures  rose as
the benchmark index surged the most in two months yesterday
after the government announced the biggest package of economic
reforms since the 1990s.  December futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.2 percent to
2,416.80 as of 9:18 a.m. local time before the release of a
report on foreign direct investment. CSR Corp. may advance after
its unit won a supply order for the Guangzhou subway.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.9 percent to 2,197.22
yesterday, the most since Sept. 9, while the  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  climbed 5.7 percent. China pledged to allow
more private investment in the state-controlled industries,
loosen its one-child policy and expand farmers’ land rights,
according to a Communist Party policy decision published by
Xinhua News Agency on Nov. 15.  “The whole idea of expanding economic freedoms in general
is certainly positive for the financial markets in China,”
 Timothy Ghriskey , the chief investment officer at Solaris Group
LLC in  Bedford Hills , New York, which manages over $1.5 billion,
said in a telephone interview. “The reforms are better than
people expected. China to us just continues to be a great
opportunity.”  China is liberalizing its policies in an effort to bolster
an economy that’s heading for its weakest annual expansion since
1999. The Shanghai benchmark index has slumped 3.2 percent this
year as slowing growth curbed corporate earnings.  China may say foreign direct investment increased 6.1
percent in October, according to the median estimate of four
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with a 4.9 percent
gain in September. The Ministry of Commerce is scheduled to
release the data today.  Policy Liberalization  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index added 2 percent in New
York yesterday, while the db X-trackers Harvest CSI 300 surged
2.5 percent. The CSI 300 Index rose 3.3 percent to 2,428.90.  The Shanghai index trades at 8.6 times projected earnings,
compared with the five-year average of 12.5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng  China  AH Premium index, a
gauge of prices for mainland-traded shares versus those in  Hong
Kong , slid as much as 3.2 percent to the lowest level since
October 2010.  China’s plenum reforms are positive for equities and  yuan 
appeciation and negative for credit, according to a Morgan
Stanley report. The reforms will benefit “new China” stock
market sectors including consumption, technology and health-care, while they may have a negative near-term earnings impact
on smaller banks, property, industrial companies, the report
said.  Benefit Stocks  “These reforms increase the probability of a ‘beautiful
deleveraging’ and could help Chinese equity valuations re-rate
and trim a historically large valuation gap” against the MSCI
Asia ex-Japan index, strategists  Jonathan Garner ,  Viktor Hjort 
and Kewei Yang wrote.  State-owned enterprises are the biggest sector in China
credit markets and increasing competition and raising dividend
requirements will put pressure on their profitability and may
constrain growth, the report said.  China may restructure “super huge” state-owned
enterprises into state asset investment companies, the China
Securities Journal reported, citing an unidentified person.
China National Petroleum Corp., China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp. or Sinopec, China United Network Communications Ltd. may
be among those restructured first, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  