-- China Money Rate Declines Most This Month as PBOC Adds More Cash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-19T08:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/china-money-rate-declines-most-since-july-as-pboc-adds-more-cash.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
declined the most this month after the central bank stepped up
cash injections into the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China added 35 billion  yuan  ($5.7
billion) via seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements sold at 4.1
percent today, according to a statement on the website. That’s
the biggest  amount  pumped in since Oct. 8. The  seven-day
repurchase rate , a gauge of funding availability in the banking
system, jumped the most since June on Nov. 15 after the PBOC
drained money in the last two weeks. The yield on 10-year
government bonds climbed to the highest in at least six years.  The seven-day repo rate fell 51 basis points, or 0.51
percentage point, to 4.93 percent as of 4:21 p.m. in Shanghai in
the biggest drop since Oct. 31, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It surged 116
basis points on Nov. 15 and touched 5.45 percent, the highest
since Oct. 30.  “The injection is likely to be on the back of heightened
money-market rates these days as well as the extremely weak
sentiment in the bond market,” said Becky Liu, a senior rates
strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. “If money-market rates and bond yields stay at escalated levels, they will
start to hurt the economy.”  The yield on the 4.08 percent government bonds due August
2023 climbed three basis points to 4.70 percent, according to
data from the Interbank Funding Center. That’s the highest for a
 benchmark  10-year note since Bloomberg started to compile the
data in September 2007.  The cost of one-year  swaps , the fixed payment needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose four basis points
to 4.58 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rate Liberalization  The PBOC will fully realize market-based interest rates in
the medium term and allow interbank trading of certificate of
deposits in the near term, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in a
guide book on understanding decisions made last week at the
third plenum of the Chinese Communist Party’s Central Committee.  China can raise the deposit-rate ceiling for the nation’s
lenders to 120 percent of the PBOC’s policy benchmark after
starting a trial of a proposed deposit-insurance system, Guo
Jianwei, deputy director of the PBOC’s second monetary policy
department, wrote in China Finance magazine issue dated Nov. 16.
The cap may be raised to 130 percent following the full
implementation of deposit-insurance program, Guo said.  Policies to free up local markets proposed at the Communist
Party’s third plenum last week would add to an already-tightening credit situation onshore, analysts at Morgan Stanley
wrote in a report yesterday. “De-leveraging” is underway and
that may reduce credit availability in the shorter term, even as
it would temper systemic risks in China, analysts led by
Jonathan Garner, Hong Kong-based chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist, wrote in the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  