-- Cisco to Emerge ‘Stronger’ From Slump, Chambers Says
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-11-19T21:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/cisco-to-emerge-stronger-from-slump-chambers-says.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  Chief Executive
Officer  John Chambers  told shareholders at an annual meeting
that the network-equipment maker will “emerge stronger than
ever” from a sales slump by investing in developing markets.  “We get the transitions right at Cisco,” Chambers said at
the meeting, held today at the company’s headquarters in  San
Jose ,  California . “We get knocked down sometimes, but we get up
in a way that no other company does.”  Cisco has been grappling with slower spending by
telecommunications companies, as well as weak economic growth in
Europe, Asia and emerging regions. At the same time, competitors
have taken share with simpler, cheaper models in some markets.
Chambers, 64, has been cutting staff, eliminating low-margin
businesses and pushing new versions of routers and switches as
well as software that can boost network speeds and efficiency.  The world’s largest maker of networking gear missed
analysts’ revenue projections in the fiscal first quarter, and
last week said sales in the current period will drop 8 percent
to 10 percent. Cisco’s  shares  have fallen 11 percent since the
report.  Today, Chambers blamed the disappointing first-quarter
sales in part on a sudden slowdown in developing regions.  On a conference call last week, Cisco said demand has
declined in markets such as China, in part because of political
concerns about buying from a U.S. supplier sparked by
allegations of electronic eavesdropping by the U.S. government.
The company has been acquiring software companies such as
Sourcefire Inc. to bolster margins as profits on its routers and
switches shrink amid rising competition.  Executive Pay  At the meeting today, shareholders voted to approve the
company’s executive compensation, and re-elected all directors.  Chambers, who became CEO in 1995, told  Bloomberg News  last
year that he might step down as early as 2014. In an interview
with CNBC on Nov. 13, he said he planned to remain CEO for two
more years, at the request of Cisco’s board.  For fiscal 2013, Chambers earned a salary of $1.1 million,
a cash bonus of $4.7 million, and restricted stock worth $15.2
million. His total pay package of $21.1 million was up from
$11.7 million the previous year.  The company’s shares rose less than 1 percent to $21.42 at
the close in  New York . They have climbed 9 percent this year,
compared with a 25 percent gain in the Standards & Poor’s 500
Index.  Chambers fired 4,000 workers in August. Including staff
added through acquisitions, Cisco’s headcount was little changed
last quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  