-- CLP to Pay $1.8 Billion for Stakes in Exxon Units in Hong Kong
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-11-19T10:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/clp-to-pay-1-8-billion-for-stakes-in-two-exxon-units-correct-.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , Hong Kong’s
biggest electricity provider, recorded its largest acquisition
after agreeing to pay HK$14 billion ($1.8 billion) for stakes in
two  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  units.  CLP will pay HK$12 billion for a 30 percent stake in Castle
Peak Power Co., which owns three plants in Hong Kong, the
company said today in a statement. It will also pay HK$2 billion
for a 51 percent stake in Exxon’s Hong Kong Pumped Storage
Development Co. Exxon will also sell a 30 percent stake in
Castle Peak to China Southern Power Grid Co., owner of China’s
second largest power distribution network.  The deal tops CLP’s $1.69 billion purchase of Australian
natural gas and electricity assets in 2005 from Singapore Power
Ltd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CLP doesn’t
expect the transaction to affect customer bills in the near
term, CLP Vice Chairman Betty Yuen said.  “The purchase will improve the operation of our generation
business and the integration with power distribution,” Yuen
said today at a media conference in Hong Kong. “It’ll also
increase our cooperation with China Southern and could create
opportunities for partnerships in the future.”  CLP gained 0.7 percent to HK$62.15 at the close in Hong
Kong, while the benchmark Hang Seng Index was little changed.  Rival Sale  Power Assets Holdings Ltd. (6) , owner of Hong Kong’s other
major electric utility, plans to sell as much as 70 percent of
its Hong Kong business in a deal that could be valued at $5
billion. The company is owned by Asia’s richest man,  Li Ka-shing , who has been looking to sell assets in the city where
growth is slowing.  “We have confidence in our Hong Kong business and it will
continue to grow,” CLP Chief Executive Officer Richard Lancaster said today at the conference. “Hong Kong’s population
is growing and those people are moving to the New Territories
and Kowloon.”  The two areas represent the bulk of CLP’s customers and
Hong Kong’s land.  CLP’s acquisition increases its stake in Castle Peak’s
6,908 megawatt generating capacity to 70 percent. CLP’s maximum
generation capacity for use in Hong Kong is 8,888 megawatts,
including Castle Peak’s contribution.  CLP has yet to decide how to finance the deal, according to
Chief Financial Officer Mark Takahashi. The company first said
in March 2012 that it and  China  Southern were in talks with
Exxon to buy Castle Peak. In its preliminary 2012 annual report,
CLP said negotiations with Exxon had been “protracted,” citing
a “considerable gap” in valuation between the parties.  Higher Tariff  CLP’s power unit has applied to raise electricity tariffs
in the city next year, having increased prices by 5.9 percent in
January. Under an agreement with the government, CLP and Power
Assets earn an annual return of 9.99 percent on fixed assets
until 2018.  Evercore Partners Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc acted as
financial advisers on the transactions, according to CLP’s
statement. Morgan Stanley and China International Capital Corp.
advised China Southern, according to a  statement  on the
company’s website, which didn’t disclose the price.  CLP also has assets in  Australia ,  India ,  Thailand ,  Taiwan 
and mainland China, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  