-- Co-Op Chairman Quits Early as Former Bank CEO Defends Losses
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-11-19T13:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/co-op-chairman-quits-early-as-former-bank-ceo-defends-losses.html
Co-Operative Group Ltd.’s chairman
stepped down earlier than planned as its banking unit’s former
chief executive officer said its acquisition of Britannia
Building Society didn’t cause the lender’s near collapse.  Len Wardle will leave immediately, rather than in May as
scheduled, and will be replaced by Deputy Chairwoman Ursula Lidbetter, the Manchester, England-based company said in a
statement today. Wardle, 69, led the board that appointed Paul Flowers as chairman of Co-Operative Bank Plc, he said.  Co-Op Group is reviewing its structure after the Mail on
Sunday reported on Nov. 17 Flowers had bought illegal drugs in
Leeds, northern  England . Flowers was the bank’s chairman from
March 2010 until he was replaced by Richard Pym in June. The
group, which last month ceded control of its bank to help plug a
1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) capital shortfall, said in a
statement today it is facing “difficult times,” though will
emerge “stronger than ever.”  David Anderson , who until 2009 led Co-Operative Financial
Services, which later became Co-Operative Bank, said writedowns
of loans at Britannia Building Society, with which Co-Op merged
in 2009, weren’t large enough to “bring down the bank.”
Anderson had initiated merger talks with Britannia, he said.  “The loan book was considerably worse than we thought it
was going to be,” he told a Treasury Committee hearing today.
“But I don’t believe it was sufficient to cause the situation
the bank now finds itself in.”  Britannia’s soured loans were the “main issue” that
brought the lender down, Bank of England Deputy Governor  Andrew Bailey  told lawmakers in July.  Compensation to customers sold loan insurance they didn’t
want, or need, writedowns in the value of the bank’s computer
systems and changes to the way loan impairments were calculated
also contributed to the bank’s capital hole, Anderson said.  Regulators pressed Co-Operative Group, which has businesses
ranging from supermarkets to funeral parlors, to close the
capital shortfall at the bank following the failure of its bid
for more than 600 branches owned by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  