-- Colombia Targets Pacific Coast Oil Exports Amid U.S. Shale Boom
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-11-19T01:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/colombia-targets-pacific-coast-oil-exports-amid-u-s-shale-boom.html
Colombia  is planning to build a new
pipeline to export oil via its Pacific coast to  Asia , as
increased production from U.S. shale fields forces South
America’s third-biggest crude producer to seek new markets.  “There’s a re-figuration of the international energy
market, especially with what is happening in the U.S.,”
Colombia Mines and Energy Minister Amylkar Acosta said yesterday
in an interview in his Bogota office. “Colombia is almost the
only country in  Latin America  where oil exports to the U.S.
haven’t declined. But it is foreseeable that it will happen in
the future.”  China and  India  represent important growth markets, with
Colombia planing to connect its Cano Limon pipeline with
 Venezuela ’s Guafita in the short term, and build a separate
pipeline to the Pacific coast in the medium to long term, Acosta
said. The route of the new pipeline is being studied.  The majority of Colombian oil is currently exported through
the Caribbean port of Covenas, according to the website of
 Ecopetrol SA. (ECOPETL)   “From a security perspective, Colombia can’t keep relying
on a single port for oil exports,” Acosta said. “We must have
alternatives, and this would be via the Pacific.”  Plans announced in October for a joint venture between
Ecopetrol and  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , the state-owned oil
companies of Colombia and Venezuela, to develop mature fields in
Venezuela will go ahead, helping Ecopetrol increase reserves
using its expertise in secondary oil recovery, Acosta said.  “The great worry we have today is the need to increase
reserves, because those that we have are precarious,” Acosta
said. “What Colombia is doing with Venezuela is similar to
previous actions abroad.”  Rubiales Field  Separately, Acosta said Ecopetrol has the expertise to run
the Rubiales field in Colombia’s Llanos plains from mid-2016
onwards when the license of current operator  Pacific Rubiales
Energy Corp. (PRE)  is set to expire.  Pacific has requested a new license and expects the board
of Ecopetrol to approve its offer to continue operating the
Rubiales field, Pacific CEO Ronald Pantin said in an August
interview. The Rubiales field currently accounts for 65 percent
of Pacific’s net production, according to an October
presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  