-- CommonWealth REIT Shareholders to Seek New Vote on Board
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-11-19T21:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/commonwealth-reit-shareholders-to-seek-new-vote-on-board.html
An arbitration panel ruling on a
dispute between  CommonWealth REIT (CWH)  and investors seeking to oust
its board found that the shareholder effort to remove trustees
was invalid, while also determining a new vote can proceed.  Corvex Management LP and Related Cos., which bought
CommonWealth  shares  earlier this year, began a campaign in April
to remove the company’s board of trustees, claiming conflicts of
interest and mismanagement. They said in June that they gained
support from holders of more than 70 percent of the shares.
CommonWealth said the vote was invalid under its bylaws.  The arbitration panel found the consent solicitation to
remove the trustees “was not properly conducted and cannot be
validated,” Newton, Massachusetts-based CommonWealth said in a
statement late yesterday. While Corvex and Related acted too
soon before a ruling on the validity of the bylaws, they are
entitled to start a new effort to remove the board under
guidelines established by the panel, according to the ruling.  “No party may take any action that is intended or designed
to impede or frustrate, or that has the effect of impeding or
frustrating, the new solicitation process established herein,”
the panel said in the ruling.  CommonWealth  shares  rose 3.1 percent to $23.95 today.
They’re up 51 percent this year.  ‘Complex Wall’  The arbitrators found that CommonWealth’s bylaws “erect a
complex wall of procedural hurdles to any consent
solicitation,” Corvex and Related said in a separate statement.
The bylaws had included a rule adopted in March that
shareholders must own at least 3 percent of the stock for a
minimum of three years before trying to remove the board. The
arbitration panel found in August that that rule was invalid.  Corvex and Related will “expeditiously notify
CommonWealth, its trustees and the arbitration panel of their
intent to pursue a new solicitation and promptly file a
preliminary consent solicitation statement with the SEC,” they
said in the statement.  “The market thinks they’re going to buy out the company,”
 Rich Moore , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a
telephone interview. “That’s why the stock is up today. The
question I have is, is that what they really want to do?”  If a shareholder vote on the board moves ahead, Corvex and
Related are going to have to convince investors that siding with
them would increase the stock price substantially, said Moore,
based in Solon,  Ohio .  External Management  The investors have argued that the ownership of an external
management firm, REIT Management & Research LLC, by CommonWealth
President Adam Portnoy and his father Barry, a company founder,
has led to conflicts of interest and  underperformance  at the
real estate investment trust. Both Portnoys sit on the REIT’s
five-member  board  and are owners of the external management
company.  CommonWealth has denied Corvex and Related’s claims of
conflicts of interest and has said it is focusing on buying
office buildings in U.S. downtowns and selling suburban
properties to boost  shareholder value . The REIT in September
announced changes to improve its corporate governance after
conversations with investors who said they wanted RMR’s
financial incentives to be more aligned with shareholders.  Adam Portnoy said the company is confident that
shareholders will support the board.  “We’re not sure what’s left for people to criticize the
company for at this point,” Portnoy said in a telephone
interview today. “We’ve largely addressed many, if not all the
concerns that have been leveled against us in the winter and
spring of last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  