-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Caterpillar Sells $1 Billion of Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-11-19T22:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-caterpillar-plans-bond-offering.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose for a second day after touching a six-year low.  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  sold $1 billion of bonds in three parts.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps measure that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, added 1.2 basis
points to 72.6 basis points as of 5:20 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday, the gauge
touched 69.5 basis points, the lowest level since Nov. 6, 2007,
in data that adjust for the effects of the market’s shift to a
new version of the index in September.  Traders are awaiting minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s
Oct. 29-30 policy meeting for clues on when the central bank may
start cutting back its monthly asset purchases that have boosted
credit markets, according to Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond
strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP. The minutes are
scheduled to be released tomorrow.  “The general focus today is issuance in the primary
market,” Pinto said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“On the secondary side, volumes are quiet as investors wait for
those minutes.”  Issuers have sold or are planning to sell $26.1 billion in
bonds this week, marking the busiest start to the period since
the week beginning April 29, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Issuance Focus  The swaps index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The risk metric began rising yesterday following three days
of declines as New York Fed President William C. Dudley said
he’s “getting more hopeful” the  U.S. economy  is gaining
strength as the drag from fiscal policy wanes.  The central bank’s policy makers will probably pare the $85
billion monthly amount of bond buying to $70 billion at their
March 18-19 meeting, according to the median of 32 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey of economists on Nov. 8.  Caterpillar Financial Services Corp., the financial unit of
Caterpillar, issued $500 million of 1 percent, three-year notes
to yield 45 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
and $250 million each of 10-year bonds and of two-year,
floating-rate debentures to yield 12 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg data show.  Proceeds may be used for general corporate purposes, the
data show. The debt is expected to be rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering, who asked not to be identified because terms weren’t
set.  Mylan Offering  Mylan Inc. (MYL) , the generic drug-maker acquiring the injectable
medicine unit of Strides Arcolab Ltd., issued $2 billion in
notes maturing in three, 10 and 30 years, as well as debt due in
more than five years, Bloomberg data show.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade
bonds, rose 3.4 basis points to 353.2 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries declined 0.2 basis point to 129.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt decreased 1 basis point to 554.4.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  