-- Czech Intervention Rate May Weaken on Deflation Risk
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-11-19T16:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/czech-intervention-rate-may-weaken-on-deflation-risk.html
The Czech central bank may be forced
to push its level for intervening against the koruna weaker if
deflation risks intensify, policy maker Lubomir Lizal said,
knocking the currency lower versus the euro.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in Prague began the first market
intervention in 11 years on Nov. 7 after approving purchases of
foreign currencies to keep the koruna “near” 27 per euro. The
central bank may change that rate to 28 against the euro if
economic problems in  Europe  reinforce “deflation pressures” in
the Czech economy, Lizal said today.  “It’s not such a dramatic or unrealistic scenario,” Lizal
said in an online interview on the Patria.cz website. It would
include continued banking troubles in Europe and problems in its
southern part, as well as consumer prices in the euro area
shrugging off another cut in the  European Central Bank ’s
 interest rates  to decline further, he said.  Fighting a deflation threat, the central bank is trying to
boost household spending and increase export competitiveness as
the economy struggles to gain traction after a record-long
recession. After cutting  interest rates  to what the bank calls a
“technical zero” of 0.05 percent a year ago, central bankers
needed an extra tool to ease policy.  The koruna fell as much as 0.9 percent after Lizal’s
comments, trading down 0.8 percent at 27.341 per euro by 3:26
p.m. in  Prague . That was its weakest since April 2009 and the
biggest decline among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Market Volatility  Central bank Governor Miroslav Singer pledged to keep
selling the koruna in unlimited amounts “for as long as
needed” to spur inflation, setting a target rate of “near” 27
per euro. Singer said the bank now plans to keep the desired
koruna level for at least 1 1/2 years.  “We consider this communication to be very unfortunate,”
Vaclav  France , a Raiffeisenbank AS analyst in Prague, said by e-mail. “It’s unnecessarily increasing foreign-exchange market
volatility, and it contradicts what bank board members were
declaring -- that exporters can safely expect the  exchange rate 
to move around 27 per euro for a longer period of time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  