-- Czech Existing Mobile Providers Sole Winners in Tender
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W i n f r e y   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-11-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/czech-existing-mobile-providers-sole-winners-in-tender.html
The  Czech Republic ’s three existing
incumbent mobile operators won a tender to offer 4G next-generation services, thwarting the telecom regulator’s goal of
bringing new rivals to the market.  The Czech Telecommunication Office yesterday said T-Mobile
Czech Republic AS, Vodafone Czech Republic, and Telefonica Czech
Republic AS -- which Czech billionaire  Petr Kellner ’s PPF Group
agreed to buy -- were the only winners of frequency blocks in
the 800 MHz range in an auction that will add 8.5 billion koruna
($421 million) to the country’s 2014 budget.  The regulator, known as CTU, wanted the sale to improve
services and attract investment and competition in the local
market, long dominated by the three large providers, by
allocating a frequency band to a new entrant. The spectrum will
allow operators to join the global trend of offering Long Term
Evolution, or LTE, technology that will let consumers shop
online and stream data faster.  “Despite the fact the fact that CTU created ideal
conditions for a fourth operator to enter the market, both new
interested parties, in the end, decided not to join the Czech
mobile market,” CTU said in yesterday’s statement on its
website.  Telefonica and T-Mobile bought two 800 MHz blocks each for
2.4 billion koruna and 2.2 billion koruna, respectively.
Vodafone bought one 800 MHz block for 2.7 billion koruna. Each
of the three companies also bought spectrum in the 1,800 and
2,600 MHz bands, CTU said.  New Investment  The tender is a repeat of one that failed in March when the
regulator ruled that bids exceeding 20 billion koruna risked
triggering an unwanted jump in prices for users. Then, PPF was
the only newcomer bidding against the incumbents.  CTU head Jaromir Novak has repeatedly said improving
competition, not revenue, was the main goal of the new auction.
After the failed March sale, providers cut tariffs that,
according to Finnish consultancy Rewheel, had been the European
Union’s second-highest.  “I expect that customers will be able to start using fast
Internet in their mobiles or tablets on a large part of Czech
territory within one year,” CTU head Jaromir Novak said in the
statement.  The two prospective newcomers, Revolution Mobile, a former
unit of PPF, and Czech billionaire Karel Komarek’s Sazka
Communications, did not buy any spectrum, CTU said.  Telefonica Sale  Kellner’s investment company, which will purchase a 65.9
percent stake in Telefonica CR for 305.6 koruna a share, valuing
the company at about $3.2 billion, withdrew from the auction in
September, citing conditions that preclude it from merging with
a rival for 15 years. It then sold the unit to its executive
officer.  Telefonica Czech said it would start building a 4G network
in the first half of next year.  “Data are the future of the telecommunication’s market,”
Telefonica CR Chief Executive Officer Luis Malvido said in a
statement. “We’re planning to invest billions of koruna in the
next five years into building and developing the LTE networks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Winfrey in Prague at 
 mwinfrey@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  