-- Daiichi Sankyo Blood Thinner Works as Well as Standard
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-11-19T21:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/daiichi-sankyo-blood-thinner-works-as-well-as-standard.html
Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) ’s edoxaban, the
latest in a new group of blood thinners aimed at replacing
warfarin, was found to be as effective as the drug that has been
the standard of care for 60 years, in a study.  Research presented today at the meeting of the  American
Heart Association  in  Dallas  showed edoxaban was as good as
warfarin at preventing embolisms and strokes in patients with
abnormal heart rhythms. It was also found to be safer, with
fewer incidents of serious bleeding.  The Tokyo-based drug maker’s edoxaban, if approved, will
enter a field that already has similar treatments sold by
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  Projected by analysts to be capable
of generating initial annual sales exceeding $1 billion, demand
has been slow. Edoxaban’s data looks similar to that of
competitors and it faces the same challenges, said Robert Harrington, the chairman of the department of medicine at
Stanford University School of Medicine.  “There’s a comfort with warfarin, we’ve used it a long
time,” Harrington, who is chairman of the AHA scientific
sessions, said in a telephone interview with reporters.
“Although it’s a drug we love to bash, it’s the drug we know.”  Eliquis, sold by Pfizer and Bristol-Myers, was projected to
lead the class of new drugs, based on its better effectiveness
data. Before it was introduced, Wall Street analysts projected
$1 billion in sales by 2014 for New York-based Pfizer, which
splits sales of the medicine with Bristol-Myers, also based in
 New York .  Analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg now estimate about $270
million next year, just over a quarter of previous expectations.  Pfizer shares fell 1.1 percent to $31.66 at 4 p.m. New York
time. Bristol-Myers rose less than 1 percent to $51.98. J&J
increased less than 1 percent to $94.86.  Not Improving  Sales of the drugs probably won’t improve suddenly, even
with the addition of new data, said Judson Clark, an analyst
with Edward Jones & Co. “I struggle to remember slow ramps that
all of a sudden take off,” he said in a telephone interview.
“Eliquis may be a solid drug, but it may not be the resounding
success everyone thought.”  Doctors may be reluctant to switch existing patients onto
the new drugs. Warfarin relies on a network of clinics to run
blood tests and monitor patients to make sure patients can clot
enough, just not too much. It’s an infrastructure patients and
doctors have gotten used to and may be difficult to displace,
Harrington said.  Little Difference  “The absolute  risk reduction  is small” on the new drugs
compared to warfarin, said  Jeffrey Weitz , a professor at
McMaster University’s Department of Medicine in Hamilton,
Ontario. “If a patient is stable on warfarin, I don’t see a
huge need to switch them.”  Edoxaban’s data, from the last of three stages of testing
generally required for regulatory approval, were also released
today by the  New England Journal of Medicine  to coincide with
the heart association meeting in Dallas. In a trial of 21,105
patients, edoxaban was found to be at least as good as warfarin
at preventing strokes and blood clots. It also had lower rates
of major bleeding, a complication of blood thinners.  “The data are fairly lackluster,” said  Timothy Anderson ,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He said he expects
edoxaban to be approved by regulators, though, and potentially
gain a partner such as Merck & Co. or AstraZeneca Plc for sale
in the U.S. and  Europe , where Daiichi gets about  30 percent of
its  sales.  Possible Partners  Merck and AstraZeneca “have a cardiovascular presence and
need new products,” Anderson said in a note to clients.  In the study, patients with atrial fibrillation, or
abnormal heart rhythm, were given warfarin or one of two doses
of edoxaban. In warfarin patients, 1.50 percent had a stroke or
clot, compared with 1.18 percent on the highest dose of edoxaban
and 1.61 percent on the lowest. There was also less bleeding:
3.43 percent of warfarin patients had a major bleed, versus 2.75
percent on the high dose of edoxaban and 1.61 percent on the low
dose. Major bleeding includes life-threatening bleeds,
intestinal track bleeds and inside-the-skull bleeding.  There were fewer deaths among patents on edoxaban than on
warfarin, the study found. In a year, 8.11 percent of warfarin
patients died, compared to 6.79 to 7.26 percent of patients on
Daiichi’s doses of the drug.  Glenn Gormley, Daiichi’s head of research and development
and its U.S. business, said the addition of the edoxaban data,
plus giving doctors the option of two different doses, might
help expand the market. “There’s now an overwhelming amount of
data,” he said. “We hope physicians understand that message.”  Daiichi’s pill is taken once a day, like J&J’s Xarelto.
Eliquis is twice a day, as is  Boehringer Ingelheim ’s Pradaxa.  Gormley wouldn’t comment on how or whether Daiichi would
attempt to compete against the other companies on price, though
its sales force, or other factors.  Xarelto is capturing the most new prescriptions now,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, about six times as many
per week as Eliquis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Dallas at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  