-- Devon to Buy GeoSouthern Eagle Ford Assets for $6 Billion
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-11-20T21:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/devon-said-to-near-deal-to-buy-geosouthern-energy-for-6-billion.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  will buy closely
held GeoSouthern Energy Corp.’s Eagle Ford assets for $6 billion
in cash, expanding its shale holdings in one of the most
prolific oil basins in the U.S.  The acquisition includes production equivalent to 53,000
barrels a day and an estimated 400 million barrels of reserves,
Oklahoma City-based Devon said today in a statement. The
purchase from The Woodlands, Texas-based GeoSouthern covers
82,000 net acres of drilling leases in the Eagle Ford in  Texas .  The deal is the largest acquisition of exploration and
production assets announced this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Devon, whose 21 percent stock gain this
year trails a peer  group’s  28 percent return, had been
criticized for not having enough high-growth U.S. oil projects.
The company narrowed its focus to onshore  North America  after
selling assets in the  Gulf of Mexico  and  Brazil  in recent years.  “They definitely lagged oil growth in the lower 48”
states,  Fadel Gheit , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. in  New
York , said in a phone interview today. “They went for the Eagle
Ford, which is the priciest part of the whole lower 48, and they
paid a hefty price.”  Stock Slips  Shares fell 2 cents to $62.75 at the close in New York.
Earlier the shares rose as much as 4.5 percent.  The deal is expected to close in the first quarter, Devon
said. The company plans to use a combination of cash and
borrowings to fund the purchase. Devon also plans to sell assets
with the equivalent of about 150,000 barrels of oil a day of
production, according to a slide presentation today.  Devon’s fourth-quarter output would be about 31 percent oil
if Eagle Ford assets were included and assets for sale were
excluded, compared with Devon’s current portfolio that’s
comprised of about 25 percent oil, the company said.  In February 2012,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and GeoSouthern
closed on a $1 billion credit facility to help fund
GeoSouthern’s drilling program in the Eagle Ford. GeoSouthern
will continue to operate other assets in areas such as the Texas
Gulf Coast region, according to today’s statement, while
Blackstone plans to exit its stake in the company through the
transaction.  Production from the Eagle Ford may rise to as much as 1.645
million barrels of oil a day in 2022, almost triple the output
from 2012, according to a report from Dallas-based energy
consultant Turner, Mason & Co.  Peak Output  Devon’s total output averaged the equivalent of about
691,000 barrels of oil a day in the third quarter, up 1.9
percent from the year-earlier period, the company said Nov. 6.
The acquired assets are expected to grow at a compound annual
rate of 25 percent in the next several years, Devon said, and
reach a peak of about 140,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  “Devon will be able to enter the position in full
development mode,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst
for  RBC Capital Markets , wrote today in a note to clients.  Adjusted for production, Devon paid about $30,000 to
$35,000 an acre, slightly more than what  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  paid
for Eagle Ford acreage last year, Hanold wrote. Most of the
reserves are proved, the acreage is contiguous, and no
additional drilling is needed to meet lease terms, justifying a
higher price, he wrote.  Long-Term Value  The company is looking at ways to boost  shareholder value 
after being slower than some producers to switch to oil, David Neuhauser, a managing director at Livermore Partners Inc. in
Northbrook,  Illinois , said today in a phone interview.
Neuhauser, whose firm owns Devon shares, said the company’s
stock may rise to $75 or $80 in the next 24 months if  oil prices 
stay strong.  “The market’s embracing this deal because they feel it
fits the portfolio extremely well and it’s also going to add
long-term value to the company,” he said.  The deal doesn’t signal a rebound in big U.S. oil and gas
takeovers, said Ralph Eads, vice chairman of Jefferies LLC,
which advised GeoSouthern on the transaction.  “There will be lots of asset deals,” Eads said. “ I
don’t think there is going to be a lot of corporate M&A. I don’t
see the catalyst for it.”  Second Deal  The GeoSouthern transaction marks the second major deal in
a month for Devon. The company said Oct. 21 it and Crosstex
Energy Inc. agreed to form a business that will acquire all of
Crosstex’s shares and combine the two companies’ fuel pipeline
and processing facilities.  The entity will consist of a master-limited partnership and
a general partner, both publicly traded. Devon, which will
control both of the entities and be the new company’s largest
customer, has said it’s contributing assets valued at about $4.8
billion.  Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Devon
on today’s deal and Jefferies was GeoSouthern’s financial
adviser. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal
advice to Devon and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised
GeoSouthern.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  