-- Diageo Targets New Rich in Emerging Markets
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-11-19T22:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/diageo-targets-new-rich-in-emerging-markets.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said it plans to target a growing group of middle-class and wealthy consumers in emerging markets from  India  to
 Brazil  even as growth in those economies slows.  The London-based maker of Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie Walker
whisky has  invested  about 3 billion pounds ($4.84 billion) in
the last three to four years to buy assets from  China  to  Turkey 
to help boost its presence abroad, Ivan Menezes, chief executive
officer, said today at a meeting with journalists after an
investor conference.  The acquisitions have given Diageo access to a booming pool
of so-called “emerging middle-class” consumers, or those with
incomes of more than $6,000 a year, and high-net-worth drinkers
who earn more than $30,000 a year, Menezes said. The company is
seeking to hone its focus on both groups by introducing them to
its brands and convincing them to choose pricier and more
profitable tipples to offset investments in capacity and tougher
markets in regions like  Europe .  “We don’t need people to drink more, we need them to drink
better,” Menezes said. He took on the role of CEO in July,
succeeding  Paul Walsh , who led Diageo for almost 13 years.  Diageo has increased its sales from emerging markets to
about 42 percent from 30 percent in 2004, Menezes said, and
expects to get more than half its revenue in the coming years
from countries outside the U.S. and Europe.  Uncertain Economy  Diageo set a medium-term goal in August 2011 that it would
increase organic sales by an average of 6 percent a year and
widen its operating margin, a measure of profitability, by 200
basis points over three years. Menezes said today Diageo was
committed to its profitability target despite a slowing of
growth in some economies.  Menezes said he anticipates an “uncertain” global economy
continuing to be a drag on sales growth, echoing sentiments
expressed by other consumer goods companies including Unilever.  The company will continue to eye acquisitions in  emerging
markets , though “we’ve ticked off” some of the most important
markets, Menezes said, and he doesn’t expect the same pace of
acquisitions in faster-growing economies.  Diageo is also seeking to build positions in tequila and
American whiskey in the U.S., and he said that the company
didn’t need to buy Beam Inc. to increase its exposure to
bourbon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  