-- U.K. Disinflation No Risk as Swap Gap Widens to Record
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-11-19T09:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/disinflation-no-risk-as-swap-gap-widens-to-record-u-k-credit.html
The widest gap between U.K. and
euro-region price expectations in almost 10 years suggests
investors are betting Britain will avoid the  inflation slump 
that led the European Central Bank to cut interest rates.  The five-year inflation swap rate, a market gauge of
expected consumer-price growth, was 181 basis points higher than
that of the 17-nation euro region on Nov. 4, the most since
Bloomberg started collecting the information in 2004. Today, it
was at 169 basis points, or 1.69 percentage points, versus an
average of 80 basis points.  U.K.  inflation , which has been above the Bank of England’s
2 percent target since 2009, cooled to the slowest pace in more
than a year in October and a core-price measure dropped to the
least in four years. That’s more likely to be a blip than the
start of a disinflationary trend, according to Societe Generale
SA, Morgan Stanley and Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Inflation has printed above target for a long time, and
we do not expect a change in that dynamic,” Jorge Garayo, a
fixed-income strategist at Societe Generale in  London , said in
an interview yesterday. “With unemployment falling, our
economists see October as a low point in inflation. We don’t buy
a U.K. disinflation story.”  Consumer prices rose 2.2 percent in October from a year
earlier, the least since September 2012, as auto-fuel costs
declined, the Office for National Statistics said Nov. 12.  Core
inflation (UKHCA9IQ)  slowed to 1.7 percent, the least since September 2009.  Job Creation  Societe Generale forecasts inflation will average 2.8
percent next year as a recovering economy creates  jobs . It sees
retail-price inflation, the basis for payments on index-linked
bonds, accelerating to 3.4 percent from 3.1 percent this year.  Inflation-protected gilts handed investors a 1.6 percent
return in 2013, outperforming German and U.S. counterparts that
declined 3.1 percent and 7.3 percent, respectively, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Years after major central banks eased monetary policy to
counter the financial and European sovereign debt crises, price
pressures remain subdued. About two-thirds of 27 inflation-targeting central banks tracked by Morgan Stanley are still
undershooting their goals, or watching prices rise in the lower
end of preferred ranges.  Global inflation will be about 2.8 percent this year, the
second-lowest since World War II, amid high unemployment in
developed nations and slowdowns in  emerging markets , according
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ECB Cut  The European Central Bank, led by President Mario Draghi,
unexpectedly cut its key interest rate in half to a record-low
0.25 percent on Nov. 7 as he warned the region faced the
prospect of a “prolonged” period of low inflation. Price
growth in the region slumped to a four-year low of 0.7 percent
in October compared with its target of just below 2 percent.  The Bank of England kept its  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent
this month and held its target for bond purchases at 375 billion
($604 billion) pounds. Officials lowered their forecasts this
month to show inflation returning to 2 percent in the first
quarter of 2015.  “We are taking a defensive stance in the near term to
recognize the fact that if inflation in the euro region is going
to be very weak, there is a risk that local inflation will come
in weaker than expected,” said Mike Amey, a London-based money
manager at Pimco. “The expansion of central bank balance sheets
does create inflation risk in the longer term.”  Forward Rates  Sterling’s five-year, five-year break-even  rate , a measure
watched by policy makers for inflation expectations in the five
years starting 2018, rose to 3.47 percentage points yesterday
after falling to 3.38 percentage points on Nov. 14, the least on
a closing basis since August. The average in the past five years
was 3.42 percentage points.  The equivalent gauge in the euro area was at 2.15
percentage points, compared with the average 2.42 percentage
points in the same period.  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, derived from the yield
difference between regular and index-linked bonds, has risen to
3 percentage points from 2.6 percentage points a year ago.
Morgan Stanley says it sees “fair value” for the rate at 3.5
percentage points as inflation expectations are likely to pick
up with the economic recovery.  Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  in the U.K. dropped to 7.6 percent in the
three months to September, the lowest rate since 2009, according
to the latest data. Claims for unemployment benefits fell for
the 12th month in October.  “Inflation here has largely exceeded 2 percent over the
past 10 years and we still think that the risk is more to the
upside of the 2-percent target rather than the downside,” said
Anton Heese, a co-head of Morgan Stanley interest-rate strategy.
“Relative to current levels, there is fundamental value in the
10-year portion of the U.K. index-linked market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  