-- Euro Gains to Highest in Four Years Versus Yen on ECB Comments
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-11-19T22:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/dollar-near-two-week-low-versus-euro-as-fed-delays-taper-hopes.html
The euro rose to a four-year high
against the yen after a European Central Bank board member said
policy makers must be “very careful” about using negative
interest rates to counter low inflation.  The dollar touched a two-week low as Chicago Federal
Reserve President Charles Evans said policy makers are waiting
to see that the labor market “has improved substantially”
before trimming the bond-buying program known as quantitative
easing. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke speaks later. A gauge of global
volatility fell to its lowest level this month. Economists
forecast that a report tomorrow will show U.S. retail sales
increased in October after dropping the previous month.  “There was suspicion the ECB might be on the verge of
doing something aggressive, like QE and negative rates, but the
commentaries from ECB we’ve had since than have been scaling
back from it,”  Geoffrey Yu , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in London, said in an interview. “Maybe
there’s some correction to that.”  The euro rose 0.4 percent to 135.57 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time after touching 135.71, the strongest since November 2009.
The shared currency gained 0.2 percent to $1.3538 after reaching
$1.3547, the strongest level since Nov. 6. The dollar rose 0.2
percent to 100.14 yen.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, was little changed at
1,015.00 after touching 1,013.11, the lowest since Nov. 6.  Krone, Koruna  Norway’s krone rose versus all of its 16 of its most-traded
counterparts after third-quarter  gross domestic product 
increased 0.7 percent, exceeding the median economist forecast.
The currency appreciated 0.3 percent to 8.2450 per euro after
reaching 8.2070, the strongest level since Nov. 11. It gained
0.6 percent to 6.0897 per dollar.  The Czech koruna declined against all 31 of its major peers
after Ceska Narodni Banka board member and rate-setter Lubomir
Lizal said he can see the central bank intervening to weaken the
currency to 28 koruna per euro. The koruna slipped 0.9 percent
to 27.373 per euro after decreasing to 27.397, the weakest since
April 2009.  Turkey ’s lira gained versus most of its major counterparts
after the country’s central bank said it terminated one-month
repo auctions in order to contain the impact of exchange rate
volatility on pricing behavior. The currency appreciated 0.6
percent to 2.0110 per dollar after rising to 2.0054, the highest
since Nov. 1.  Asmussen’s View  The euro advanced versus most major peers after ECB
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said policy makers haven’t
exhausted their options to counter low inflation, according to
an interview broadcast on  Austria ’s ORF radio.  “While I’d be very careful with such an instrument” as
negative interest rates, he said, “I don’t want to
fundamentally exclude it.”  The euro has strengthened 0.6 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has climbed 1.8
percent and the yen is down 1 percent.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
 index  of German investor and analyst expectations, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
54.6 in November, from 52.8 the previous month. That’s the
highest since October 2009 and above the 54.0 median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Chiefs  The greenback fell a second day against most major
currencies as Evans echoed comments by New York Fed President
William C. Dudley yesterday, who said he’s more hopeful about
the U.S. economy while indicating no change in the central
bank’s bond-buying program.  At a Nov. 14 congressional hearing on her nomination to run
the Fed, Vice Chairman Janet Yellen indicated she’ll press on
with the central bank’s monetary stimulus until she sees a
robust recovery, downplaying risks the policy is inflating asset
bubbles. Bernanke will speak at the National Economists Club in
Washington at 7 p.m.  “Comments from Dudley suggest the Fed is unlikely to begin
tapering in December and that’s taken some of the bid away from
the dollar,” said Lee Hardman, a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “We stick to the view that
the first taper will come in March.”  The U.S. central bank buys  $85 billion  of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities each month to put downward pressure
on borrowing costs. Officials will pare the purchases to $70
billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  Retail Sales  The greenback weakened as a gauge of global volatility fell
for a fifth day to its lowest level this month. JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index decreased to as low as 7.75
percent, its weakest on an intraday basis since Oct. 31.  “The dollar is under a little bit of pressure,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist at Mizuho Bank in New
York, said in a phone interview. “Volatility is low, so we’re
not seeing too much movement right now. Markets are in wait-and-see mode ahead of some key data we’re going to get tomorrow.”  The Commerce Department will say tomorrow that  retail sales 
in the world’s biggest economy increased 0.1 percent in October
after a 0.1 percent decline the previous month, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A
separate report the same day is projected to show consumer
prices stagnated in October from the previous month, after
rising 0.2 percent in September.  The U.S. economy will grow 1.7 percent and 2.9 percent this
year, the  Organization for Economic Cooperation  said in a semi-annual report today, broadly similar to the group’s May outlook.
The world economy will probably expand 2.7 percent this year and
3.6 percent next year, instead of the 3.1 percent and 4 percent
predicted in May, the Paris-based OECD said.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $61 billion, from $55 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-Chinese  yuan  exchange rate amounted to $18 billion, the largest
share of trades at 30 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate
totaled $12 billion, or 20 percent.  Dollar-yuan options trading was 381 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading was
36 percent above average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  