-- Leaderless Teva Seen Beckoning Mylan Merger: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-11-19T22:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/leaderless-teva-seen-beckoning-mylan-merger-real-m-a.html
As  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)  attempts to revitalize one of this year’s worst-performing
drug stocks, a remedy may come in the form of a deal.  If the $32 billion company can’t restore value on its own
and doesn’t find a new chief executive officer soon, a merger
with fellow generic-drug makers  Mylan Inc. (MYL)  or  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  will become increasingly
likely, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said. Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva may even become vulnerable to an activist investor,
said Matrix Asset Advisors Inc.  As peers such as Pfizer Inc. and Actavis Plc generated
windfalls for shareholders with breakups and takeovers, Teva
tumbled this month to its cheapest price-sales ratio, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Teva hasn’t replaced the CEO who
stepped down in October amid a dispute with the  board , adding to
uncertainty over how it will compensate for lost sales when
generic rivals challenge its top-selling medicine. Analysts
predict  revenue  this year will fall for the first time in at
least two decades.  “People are looking for the company to do something,”
Herman Saftlas, a New York-based equity analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s , said in a phone interview. “It’s going to take more
than just business as usual to right-size this ship and get it
back into growth mode. Teva probably realizes now that a little
more drastic steps have to be taken. It is possible that they
could unveil a deal with somebody.”  Generic Competition  A representative for Teva declined to comment when asked if
the company is weighing a merger or acquisition.  Copaxone, an injection to treat multiple sclerosis,
generated about  20 percent  of Teva’s $20 billion in revenue last
year. Because of a U.S. court ruling in July, Teva may face
generic competition to Copaxone beginning in May, a year earlier
than expected. Last week, a U.S. Supreme Court justice rejected
Teva’s request to put that ruling on hold while the court
decides whether to take up the company’s appeal.  Preserving sales of Copaxone will fall to whoever replaces
Jeremy Levin as CEO after he stepped down because of a dispute
with Chairman  Phillip Frost  over how to restructure the company.
Chief Financial Officer Eyal Desheh, who was appointed interim
CEO, said on Teva’s Oct. 31 earnings call that the timing of
selecting a permanent replacement is “completely at the hands
of the board.”  Activist Investor  Teva’s price-sales ratio plunged to a record low of 1.56 on
Nov. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The American
depositary receipts have lost 0.2 percent in the past 12 months
to $38.20 yesterday, making it one of the worst performers among
companies in the Bloomberg Industries Global Generics and Global
Large Pharmaceuticals indexes. Both indexes have gained more
than 25 percent.  Today, Teva’s ADRs rose 2 percent to $38.97.  The company is undervalued at these levels and may draw the
attention of an activist investor, said  David Katz , who oversees
about $950 million as chief investment officer of New York-based
Matrix Asset Advisors, a Teva shareholder. Activists typically
take a stake in a company they view as undervalued and push for
changes that will increase returns for investors.  “There is an opportunity for someone to pressure the board
to enhance value for shareholders,” Katz said in a phone
interview. “Unless the board does something sooner rather than
later, they’re probably vulnerable to somebody trying to take
advantage of a very discounted stock price.”  Merger Potential  Teva’s next presentation is  Dec. 5 , when it plans to give
an update on research and development. Investors are waiting to
see if the company will have more to announce regarding its CEO
search, drug pipeline or a potential deal, S&P’s Saftlas said.  While Teva’s $44 billion  enterprise value  makes it less
likely to be a takeover target, a so-called merger-of-equals
with generic-drug makers Mylan, Valeant or  Actavis (ACT)  is
conceivable, according to Ronny Gal, a New York-based analyst at
Bernstein. In such a merger,  shareholders  of both companies
would receive stock.  “There is a bit of a ‘perfect storm’ brewing with low
 interest rates , lack of permanent management at Teva, and an
unhappy shareholder base,” Gal wrote in a Nov. 13 report. “For
those looking to grow, there are very few opportunities this
size. There are substantial synergies to be achieved.”  The combined entity could be managed by the CEO of Teva’s
merger partner, according to Gal.  Israel  may seek to block such
a deal, he wrote.  Acquisition Options  In May, Actavis decided to acquire  Warner Chilcott Plc ,
after spurning a $15 billion offer from Mylan and after merger
talks with Valeant stalled over price, people familiar with the
matter told  Bloomberg News  at the time.  Valeant, the most acquisitive drugmaker in  North America 
over the last three years, said last month that it’s interested
in a merger-of-equals with no deal premium. The Laval, Quebec-based company has an enterprise value of about $52 billion,
compared with Mylan’s $22 billion and Actavis’s $34 billion.  Representatives for Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan;
Valeant; and Actavis, which is based in Parsippany,  New Jersey ,
and incorporated in Ireland, declined to comment on whether the
companies are interested in or are holding talks with Teva.  Teva could make its own acquisitions, though the recent
surge in biotechnology valuations makes it difficult to find the
right the target and not overpay, according to Jason Kolbert, a
New York-based analyst at Maxim Group LLC.  Sweet Spot  Its sweet spot may be smaller companies with products in
phase II studies, “where you have proof of concept but don’t
yet know whether you’re going to have a commercial product,”
Kolbert said in a phone interview. “I don’t think they have the
resources to compete on more mature companies,” such as
ViroPharma Inc., which Shire Plc agreed to buy last week for
$4.2 billion.  Teva had $1.15 billion of  cash  and $12.6 billion of  debt  as
of Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Instead of pursuing risky acquisitions, Teva needs to
conserve its  cash  and focus on boosting growth, said  David Maris , a New York-based analyst at Bank of Montreal.  “They have some real gems in their pipeline that the
Street really isn’t paying attention to right now,” Maris said
in a phone interview. “So there may be things with hidden
upside there. They need to have more of them though.”  The pipeline includes experimental treatments for heart
conditions and cancer.  ‘Incredibly Cheap’  If Teva can make up the revenue and profit loss from
Copaxone with its pipeline, the stock is “incredibly cheap,”
said Adam Strauss, Chicago-based co-manager of the $300 million
 Appleseed Fund (APPLX) , which owns Teva shares. While the company should
be focusing on its CEO search and execution, the low valuation
could prompt takeover interest, he said.  “I’m sure that other companies are probably looking at
Teva and thinking this might be a good company to consider
acquiring,” Strauss said in a phone interview.  While breaking up or selling the company could make
financial sense, the odds of that happening aren’t very high,
according to Paulina Niewiadomska, manager of the $434 million
Pictet Generics Fund, which holds Teva shares. Teva needs to
first find a good CEO and give that person a seat on the board
and more freedom to make operational decisions, Niewiadomska
said in an interview in Paris.  “For a price, anything can happen,” she said. But, “I
don’t think it’s a company that’s lost completely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  