-- Egypt’s Thirst for Cheap Gas Threatens Export Prospects: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-11-19T16:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/egypt-s-thirst-for-cheap-gas-threatens-export-prospects-energy.html
Egypt ’s natural-gas shipments are
set to drop by about half this year, undermining the military
led-government’s attempts to stabilize the largest economy in
North Africa.  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/) , international oil companies with
investments in Egyptian export terminals, said a policy that
encourages gas consumption at home, caps prices and has left the
state owing $6 billion to producers is holding back investment
in new fields. Egypt is set to fall behind Equatorial Guinea to
fourth place among Africa’s gas exporters this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The dilemma for Egypt’s new leaders is that the nation’s
thirst for cheap gas leaves little scope to pare back subsidies
that cost 7.3 percent of gross domestic product. While the state
is starting to repay the debt owed to gas producers, the country
will find it hard to win new investment into its country’s
largest export industry until price limits are raised, Eni Chief
Executive Officer Paolo Scaroni said.  “Certainly if gas prices were higher in Egypt, we could
exploit some discoveries we made in the Mediterranean,” Scaroni
said in an interview. The government has promised to start
repaying this year some of the $800 million to $900 million it
owes the Rome-based company, the  largest  energy producer in
Egypt, he said.  While Egypt’s benchmark  stock index  has climbed about 19
percent since Mohamed Mursi’s government was overthrown by the
army in July, the economy remains in crises with both
unemployment and the budget deficit near records after three
years of political unrest.  Consider Imports  Egypt’s gas production fell 8.5 percent to an average of
5.4 billion cubic feet a day in the first nine months of the
year compared with last year, according to Egyptian Natural Gas
Holding Co. Chairman Taher Abdel Rehim. The slump has even
forced Egypt to consider importing gas from outside the country
to meet energy demand during peak summer months and was in talks
with Qatar about fuel supplies.  There are signs the government is trying to address the
challenges of energy policy. A pledge to start paying back the
cash owed to gas producers is a positive step, said Martijn
Murphy, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., an energy consultant
in Edinburgh.  Still, cutting the debt will be easier than paring back
subsidies that hold down energy costs for consumers even though
exporting gas can be five times more profitable than selling it
in Egypt, according to  Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at
Standard & Poor’s in  London .  “Our priority is the supply of natural gas to the Egyptian
local market,” Egypt’s new oil minister, Sherif Ismail, said in
phone interview. “Any change in the subsidy system should be
put up for societal discussion.”  Political Turmoil  BG, which produced 20 percent of its oil and gas in Egypt
last year, more than in any other country, said in July that the
nation’s political turmoil had delayed the $1.5 billion
expansion of its  West Delta Deep Marine  project.  BG CEO Chris Finlayson said he needs to see assurances that
Egypt will manage its domestic demand for gas and start paying
the $1.4 billion the government owes the company.  Egypt is “converting more of their power generation
capacity into dual-fuel or oil burning which will allow them to
change that primary fuel mix next summer,” he said Oct. 31.  Apache Corp ., which agreed to sell a third of its Egyptian
assets to China Petrochemical Corp. for $3.1 billion, sees the
country as an oil play even though it has plentiful gas
reserves, according to CEO Steven Farris. The third-largest
producer in Egypt made only 11 percent of its Egyptian net
revenue from selling gas last year, according a September
 presentation .  Damietta Plant  “Clearly Egypt is becoming more gas deficient,” said Tom
Hickey, the CEO at Petroceltic International Plc, an explorer
that gets more than 50 percent of its cash flow from Egypt.
“It’s true there’s more upside in oil because your price isn’t
capped.”  The Damietta LNG plant, operated by a venture between Eni
and Spain’s  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) , hasn’t shipped a single cargo
from Egypt this year, according to Bloomberg data. The larger
 Egyptian LNG  plant, a venture between BG, Egyptian General
Petroleum Corp., EGAS, Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and GDF Suez SA,
halved its shipments to 19 cargoes. The two plants shipped 39
cargoes between them last year.  EGAS is exporting about 400 million cubic feet of gas a day
with as much as 900 million diverted from the plant to the
domestic market, Oil Minister Ismail said.  Oil Production  Still, most companies’ oil and gas production hasn’t been
affected by the civil unrest in the North African state because
most fields are situated in remote areas. Some companies had to
temporarily close Cairo offices amid outbreaks of violence.  “At the moment business as usual for us,” Peter Voser,
the CEO of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  said.  Some new fields are still coming on stream. German utility
RWE AG has  started  gas production from the Disouq field in the
Nile Delta in September, the latest project brought on stream in
Egypt, after winning the concession in 2004.  BP Plc CEO Bob Dudley this month said Europe’s second-largest oil company needs to control costs to make profits from
its West Nile Delta project at its contract gas price. The
London-based producer’s concession has more “flexibility” than
some other production sharing agreements in Egypt, GlobalData
said in a  report  this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  