-- Lehman’s Demise, Baryshnikov’s Satanic Laugh in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-11-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lehman-s-demise-baryshnikov-s-satanic-laugh-in-paris.html
Stefano Massini’s “Chapters of a
Fall: The Saga of Lehman Brothers” isn’t a play in the
traditional sense.  It’s more like the Iliad or the Nibelungenlied -- a heroic
epic in free verse with a tragic ending.  The story, at the  Theatre du Rond Point  in Paris, is told
by six actors, all male. The start point is 1844 with the
arrival of Henry Lehman, son of a Bavarian cattle merchant in
Montgomery,  Alabama , where he opens a dry-goods store.  It ends three acts and four hours later in 2008 with a
reunion of the deceased patriarchs mourning the demise of their
venerable investment bank.  In between, we’re witnessing the expansion of the business
to raw cotton, coffee and cigars, the move to New York City and
the shift from a house of commodities to the underwriter of some
of the biggest projects in U.S. history such as department
stores, railroads, television, the oil and armaments industry.  In the hands of Bertolt Brecht, the metamorphosis from a
traditional into a virtual, less and less controllable business
would have been the stuff of an anti-capitalist Lehrstuck, or
didactic play. Massini is more subtle.  He certainly has no sympathy for speculators or the
philosophy he ascribes to “Bobbie,” the last of the
patriarchs: “Our goal is a planet on which the consumer follows
his instincts, not his needs. Or, if you will, his search for an
identity. At that moment, gentlemen, banks will be immortal.”  Human Side  Yet Massini also shows us the family’s human side -- its
piety, art collecting, marriages and divorces. Herbert Lehman,
who left the family business to become governor of  New York 
State and a fervent advocate of social security, unemployment
insurance and public regulation as a senator, is playing a
prominent part.  When I read the basically undramatic text, I wondered how
it could be brought to life without becoming a kind of
educational television show. Arnaud Meunier, the director, has
solved the problem by turning it into a fast-paced, often
hilarious revue.  With a minimum of props and video images as backdrop, he
and his troupe from St. Etienne in southern  France  have proven
that the rise and fall of a company can make for a highly
entertaining evening.  Rating: ****.  Willem Dafoe  At the Theatre de la Ville, Robert Wilson has mounted
another revue with two trump cards, Mikhail Baryshnikov and
Willem Dafoe.  “The Old Woman,” which was first staged in July at the
Manchester International Festival, is based on a surrealist
short story by the Russian writer Daniel Harms, or Daniil
Kharms, who died in 1942 in a lunatic asylum.  In the short story, the woman first appears carrying a
clock without arms. She then comes to the apartment of the
narrator where she dies. He hides her body in a suitcase that
gets stolen in a train while he’s using the toilet.  He is desperate: “Who will believe me now that I didn’t
kill her?”  There is no old woman on the stage of the Theatre de la
Ville. Baryshnikov and Dafoe, two whiteface clowns dressed in
black, play all the characters.  They move like robots, repeating the same gestures and
words again and again, Baryshnikov alternating between English
and Russian. They sit on a swing waiting, like Samuel Beckett’s
metaphysical bums, for something to happen. And from time to
time, they burst into satanic laughter.  It’s a perfectly timed, and fortunately not too long (90
minutes) double act, a kind of absurd commedia dell’arte set in
Wilson’s well known universe of highly stylized props, abrupt
lighting changes and exotic noises.  Rating: ****.  “The Old Woman” is only the first part of a Wilson
festival in Paris.  Starting this month, the Louvre will allow us a glimpse
into his archives. In December, Wilson’s production of “Peter
Pan” at the Berliner Schaubuhne will come to Paris, followed in
January by a revival of his old war horse, “Einstein on the
Beach.”  “Chapitres de la Chute: Saga des Lehman Brothers” runs
through Nov. 30, “The Old Woman” through Nov. 23 Information:
 http://www.theatredurondpoint.fr  and
 http://www.theatredelaville-pais.com .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 