-- Telecom Italia Aims to Exit Junk Status by 2016, CEO Says
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-11-20T08:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/telecom-italia-aims-to-exit-junk-status-by-2016-patuano-says.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the phone
company that lost its investment grade and chief executive
officer last month, aims to restore its  credit rating  within
three years by reviving the domestic business and cutting debt,
new CEO Marco Patuano said in an interview.  “Telecom Italia can come back to an investment-grade
rating within 2016,” Patuano said in his offices in  Rome 
yesterday. “In  Italy , we have not been able to stabilize our
revenue yet, but we still have good cash generation.”  The 49-year-old inherits a company with $38 billion in net
debt -- more than double its market value -- after predecessor
Franco Bernabe failed to protect the carrier’s investment grade.
Patuano said he’s accelerating efforts to restore finances.
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , the biggest  shareholder , agreed in September to
gradually boost its stake in the holding company that owns 22.4
percent of Telecom Italia and controls its board.  “Before looking for a potential integration between the
two companies, it is necessary to increase Telecom Italia’s
financial, industrial and technological performances in the
domestic market,” Patuano said. “That’s why we are focusing on
stabilizing revenue and profits.”  Telecom Italia is studying partnerships with media
companies to bolster its offerings, Patuano said in the hour-long interview with  Bloomberg News .  Argentine Sale  This month, the CEO unveiled plans to dispose of assets
including wireless towers, a broadcasting unit and a mandatory
convertible bond. Telecom Italia also agreed to sell its
Argentine business for $960 million. The towers are getting “a
lot of interest” from Italian and international companies, the
executive said.  Those measures, projected to bring a total of 4 billion
euros ($5.4 billion) in proceeds, would ease pressure on the
carrier to conduct a share sale previously under management
consideration following Bernabe’s resignation on Oct. 3.  “In the next months, a  capital increase  is not an option
for Telecom Italia,” Patuano said. “After our plan, we do not
need a capital increase.”  Still, in a vote of no confidence,  Standard & Poor’s  last
week downgraded Telecom Italia’s debt to junk, following Moody’s
Investors Service to strip the company of its investment grade.
S&P cited concerns that Telecom Italia may be unable to cut debt
fast enough to offset declining earnings. Patuano confirmed
Telecom Italia’s target to cut net debt to less than 27 billion
euros by year-end.  Tough Goal  “Telecom Italia’s situation isn’t simple at all,” Andrea
Giuricin, a professor who specializes in media and
telecommunications at Milan Bicocca University, said in a phone
interview. “Measures adopted by CEO Marco Patuano are a first
step toward debt reduction, but it will be difficult for the
company to exit  junk status  by 2016.”  Asset sales may help cut debt in the short term, though
beyond that the company will need a capital increase, he said.  Hannes Wittig, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 London , said it is risky to operate with a “stretched balance
sheet in a market with well-capitalized competitors.”
Management may be hoping for domestic consolidation, he said.  The stock  rose  1 percent to 67.4 cents at 9:09 a.m. in
Milan, valuing the company at 12.3 billion euros. It had gained
about 5 percent since Bernabe’s departure through yesterday.  Discount Trading  “Telecom Italia shares are trading at a discount,” said
Patuano, who met with unions yesterday to discuss the company’s
three-year business plan. “And I cannot say I’ve done the work
until they reach about one euro.”  Competition between Telefonica and Telecom Italia in  Brazil 
is preventing Telefonica from seeking direct control in the
Italian carrier immediately.  Telefonica Brasil SA (VIVT4)  is the
country’s biggest wireless operator under the Vivo brand, with a
market value of $22 billion.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , Telecom
Italia’s local unit, is valued at $12 billion.  Calling Brazil a “strategic part” of Telecom Italia’s
business, Patuano said the company plans to boost spending in
the country to capture the next wave of telecommunications
services linked to the mobile Internet.  “We do not need to sell Brazil in order to work on our
financial structure since our debt is sustainable,” he said.
“Of course, if an unsolicited big offer should come, we would
be forced to evaluate it.”  Patuano is among the top European telecommunications, media
and technology executives scheduled to attend a three-day
investor conference organized by Morgan Stanley in Barcelona
that starts today. Other speakers include Vodafone Group Plc CEO
Vittorio Colao, Telefonica Chief Operating Officer Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete, SAP AG co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe, Ericsson AB
Chief Financial Officer Jan Frykhammar and Vivendi SA CFO
Philippe Capron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  