-- Telefonica’s $964 Million Hybrid Bond Boosts Record Europe Sales
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-11-19T12:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/telefonica-s-pound-hybrid-bond-boosts-record-sales-in-europe.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  is selling pound-denominated hybrid bonds, boosting record sales of the
securities that combine elements of debt and equity.  Spain ’s biggest phone company is marketing 600 million
pounds ($964 million) of notes through its Telefonica  Europe  BV
unit, a person familiar with the matter said. Non-financial
borrowers issued a record 28.7 billion euros ($39 billion) of
hybrid debt in Europe this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Telefonica’s offer comes two months after the Madrid-based
company debuted 1.75 billion euros of hybrid bonds to help fund
its acquisition of a controlling stake in Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus
German wireless unit. Hybrid notes allow companies to raise debt
with less risk of being downgraded because ratings companies
typically count 50 percent of the securities as equity.  “Companies see a few benefits in selling hybrids as they
support credit ratings and it’s cheaper than issuing equity,”
said Chris Higham, a  fund manager  at Aviva Investors Ltd. in
 London . “Undoubtedly, the trend will continue next year as low
rates, low defaults and growth picking up should be
supportive.”  Telefonica’s perpetual notes, which can be bought back by
the company after seven years, will yield 6.75 percent,
according to the person.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the securities
BB+, one step below investment grade.  A spokeswoman for Telefonica in  Madrid , who asked not to be
identified citing company policy, declined to comment on the
bond sale.  The average yield on non-financial hybrid securities
climbed to 4.6 percent from a record low of 4 percent reached
November 2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
global hybrid index.  Alliander Hybrid  The yield on Telefonica’s 7.625 percent securities fell 85
basis points to 6.8 percent since it priced on Sept. 11 while
the yield on its 6.5 percent notes dropped 64 basis points to
5.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Another borrower issuing hybrid bonds today is Alliander
NV. The Arnhem, Netherlands-based energy company is planning to
sell 500 million euros of securities that can be bought back
after five years, according to a person familiar with the
matter. The notes are rated A by S&P.  At the same time, Alliander is offering to buy back as much
as 500 million euros of 4.875 percent hybrid notes it sold in
November 2010. The yield on those securities jumped 76 basis
points today to 3.6 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  