-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on OECD Growth Forecast
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-19T21:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/emerging-stocks-rise-for-fourth-day-as-won-reaches-two-year-high.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in four days after the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development cut its global outlook.  Turkey ’s
lira climbed as the central bank tightened access to credit.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,024.53.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa dropped the most among major equity
gauges in the Americas as oil producer Petroleo Brasileiro SA
tumbled. The Shanghai Composite Index snapped a three-day rally
as financial and dairy companies plunged. The Borsa Istanbul
National 100 Index decreased 1.3 percent, while the lira capped
the longest advance since April after the central bank’s bid to
contain exchange-rate volatility and curb inflation.  The world economy will probably expand 2.7 percent this
year and 3.6 percent next year, instead of the 3.1 percent and
and 4 percent predicted in May, the Paris-based OECD said in a
semi-annual report today. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is scheduled to speak in  Washington  today after Fed
Bank of New York President William Dudley said yesterday that
while he’s “more hopeful” the U.S. economy is strengthening,
it’s not enough to warrant stimulus cuts yet.  “If you’re an emerging-market manager, you may want to
take profit where you have it,”  Quincy Krosby , a market
strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential Financial
Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion of assets, said by
phone. “Some have been questioning the strength of global
growth. You’ve got Bernanke speaking to a very professional
audience. They are going to probe as much as they can to get any
change in sentiment regarding the taper.”  Emerging ETF  Seven out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
fell today, led by consumer-staple stocks. The iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded fund dropped 0.6 percent
to $42.37. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets
ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund
and expectations of price swings, slid 1.7 percent to 23.34.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  dropped the most in seven weeks as
Petrobras slid after surging almost 10 percent in three days.
The real slipped from a two-week high as concern the
government’s budget deficit will lead to a reduction in the
nation’s credit rating offset efforts to support the currency.  Most Russian stocks fell as OAO Mechel snapped a three-day
31 percent gain. The coking-coal producer is seeking new debt
covenants for the next two years and is asking lenders to set a
ratio of 10 times net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at the end of 2014, Vedomosti
reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  Turkey, Poland  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index dropped after
climbing more than 5 percent over the previous four days. The
lira rose to the highest level since Oct. 31.  Poland ’s WIG20
Index fell, led by PGE SA. The power producer sank after Chief
Executive Officer Krzysztof Kilian resigned amid a dispute over
an 11.6 billion-zloty ($3.8 billion) investment.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped for the first time in
four days after valuations jumped to a one-month high. Baby
formula maker Zhejiang Beingmate Technology Industry & Trade Co.
 plunged  5.6 percent on speculation the easing of  China ’s one-child policy will boost earnings. Haitong Securities Co. slumped
2 percent after rallying 18 percent in three days.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  rose to the highest in two weeks, led by
industrial companies and banks, amid bets inflows will increase
as the U.S. maintains its record stimulus. Engineering company
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  climbed to its highest level in four
months.  State Bank of India  gained for a fourth day.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 327 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  