-- Energy Development Slumps Most in Four Years on Typhoon Shutdown
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-19T07:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/energy-development-slumps-most-in-four-years-on-typhoon-shutdown.html
Energy Development Corp. (EDC) ,  the
largest Philippine geothermal power generator, fell the most in
more than four years on concern earnings will decline after the
company said its typhoon-damaged plants are inoperable.  The shares tumbled 12 percent to 4.58 pesos at the close in
Manila, the sharpest loss since April 13, 2009. They were the
biggest decliners in the benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange
Index (PCOMP) , which dropped 1.2 percent.  First Gen Corp. (FGEN) , parent of the
company, slid 7.2 percent to 12.90 pesos, capping a nine-day, 20
percent slump.  “Investors are concerned over the short-term impact on
income, considering more than half of the company’s capacity is
down and it’s uncertain when it will be back on line,” said
Aaron Salvador, Manila-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
Salvador has a neutral  rating  on  Energy Development  shares with
a 12-month price forecast of 6.70 pesos.  Energy Development said today that none of the four major
plants in its Leyte field that were damaged by Typhoon Haiyan
are operational. The company is invoking force majeure under a
purchase contract with National Power Corp.  The Leyte field accounts for 56 percent of the company’s
overall generating capacity, according to its website. It
contributed 7.58 billion pesos ($174 million) of the company’s
first-half revenue of 13.43 billion pesos, data show.  Energy Development is “exerting all best efforts to return
all the power plants back to service at the soonest possible
time,” it wrote in a stock exchange filing today. The four
plants have 650.9 megawatts combined capacity, accounting for 93
percent of the Leyte field’s capability.  “Over the long term, it remains a good venture, but expect
negative news flow in the next couple of months,” Salvador
said.  The stock has 11 buy and two hold ratings, with an average
12-month price forecast of 7.09 pesos, according to a Bloomberg
survey of analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  