-- Merkel-SPD Talks on Coalition Deadlock on Minimum Wage
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-20T09:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/merkel-spd-talks-on-coalition-deadlock-on-minimum-wage.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
the Social Democrats deadlocked on labor issues including
setting a national minimum wage, jeopardizing their self-imposed
deadline of forging a coalition deal in seven days.  Merkel’s Christian Democrats, their CSU Bavarian sister
party and the SPD collided over “areas of true dissent” on a
minimum wage, CSU General Secretary Alexander Dobrindt told
reporters in Berlin yesterday.  “There’s a long way to go, more than one could have
expected,” Dobrindt said after a sixth meeting of the 75 top
negotiators including Merkel. Officials from all three parties
said they still aim to have a deal by Nov. 27. The top table of
negotiators resume their work in Berlin tomorrow.  More than eight weeks after Merkel’s Sept. 22 election
victory, negotiators are struggling to overcome differences to
swear in a new government by Christmas. Party officials for the
first time yesterday publicly discussed the possibility of new
elections as  an option  if the talks break down.  Andrea Nahles, the SPD’s general secretary, said that while
negotiators had agreed on forming a commission to set the wage,
differences remained on how to implement it and what kind of
exceptions would be in place. The SPD campaigned on a statutory
minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.50) an hour throughout Germany,
and says it is a precondition for entering into coalition.
Merkel’s bloc wants wages to be set by industry and labor.  Conditional Funding  “To bring together the many demands that we have will mean
nothing less than squaring the circle,” Nahles said, alongside
Dobrindt and their CDU counterpart, Hermann Groehe.  Moreover, SPD negotiator Ralf Stegner said his party is
refusing to bow to CDU pressure to make all policy decisions
conditional on the availability of funding, while Merkel’s bloc
says a commitment to avoid new debt or tax increases must remain
the government’s guiding principle.  “We won’t be able to agree on any coalition accord with
finance restrictions or audits on Social Democratic
priorities,” Stegner said by phone before the talks. “Most of
the difficult issues will only be resolved at the end.”  Tensions arose after SPD leaders over the weekend faced
down internal opposition, prompting SPD Chairman Sigmar Gabriel
to demand that Merkel “deliver” on policy. Horst Seehofer, the
CSU chairman and Bavarian premier, signaled that his party won’t
shy away from new elections should talks run aground.  “New elections are difficult in  Germany  for good reason,”
Groehe said before the talks. “We want these negotiations to be
successful, but we aren’t afraid if the voters must decide
again.”  Latest                          Poll  Support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc held at 41 percent for a
second week in a Forsa poll for Stern magazine and RTL
television released today, after taking 41.5 percent in the
election. The SPD was at 24 percent, also unchanged on the week,
though down from 25.7 percent in September.  The SPD has placed a further hurdle in the way of forming a
coalition after it pledged to put any draft accord to a vote of
its 470,000 members, a process due to take about two weeks.  Regional CDU members in the states of Baden-Wuerttemberg,
North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate plan to debate
whatever accord is reached amid growing unease over concessions
being made by Merkel’s bloc, Die Welt newspaper reported today.  “Is Merkel giving way on all CDU positions to secure the
Chancellorship?” Bild newspaper said in a headline in today’s
edition over an article that said the SPD had got its way on 10
of 12 main policy areas.  Policy Tally  Bild included a commitment to some sort of minimum wage
among the concessions made. Others were on quotas for women on
company boards, the planned financial transactions tax and rent
controls. The CDU has won through on pensions for mothers of
children born before 1992 and on its refusal to support euro-area bond issuance, according to Bild.  With at least a dozen working groups still thrashing out
policy differences, further rounds of talks among the top 75
negotiators are scheduled for Nov. 26 and Nov. 27 after
tomorrow’s meeting.  “If the SPD wants to improve its chances at the next
election in 2017, it must first demonstrate that it can again
govern,” Manfred Guellner, the head of Forsa, was cited as
saying by Stern. “Right now that can only happen in conjunction
with the Union bloc.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  