-- Eskom Says South Africa Power Pinch May Run to Month-End
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y ,   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-11-20T14:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/eskom-declares-south-africa-power-emergency-after-units-lost.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. said South
Africa’s power system will remain constrained until the end of
the month even as the utility told its biggest clients to cut
use by 10 percent for a second day in a bid to avoid blackouts.  The company today extended emergency measures announced
yesterday that caused the rand to weaken against the dollar and
the platinum price to rise after the utility lost generating
units. South Africa is the world’s biggest platinum producer.  “We anticipate that the system will remain extremely tight
until Friday Nov. 29,” Johannesburg-based Eskom, which produces
more than 95 percent of the nation’s power, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are constantly reviewing the situation and will
lift the emergency notice once the situation improves.”  The utility is spending 500 billion rand ($49 billion) to
replace aging equipment and add plants to avoid a repeat of 2008
blackouts that halted mines, including those owned by companies
such as  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , for five days
and paralyzed factories in the continent’s biggest economy.  The company, which produces about 85 percent of its power
from coal, said about 27 percent of its 41,900-megawatt
generating capacity was out for maintenance earlier this week.
While the targeted surplus is at least 2,000 megawatts, it was
forecast to be just 400 megawatts yesterday,  More Favorable  “The outlook for today is more favorable than yesterday,
but our reserve margins remain low and therefore we are still
vulnerable,” Andrew Etzinger, a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based company, said by phone. “As a precautionary measure we
kept the emergency declaration in place.”  The company’s generation capacity may exceed demand by
1,000 megawatts today, he said.  “This is an optimistic scenario,” Etzinger said. “It is
based on plants returning to service from maintenance and that
we don’t see additional trips at our power stations.”  BHP, whose aluminum smelters are the country’s biggest
power users, and Anglo American said they would assist Eskom by
cutting usage. Platinum and gold producers in South Africa use
electricity to move workers up and down the world’s deepest mine
shafts. Usage cutbacks by Eskom’s biggest customers contributed
600 megawatts to the power grid yesterday, Etzinger said.  The Chamber of Mines, which represents producers such as
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , said its members have been working with
Eskom on the emergency protocol for the past three months and
will do what they can to protect the network.  Eskom Provisions  “It isn’t the responsibility of the large industrial
customers alone to carry the full burden of the electricity-supply emergency,” the Johannesburg-based chamber said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “This is a ‘national
emergency’ and all stakeholders have a responsibility to curtail
electricity demand by at least 10 percent.”  The utility is allowed to interrupt power to BHP’s smelters
in Richards Bay on South Africa’s northeastern coast and another
in neighboring  Mozambique  for as long as two hours a week
without warning or compensation.  “Eskom is currently making use of this provision,” BHP
spokeswoman Lulu Letlape said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  While Anglo American hasn’t officially been asked to cut
usage, it will make required adjustments when necessary,
spokesman  Pranill Ramchander  said in an e-mail yesterday.  Customer Instruction  Eskom instructed its key industrial customers to reduce
consumption from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. yesterday, said Johan Theron,
a spokesman for  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the second-largest producer of the metal. The utility renewed the directive
today for 9 a.m. to 12 p.m., he said by text message.  The rand weakened as much as 0.8 percent against the dollar
after yesterday’s announcement. It strengthened 0.9 percent to
10.0939 by 3:53 p.m. in Johannesburg. It has lost 16 percent to
the dollar this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The spot price of platinum rose as much as 1.1
percent yesterday and fell 1 percent to $1,404.90 an ounce
today.  Yields on Eskom’s $1.75 billion of bonds due in January
2021 rose for a second day today, adding 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 5.98 percent.  Maintenance Program  While the utility is conducting “a great deal of
maintenance” on coal-fired plants, it also has shut one of two
920-megawatt units at its Koeberg plant, its sole nuclear
operation, in Cape Town for repairs and refueling. The facility
will return to service in the last week of December, Eskom said
Nov. 10.  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL)  is cutting consumption by about 40
megawatts at its Kloof and Driefontein operations, in addition
to its normal power-control procedures during the peak 5 p.m. to
9 p.m. period, spokesman James Wellsted said in an e-mailed
response to questions. Output hasn’t yet been affected, he said.  Most industrial users have maintained power usage at 90
percent or below since 2008, said Shaun Nel, director at the
Energy Intensive User Group of Southern Africa, whose 32 members
include local units of BHP and ArcelorMittal.  “We have had significant opportunities to look at really
innovative ways to address the power situation,” he said by
phone. “We’ve wasted a number of years and it’s come back to
haunt us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  