-- EU, California Show China How to Avoid Carbon-Permit Oversupply
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-11-19T11:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/eu-california-show-china-how-to-avoid-carbon-permit-oversupply.html
European Union and Californian
emissions markets have shown  China  how to avoid the pitfall of
oversupply in its own carbon-trading programs, said the vice
mayor of the city of Shenzhen.  Permit prices on the EU Emissions Trading System plunged 80
percent the past five years, according to data from the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London. Officials from China examined
why this happened, said Tang Jie, vice mayor of the southern
Chinese city that has a population of 13 million and average
income of $20,000.  “If you look at EU ETS, excessive quota or irrational
allocation of the quota for the power sector caused the lower
price,” Tang said yesterday at climate talks in Warsaw. Instead
of Europe’s model of initially granting allowances for free,
China has opted to follow California and require carbon emitters
to bid for allowances.  China is seeking to build a national carbon market even as
low prices caused by  Europe ’s surplus -- equivalent to a year’s
supply of permits according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance --
has prompted direct market intervention. The EU plans to delay
the auction of 900 million metric tons of emissions permits to
reduce the oversupply. The U.K. took the extra step in April of
setting a minimum price for  carbon emissions .  China is the world’s largest emitter of carbon dioxide, the
gas scientists say is warming the planet. Seven cities in the
nation are starting carbon markets. “We need to phase out that
highly polluting, dirty production capacity,” Tang said through
an interpreter. “We want to push them to pay for their carbon
emissions. We want to kick them out of the market.”  ‘Lowest Cost’  A carbon market “will be the lowest-cost way to realize
our targets,” with a marginal cost of about 50  yuan  ($8.21) for
each ton of emissions reduced, he said.  Putting a price on carbon is forecast to cut power demand
in the city by about 16 percent the next three years to an
annualized 53 billion kilowatt hours, Tang said. “If we are
able to reduce demand for power, then we will reduce carbon
emissions,” he earlier told delegates at the United Nations
climate conference.  The carbon price in Shenzhen may be about 70 yuan a ton,
almost double the 4.43 euros ($5.99) today in Europe on ICE at
8:52 a.m., Tang said.  Shenzhen maintained “close interaction and discussion”
with the California Environmental Protection Agency in the
design of its program, Tang said. China is learning from the EU
and  California  and is withholding allocations and creating
permit reserves, he said.  California’s Experience  Carbon markets are cost effective and will provide
California “with funds so that we can invest in other kinds of
programs, so there are co-benefits,” Matthew Rodriquez,
secretary for environmental protection at the California EPA,
said yesterday in an interview in Warsaw.  He declined to recommend carbon markets to developing
nations seeking ways to help protect the climate.  “I’m really loath to get involved in the international
discussions,” Rodriquez said. “I’m trying to do what’s best
for California and I will share my experience in California with
other countries and let them make the decision about whether
they want to pursue that.”  China’s adoption of carbon markets has been swift, he said.
“What took California six years to get started, it has taken
the Chinese provinces and governments six months to get started
and that’s a remarkable achievement,” he told delegates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  