-- EU on Track to Reach Bank-Failure Deal This Year, Wieser Says
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-11-19T16:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/eu-on-track-to-reach-bank-failure-deal-this-year-wieser-says.html
The European Union’s 28 member
states are on track to reach an agreement on bank resolution by
the end of 2013, said  Thomas Wieser , the official in charge of
preparing meetings of euro-area finance ministers.  “We will, I’m quite sure, come to a conclusion on the
Single Resolution Mechanism which will not be perfect, but I
think will lead us into the direction of actually integrating
over time in a next step much much more in the euro area,”
Wieser said at a conference in  Frankfurt  today.  A report from an EU high-level working group, led by Bank
of Finland Governor  Erkki Liikanen , has been “languishing in
some drawers in Brussels and other capitals,” Wieser said.  “There has been no succinct communication on what  Europe 
proposes to do as a follow-up, and in the meantime, several
 member states  have started preparing or even implementing such
rules which will lead to a tremendously uneven playing field,”
he said. “In a true banking union this should not happen and it
could not happen.”  Wieser said he hoped the EU would take “decisive action”
on the report’s recommendations in late 2014. When asked why the
report was on ice, Wieser said: “It’s like with marriages,
there are some who want to be separated and others who don’t
want to be separated. And at present the non-divorcees appear to
be the stronger” voices.  “We will by no means in a year’s time be where we should
be,” Wieser said. “That is something that is of special
concern in this country here. In reality I think we are lacking
a very robust legal basis within the treaty, or a treaty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  