-- EU Parliament Backs First Cut in EU's Multiannual Budget
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-11-19T11:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/eu-parliament-backs-first-cut-in-eu-s-multiannual-budget.html
The European Union’s parliament
approved a lower seven-year EU spending cap demanded by
government leaders, ending a 29-month political battle dictated
by the U.K. and other opponents of a bigger budget.  The European Parliament endorsed a call by national leaders
in February to fix the EU’s budget for 2014-2020 at 960 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion). The sum, down from an original proposal
in June 2011 of 1.047 trillion euros and less than the 994
billion euros committed in the current budget cycle, marks the
first shrinking of the EU’s “Multiannual Financial Framework.”  The 28-nation Parliament backed the spending cut today in
Strasbourg,  France , in return for a pledge by EU governments to
review in 2016 whether the seven-year ceiling is adequate. The
766-seat assembly also won greater flexibility over annual
spending.  “It wasn’t the best possible outcome; it was the only
possible outcome,” said Alain Lamassoure, French head of the EU
Parliament’s budget committee. National governments, which
finance about 80 percent of the EU budget, are due to give their
final endorsement of the 2014-2020 plan on Dec. 2.  The EU’s seven-year  budget guidelines , traditionally a
tussle between richer nations that are net contributors and
poorer countries mainly in eastern and southern  Europe , are a
gauge of the bloc’s political mood and coherence. Regional and
agricultural aid soaks up around four-fifths of EU expenditure,
funding everything from transport networks to farmers’ incomes.  European Spending  European spending is about 1 percent of EU gross domestic
product compared with national spending in the bloc that is
around 50 percent of domestic GDP. The debate over 2014-2020 EU
spending took on added significance as the bloc sought to
contain the four-year-old debt crisis that has threatened to
break up the 17-nation euro.  The accord struck in early February by EU government
leaders came at a gathering that lasted more than 25 hours and
followed a failed attempt in November 2012. The richest EU
countries including  Germany  and the U.K. insisted on a
reduction, saying it would be consistent with efforts by
national governments to narrow their budget deficits.  EU Parliament members argued that European expenditure is a
collective investment tool that becomes more important during a
time of national austerity. The assembly, due to hold elections
next year, had threatened to veto the leaders’ agreement unless
governments offered concessions including a mid-term review and
more flexibility over annual spending.  “We have had very difficult, protracted negotiations,”
said Jean-Luc Dehaene, a Belgian member of the EU Parliament and
a former prime minister of  Belgium .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  