-- EU Said to Weigh December Deal on Carbon-Fix Timetable
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-11-19T15:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/eu-said-to-weigh-december-deal-on-carbon-fix-timetable.html
European Union nations may seek an
initial deal next month to adjust a draft carbon-market fix by
delaying sales of emission permits over three years starting in
2014, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Representatives of the 28 EU member states are likely to
opt for keeping the volume of permits to be withheld at auctions
at 900 million, said the people, who asked not to be identified.
That’s unchanged from last year’s draft of the rescue plan. The
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, originally
proposed delaying sales of emission allowances in 2013-2015 to
alleviate a record glut.  EU emission allowances rose as much as 4.1 percent today,
the biggest gain in 11 days. The emergency fix for Europe’s 53-billion-euro ($72 billion) greenhouse-gas market is intended to
help carbon prices rebound after they lost more than 70 percent
over the past four years.  The program is known as backloading and kept member states
divided until earlier this month. It still needs to be enabled
by a legislative change being currently considered by EU
governments and the European Parliament.  The U.K. confirmed that climate officials from national
governments are preparing to discuss backloading at the Dec. 11
gathering of the EU Climate Change Committee. Under the European
law, the panel is to decide about the details of the market
rescue plan in an amendment to the EU carbon-permit auctioning
regulation.  “The U.K. government supports backloading 900 million
allowances and is currently forming a position on the more
detailed questions, which we expect Member States to discuss at
the next meeting of the Climate Change Committee,” the
Department of Energy and Climate Change said in a statement in
response to questions.  Rescue Plan  The structure of backloading may be identical to last
year’s proposal, under which the EU would delay 400 million
permits in the first year of the rescue plan, 300 million in the
second and 200 million in the third, according to the people
familiar with the matter. The withheld permits would return to
the market in 2019-2020, according to the draft presented by the
commission last year.  The meeting of the Climate Change Committee is set to take
place after the final vote by the European Parliament on an
amendment to the EU emissions trading law that would enable
backloading. The draft legislative change clarifies the right of
the commission to delay auctions of carbon permits and caps
backloading at 900 million permits. The EU assembly’s vote is
tentatively scheduled for Dec. 10.  Carbon Market  “I am sure there will be majority in favor,” Matthias Groote, head of the Parliament’s environment panel and lead
lawmaker on the draft emission-trading legislation, said in an
interview in Warsaw yesterday. “Backloading should start as
soon as possible to show that we care about the carbon market.”  The clarifying amendment, which already received initial
approval by the Parliament on July 3 and by national governments
on Nov. 8, also needs final consent from EU ministers to become
binding. The bloc’s environment ministers could decide on it at
their next quarterly meeting on Dec. 13 after ambassadors from
national governments rubber-stamp it tomorrow, the people
familiar with the matter said.  Approval by ministers for the legislative change would pave
the way for a formal decision by the Climate Change Committee on
the details of backloading, according to the EU law. Once
adopted by the panel, the measure setting out the volume and
timing of carbon-permit auction delays would become subject to
scrutiny by the Parliament and national governments.  EU carbon permits for December rose to as high as 4.53
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange and traded
2.3 percent up at 4.45 euros as of 3:32 p.m. in  London .  “This timeline is about a month faster than expected,
bringing forward the likely start date of backloading from June
to May 2014,” said Itamar Orlandi, analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Warsaw at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  