-- European Car Sales Rise a Second Straight Month on Spain
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-11-19T08:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/european-car-sales-rise-a-second-straight-month-on-spain.html
European new car sales rose for two
consecutive months for the first time since 2011 as a cash-for-clunkers program in  Spain  and a regional economic recovery
spurred consumers to purchase vehicles.  Registrations in October advanced 4.6 percent from a year
earlier to 1.04 million autos, the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers Association, or  ACEA , said today in a
statement. Sales in September climbed 5.5 percent.  A record six-quarter recession in the 17 countries sharing
the euro ended in the three months through June, and  consumer
confidence  in the area rose in October. Registrations gained in
four of the top five auto markets, including a 34 percent jump
in Spain. Sales were propelled by increases of 14 percent at
 Renault SA (RNO)  and 6.2 percent at  General Motors Co. (GM)   “What we can say with certainty is that we reached the
bottom” in European auto sales earlier this year, Thomas Besson, a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux, said by
phone. “There’s a kind of artificial flavor with Spain, since
it’s their fourth cash-for-clunkers plan to preserve their
industrial base and push internal demand.”  European car-sales growth in October was helped by new 
models such as Renault’s Captur compact crossover and the latest 
version of GM’s mid-size Opel Insignia. The back-to-back monthly 
gains were the first since August and September 2011, ACEA 
Economics and Statistics Director Quynh-Nhu Huynh said.  Full-Year Decline  Industrywide European sales are still set for a sixth
straight annual contraction, with 10-month demand falling 3.1
percent to 10.4 million cars.  Spain’s government approved the renewal of state car-sales
incentives on Oct. 25, offering a 1,000-euro ($1,350) matching
subsidy for dealer discounts on trade-ins of seven- to 10-year-old vehicles. The new cars must be more fuel efficient and be
priced at 25,000 euros or less. Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said the previous three cash-for-clunkers
efforts contributed to 300,000 vehicle purchases.  In addition to Spain, car sales increased last month in
Germany, the U.K. and France. Italy was the only auto market of
the five biggest in Europe to post a decline.  European sales at Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
the region’s biggest carmaker, rose 5.7 percent in October,
propelled by jumps of 24 percent at the Skoda brand and 15
percent at the Seat nameplate, while registrations gained 1.4
percent at the namesake VW marque. The Audi division, the
world’s second-biggest maker of luxury vehicles, posted a 0.5
percent decline.  Dacia Jump  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
posted a 16 percent European sales gain at the entry-level Dacia
brand, which has revised the Sandero hatchback and Logan sedan.
Registrations at the main Renault marque rose 13 percent.  GM’s Chevrolet division sold 6.6 percent more cars, while
demand at the European nameplates Opel and Vauxhall rose 6.1
percent. Models that Detroit-based GM has begun selling in
Europe in the past year also include the South Korean-made Mokka
compact sport-utility vehicle, which Opel will produce in Spain
next year, and the Adam city car.  “Car sales have been falling for so long that the aging
fleet in Europe alone could be a reason for a moderate pick
up,” Jean-Francois Belorgey, who runs consulting company EY’s
automotive business in France, said by phone before the ACEA
released figures. “New sport-utility vehicles being introduced
by several companies may also be pushing sales.”  Luxury Producers  European sales at Mercedes-Benz, the world’s third-biggest
maker of  luxury vehicles , rose 8.5 percent last month. The gain
more than offset a 3.6 percent drop at the Smart city-car unit
to boost group registrations at Stuttgart, Germany-based parent
company  Daimler AG (DAI)  by 7 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the global premium-car market
leader, sold 0.3 percent more cars in Europe.  Mercedes has won customers with a refreshed compact lineup,
including the all-new CLA-Class coupe, as well as a revamp of
the up-market E-Class sedan. Munich-based BMW began selling the
4-Series coupe, which shares underpinnings with its best-selling
3-Series sedan, in September. A new generation of its X5 SUV is
entering dealerships this month.  October European car sales also rose at Japanese producers
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which posted a 17 percent jump in
registrations, and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , with a 5.1 percent gain.  European registrations declined 0.7 percent at Paris-based
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the region’s biggest carmaker; 0.2 percent
at Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F) ; 7.3 percent at
Italian manufacturer  Fiat SpA (F) ; and 2.3 percent at South Korean
producer  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  