-- Dollar Falls on Bernanke Rates Outlook; Euro-Yen at 4-Year High
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-11-20T06:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/euro-reaches-four-year-high-versus-yen-dollar-weak-on-bernanke.html
The dollar fell versus the euro and
the yen after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the
central bank’s main interest rate will probably remain near zero
for a “considerable time” after asset purchases end.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index held a three-day drop after
Bernanke said the Fed was committed to highly accommodative
policies, echoing recent comments from other Fed officials
including Janet Yellen, who has been nominated to succeed him.
The euro touched a four-year high versus the yen before reports
tomorrow forecast to show the region’s manufacturing growth
accelerated. The yen declined briefly after Japan’s  trade
deficit  was wider than economists had forecast.  “Bernanke and Yellen remain very consistent with each
other that rates in the U.S. are going to remain low for a long
time,” said Thomas Averill, a managing director in Sydney at
Rochford Capital, a currency and rates risk-management company.
“I do think the story is dollar weakness. I would say sell the
U.S. dollar across the board.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3543 per euro as of
6:54 a.m. in  London  after earlier reaching $1.3579, the weakest
level since Nov. 1. The U.S. currency lost 0.1 percent to 100.07
yen. The euro was little changed at 135.52 yen after touching
135.95, the strongest since October 2009.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which monitors the
greenback against 10 major peers, was little changed at 1,015.38
after touching 1,013.11 yesterday, the lowest since Nov. 6. The
gauge weakened 0.4 percent over the previous three days.  Labor Improvement  The labor market has shown “meaningful improvement” since
the Fed’s bond-buying program started, Bernanke said in remarks
prepared for a speech to economists in  Washington  yesterday. A
“preponderance of data” would be needed to begin removing
accommodation, he said.  Benchmark interest rates may remain low “perhaps well
after” the jobless rate falls below the Fed’s 6.5 percent
threshold, he said.  In two hours of testimony before Congress last week, Yellen
indicated she’ll press on with the Fed’s unprecedented stimulus
until she sees a robust recovery. Bank of  New York  Fed President
William C. Dudley said Nov. 18 he’s “getting more hopeful”
about the economy while indicating no change in bond buying
anytime soon.  The U.S. central bank buys  $85 billion  of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities each month to put downward pressure
on borrowing costs. Officials will pare the purchases to $70
billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News survey on Nov. 8.  Retail Sales  The Commerce Department will probably say today that  retail
sales  in the world’s biggest economy increased 0.1 percent in
October after a 0.1 percent decline the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A separate report is projected to show consumer
prices stagnated in October from the previous month, after
rising 0.2 percent in September.  Euro-area manufacturing growth probably accelerated to the
fastest pace since June 2011, economists forecast in a Bloomberg
survey before a Markit Economics report due tomorrow. An  index 
based on a survey of purchasing managers in the manufacturing
industry rose to 51.5 in November from 51.3 the previous month,
while a  services  gauge climbed to 51.9 from 51.6, the poll
predicts. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  European data “could provide a little bit of support for
the euro,” said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency
strategist at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender. “The message out of Europe will be that the
economy’s gained momentum, but it’s still pretty weak.”  Little ‘Upside’  Europe’s common currency probably doesn’t have a “huge
amount of upside,” according to Capurso, who recommends selling
it above $1.3650, and said it may breach that level in coming
weeks.  The euro has strengthened 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has climbed 1.9
percent and the yen is down 0.8 percent.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi and  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  are scheduled to  speak  in Berlin tomorrow. ECB
Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said yesterday policy
makers must be “very careful” about using negative interest
rates to counter slow inflation. Officials cut the 17-nation
region’s benchmark rate by a quarter-percentage point to 0.25
percent this month.  Japan Deficit  The yen briefly extended declines after data today showed
growth in imports outstripped exports in October, leaving a
trade deficit of 1.09 trillion yen ($10.9 billion), more than
all 28 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Imports climbed 26.1
percent from a year earlier, while exports gained 18.6 percent.  “We expect the yen to weaken further, which should keep
some upward pressure on the trade deficit,” Marcel Thieliant, a
Singapore-based economist at Capital Economics, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and his board gather
for a two-day policy meeting starting today. Almost three-quarters of economists in a Bloomberg survey expect the BOJ will
bolster stimulus in the first six months of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  