-- Lew Praises Forthcoming Baucus Tax Plan as Constructive
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-19T16:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lew-praises-forthcoming-baucus-tax-plan-as-constructive.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
praised a forthcoming congressional proposal to revamp the tax
plan as a “constructive step” forward.  Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus said he will soon
release discussion drafts on several portions of the tax code
and he is meeting with committee members today. Finance panel
member Rob Portman, an Ohio Republican, said last week that
those drafts will include international taxation, tax
administration and capital cost recovery, all issues with
significant implications for businesses.  “I talked with Senator Baucus yesterday and I think it’s a
very constructive step that he’s putting forward, a draft,” Lew
said at the Wall Street Journal’s CEO Council conference in
 Washington  today. “I look forward to studying the details.”  He continued, “From what I understand, it shares some
significant characteristics with the president’s framework,
which I actually think has a certain amount of convergence
between Democrats and Republicans.”  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, has said he wants to make the
biggest tax code changes since 1986 and reduce individual and
corporate tax rates. He has released few details of how he would
do that, with a little more than a year remaining before he
retires.  Baucus has been working with House Ways and Means Chairman
Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican. Camp released an international
tax draft in 2011 and is planning to release a full tax plan
soon. Their efforts have been stalled in part by a partisan
dispute over whether the government should collect more revenue.  Tax Framework  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has outlined a
framework for corporate taxation that would reduce the rate to
28 percent from 35 percent and set it at 25 percent for
manufacturers. The administration’s plan would set a global
minimum tax.  The current system imposes the federal rate on income
earned worldwide while allowing companies to defer that U.S. tax
if they leave money overseas. That system has led companies to
hold about $2 trillion outside the U.S.  The individual side of the tax code is more politically
charged because many of the possible ways to generate revenue
come from closing popular tax breaks for health insurance,
mortgage interest and charitable contributions.  “If you can’t do everything, do business tax reform,” Lew
said. “Have our statutory rate not become something -- be
something that drives business out but that attracts business to
the United States, deal with the disparity between U.S. and
international tax rates, eliminate some of the tax provisions
that skew investment decisions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  