-- Lew Sees No Alternative to Congress Raising Debt Limit
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-19T21:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lew-sees-no-alternative-to-congress-raising-debt-limit-by-feb-7.html
U.S.  Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew
urged Congress to raise the debt limit well in advance of a
February deadline, calling an increase necessary to preserve the
nation’s promise to its creditors.  “There really is no alternative but to raise the debt
limit when you need to borrow in order to pay the bills,” Lew
said at the Wall Street Journal’s CEO Council conference today
in Washington. “The full faith and credit of the  United States 
-- whether it’s bonds or contracts or benefits -- has to be
honored.”  Lew said his department can use so-called extraordinary
measures, the accounting steps employed to avoid breaching the
debt limit, for about a month after next deadline in early
February. Those measures were used during a fiscal impasse that
culminated in a partial government shutdown last month, a tactic
President  Barack Obama  said later at the same conference was
“like a loaded gun” that threatens global economic disruption.  Obama signed legislation Oct. 17, the day Lew said the U.S.
would exhaust its borrowing authority, to suspend the debt
ceiling until Feb. 7. The deal between Democrats and  House
Republicans  sets the stage for another possible showdown early
next year. The president today said he doesn’t expect a repeat
of the standoff that brought the country to the brink of a
default.  Raising Revenue  The deadlock also led to creation of a Senate-House
conference committee with a Dec. 13 deadline to offer ways to
resolve the fiscal disputes between Democrats and Republicans.
U.S. lawmakers are at odds over whether ending some tax breaks
for wealthier Americans should be part of a deal to replace the
automatic spending cuts approved in 2011 that have trimmed
funding for defense and domestic programs.  “The challenge of doing something really big is that both
sides have to do something really hard,” Lew said. “We’ve made
clear that in order to do the kinds of entitlement reforms that
are in the president’s budget, it would require moving on  tax
reform  and raising some additional revenue. If that’s not a
possibility for the Republicans, then something large is not
likely.”  Lew praised the details of a corporate-tax change plan he
discussed yesterday with Senator  Max Baucus , a Democrat from
 Montana . Baucus, the chairman of Senate Finance Committee,
released a proposal today under which U.S. companies would face
a minimum tax on the income they earn around the world, the
senator’s most significant proposal to revamp the  tax code .  Bipartisan ‘Convergence’  “It shares some significant characteristics with the
president’s framework, which I actually think has a certain
amount of convergence between Democrats and Republicans,” Lew
said. “I look forward to studying the details.”  The Treasury secretary reiterated he is “optimistic” the
Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading will be published by the
end of this year.  Lew, who visited five Asian nations including Japan and
 China  last week, said he thinks the Chinese leadership is
“serious” about opening up the economy.  “I don’t want to suggest that a week or a month from now
we’re going to turn around and it will be transformed, but they
certainly chartered a direction that is consistent with the
things that we have very much encouraged them to think about,”
Lew said. “I suspect that we’re going to still be pressing them
to move faster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  