-- Yellen Defends QE as Economic Benefit in Letter to Senator
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-11-20T00:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/fed-s-yellen-defends-qe-as-economic-benefit-in-letter-to-senator.html
Janet Yellen , the nominee for
 Federal Reserve  chairman, defended the central bank’s bond
purchases in a letter to a U.S. senator, saying they boosted
economic growth and provide benefits that exceed the risks.  “By putting downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and helping to make financial conditions more
accommodative, the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases have
supported a stronger economic recovery, improved labor-market
conditions and helped keep inflation closer to its 2 percent
objective,” Yellen said in a Nov. 18 response to questions from
Senator  David Vitter , a Republican from  Louisiana .  In a separate letter to Senator  Elizabeth Warren , Yellen
said “monetary policy is likely to remain highly accommodative
for a long time,” even after the Fed reaches thresholds for
considering an increase in the main interest rate.  Yellen, at a Nov. 14 confirmation hearing, told the Senate
Banking Committee she’s committed to promoting a strong
recovery, reducing 7.3 percent unemployment and ensuring
stimulus isn’t removed too soon. The Fed has held the main
interest rate near zero since December 2008 and pumped up its
balance sheet to a record $3.91 trillion through bond purchases.  Yellen said in her Nov. 18 letter to Warren that the
Federal Open Market Committee’s pledge to keep the main  interest
rate  exceptionally low as long as the  unemployment rate  exceeds
6.5 percent should be considered a threshold, not a trigger for
action.  Crossing Threshold  “Once a threshold has been crossed, the committee will not
necessarily raise the federal funds rate target immediately,”
Yellen wrote in her response to Warren, a Democrat from
 Massachusetts . “Instead, crossing a threshold will lead the
committee to consider whether an increase in rates would be
appropriate.”  Vitter asked Yellen if the central bank’s bond purchases
constitute a bailout of the largest financial institutions,
creating “Wall Street’s new ‘Too-Big-to-Fail’ policy.”  She responded that the purchases have “benefited American
families and Main Street businesses,” in part by reducing
interest rates on  mortgages  and auto loans.  Separately, the Fed plans to issue a proposal “shortly”
describing its policies and procedures for the use of its
emergency lending authority, Yellen said in her letter to
Vitter.  Largest Banks  In response to a question from Warren about whether the Fed
was devoting enough resources to regulating the largest banks,
Yellen said the Fed has approximately 215 staff members at the
six largest bank-holding companies, including JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Senator Jerry Moran, a Kansas Republican, asked Yellen
about steps the Fed was taking to ease the regulatory burden on
community banks. Yellen responded in a letter that the
assumption big banks will be bailed out by the government is “a
damaging economic phenomenon that corrodes market discipline of
our largest banking firms and contributes to an un-level playing
field between large banks and small banks.”  Efforts to strengthen regulation of the largest banks
should help “level that playing field,” she said.  Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairman, was nominated by President
 Barack Obama  to succeed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose term
expires in January. Her letters were sent in response to written
questions submitted by senators after last week’s hearing. The
banking committee plans to vote at 10 a.m. on Nov. 21 on whether
to advance Yellen’s nomination to the Senate floor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  