-- Evans Says Bond Buying May Total More Than $1.5 Trillion
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-11-20T00:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/fed-s-evans-says-bond-buying-may-total-more-than-1-5-trillion.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans , a voter on policy this year, said the
Fed may buy a total of $1.5 trillion in bonds in a program that
started in January 2013 to ensure steady employment gains.  “Given the current conditions, I won’t be surprised if it
is $1.5 trillion,” Evans, a consistent supporter of  record
stimulus , said in a speech today in Chicago. “It could be a
little more than that.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged last month to
press on with $85 billion in monthly bond buying until seeing
substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market.
While U.S. employers in October added 204,000 workers, the Fed
probably won’t taper its purchases until a March 18-19 policy
meeting, according to the median of 32 economist estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey Nov. 8.  “Now it looks like we are going on longer at the full $85
billion pace,” Evans said to reporters. “I had said it was
likely to be about $1.25 trillion several months ago.”  The Fed should be careful not to prematurely reduce bond
purchases because it’s not certain labor market improvements are
sustainable, Evans said.  “I am not in a hurry myself to reduce the flow of
purchases,” he said. “I’d rather wait just a little bit longer
and have more confidence.”  Costs, Benefits  The benefits of Fed stimulus far outweigh the risks, with
unemployment above the long-term trend and inflation below the
Fed’s 2 percent target, Evans said in a speech to the Illinois
Bankers Association.  “We have ample safeguards in place” to ensure financial
stability, Evans said.  While a surge of inflation may be the biggest risk from the
Fed’s $3.91 trillion balance sheet, “inflation is low and it is
expected to continue to be low,” he said. “I don’t see that
risk at the moment.”  Evans said he would favor reducing the Fed’s unemployment-rate threshold, by promising to keep rates exceptionally low as
long as unemployment exceeds 5.5 percent. The Fed’s current
threshold is 6.5 percent.  Janet Yellen , the nominee to be the next Fed chairman,
defended bond purchases in a letter to a U.S. senator dated
yesterday, saying the easing boosted economic growth and
provides benefits that exceed its risks.  Supporting Growth  “By putting downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and helping to make financial conditions more
accommodative, the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases have
supported a stronger economic recovery, improved labor market
conditions, and helped keep inflation closer to its 2 percent
objective,” she said in a response to Senator  David Vitter , a
Republican from  Louisiana .  Yellen, nominated to succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as Fed
chairman, told a Senate committee last week that job-market
gains would arise from stronger economic growth, which was
running at a 2.8 percent year-over-year rate last quarter. Fed
officials forecast a 2 percent to 2.3 percent expansion for
2013, compared with a 1.7 percent estimate released today by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Speaking today in  Washington , Bernanke said the labor
market has shown “meaningful improvement” since the start of the
central bank’s bond-buying program and that the benchmark
interest rate will probably stay low long after the purchases
end.  Evans, 55, became president of the  Chicago  Fed in 2007
after serving as the bank’s director of research. The district
bank chief was also an early backer of the current round of bond
purchases, and he dissented twice in 2011 in favor of easier
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  