-- Gun Insurance Proposals Stall as Critics Cite Obamacare
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/firearm-insurance-proposals-languish-as-critics-invoke-obamacare.html
Plans to mandate liability coverage
for U.S. gun owners after last year’s school shooting in
Connecticut have languished as opponents attack the proposals by
comparing them to President  Barack Obama ’s health overhaul.  Lawmakers in Illinois  voted down  by a margin of more than
2-to-1 a measure that would have required $1 million of
 insurance . Similar proposals were excluded from gun-control
bills that passed in  California  and  Connecticut . Maryland State
Senator Jamie Raskin, a Democrat, said he withdrew his  firearms-liability bill  because of a lack of support.  “Society is not yet ready to impose the cost of gun
ownership on owners and manufacturers,” Raskin said. “That
would require a dramatic shift in public understanding and
political dialogue.”  The failed efforts in states that voted for Obama, a gun-control advocate, is partly the result of opposition from the
insurance industry, which is seeking to avoid claims tied to
policyholders’ crimes. Opponents of the liability measures have
also cited frustration with the federal mandate that people have
health coverage next year or pay of a fine.  “I don’t believe it’s going to gain any traction,
particularly in light of the fact that we’ve got, at this
juncture, a fiasco with Obamacare being mandatory,” said Alan
Gottlieb, founder of the Second Amendment Foundation, a
Bellevue, Washington-based gun rights group. “I don’t think
legislators want to get near any kind of mandatory insurance.”  ‘Market-Based’  U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat,
introduced a bill in March that would prohibit the sale of
firearms to uninsured people. She called her proposal a
“ market-based approach ” and likened it to car coverage, which
is required by states and is more costly for those deemed by
underwriters to pose the greatest risk. Her proposal hasn’t been
brought for a vote by the House of Representatives.  Michael Bost, a Republican state legislator from southern
 Illinois , opposed the insurance bill and said supporters of the
mandate from  Chicago  were mistakenly blaming the city’s violence
on guns, rather than on criminals. Asked about parallels between
the firearms proposal and Obama’s health policies, Bost said
both are “too much government in my life.”  A mandate for gun buyers could be more challenging than for
drivers, given insurers’ aversion to the risk from assaults.
That compares with U.S. auto insurance, where companies spend
 more than $5 billion  a year to win customers in a $178 billion
market.  ‘Different Question’  “That’s why things like mandatory auto insurance kind of
work, because you’ve already got a highly functional market and
it’s a matter of herding the last stragglers into it,” Walter
Olson, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a think tank
dedicated to limited government, said in an interview. “But
when there is no functional insurance market at all for some
kind of risk, it’s a different question.”  Florida State Representative Matt Gaetz, a Republican,
introduced a  bill  this month that would prohibit insurers from
underwriting a policy or refusing to provide coverage based on
an applicant’s ownership of a legal firearm.  Most carriers don’t ask clients if they own a firearm, said
Neil Alldredge, senior vice president for state and policy
affairs at the National Association of Mutual Insurance
Companies. One way a home insurer might find out is if a
customer requested extra protection to guard a gun collection
against theft, Alldredge said.  Costs from accidental discharges may already be covered by
a gun owner’s health insurance or property coverage, he said.
The state proposals would make insurers liable for additional
expenses, he said.  Pain, Suffering  The cost of U.S. gun violence was as much as $174 billion
in 2010, according to an analysis by the Pacific Institute for
Research and Evaluation, an organization that conducts studies
tied to public health. The estimate accounted for lost work,
medical care, criminal-justice expenses and pain and suffering.  “We oppose proposals that would mandate gun liability
insurance, as property-casualty insurance does not and cannot
cover intentional criminal behavior,” Willem Rijksen, a
spokesman for the American Insurance Association, said in an e-mailed statement.  Gun control efforts accelerated after Adam Lanza killed 20
children and six adults at a Newtown,  Connecticut , elementary
school in December. A California effort to mandate insurance
faltered while other restrictions advanced, including a bill
 signed last month  by Governor Jerry Brown that places tighter
limits on gun storage.  Maryland, Connecticut  Maryland  now requires  that gun buyers get  fingerprinted ,
and Connecticut added requirements for  background checks  in
private gun sales.  “Last year was our big year, and I think we got a
tremendous amount done,” Maryland’s Raskin said. The insurance
proposal was more than colleagues were prepared for, given the
industry’s opposition, he said.  “It’s likely this won’t come back again until, god forbid,
the next huge round of spectacular gun violence and we summon
the momentum to act again,” Raskin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  