-- Ford Says ‘Connected Car’ Success Rides on Tech Firm Efforts
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-11-19T22:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ford-says-connected-car-success-rides-on-tech-firm-flexibility.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , trying to satisfy
customer demands for more in-car gadgets, said technology
companies must work in more open and flexible ways for Internet
“connected-car” features to be as seamless as smartphone apps.  Ford’s push to offer voice-activated commands, navigation
software and entertainment features ahead of competitors has had
mixed results. While the carmaker is improving its in-car
technology,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other software
firms will ultimately determine how well web-connected features
work, said Ford Executive Vice President  Jim Farley .  “It’s important for us to acknowledge that the real value
for customers with the connected car is outside of our  auto
industry ,” Farley said today in a speech at the Los Angeles
Auto Show. “For the car companies, it’s pretty clear the mobile
digital economy is not in our hands.”  Efforts by Ford, the second-biggest U.S. automaker, to be a
leader in in-car technology haven’t worked out as well as hoped,
with some vehicles plagued by nagging electronics malfunctions
that have hurt its performance in assessments by  Consumer
Reports . The Ford and Lincoln lines ranked 26 and 27 last month
out of 28 brands in the magazine’s annual reliability survey.  Ford’s rankings suffered because of defects with its MyFord
Touch and MyLincoln Touch audio, entertainment and navigation
systems as well as defects with transmissions on vehicles such
as the Focus and Fiesta small cars, according to the magazine.  Experience Gap     “We recognize the very large gap between customers’
experience on their phone, and how great that functions, and in-car traditional navigation experience,” Farley said. “We are
absolutely committed and leading in this space.”  Improvements on the part of Ford and other automakers
include developing more “open architecture” for apps and
smartphone integration. Tech companies have to change their
approach as well, particularly by being more flexible in the
interface they use, he said.  “They impose their interfaces on the car user,” said
Farley, who is head of marketing for Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford as well as its Lincoln brand. “And because it’s not
compatible, it’s really not safe.”  The need for closer cooperation on all sides is at a
“tipping point,” he said.  Ford slid 0.6 percent to $16.87 today in  New York . The
shares have risen 30 percent this year,  compared  with a 25
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  