-- Free Libya From the Liberators
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-19T22:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/free-libya-from-the-liberators.html
This week, regular Libyan forces
wearing crisp new fatigues and riding in Humvees took up
positions in the capital, Tripoli, and ordinary Libyans ran into
the streets to cheer the unfamiliar troops as liberators.  The moment was extraordinary, because Tripoli had become a
battle zone for rival militias, and few people knew the city
even had functioning army units. Quietly, the U.S. and some
allies have begun training regular Libyan soldiers. The public
response shows why a bigger effort that’s now being planned is
needed, and should be expanded.  In recent months, Libya has verged on being a failed state,
as militias have run amok,  kidnapping  Prime Minister  Ali Zaidan 
for a day and shutting down the country’s oil wells. (Last
month, oil production  fell  to just 450,000 barrels a day, from a
high of 1.6 million in July.) Last weekend, gunmen from the port
city of Misrata killed at least 43 anti-militia protesters in
the capital.  Many Libyans are sick of the chaos. And a total breakdown
of governance in this North African country would be a nightmare
for the region and for Europe. With about $60 billion  worth  of
annual oil and gas exports to fund warlords and al-Qaeda
affiliates, plentiful arms and uncontrolled borders, Libya also
is a big concern for counterterrorism officials around the
world.  The lawlessness didn’t emerge overnight. The militias have
been a problem since 2011, when they removed dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , with an assist from North Atlantic Treaty Organization
jets. Afterward, Libya’s weak government tried to disarm the
revolution’s fighters. Then it tried to co-opt them, paying them
to provide security. Neither approach worked; the militias have
only grown more powerful, routinely storming the parliament to
strong-arm legislators.  The international effort to train Libyan soldiers has
barely begun. Should they have to fight today, the two Tripoli
brigades that the U.S. appears to have been training would be no
match for the militias. Yet the best and perhaps only hope for
Libya and surrounding countries is that the tiny force can be
expanded.  It’s taken long enough for Libya’s allies to understand
this: The Pentagon recently  said  it would train, starting next
year in Bulgaria, up to 8,000 Libyan troops for general purpose
infantry duty. The U.K. will train 2,000 more troops at a base
in Cambridgeshire. Italy, Turkey and France will also take part,
pushing through as many as 15,000 personnel.  The European Union in May started a  program  to train
Libya’s border guards, investing 30 million euros ($40 million)
and 110 people. The U.K. and other nations are attempting to
train police officers, and a small team of NATO advisers is to
help build the security infrastructure to make all this work. In
post-Qaddafi Libya, pretty much all institutions have to be
built from scratch.  The international help has been slow in coming partly
because Libya took this long to request it, but also because the
situation in Libya is so chaotic, nobody is sure the training
programs will work. The EU, for example, hasn’t been able to get
a list of people to train for its border mission, and its
trainers are stuck in Tripoli for security reasons. Large
swathes of the country’s borders can’t be covered because the
militias and local tribes that guard them now live by smuggling
and don’t answer to the central government.  Yet Libya’s allies cannot let such obstacles or resistance
from the militias be used as an excuse to slow or gut the
training effort. Libyans themselves will need to do most of the
work to make the program a success -- from raising state
security salaries above those paid by militias, to creating a
national security council. A recent Carnegie Endowment  paper  has
laid out the framework required.  At a minimum, Libya needs a security force sufficient to
guard crucial government institutions, oil fields and sensitive
border crossings, as well as functioning police personnel to
provide local security in place of the militias. The popular
response to Monday’s first outing by Tripoli’s nascent regular
army, and the decision of the Misrata militiamen to withdraw
from the capital provide a glimmer of hope.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 