-- G4S to Repay U.K. Government $39 Million for Incorrect Tagging
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-11-19T14:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/g4s-to-repay-u-k-government-39-million-for-incorrect-tagging.html
G4S Plc (GFS)  offered to repay 24.1
million pounds ($38.8 million) that the security and guarding
provider incorrectly charged the U.K. government for
electronically tagging prisoners starting in 2005.  An independent review conducted by law firm Linklaters LLP
found that G4S’s U.K. care and justice services division
“wrongly considered itself to be contractually entitled to bill
for monitoring services when equipment had not been fitted or
after it had been removed,” G4S said in a statement.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office has opened a criminal
investigation into Crawley, England-based G4S and  Serco Group
Plc (SRP) , another U.K. service provider, over the allegations. The
National Audit Office said in a  statement  today that a forensic
audit of the contracts by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP had found
that potential overcharging by both providers may amount to tens
of millions of pounds.  “The way in which this contract was managed was not
consistent with our values or our approach to dealing with
customers,” G4S Chief Executive Officer Ashley Almanza said in
the statement.  “Simply put, it was unacceptable and we have
apologized to the Ministry of Justice.”  G4S said it believed the billing practice was confined to
the electronic monitoring contract for England and Wales. The
company said it has also incurred external investigation costs
of around 2 million pounds.  The National Audit Office said it had found instances of
G4S and Serco charging “months or years after electronic
monitoring activity had ceased.” It said the department hasn’t
agreed to any refund offers made by the providers.  Serco has said it will refund any amounts that it agrees
represents overcharging, the National Audit Office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  