-- GE Unit to Buy Commercial Loans Valued at $2.3 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-11-19T20:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ge-unit-to-buy-commercial-loans-valued-at-2-3-billion.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s real estate
unit said it agreed to acquire commercial mortgages valued at
1.4 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) from Deutsche Postbank AG to
expand its refinancing and new-loan business.  The loans are mainly to U.K. borrowers and are performing,
GE Capital Real Estate Chief Executive Officer Mark Begor said
in a telephone interview. The debt, backed by real estate
including office buildings in central  London , will mature in
2014 to 2016, he said.  “It’s our plan to work with the borrowers to extend the
loans so we can expand the relationship,” Begor said. “We’re
keeping our eyes open for other portfolios globally.”  GE’s real estate unit, among the biggest commercial-property investors globally before the financial crisis, shifted
its focus back to lending in 2010 and has been taking advantage
of a market recovery to sell older investments. The Norwalk,
Connecticut-based unit’s assets have declined to about $40
billion at the end of September from a peak of $93 billion in
2008, according to a Nov. 15 presentation to investors.  The loans being acquired from  Deutsche Postbank (DPB)  will add to
about $9 billion of loan originations the GE unit plans for this
year, bringing the annual total to more than double last year’s
$4.6 billion, Begor said.  Almost half of the $9 billion will be in the U.S. and about
$1 billion will be in the U.K., where GE has been a commercial-property lender for more than 10 years, he said.  GE expects to complete the loan-portfolio purchase by the
end of the year, Begor said. He declined to comment on terms.  “They’re in our strike zone of the kind of loans we’re
doing,” Begor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  