-- Germany Flirts With Fresh Elections as Talks Hit Funding Impasse
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-11-19T13:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/germany-flirts-with-fresh-elections-as-talks-hit-funding-impasse.html
Disagreement over policy and
financing is forcing German negotiators to delay key decisions
on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s third-term government to next
week, prompting party officials to raise the prospect of fresh
elections.  As coalition talks resumed today in Berlin, Social
Democratic negotiator Ralf Stegner said his party is refusing to
bow to pressure to make all policy decisions conditional on the
availability of funding. Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc says
a commitment to avoid new debt or tax increases must remain the
government’s guiding principle and will be reflected in the
coalition contract Merkel says she wants by Nov. 27.  “We won’t be able to agree on any coalition accord with
finance restrictions or audits on Social Democratic
priorities,” Stegner said by phone before the talks. “Most of
the difficult issues will only be resolved at the end.”  More than eight weeks after Merkel’s Sept. 22 election
victory, negotiators are struggling to overcome differences to
swear in a new government by Christmas. With deals elusive on a
national minimum wage and cabinet posts, party officials for the
first time today publicly discussed the possibility of elections
as  an option  if the talks break down.  “New elections are difficult in  Germany  for good reason,”
Hermann Groehe, the general secretary of Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , told reporters in central Berlin. “We want
these negotiations to be successful, but we aren’t afraid if the
voters must decide again.”  Members’ Ballot  With at least a dozen working groups thrashing out policy
differences between the CDU, their CSU Bavarian allies and the
SPD, further rounds of talks among the top 75 negotiators are
scheduled on Nov. 21, Nov. 26 and on Nov. 27. Should the parties
reach an accord, the SPD will put the draft to a vote of its
470,000 members, a process the party says will take about two
weeks.  “We have to achieve something substantial on our core
priorities such as labor, education and the central issues of
equality,” Stegner, one of the 75 negotiators, said in the
interview late yesterday. “These things can’t be pushed off
until the cows come home.”  Tensions arose after SPD leaders over the weekend faced
down opposition among the party base to a so-called grand
coalition with Merkel, with SPD Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel 
demanding the chancellor’s bloc “deliver” on policy.  Officials from the CDU and CSU, who together came within
five seats of an absolute majority in parliament, responded by
saying the result gives Merkel a mandate to implement the
policies that she campaigned for during the election.  CSU General Secretary Alexander Dobrindt told reporters
today that his party won’t accept a coalition with too many SPD
policies. The vote among SPD party members due next month “is
alone the problem of the SPD.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  