-- German Stocks Drop Before Investor-Confidence Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-11-19T08:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/german-stocks-drop-before-investor-confidence-report.html
German stocks  declined, snapping a
three-day rally, as SAP AG and  K+S AG (SDF)  dropped, outweighing a
survey that signaled investor confidence in Europe’s largest
economy may have increased to a four-year high.  SAP AG retreated 1 percent after Salesforce.com Inc.’s
profit forecast missed analysts’ projections. K+S fell 3.1
percent as a planned deal by Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  to
purchase a stake in OAO Uralkali was seen failing to restore
potash prices.  The  DAX (DAX)  slipped 0.3 percent to 9,194.08 at 9:40 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The benchmark measure has surged 21 percent in 2013
as central banks around the world pledged to leave  interest
rates  low for a prolonged period. The broader HDAX Index fell
0.4 percent today.  A report today will probably show  investor confidence  in
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, increased to a four-year high
in November. A gauge of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict economic developments six months in advance,
rose to 54 this month from 52.8 in October, economists predicted
before the ZEW Center for European Economic Research releases
the data at 11 a.m. in Mannheim. That would be the highest
reading since October 2009.  The  Federal Reserve  will release minutes of its October
policy meeting tomorrow. The document will reveal more details
behind the decision to press on with $85 billion in monthly
asset purchases. Fed policy makers will probably pare that pace
to $70 billion at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
will publish its global growth forecasts for its member
countries and other major economies at 11 a.m. in Paris,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Vannucci at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net  