-- German Investor Confidence Rises for a Fourth Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-11-19T10:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/german-investor-confidence-rises-for-a-fourth-month.html
German  investor confidence  rose to
the highest level in more than four years, signaling that the
economic recovery in  Europe ’s largest economy remains on track
even after a third-quarter slowdown.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
for a fourth month to 54.6 in November. That’s the strongest
reading since October 2009 and up from 52.8 the prior month.
Economists predicted an increase to 54, according to the median
of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  The Bundesbank said yesterday that the German economy
remains on a “solid growth path,” even after the expansion
slowed to 0.3 percent in the third quarter and business
confidence unexpectedly dropped in October. Factory orders rose
more than economists predicted in September and unemployment
 remained  near a two-decade low in October.  “ Germany ’s economy is strong and solid, especially when
you consider the fact that domestic demand is the main reason
for growth,” said Stefan Schneider, chief international
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. “That makes the
country a bit less dependent on the rest of the world and I’m
confident we’ll continue to see steady growth over the course of
the next year.”  Domestic Demand  A gauge of the current situation dropped to 28.7 in
November from 29.7 the prior month, today’s report showed. A
measure of expectations for the euro area advanced to 60.2 from
59.1. That’s the highest level since March 2006.  The euro was little changed at $1.3501 at 11:16 a.m.
Frankfurt time. The  DAX (DAX)  stock index was down 0.4 percent at
9,186.81.  “Economic expectations for Germany have been hovering at a
high level for months,” ZEW President Clemens Fuest said in a
statement. “The slightly improved economic outlook for the  euro
zone  might have contributed to this development.”  German growth in the third quarter was driven exclusively
by domestic demand, the nation’s statistics office said last
week. Investment in equipment and construction increased and
private and government consumption rose slightly while net trade
damped output as exports stalled.  Domestic sales helped  Henkel AG (HEN) , the Dusseldorf-based maker
of Loctite glue and Fa deodorant, report third-quarter operating
profit this month that beat estimates.  German Headwinds  The economy in the euro region, Germany’s biggest export
market, expanded 0.1 percent in the third quarter after it
emerged from recession in the three months through June.
 France ’s economy, the region’s second-biggest, unexpectedly
shrank and  Italy  extended a record-long contraction.  While Germany remains the growth engine for the euro area,
it faces headwinds including political wrangling domestically
and the fragility of the currency bloc’s recovery.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is still locked in negotiations to
form a new government almost two months after her Christian
Democratic bloc won a general election. A group of her economic
advisers said last week that possible compromises made to form a
coalition with the Social Democrats, including a minimum wage
and higher pensions, risk rolling back reforms that have helped
the economy.  “While Germany is on the right path it is facing risks,”
said Carsten Klude, head of investment strategy at M.M. Warburg
& Co. in Hamburg. “But I think the difficulties will be
overcome and both Germany and the euro area will grow steadily
next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  