-- German Public-Spending Push Stalls in Merkel’s Coalition Talks
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-11-19T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/german-public-spending-push-stalls-in-merkel-s-coalition-talks.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s refusal
to raise taxes is clashing with her prospective coalition ally’s
calls to boost public spending, a demand shared by international
critics of  Germany ’s trade surplus.  As  Europe ’s biggest economy faces an estimated public-investment shortfall of more than 300 billion euros ($406
billion), talks on public investment between Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  and the  Social Democratic Party  have stalled as she
seeks to form her third-term government.  “Any move that looks like a tax increase, even cutting tax
breaks, is getting an entrenched ’no’ from CDU coalition
negotiators,” Norbert Walter-Borjans, the SPD finance minister
of North Rhine-Westphalia state and a participant in the talks,
said by phone yesterday. “Budget restraint is ruling out new
borrowing so how can investment by financed? Paying for programs
from hidden off-budget accounts won’t do.”  Merkel rejected tax increases as “poison” for the economy
during her re-election campaign and has defended her policy of
fiscal restraint against criticism by the U.S., the European
Union and international organizations. Her  Christian Democratic
Union  and its Bavarian CSU affiliate are seeking to complete a
draft coalition contract with the SPD by Nov. 27.  Both sides have pledged to narrow the investment gap and
boost domestic consumption, while differing on the scope.  “The demands of all the coalition partners are conditional
on the availability of financing,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a Nov. 18 Bild newspaper  interview . “But new
debt and higher taxes are non-negotiable.”  Closing Loopholes  CDU negotiators have dismissed a list of 20 SPD proposals
for cutting tax subsidies to boost revenue, Walter-Borjans said.  Closing tax loopholes would help meet SPD campaign pledges
of gradually boosting spending on education and infrastructure
from roads to broadband by 10 billion euros and 5 billion euros,
respectively. Merkel has promised to raise infrastructure
investment by 1 billion euros annually.  Public investment in Germany hasn’t kept pace with
depreciation over that past decade. Municipalities, which are
responsible for local infrastructure, have an investment backlog
of about 128 billion euros, the government-backed KfW
development bank said in March.  Germany Lags  Compared with the euro-area average over the last 10 years,
the shortfall at federal, state and local levels is more than
300 billion euros, the Dusseldorf-based IMK economic institute
said in a report in October.  At its annual convention last week, the SPD joined calls on
Merkel by the  International Monetary Fund , the U.S. Treasury
Department and the European Commission to adjust Germany’s focus
on exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  