-- German Trade Surplus to Shrink Rebalancing Economy, OECD Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-11-19T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/german-trade-surplus-to-shrink-rebalancing-economy-oecd-says.html
Germany ’s current-account surplus
will shrink through 2015 as the economy undergoes “some welcome
rebalancing” in favor of domestic demand, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  The surplus will narrow from 7 percent of gross domestic
product to 6.1 percent next year and 5.6 percent in 2015, the
Paris-based organization said today in its semi-annual Economic
Outlook report. Economic growth will accelerate from 0.5 percent
this year to 1.7 percent in 2014 and 2 percent in 2015, while
the number of job seekers will decline, it said.  “Collective bargaining agreements indicate that wage
growth will strengthen under pressure from low unemployment and
skills shortages,” the OECD said. “Monetary conditions will
remain expansionary, boosting private sector investment
spending.”  The OECD’s findings are a fillip to  Chancellor Angela Merkel  after her government’s economic policy was reprimanded by
the European Union, the U.S. and the  International Monetary
Fund , all of which criticized Germany for running a trade
surplus.  More needs to be done, according to the OECD. “Structural
reforms to deregulate professional services, remove barriers to
full-time female employment and further improve access to
tertiary education would all strengthen growth and contribute to
global rebalancing,” it said.  Germany’s current-account surplus has exceeded the EU’s 6
percent threshold every year since 2007 and may put upward
pressure on the euro, possibly hampering the recovery of
struggling euro-area nations, according to the European
Commission, which has started an in-depth review on the matter.  The commission called on Germany and other countries with
trade surpluses, such as the Netherlands, to boost investment
and possibly reduce savings rates. The  U.S. Treasury   blamed 
German surpluses for draining European and global growth, while
the IMF reprimanded Germany for its imbalances, urging Merkel to
curtail the trade surplus to an “appropriate rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  