-- Google-Qualcomm Patent Fight Enters Silicon Valley Arena
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-11-19T15:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/google-qualcomm-patent-fight-enters-silicon-valley-arena.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , two
California technology companies on opposite sides of a
Washington debate over U.S. patent law, may soon take their
fight closer to home.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is pushing forward
with plans to open a fully operational satellite office in San
Jose, after Congressional budget cuts put them on hold earlier
this year. The work-around came about after San Jose city
officials pledged free rent and California donated $500,000.  The permanent office, which may open by the end of next
year, will be where West Coast inventors submit applications to
get legal protection for their ideas. It will also serve as a
hub where companies -- even startups -- can bring their
positions on patent law directly to the administration without a
cross-country flight.  “It will mean an easier and clearer channel of
communication both ways -- from the PTO to the public and from
the public to the PTO,” said Michelle Lee, a former Google
executive who’s now director of the Silicon Valley office.  California  inventors were  named  in 32,107 patents, more
than a quarter of the 121,026 issued to U.S. inventors in 2012.  60 Patent Examiners  The agency’s temporary location, at an office in Menlo
Park, houses Lee and nine administrative law judges who hear
arguments about the validity of issued patents. With a permanent
space, the patent office plans to have a total staff of more
than 80, with 20 judges and 60 patent examiners.  The 40,000-square-foot permanent office will be in San Jose
City Hall, where city officials offered free rent for two years,
then three years of reduced rent and five years at market price.
In addition, the California assembly gave the agency $500,000 to
be used for things like its educational outreach. Offers of
money from local technology companies were turned down because
they do business with the PTO, Lee said.  Congressional Legislation  A key role in the patent office is in helping develop
administration policy on intellectual property. The technology
industry is split on proposals before Congress that could change
the rules for patent litigation. Palo Alto, California-based
Google is backing the proposals. Qualcomm, based at the southern
end of the state in San Diego, says some of the ideas being
considered could curtail innovation, particularly by startups.  Both companies are funding lobbying groups that are trying
to influence Congress. Smaller companies in Silicon Valley don’t
always have that option. Lee said the local office has already
held roundtable discussions about policy regarding patents on
software.  Being in the heart of the America’s technology industry
“made it much easier for smaller companies, startup companies
to participate rather than requiring folks to come to Washington
D.C.,” Lee said.  The office “has a key role in helping out
the agency and the administration in that area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  