-- Guinea Leads Group in Unreported Shark Fin Shipment to Hong Kong
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-11-19T17:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/guinea-leads-hidden-shark-fin-imports-to-hong-kong-oceana-says.html
Guinea led in shipping unreported
catches of shark fins to Hong Kong, where the fish parts are
sold for as much as  $700 a kilogram , according to a  report  by
conservation group Oceana.  Hong Kong imported 49.7 metric tons of dried and frozen
fins, which are used in shark fin soup, from the west African
country last year, the report showed, citing revenue data from
the Chinese territory. Mauritania with 28.4 tons and the
 Philippines  with 24.5 tons were the second- and third-biggest
shippers of unreported shark fins, Oceana said in yesterday’s
report. Hong Kong accounts for half of world demand for shark
fins, according to Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts.  The rankings are for member nations of the International
Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas, which are
supposed to report their shark catches to the organization,
Angela Pauly, a  Brussels-based  spokeswoman for Oceana, said in
an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. The commission is
meeting in Cape Town this week to consider the first catch
quotas for sharks, starting with the shortfin mako, the world’s
fastest shark, as the killing of 100 million of the animals a
year threatens the survival of some species.  The commission, which has 46 member countries as well as
the European Union, is also discussing conservation measures for
tuna and tuna-like species of fish in the Atlantic.  Under new rules, “if a country hasn’t submitted data on
its catch of a species, it can’t catch and retain that species
the following year,” said Dave Bard, a spokesman for the
environmental unit of Pew, a non-profit organization. “This has
been put into place largely due to poor reporting of shark catch
by ICCAT parties, who often export shark fins but don’t submit
the relevant data on that catch to the Commission.”  Shark fins range from thumb size to several feet, with that
average probably less than a foot high and half that across.  The biggest legally reported exporters of sharkfins to Hong
Kong in 2011 were Spain and and  Singapore , according to Pew.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  