-- Gunman’s Photo Splashed Across French Media as Police Search
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-11-19T08:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/gunman-s-photo-splashed-across-french-media-as-police-search.html
French authorities released photos
and video images of the suspected perpetrator of three shootings
and a carjacking in Paris, appealing to the public for help in
their manhunt.  Paris police said they'd not made arrests in the case after 
Le Parisien reported that a man had been taken into custody. The 
man was last seen at about midday yesterday getting out of the 
car on the  Champs Elysees , releasing the driver, after shootings 
at the offices of the Liberation newspaper and the headquarters of 
the bank  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  Last week, he targeted the offices 
of BFM television.  Law-enforcement officials believe the attacks were
committed by one person, state prosecutor  Francois Molins  said
at a press conference yesterday.  “We expect a lot of help from witnesses to enable
investigators to apprehend this individual,” Interior Minister
 Manuel Valls  told reporters at a subsequent briefing. “There’s
a great determination” to make the arrest because “he acted
without a doubt to kill,” he said.  The images showed a man of “European” origin, between 35
and 45, with glasses, three-day stubble, graying hair, and a
baseball cap. He’s seen threatening people in the lobby of BFM,
walking toward the Liberation offices, and waiting for a tram.  The suspect told the driver he’d recently been released
from prison, Molins said.  The suspect was seen running from the La Defense business
district after three shots were fired at the bank’s tower
shortly after noon, a police spokesman said. Less than two hours
earlier, a man opened fire at the headquarters of the Liberation
daily newspaper, seriously wounding a 23-year-old assistant
photographer.  BFM Threats  On Nov. 15, the same armed man entered the headquarters of
BFM-TV, an all-news station, and made threats before leaving.  Soon after the Societe Generale shooting, a man was taken
hostage at La Defense in his car, which then headed toward the
Champs Elysees, where the suspect got out and fled on foot,
police said. For much of the afternoon, a police helicopter flew
over the west of Paris looking for the suspect.  In a televised statement from  Israel , President  Francois Hollande  condemned the attacks as a direct assault on freedom of
expression.  While  France  has been hit by frequent shoot-outs between
rival gangs in Marseille and the Paris suburbs, shootings in
central Paris are rare. France had 665 murders last year,
according to the  Interior Ministry , which doesn’t break down
statistics based on type of weapon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  