-- Miami Dolphins Meet With NFL Investigators About Bullying Case
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/miami-dolphins-meet-with-nfl-investigators-about-bullying-case.html
The  Miami Dolphins  began meeting
yesterday with National Football League investigators about the
bullying case that’s left the team without offensive linemen
Jonathan Martin and Richie Incognito.  It was not clear which players or coaches met with  New York 
attorney  Ted Wells , who is leading the independent probe of the
Dolphins’ workplace conduct. The meetings may take several days
and Wells said yesterday the Dolphins’ organization has been
helpful in arranging interviews and urging its personnel to
cooperate with the investigation.  “We have asked all Dolphins personnel to respect the
process and avoid commenting on the investigation,” Wells said
in a statement prior to yesterday’s meetings.  The probe comes as the team is challenging for a playoff
berth. With a 5-5 record after a 20-16 win against the  San Diego
Chargers  two days ago, Miami is among nine teams within 1 1/2
games of the final playoff spot in the American Football
Conference. The Dolphins next play Nov. 24 against the  Carolina
Panthers .  “At this point we are focused on football,” Dolphins
quarterback Ryan Tannehill said on Nov. 17. “We are going to do
our interviews, be participants in the investigation and get
ready for the game. We have to provide the information we know,
but hopefully that is a short 15-minute interview. And then the
rest of the week is all football.”  NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  has said there’s no time
frame for Wells, a senior partner in the law firm of Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton & Garrison, to complete his investigation into
Martin’s claims of harassment by teammates.  Martin left the team Oct. 28 and the Dolphins indefinitely
suspended Incognito a week later for conduct detrimental to the
team after an expletive-filled voice message he sent to Martin
became public.  Martin met with Wells and his staff on Nov. 15, and
declined to discuss specifics of the meeting publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  