-- Ibovespa Futures Decline on Fed After Three Days of Index Gains
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-19T11:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ibovespa-futures-decline-on-fed-after-three-days-of-index-gains.html
Ibovespa  futures  dropped, after the
index climbed for three straight days, as investors awaited
evidence indicating when the  Federal Reserve  will begin
curtailing monetary stimulus.  Clothing retailer  Marisa Lojas SA (AMAR3)  may be active as Bank of
America Corp. recommended selling the stock after profit missed
estimates in the third quarter. Electronics retailer  Via Varejo
SA (VVAR3)  may move after divesting 18 stores to comply with a request
from Brazil’s antitrust regulator.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in December  retreated 
0.7 percent to 54,150 at 9:25 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The benchmark
index advanced 4.8 percent in the three past days to the highest
level since Nov. 4.  “After those gains, investors will take some time to
review stocks’ valuation,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at
brokerage firm Omar Camargo in Curitiba, Brazil, said in a phone
interview. “Everybody is looking for signs of when the Fed will
trim stimulus measures.”  The U.S. central bank will release minutes of its October
policy meeting tomorrow, the Commerce Department will publish
retail sales data and the Labor Department will deliver a report
on inflation.  Brazil’s main equity index entered a bull market Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s  low  on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 20 percent this year in dollar
terms, compared with a decline of 2.6 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 10.5 billion
reais yesterday, compared with a daily average of 7.56 billion
reais this year through the same date, according to  data 
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  