-- Ibovespa Falls Most in Seven Weeks on Economy; Petrobras Drops
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-11-19T20:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ibovespa-declines-on-economic-growth-concern-outlook-for-fed.html
The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  declined the most in
seven weeks on speculation Latin America’s largest economy will
remain stalled, making stock rallies hard to sustain.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA contributed the most to the
Brazilian equity gauge’s drop. Former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
LLX Logistica SA fell the most on the index after its biggest
two-day gain since September.  The Ibovespa slid 2.3 percent to 53,032.91 at the close in
Sao Paulo, the biggest decline since Sept. 30 and the worst
performance among major global benchmarks after Argentina’s
Merval. Sixty-nine of 72 stocks on the index fell. The real
weakened 0.5 percent to 2.2759 per dollar. Tomorrow is a
national holiday in Brazil.  “The macroeconomic scenario hasn’t changed, so investors
are selling stocks whose advance was excessive,” Antonio Goes,
a senior analyst at the brokerage firm TOV Corretora, said in a
phone interview from Rio de Janeiro.  Petrobras, as state-controlled Petroleo Brasileiro is
known,  fell  1.5 percent to 21.11 reais. LLX, Batista’s logistics
company, slumped 15 percent to 1.06 reais after climbing 7.8
percent over the past two days.  Brazil ’s gross domestic product will expand 2.45 percent
this year and next, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy grew 0.9 percent last year,
the worst performance since the 2009 financial crisis.  Fed Concern  Stocks also fell today on concern minutes of the U.S.
central bank’s October policy meeting due tomorrow will show the
Fed is closer to reducing its monthly asset purchases supporting
the economy, said Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage firm
Omar Camargo in Curitiba, Brazil.  “That’s a reason for caution on the market today,” he
said in a phone interview. “Everybody is looking for signs of
when the Fed will start tapering.”  Brazil’s main equity index entered a bull market Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s  low  on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 22 percent this year in dollar
terms, compared with a decline of 3 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.99 billion
reais today, compared with a daily average of 7.56 billion reais
this year through yesterday, according to  data  compiled by the
exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  