-- ICE to Buy Singapore Mercantile Exchange for $150 Million
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-11-19T09:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ice-agrees-to-buy-singapore-mercantile-exchange-for-150-million.html
IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc. (ICE) 
agreed to buy  Singapore  Mercantile Exchange Pte for $150 million
to add commodity futures trading in  Asia , where China reigns as
the biggest user of everything from energy to metals.  Atlanta-based ICE will buy the exchange operator and
Singapore Mercantile Clearing Corp. from  Financial Technologies (FTECH) 
India Ltd., the Mumbai-based company said today in a statement.  The acquisition will help ICE, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher , expand its revenue sources to offset
falling profits from traditional U.S. equity trading.  Financial
Technologies  will use the proceeds to repay debt after
regulators shut down a spot commodity exchange it ran in India.  “SMX has its own clearing house and a trading license,
which would offer a great opportunity for any North American or
European operator looking to set up in Asia,” said  Thomas
McMahon , former CEO of Singapore Mercantile Exchange. Obtaining
such trading licenses in Singapore typically takes 18 to 24
months, McMahon said.  Shares of Financial Technologies jumped as much as 11
percent to 201.50 rupees ($3.25) in Mumbai. They were trading up
2.8 percent at 186.10 rupees as of 3:03 p.m., paring losses this
year to 84 percent. ICE closed up 0.4 percent at $203.17
yesterday in New York, taking its market value to $23.4 billion.  The National Spot Exchange Ltd., an Indian spot trading
platform controlled by Financial Technologies, suspended trading
on July 31 after the government sought details on its settlement
cycle. The exchange broke rules by permitting the sale of goods
traders didn’t keep in its warehouses, according the country’s
commodities futures market regulator.  Selling Assets  Financial Technologies also owns a 26 percent stake in
 India ’s biggest platform for commodities, Multi Commodity
Exchange of India Ltd., as well as the Global Board of Trade in
Mauritius, Bourse Africa in  Botswana  and Dubai Gold & Commodity
Exchange.  “They have to sell whatever they can,” Kishor Ostwal,
managing director at CNI Research Ltd. in Mumbai, said in a
telephone interview. “I don’t think they have any option.”  SMX, started in August 2010, lists futures of gold, silver,
industrial metals and currencies. It recorded $134 billion of
cumulative trading volume by the end of last year, according to
its  website .  The company’s loss for the 12 months through March shrank
to $16.6 million, from $20.6 million a year earlier, according
to a statement previously posted on its website.  ICE last week completed its acquisition of NYSE Euronext,
the 221-year-old exchange operator, for $10.9 billion in cash
and stock. The combined entity needs to act more like a startup
and move quickly to compete, Sprecher said Nov. 12.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., which completed a $2.2
billion acquisition of the London Metal Exchange Ltd. in
December, has said it plans to expand the commodities
marketplace in  China . CME Group Inc., the world’s largest
futures exchange, said in September it aims to boost its
headcount in Asia by as much as 27 percent by next year as
trading increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  