-- ICE Remains Committed to Euronext IPO After Liffe Separation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-11-19T16:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/ice-remains-committed-to-euronext-ipo-after-liffe-separation.html
IntercontinentalExchange Group Inc. (ICE) 
remains committed to spinning off its European equity market
division, Euronext, through an initial public offering,
according to Chief Executive Officer Jeff Sprecher.  He took ownership of Euronext and Liffe, a London-based
futures market, last week by acquiring NYSE Euronext. Because
Euronext and Liffe are regulated as a single entity, ICE needs
to cleave them before proceeding with an IPO of Euronext, which
owns stock exchanges on the European continent, he said today.
The company  plans  to jettison Euronext in mid-2014, ICE said
when updating investors on the merger during a conference call.  Sprecher gained the Liffe financial futures business by
purchasing NYSE Euronext, giving him interest-rate contracts for
the first time after years of trying to offer them. To get them,
he had to acquire NYSE’s traditional business, equities trading,
at a time when profits have dwindled because of regulatory and
technological changes.  “The first order of business is to complete the extensive
work to separate Liffe from Euronext,” Sprecher said on today’s
call. The company is working with regulators on the
reorganization, he said. It may retain a stake in the European
exchange business after the public offering, he said.  Euronext operates  stock exchanges  in Paris, Amsterdam,
Brussels and Lisbon.  ICE now believes it can wring $500 million in cost savings
out the operations it acquired with NYSE Euronext, an increase
from the target of $450 million announced in December, the
company said today.  Technology Businesses  Among the changes, Sprecher said he decided to keep NYSE’s
data centers in the U.S. and  Europe , after initially planning to
sell them when agreeing to purchase NYSE Euronext in December.
Technology businesses such as SuperFeed, Nyfix, Wombat and Appia
won’t be kept, he added.  ICE will shift the interest-rate derivatives business onto
its existing European platform, called ICE Futures Europe. That
includes winding down NYSE Liffe U.S. and shifting contracts to
the London-based market.  Under ICE’s leadership, NYSE’s U.S. stock exchanges will be
the industry’s lowest-cost competitor, Sprecher said. The three
exchanges handle more than 20 percent of U.S. equity trading,
giving ICE the biggest share of the market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Nobody will have an incremental margin like we do,
because of the breadth and footprint of operations that we
have,” he said. “I’m going to task our people with being the
lowest, and I think it’s incrementally achievable.”  Ripped Off  On a Nov. 5 conference call, Sprecher said he believes
small investors get ripped off in today’s equity markets. ICE
needs to take the lead in helping improve the structure of
markets to ensure they’re fair, he said today, adding that he
has the support of many industry chiefs.  “I’ve been pleasantly surprised that a lot of major CEOs
that are in the equity trading business have been really
supportive, are anxious to drive change,” Sprecher said today.
They “want to put more customer protections and market
protections into the system.”  ICE also agreed today to buy Singapore Mercantile Exchange
Pte for $150 million, gaining a futures market and a clearing
and settlement license in  Asia . Sprecher said he reached out to
executives last year at  Financial Technologies India Ltd. (FTECH)  who
created the Singapore market because it’s easier for Western
companies to buy existing bourses in Asia than attempt to create
one on their own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Mamudi in New York at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  