-- Iceland to Relax Grip on Mortgage Market Following ESA Criticism
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-11-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/iceland-to-relax-grip-on-mortgage-market-following-esa-criticism.html
Iceland plans to scale back the role
of the state-backed Housing Financing Fund in the nation’s
mortgage market following criticism from the European Free Trade
Association’s  Surveillance Authority .  “We’re getting a very clear message from ESA that they
want the state’s participation in the housing market to be more
limited than it has been in the past,” Housing Minister Eyglo Hardardottir said in an interview. The government will “tread
slowly” to avoid upsetting the housing market, she said.  The government has yet to settle on a plan to keep HFF
afloat as the lender fights insolvency. The company, which only
offers mortgages indexed to the  consumer price index , has lost
money since commercial banks started competing on regular
mortgages. Inflation-linked mortgages proved toxic for borrowers
after Iceland’s 2008 crisis, which triggered a krona sell-off
and sent inflation as high as 19 percent a year later.  Landsbankinn hf,  Iceland ’s largest lender, estimated in
June it may cost the Treasury 100 billion kronur ($825 million)
to save HFF from bankruptcy. Iceland’s financial regulator last
month said the lender’s business model won’t be able to
withstand continued losses over time.  “It remains to be seen how much money needs to be injected
into HFF,” Hardardottir said in the Nov. 14 interview.  ‘Weakest Link’  The government said last month HFF is “its weakest link”
and estimated it will need to spend 9 billion kronur through
2015 to keep the lender afloat. That’s on top of 46 billion
kronur already injected into HFF since 2009.  HFF’s outstanding bonds are worth 490 billion kronur, which
is guaranteed by Iceland’s  Treasury . Of the bank’s household
loans, 11.8 percent were in default, with an underlying value of
77.1 billion kronur, HFF said in an October monthly report.  The lender’s capital ratio fell to 2.5 percent of its risk-weighted assets at the end of June, based on a loan portfolio of
777 billion kronur. That’s half the requirement set by Iceland’s
 Financial Supervisory Authority .  “In dealing with the problems of HFF we have to address
these matters, which aren’t easy and there are no quick-fix
solutions available,” said Hardardottir. “Unfortunately we
can’t just snap our fingers and everything is back to normal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  