-- Iceland’s Premier Accuses Central Bank Governor of ‘Politics’
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-11-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/iceland-s-premier-accuses-central-bank-governor-of-politics-.html
Iceland’s Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson said the island’s central bank Governor Mar
Gudmundsson is playing “politics” after the country’s top
banker expressed doubt on ideas of debt relief for homeowners.  “It looks to me as if people are winding themselves up for
opposing the proposals on debt relief, regardless of what they
will look like,” Gunnlaugsson said in an  interview  with Channel
2 television last night. “But we won’t let the central bank
stop us in this.”  Gunnlaugsson’s Progressive Party won Iceland’s
parliamentary elections in April after promising debt relief to
homeowners. The premier has suggested that creditors of
Iceland’s failed lenders,  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf and
 Landsbanki Islands hf  finance the election pledge by writing
down 461 billion kronur ($3.8 billion) in kronur-denominated
claims.  To complete debt relief prior to negotiating with
creditors, the government is looking into establishing a
correction fund, to “speed up the execution of the
correction,” Gunnlaugsson said this month.  Using the central bank’s balance sheet to finance the
correction fund would be “tantamount to printing money,”
Gudmundsson told a parliamentary committee. “I don’t need to
spell that out for you what consequences that would have.”  A government-appointed committee is expected to deliver its
results on how to cut household debt by the end of this month.
The premier wants to reduce homeowners debt which was the result
of a spike in inflation in 2007-2010. Most Icelandic households
have their loans linked to consumer prices, which increases
their debt when inflation accelerates.  From January 2007 through December 2010, prices rose 37.3
percent, according to  Statistics Iceland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  