-- Billionaire Birla Said to Delay Idea Share Sale: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-11-20T12:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/idea-said-to-delay-482-million-share-sale-after-stock-declines.html
Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s
 Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)  delayed a stock sale as it awaits clarity on
Indian spectrum licenses, said a person with knowledge of the
decision.  India’s No. 2 mobile-phone operator may start the sale to
institutions to raise as much as 30 billion rupees ($481
million) next year after originally aiming to complete it this
month, according to two people. They asked not to be identified
because the deliberations are private. Idea aimed to sell shares
for least  190 rupees each , one of the people said.  Mobile-phone providers are balking at an Indian government
panel’s proposal to peg the cost of the most widely used
airwaves above that recommended by the industry regulator.
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ,  India ’s biggest wireless carrier, faces
risks as the cost of renewing airwave licenses increases amid an
“erratic” policy environment, Moody’s said this month.  Idea “could be waiting for clarity on all these spectrum-related issues,” said Harit Shah, an analyst with  Nirmal Bang
Institutional Equities in Mumbai who has a buy  rating  on the
stock. “They would look at financing only to fortify their
balance sheet and for the spectrum renewal.”  A panel in India’s telecommunications ministry has
recommended an increase of as much as 25 percent for airwaves to
be sold in January over prices advised by industry supervisor
Telecom Regulatory Authority of India in September. The proposal
needs to be approved by a group of ministers.  ‘Overall Scenario’  Idea announced plans in August to raise money through a
share sale to institutional investors. The company will also
sell as much as 7.5 billion rupees of stock to an existing
shareholder,  Malaysia ’s  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) , it said at the time.  “We have time for one year,” Managing Director Himanshu Kapania said on an earnings conference call Oct. 25, referring
to the share sale. “We’re closely watching the situation and we
will evaluate the overall scenario and then take a call” on the
timing and the size of the sale, he said then.  Idea fell 0.9 percent to 174.30 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading. The stock has surged 68 percent this year,
compared with a 6.2 percent advance by the benchmark S&P BSE
India Sensex and Bharti’s 8.6 percent gain.  Idea’s board had approved the share sale to fund spectrum
acquisition, said Urmil Shah, a Mumbai-based analyst at Kim Eng
Securities Ltd. “There is still some uncertainty over the
auction front. They are likely waiting for clarity on the price
and timing of the auction.” He rates Idea shares buy.  Spectrum Renewal  India’s telecommunications regulator in September
recommended lowering reserve prices for the nation’s airwaves
after an auction in March drew just one bidder.  Idea has to prepare starting in 2014 for the renewal of
some licenses that expire in late 2015, Kapania told investors
on the conference call last month. The company also doesn’t
currently have airwaves to offer third-generation wireless
services in half the country, he said at the time, signaling it
may need to spend for the spectrum.  There is no pressing need for Idea to raise money since it
has good cash flows, said Nirmal Bang’s Shah.  Cash flow  from operations almost doubled to 53.7 billion
rupees in the year ended March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Mumbai-based company had net  debt  of 129 billion
rupees as of March 31, the data show.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Morgan Stanley,
Standard Chartered Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Axis Bank Ltd.
will manage the share sale, the people familiar said.  Rajat Mukarji, a spokesman for Idea, declined to comment
yesterday on the share sale.  Indian companies have raised 405 billion rupees through
domestic equity and equity linked offerings in 78 transactions
so far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2012, a total of 578 billion rupees was raised in 70
transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  