-- LightInTheBox Forecast Sinks Vipshop: China Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-11-19T22:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lightinthebox-forecast-sinks-vipshop-china-overnight.html
LightInTheBox Holding Co. (LITB)  plunged 23
percent, leading declines among Chinese stocks traded in New
York, after the online discount retailer’s sales forecast
trailed analyst estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.3 percent to 107.75. LightInTheBox
sank to the lowest since its June U.S. offering and online
apparel retailer Vipshop Holding Ltd. tumbled 5.6 percent.
Wealth management company  Noah Holdings Ltd. (NOAH)  fell for a second
day while  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ)  rose the most in a week after Oberweis
Asset Management Inc. said it doubled its stake in the mobile-service provider.  Fourth-quarter revenue will rise to between $75 million and
$77 million, Beijing-based LightInTheBox said in a statement
yesterday. That was below the $83.1 million mean estimate of
four  analysts  compiled by Bloomberg. The world economy will
probably expand 2.7 percent this year and 3.6 percent next year,
instead of the 3.1 percent and and 4 percent predicted in May,
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said
yesterday.  LightInTheBox’s model is based on exports, “but the
economy in the last four years has been pretty shaky
internationally,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR Investment
Strategy LLC, said by phone yesterday from  San Francisco . “The
company’s earnings were kind of disappointing.”  LightInTheBox slumped to $7.68, the biggest decline on the
Bloomberg China-US gauge. Trading volume was more than double
the daily average of the last 90 days. Vipshop, based in
 Guangzhou , retreated to $81.61 in the biggest drop in three
weeks.  Traders sold stocks of Chinese online retailers without
seeing the difference between those with an overseas customer
base like LightInTheBox and companies, such as Vipshop, that
serve a domestic market, Guo said.  ETF Rises  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the nation’s biggest U.S.-
listed exchange-traded fund, gained 0.2 percent to $39.88 in  New
York , the highest in nine months. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.2 percent after disappointing forecasts from Best
Buy Co. and Campbell Soup Co.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd., a maker of
automation systems, climbed 9.7 percent to $17.70, a record
high. Adjusted earnings rose 30 percent to 35 cents a share, the
company said in a statement Nov. 18.  Noah Holdings tumbled 7.9 percent to $20.78. Ten-day
volatility on the stock increased to 111.8, the highest since
Sept. 6.  NQ Mobile  NQ Mobile, the company accused of inflating revenue by
short-seller  Carson Block ’s Muddy Waters Research LLC last
month, climbed 3.6 percent to $13.37. Oberweis doubled its stake
in the company to 1.8 million American depositary receipts,
making it the second-largest  shareholder , Jim Oberweis, the
company’s president, said in a phone interview on Nov. 18.  The first sentence of the 81-page report by  Muddy Waters  on
NQ Mobile on Oct. 24 said: “NQ is a massive fraud.” The report
went on to say that at least 72 percent of NQ’s purported 2012
China security  revenue  is fictitious and that its cash balances
were faked.  “I found that, step by step, most allegations made by
Muddy Waters are really easy to disprove, the most important one
being the cash,” Oberweis said in the interview. “The money is
there and this illusion that there is no cash is completely
false.”  Renren Sinks  Renren Inc. (RENN) , the operator of a real-name social networking
website, dropped 3.5 percent to $3.30, the most in three weeks.
Alvin Chiang resigned as chief marketing officer, the Beijing-based company said in a regulatory filing.  China Life Insurance Co., the country’s biggest insurer,
rallied for a fourth day in New York, jumping 3.7 percent to a
nine-month high of $47.13.  China International Capital Corp.  analyst  Shengbo Tang
raised the Hong Kong-listed stock to the equivalent of a buy
from hold. The stock will gain 32 percent, according Tang’s
price estimate of 25.20  yuan  ($4.14).  The preliminary reading for a  Purchasing Managers’ Index (EC11FLAS) ,
an index of manufacturing released by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics today, will slip to 50.8 from 50.9 in October,
according to the mean estimate of 15 economists compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  advanced
0.5 percent to 11,365.45, the highest since March. The Shanghai
Composite Index of domestic shares declined 0.2 percent to
2,193.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  