-- Lincoln Annuity Sales Top $10 Billion as Insurers Back Away
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-11-19T21:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lincoln-annuity-sales-top-10-billion-as-insurers-back-away-1-.html
Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  topped $10
billion in individual variable annuity sales in the nine months
ended Sept. 30, the most in at least six years, as rivals
retreated from the contracts.  Sales surged 48 percent to $10.8 billion from $7.26 billion
a year earlier, making Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Lincoln the
second-largest seller of the products, according to data
compiled by industry group Limra.  Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s Jackson
National Life was No. 1 at $15.5 billion.  Variable annuities can guarantee that savers’ assets will
appreciate, or help provide steady payments for retirees.
Lincoln struck a deal last month to transfer some of the risks
to a unit of San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “It’s a way for us to continue growing our annuity
business while diversifying the block,” Brian Kroll, senior
vice president of Lincoln’s annuity unit, said in an interview.
“Right now is one of the best times that I’ve experienced in
terms of selling variable annuities, from a return standpoint.”  Under the agreement with Wells Fargo’s Union Hamilton Re,
Lincoln will offload half the risk tied to certain guarantees on
as much as $8 billion in variable-annuity sales through 2014.
The deal helps Lincoln reduce risk from long-term guarantees,
Chief Executive Officer Dennis Glass said last month on a
conference call with analysts.  “This was a very thoughtful and tactical decision,”
Christopher Giovanni, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in an Oct. 30 note. “It gives third-party validation for
how derisked and profitable LNC’s VA product is.”  Exiting Market  Variable annuities burned insurers in the financial crisis,
when tumbling  stocks  increased liabilities.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
 Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  are reducing sales of the contracts,
and others have exited the market.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, favors growth in
 emerging markets  and products that provide protection and aren’t
as capital-intensive. Variable-annuity sales through September
fell 37 percent to $8.89 billion at the New York-based insurer
from a year earlier, Limra said.  At No. 2 U.S. life insurer Prudential Financial Inc.,
variable-annuity sales dropped 44 percent. Reinsurance deals
“haven’t been as compelling” as other strategies for managing
risks from the guarantees, Charles Lowrey, chief operating
officer of Prudential’s U.S. unit, said on a Nov. 7 conference
call with analysts.  Hartford’s Move  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  has stopped selling
variable annuities, while ING Groep NV, Aviva Plc and Sun Life
Financial Inc. have been divesting U.S. life insurers that sold
retirement products.  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  has been boosting sales.
AIG, based in  New York , was the No. 5 seller of the contracts in
the period as sales jumped 35 percent to $8.94 billion.  “The combination of a relatively small legacy block and
enhanced risk controls in our current features has allowed us to
capitalize on opportunities when competitors have chosen or been
forced to pull back,” Jay Wintrob, CEO of AIG’s life insurer,
said on a Nov. 1 conference call with analysts.  Jackson National’s variable-annuity sales in the period
were little changed from $15.3 billion a year earlier. The U.S.
unit has a “great future” with London-based Prudential, CEO
Tidjane Thiam said this month.  Profitability on the variable annuities has improved this
year as stocks rallied. At Lincoln, the  return on equity  at the
annuity unit climbed to 25 percent in the first nine months of
the year from 19 percent in the same period of 2012. When the
market crashed in the last three months of 2008, the unit posted
a  $171.7 million loss .  Lincoln has  advanced  92 percent this year in New York
trading, the second-most in the 21-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance index. Prudential Financial, based in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , has gained 67 percent and MetLife is up 59 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  