-- India Rupee Rises to Two-Week High on U.S. Stimulus, Inflow Bets
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-11-19T04:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/india-rupee-rises-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-stimulus-inflow-bets.html
India’s rupee rose to the highest
level in almost two weeks on optimism the U.S. will delay paring
its record stimulus, boosting demand for emerging-market assets.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak in
Washington today after Fed Bank of  New York  President  William
Dudley  said yesterday that while he’s “more hopeful” the  U.S.
economy  is strengthening, it’s not enough to warrant stimulus
cuts. The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major counterparts, fell for a third day.  “There is general dollar weakness,” said Ashtosh Raina,
head of foreign-exchange trading at HDFC Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.
“India is also seeing inflows, but these are being countered by
demand for the dollar from oil importers.”  The rupee climbed 0.2 percent to 62.3100 per dollar as of
10:13 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 62.1100 earlier, the strongest
level since Nov. 6. The currency will probably stay between
62.50 and 62.00 today, Raina said.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 11.88 percent.  Dollar-based investors will earn 11.1 percent including
interest by the end of 2014 on purchases of the rupee, the most
in  Asia  after Indonesia’s rupiah, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on analyst forecasts and current deposit rates.  “The rupee remains the most attractive Asian currency from
an outright carry perspective,” strategists at Westpac Banking
Corp.’s Global Strategy team wrote in a research report today.
“While near-term risks are for dollar support, we suspect the
market will remain happy to sell rallies in most dollar-Asia
pairs.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.4 percent to
63.67 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.4 percent to 63.95. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  