-- IRS Workforce Turnover Part of Tea-Party Scrutiny Fallout: Taxes
-- B y   D i a n e   F r e d a
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/irs-workforce-turnover-part-of-tea-party-scrutiny-fallout-taxes.html
The furor over scrutiny of Tea Party
groups by the  Internal Revenue Service , which hurt President
 Barack Obama  politically, has heightened difficulties for tax
preparers dealing with the agency, according to a lawyer who
specializes in tax-exemption issues.  Preparers representing groups who have or are seeking tax-exempt status frequently are working with IRS employees who have
little experience in such matters, said Marcus Owens, a partner
with the  Caplin & Drysdale (PFE)  law firm.  Most senior officials in the IRS’s Exempt Organizations
Division have either retired or been pushed out following the
agency’s disclosure earlier this year that the office was giving
extra attention to some of the anti-tax Tea Party groups seeking
tax exempt status, Owens said at a Nov. 15 conference in
 Washington , and he expressed concern about the loss of seasoned
personnel, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The replacements for these officials have “essentially no
tax administration experience,” he said. ‘No experience
interpreting the Internal Revenue Code, no experience dealing
with taxpayers that apply the code, no experience in doing what
the exempt organizations function has done and is in charge of
doing.’’  Owens formerly headed the IRS’s Exempt Organizations
Division. The conference where he made his comments was
sponsored by the American Law Institute Continuing Legal
Education and the American Bar Association Section of Taxation.  IRS Disclosure  Lois Lerner, a successor of Owens’ at the IRS, in May
disclosed that her office had flagged applications for tax-exempt status from some Tea Party groups based solely on their
names, not their activities. The groups -- and others, including
some with the word “progressive” in their names -- encountered
delays in the handling of their applications and were asked
questions that the inspector general for the IRS deemed
inappropriate.  In the political uproar that followed, Obama forced the
acting IRS commissioner,  Steven Miller , out of his job and
replaced him with Daniel Werfel. Other agency officials who have
left include Lerner, who after being suspended with pay from her
post later retired.  Multiple congressional investigations into the IRS’s
actions were begun, with Republicans probing whether the
treatment of the Tea Party groups was politically motivated. IRS
and administration officials have denied that was the case.  The IRS apologized for its actions, and it and the Treasury
Department are working to develop clearer rules for deciding
when politically oriented nonprofit groups should receive extra
scrutiny.  IRS Rules  Federal law empowers the IRS to police groups’ nonprofit
status. Many of the Tea Party groups are set up under section
501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code, which requires them to
operate exclusively for the benefit of social welfare and allows
them to keep their donors secret.  IRS rules interpret that to mean that social welfare groups
can’t be primarily political. That requires the tax agency to
look at the groups’ activities and campaign involvement.  Many of the IRS’s newer employees don’t grasp some of the
concepts involved in determining an organization’s tax-exempt
status, Doug Mancino, a partner with Hunton & Williams LLP, said
at last week’s conference. These include the commensurate-in-scope test, in which the IRS at whether an exempt organization
is conducting activities at a level in line with its financial
resources, he said.  He gave as an example the proposed revocation of a
community college alumni association he is representing. Mancino
said the dispute derives from an examiner not having the
background to appropriately judge ordinary and necessary
business expenses by a group involved in charitable work.  Experience Lacking  “You have people who are in final decision-making
positions that don’t have five, 10 or 15 years of experience”
in gauging the activities of tax exempt groups.  Miriam Fisher, a tax controversy and litigation lawyer with
Latham & Watkins LLP, urged a sympathetic approach to the
challenges facing the IRS, telling the conference attendees they
should put themselves in the new employees’ shoes.  “They’re probably feeling more sensitive and defensive
right now,” she said.  Owens said there is a tendency for difficult audit issues
to be resolved and policy decisions made in IRS field offices.
To the extent there is involvement from Washington, it is coming
from the IRS legal office, he said, not from the exempt
organizations’ unit.  The Exempt Organizations unit is increasingly being steered
by counsel, Owens said, “and counsel is always thinking about
litigating.”  Keeping the opponent in the dark is a strategy in legal
standoffs, and that has spilled over into tax preparers getting
less information about where the IRS is going with tax-exempt
issues, he said.  “There will be consultations in audit,” he said, “but
you as the taxpayer’s representative will not be part of those
discussions the way you would be” if the focus was on gathering
technical advice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Freda in Washington at  dfreda@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  