-- Italy Banks’ Bad-Loan Ratio Rises to Highest Since 1999
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-11-19T16:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/italy-banks-bad-loan-ratio-rises-to-highest-in-almost-14-years.html
Bad loans at  Italian banks  climbed
to the highest in almost 14 years as the nation’s economy
endured its longest recession since World War II and sovereign-debt risks drove up funding costs for companies.  Non-performing loans at face value as a proportion of
lending increased to 7.5 percent in September from 5.9 percent a
year earlier, according to data published by the Italian Banking
Association today. That’s the highest since November 1999 and up
from 3 percent in June 2008, prior to the financial crisis, said
the Rome-based association, known as ABI.  Italy ’s bad-loan data came a day after the Bank of  Spain 
said  defaults  as a proportion of lending at Spanish banks
increased to a record 12.7 percent in September. Firms and
families in peripheral countries are struggling to repay their
debts as unemployment rises, forcing banks to set aside more
money for soured loans.  Intesa Sanpaolo (ISP) , Italy’s biggest bank by branches, last
week reported a 47 percent decline in third-quarter profit after
it set aside more provisions for bad debt. Spain’s  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  said 7 percent of its  mortgage loans  in the country
were in default in September, compared with 3.1 percent in June.  “Italy and Spain are victims of the same malaise, which is
leading to a spiral of less lending and higher bad loans,” Luca
Bagato, an international finance professor at Piacenza’s
Cattolica University, said by phone.  Non-performing loans in Italy rose an annual 23 percent to
144.5 billion euros ($195 billion) in September, ABI said.
Impairments, excluding writedowns, increased to 75.2 billion
euros from 58.6 billion euros a year earlier, according to the
report.  “The  credit quality  in Italy has worsened, especially for
small companies, whose bad-loan ratio reached 13.2 percent,”
Gianfranco Torriero, head of strategies and financial markets at
ABI, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  