-- Lithuanian LNG Terminal Gets EU Approval, Klaipedos Nafta Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-11-19T14:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lithuanian-lng-terminal-gets-eu-approval-klaipedos-nafta-says.html
The European Union approved the
liquefied natural gas terminal that Lithuania is building,
clearing several potential legal hurdles, state-controlled
terminal operator Klaipedos Nafta AB said.  The green light, which the European Council in Brussels
will issue tomorrow, follows a two-year audit of the terminal’s
compliance with EU rules on competition and state aid, Klaipedos
Nafta General Director Rokas Masiulis said today at a news
conference in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital.  The floating terminal, due to start operating in late 2014
at the Baltic Sea port of Klaipeda, will help Lithuania avoid
“unfair” pricing by its current sole gas supplier,  Russia ’s
 OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , according to Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius.
Lietuvos Dujos, the Lithuanian gas utility controlled by Gazprom
and  EON AG (EOAN) , asked the EU to block the project on the grounds
that it violated competition rules.  “We’ve passed a very serious exam, crossing a sort of
legal finish line that lets us now focus on construction,”
Masiulis said. It also clears the way to secure some financing
that is still pending, he said.  Financial Guarantees  The European Investment Bank agreed in July to lend
Klaipedos Nafta 87 million euros ($118 million) to finance about
half the cost of construction. That loan couldn’t be accessed
until the Lithuanian government issued a guarantee to the
 European Investment Bank , which wasn’t possible until the EU
formally approved the project, according to Masiulis.  “The European Commission didn’t recommend changing
anything in the project,” Masiulis said. “They found that
everything is being done right to ensure the terminal will
increase competition, opening our market to new suppliers.”  Construction of a jetty for the LNG ship at Klaipeda as
well as a pipeline linking the terminal to Lithuania’s gas grid
by December 2014, is proceeding on schedule, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  