-- ITV Sales Growth Accelerates as Content Production Arm Expands
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-11-19T08:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/itv-sales-growth-accelerates-as-content-production-arm-expands.html
ITV Plc (ITV)  reported revenue growth that
accelerated in the third quarter as the owner of the U.K.’s
biggest commercial TV station continued to focus on acquisitions
of production assets and creating content.  Nine-month external revenue rose 6 percent to 1.66 billion
pounds ($2.7 billion), the London-based company said in a
statement today. That compared with a 1 percent advance in the
first half. The company predicted cost savings of 25 million
pounds for 2013, 5 million pounds more than its initial target.  ITV, whose shows include “Downton Abbey” and “X
Factor,” has been reducing its dependence on advertising by
investing in online growth, content creation and pay-TV
productions. An improved TV advertising market will help ITV
deliver double-digit revenue growth in its online, pay and
interactive TV division, the broadcaster said.  “ITV has released an encouraging third-quarter update and
we are raising our forecasts by 2 percent to 3 percent for both
2013 and 2014,”  Paul Richards , a media analyst at Numis
Securities in  London , said in a note, citing progress at the ITV
Studios production arm.  ITV shares rose as much as 2.8 percent, and were down 0.5
percent at 185.90 pence as of 8:47 a.m. in London, paring the
advance to 77 percent this year and giving the company a market
value of about 7.5 billion pounds.  “ITV is now a stronger and more balanced business and as
we move into 2014 we will continue to see growth across the
company,” the company said. “We expect good growth in ITV
Studios, primarily driven by our recent acquisitions.”  Net advertising sales from ITV Family rose 11 percent in
the third quarter and is expected to increase about 2 percent
for the full year, “broadly in line with our estimate of the
U.K. television advertising market,” the company said.  Revenue at ITV Studios increased by 11 percent in the first
nine months, and the  company  forecast a “strong” fourth
quarter for the division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  