-- JLL Forms New Pharma Firm With DSM in $2.6 Billion Deal
-- B y   J o d i   X u ,   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-11-19T09:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/jll-buys-dsm-pharma-stake-in-deal-valued-at-2-6-billion.html
JLL Partners Inc., a New York-based
private-equity firm, agreed to buy a majority stake in vitamin-maker  Royal DSM NV (DSM) ’s pharmaceuticals business to create a new
company in a deal valued at $2.6 billion.  The unit will be rolled into  Patheon Inc. (PTI) , a Canada-based
specialty-pharmaceuticals manufacturer controlled by JLL, the
companies said in a joint statement today. The new entity is
projected to have sales next year of about $2 billion. DSM
shares gained as much as 3.7 percent in Amsterdam trading.  DSM, based in Heerlen,  Netherlands , and JLL are betting
that combining assets will create an all-encompassing
manufacturing and services company with the resources to tackle
projects from the research stage to clinical trials and
marketing of the products. The deal may create a more formidable
competitor to Indian and Chinese manufacturers of active
pharmaceutical ingredients.  “It’s clear we needed a partner who was strong in  China ,”
DSM board member Stefan Doboczky said in a phone interview.
“There’s nothing like this company that we’re creating here.”  For DSM, the venture ends a search for a partner for a
division that it has overhauled to lower costs, yet still lacked
sufficient scale. The deal values DSM’s pharmaceutical-products
business at $670 million. JLL will own 51 percent of the new
company and DSM will hold the rest. The name of the entity will
be announced in the coming months.  ‘Financially Sound’  “We see a good strategic rationale for the partnership,
while the deal seems financially sound,” said Filip de Pauw, an
analyst at ING.  DSM climbed as much as 2.13 euros to 60.10 euros and was up
3.5 percent as of 9:20 a.m. in Amsterdam, valuing the company at
10.9 billion euros. Before today, the stock had gained 27
percent this year.  The drug-ingredient market is growing at 7 percent to 10
percent depending on the subsegment, Doboczky said.
Pharmaceutical companies such as  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  are
harnessing increasing amounts of their resources on developing
new drugs and innovating, rather than the more capital-intensive
facilities needed to manufacture them.  Combining assets will also help the enlarged company
accelerate expansion in the more profitable segments of the
market, including lozenges, steriles and soft cells, Doboczky
said.  Potential Exit  DSM has no immediate plans to exit the business, and may
contemplate exiting its stake five or six years down the line,
should it make sense strategically, he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising DSM while Morgan Stanley
and Jefferies are advising JLL, according to the statement.  JLL has committed financing for $1.65 billion from banks
including JPMorgan to fund the acquisition, according to the
statement. JLL will invest $489 million in cash and DSM will
contribute the health-care division as well as receive a seller
note of $200 million, the statement shows.  JLL Partners , with more than $4 billion in assets under
management, typically invests in the health-care, financial
services and industrial sectors mostly in  North America ,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in  New York  at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  