-- Koruna Slides as Lizal Says Target Change Possible: Prague Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-11-19T15:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/koruna-slides-as-lizal-says-target-change-possible-prague-mover.html
The Czech koruna depreciated the
most among major currencies after central bank board member
Lubomir Lizal told a news website that increasing the
intervention target to 28 per euro is possible.  The koruna fell 0.8 percent at 27.341 per euro by 3:26 p.m.
in Prague, the weakest level since April 2009 and the biggest
decline among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
koruna lost a record 4.4 percent on Nov. 7, when the Czech
National Bank began its first intervention in 11 years and set a
desired level of “about” 27 per euro to avoid deflation and
prop up the export-led recovery.  It isn’t “dramatic or unrealistic” to envisage a scenario
in which the CNB would change the exchange-rate target to 28 per
euro, Lizal said in an interview posted on the Patria.cz website
today. Slowing growth in  Europe  and deflationary pressures from
a “persistent decline” in prices via imports may trigger the
change, Lizal said.  Lizal’s comments “clearly highlight” risks that the
desired level may be altered, Mohammed Kazmi, a London-based
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by e-mail
today. “The market is already starting to speculate on the
targeted level.”  The koruna’s three-month implied volatility jumped to 4.1
percent from 3.8 percent yesterday, the lowest excluding the
Swiss franc and the Croatian kuna among 34 global currencies for
which Bloomberg tracks the data. The measure of investor bets on
exchange-rate swings slumped to a record-low 3.2 percent on Nov.
13 after reaching 5.9 percent the day before the CNB started its
intervention.  ‘Significant Move’  Czech gross domestic product fell 0.5 percent in July to
September from the previous quarter, data showed on Nov. 14. The
preliminary figures underpinned the central bank’s concern that
the economy is struggling to gain traction after exiting a
record-long recession in the second quarter.  Consumer prices  last month rose 0.9 percent from a year
earlier after a 1 percent increase in September, the statistics
office in  Prague  said last week. That was the first time since
March 2010 that the inflation rate dropped below the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent tolerance band.  “Lizal is seen as one of the most dovish members on the
board,” RBS’s Kazmi said. “Previous communication from the
bank has indicated that it would take a significant move in
inflation away from expectations” for the desired koruna level
to be amended, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  