-- Nedbank Plan to Take 20% Ecobank Stake to Cost Over $500 Million
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-19T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/nedbank-plan-to-take-20-ecobank-stake-to-cost-over-500-million.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the South Africa
lender controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , plans to exercise an option
it has from next month to buy a fifth of  Ecobank Transnational
Inc. (ETI)  in a deal valued at more than $500 million.  Nedbank  intends to take up its right to convert a $285
million loan made to Ecobank in 2011 into an estimated 11
percent stake, said  Mike Brown , chief executive officer of the
Johannesburg-based lender. A second subscription right allows
Nedbank to increase its holding in Togo-based Ecobank to as much
as 20 percent, he said, without giving a timeframe for the plan.  “It is our current intention to exercise our rights,”
Brown wrote in an e-mailed response to questions, saying that
the bank hasn’t taken a formal decision to proceed. “We have
always anticipated that the total cost to get to a 20 percent
shareholding will be greater than the original loan.”  Ecobank, which trades on three African exchanges and
operates in 33 nations on the continent, reported last month
that profit increased 65 percent to $250 million in the nine
months through September as its business in Nigeria and  Ghana 
expanded. While Ecobank has the reciprocal right to buy a stake
in Nedbank, CEO Thierry Tanoh said in May that the lender may
delay taking this option to focus on its African businesses.  Nedbank has a 12-month window, starting in December, to
convert the loan into Ecobank shares.  Nedbank formed an alliance in 2008 with Ecobank. The
Togolese lender, founded in 1985, also operates in France and
has representative offices in Beijing, Dubai and London.  The Public Investment Corp., which manages more than 1
trillion rand ($99 billion) mostly on behalf of South African
government workers, bought almost 20 percent of Ecobank in April
last year, making it the lender’s biggest shareholder. Ecobank
Chairman Kolapo Lawson plans to step down on Dec. 31 amid
allegations of fraud that are being investigated by  Nigeria ’s
capital markets regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  