-- New Zealand Raises NZ$365 Million From Air N.Z. Share Sale
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-11-19T04:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/new-zealand-raises-nz-365-million-from-air-n-z-share-sale.html
New Zealand ’s government raised
NZ$365 million ($304 million) from the sale of shares in  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , completing the third of four planned asset sales
before next year’s election.  The government sold 221 million shares at NZ$1.65 apiece,
reducing its stake in the national carrier to 53 percent from 73
percent, Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a statement. Air
New Zealand shares, halted yesterday and today, last traded on
Nov. 15 at NZ$1.65.  Prime Minister John Key has now raised NZ$3.93 billion from
asset sales in a program to fund infrastructure and reduce debt.
The government has sold 49 percent stakes in Mighty River Power
Ltd. and Meridian Energy Ltd. this year, and has slated an
offering of Genesis Energy Ltd. shares for next year.  English said earlier this month the government is reviewing
its original forecast that its asset-sales program would raise
at least NZ$5 billion, after troubled Solid Energy New Zealand
Ltd. was taken out of the program and Meridian raised less than
expected.  The Air New Zealand transaction has been completed before a
non-binding referendum on the divestments opens on Nov. 22. The
general election will be held toward the end of next year.  Domestic and international investors were offered the Air
New Zealand shares in a bookbuild that began yesterday and
concluded earlier today. Craigs Investment Partners Ltd.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managed the sale.  Share Gains  Air New Zealand  shares , halted for the Crown’s selldown,
have gained 27 percent so far this year. They reached a 5 1/2
year high of NZ$1.69 late last month.  “When the company’s shares resume trading tomorrow we
expect approximately 88 percent of Air New Zealand will be owned
by New Zealanders,” English said.  Air New Zealand Chief Executive Officer Christopher Luxon
said in an interview last month that the airline plans to double
passenger and revenue growth in the next few years as it expands
in the Pacific Rim region and earns more from established
markets such as the U.S.  Revenue growth should reach 5 percent in the 2015 fiscal
year, up from 3 percent in the year through June 2013, and the
airline is planning for growth rates of as much as 7 percent
over the next five years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  