-- LNG Traders Compete for Cargoes as Volumes Drop Second Year
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-11-19T14:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lng-traders-compete-for-cargoes-as-volumes-drop-for-second-year.html
Exports of liquefied natural gas are
contracting for a second year, diminishing the number of
available cargoes at a time when companies from Vitol Group to
 Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  are expanding their trading teams.  Global exports in the first eight months were 5 percent
lower than a year ago, according to data from Poten & Partners
Inc., a New York-based shipbroker. Thirty-five companies now
trade LNG in  Europe , from fewer than 10 a decade ago, said
Douglas Ferguson, a managing director at Webber Chase Ltd.,
which recruits for the commodities industry.  Banks and trading houses are expanding in the $150 billion
LNG market, lured by volumes that jumped 38 percent in the past
five years. While demand is still growing as nations favor
cleaner fuels, the number of spot cargoes stagnated at about 25
percent of the total since 2011. Rising domestic demand, fewer-than-expected Angolan shipments and disruptions in Nigeria and
 Egypt  have cut the number of tradable sources, meaning
“nobody’s making a fortune trading LNG,” Vitol Chief Executive
Officer  Ian Taylor  said last month.  “With output from Angola still limited, it is very
difficult for newcomers to source reasonably priced flexible
cargoes,” said Yves Vercammen, the general manager at the
trading and shipping unit of  Eni SpA (ENI) , which has long-term
contracts for LNG from Algeria, Nigeria and Qatar. “On the
other hand, there is a growing financial trading market that LNG
traders definitely need to be in now.”  Price Boost  Spot and short-term imports, defined as contracts lasting
four years or less, reached a record 25.4 percent of total trade
in 2011, from 16.3 percent in 2009, before dropping to 25
percent last year, according to the  International Group  of LNG
Importers, or GIIGNL, a Paris-based industry group. The ratio
probably will be little changed in 2013, Javier Moret, head of
LNG origination at RWE Supply & Trading, predicted in September.  The lack of cargoes is  boosting prices , with LNG for
delivery to northeast  Asia  in the next four to eight weeks
averaging $18.10 per million British thermal units in the week
ended Nov. 11, or 30 percent more than a year earlier, according
to data from World Gas Intelligence in New York.  Traders, producers and consumers are meeting in Paris today
for the three-day  World LNG Summit , with representatives from
more than 120 companies as well as government officials.  Exponential Growth  About 150 people are involved in LNG trading and
origination in Europe, according to Webber Chase’s Ferguson. The
biggest teams are at London-based  BP Plc (BP/) , Paris-based  Total SA (FP) 
and Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  while  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  are the biggest banks transacting the fuel, he
said. Glencore hired traders from Morgan Stanley in September.  “Although there are a finite number of vessels, the number
of LNG traders and originators has grown exponentially in recent
years,” Ferguson said by e-mail from  Singapore . “The ‘trading’
market was non-existent a decade ago but we have seen many new
entrants challenge the monopoly of the majors in this capital
intensive, but potentially ultra-high-reward industry.”  Traders can profit from the difference in costs between
regions. LNG for delivery to southwest Europe cost $12.60 per
million Btu in the week ended Nov. 11, compared with $18.10 in
northeast Asia, according to WGI assessments.  Angola LNG, the only production plant with no long-term
contracts, is operating at about 20 percent capacity and will
ship three more cargoes this year, on top of five since it
started in June, Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos
said in an interview this month. The $10 billion facility
expected to load at least 13 cargoes this year, George Kirkland,
vice chairman at operator  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , said Aug. 2.  Force Majeure  Supplies to Nigeria LNG’s Bonny Island plant were disrupted
this year by leaks in a pipeline caused by people trying to
steal fuel and a three-week blockade of the terminal because of
a dispute over levies. A six-month force majeure, a legal clause
that excuses a supplier from meeting its delivery commitments
because of events beyond its control, was only lifted in April.  Egypt stopped supplying gas to the Segas LNG plant because
of rising domestic demand, Sherif Haddara, chairman of state-run
Egyptian General Petroleum Corp., said in February. Egyptian
LNG, the country’s second liquefaction plant, diverted half its
gas to the domestic market, BG Plc, which buys from the
facility, said in May.  Exporters worldwide produced at about 85 percent of
capacity in 2013, Andrew Walker, BG’s vice president for global
LNG, said today at the World LNG Summit.  Global LNG exports, including reloads from import
terminals, were equivalent to almost 209 billion cubic meters of
gas in the first eight months, compared with 220 billion a year
earlier, the Poten data show. Shipments fell 0.6 percent in
2012, the first annual drop in the data starting in 2002. Trade
contracted 1.9 percent last year, the first decline in three
decades,  GIIGNL  estimates.  Wonderful Colleagues  “There are very few freely tradable sources, therefore we
will bid on every single one of them,” Vitol’s Taylor said at a
conference in London on Oct. 1, sitting on a panel with Gunvor
CEO Torbjorn Tornqvist and  Alex Beard , the head of Glencore’s
oil unit. “The trouble is our wonderful colleagues here on the
platform will also bid on every single one of them.”  Supply will fail to keep pace with consumption until at
least 2015, according to Bank of America. Regasification
capacity, a proxy for demand, will expand as much as five times
faster than production capacity next year, and prices in Asia
may reach a record in the next several months, the bank said in
a report Nov. 13.  Japan , the biggest buyer, shut most of its atomic plants
after the Fukushima disaster in 2011 and  South Korea , the
second-biggest consumer, decided in May to halt two nuclear
reactors. Import capacity in China, India, Singapore and
Malaysia is increasing, boosting demand for cargoes, Bank of
America said.  Capacity Increase  Global production capacity will increase by 130 billion
cubic meters by 2018 as 12 new liquefaction plants open, the
Paris-based  International Energy Agency  said in a report last
week. There were 89 liquefaction plants operating at the end of
last year with annual capacity of 384 billion cubic meters.  Supply will be boosted from 2015 as projects from  Australia 
to the U.S. start producing, GIIGNL said in June. Trade will
increase 31 percent by 2018, from last year’s levels, the group
said. International trade in LNG reached 236.6 million tons in
2012, from 171.1 million tons in 2007, GIIGNL estimates.  “Interest has been growing particularly as participants
find new uses for LNG,” said George Stein, the New York-based
managing director of Commodity Talent LLC, a recruitment
company. “Interest on  Wall Street  has grown as well as interest
in the large merchant trading firms.”  Banner Year  Demand for traders with experience in the Atlantic is
rising as companies in London seek to get “everything in place
so that 2015 can be a banner year,” said Ferguson of Webber
Chase. A senior trader can earn $300,000 to $500,000 a year and
as much as $1 million if they meet earnings targets, he said.  The LNG market is valued at more than $150 billion,
according to Rob West, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London. That’s based on the 240 million tons traded last year at
an average price of $13 per thousand cubic feet. Demand will
reach 480 million tons by 2035, Bernstein said in a September
report.  While previously only companies with stakes in liquefaction
plants bought and sold the fuel, more trading houses are now
transacting cargoes, said Laurent Maurel, the senior vice
president for strategy, markets and LNG at Total.  “Successful LNG trading businesses typically take at least
two years to build,” Ferguson said. “A handful of trading
houses and an even smaller number of investment banks have got
it right by developing innovative LNG businesses without
spending billions of dollars in investments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  