-- Stocks Drop With Treasuries, Gold as Fed Discusses Taper
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-11-20T21:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/nikkei-futures-gain-on-weak-yen-after-u-s-stocks-retreat.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
capped its first three-day slump since September and Treasuries
slid as the  Federal Reserve  indicated it may reduce monetary
stimulus in coming months as the  U.S. economy  improves. Gold and
silver extended losses while the dollar strengthened.  The  S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,781.37 by 4:32 p.m. in
 New York  after earlier climbing as much as 0.4 percent. Ten-year
Treasury note yields increased nine basis points to 2.80
percent. Silver and gold dropped more than 2 percent and oil
erased earlier gains. The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , a gauge
of the currency against 10 major peers, rose 0.4 percent. The
euro slid against most peers with the European Central Bank said
to weigh a negative deposit rate to ward off deflation.  Fed policy makers expected economic data to signal ongoing
improvement in the labor market and “thus warrant trimming the
pace of purchases in coming months,” according to minutes of
the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Oct. 29-30 meeting released
today. Stocks pared gains earlier as Fed Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said a reduction in bond purchases is
“on the table” for the next policy meeting in December.  “The market’s trying to decide what it means,”  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion,
said by phone. “It puts the market on guard for what does the
data over the next two months hold.”  As of yesterday, four of five investors expected the Fed to
delay a decision on the first cuts to bond buying until March
2014 or later, with 5 percent looking for a move next month,
according to the latest Bloomberg Global Poll. Only one in 20
said the central bank will begin to reduce its purchases at its
Dec. 17-18 meeting, according to the poll yesterday of
investors, traders and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  ‘December Taper’  Bullard, a voter on policy this year who has backed the
Fed’s record stimulus, said that a strong jobs report could
increase the chance of a reduction in bond purchases next month.  “It’s definitely on the table, but it’s going to depend on
the data,” Bullard said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Erik Schatzker . “A strong jobs report, I think, would
increase the probability some for a December taper.” The
government’s jobs report for November will be released Dec. 6.  The S&P 500 has fallen since reaching its latest record
Nov. 15. The benchmark index is up about 25 percent in 2013,
still poised for its best  yearly gain  in a decade. The index
traded at 17 times its companies’ reported earnings at the last
record, the highest valuation in more than three years.  Among U.S. stocks moving today, Boeing Co., Caterpillar
Inc. and DuPont Co. lost more than 1 percent to lead a 0.4
percent decline in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Market Movers  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-biggest home improvement retailer,
slipped 6.2 percent after profit trailed analysts’ projections.
J.C. Penney Co. jumped 8.4 percent as a decline in sales abated
in the third quarter.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  advanced 2.9 percent after the
owner of the largest U.S. Internet portal boosted its stock-buyback plan by $5 billion. Deere & Co. rose 2.1 percent after
forecasting better-than-estimated annual earnings on rising
demand for construction and forestry machinery.  Commerce Department data today showed U.S. retail sales
increased 0.4 percent, following no change in September. The
median forecast of 86 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.1 percent advance in October. The consumer-price index
dropped 0.1 percent after a 0.2 percent gain the prior month,
according to the Labor Department. The median forecast of the 85
economists surveyed called for no change.  Economic Data  Purchases of previously-owned U.S. homes fell in October to
the lowest level in four months as limited supply and higher
 mortgage rates  restrained momentum in the housing-market
recovery. Sales dropped 3.2 percent to a 5.12 million annual
rate, the fewest since June, according to data released today by
the National Association of Realtors. The median forecast of 76
economists projected a 5.14 million pace. The partial federal
shutdown last month may have delayed some closings, the group
said.  The dollar strengthened against 13 of 16 major peers,
rising 0.8 percent to $1.3435 per euro.  The euro weakened against 13 of 16 major peers, with South
Africa’s rand, the Canadian dollar and the yen jumping at least
0.9 percent to lead gains.  European Central Bank  policy makers would reduce the rate
for commercial lenders who park excess cash at the bank to minus
0.1 percent from zero, said people familiar with knowledge of
the debate who asked not to be identified because the talks
aren’t public.  ‘Last Quivers’  A negative ECB deposit rate is “one of last quivers they
can draw from for weapons to combat sluggish economic growth,”
Michael Mullaney, who oversees more than $10 billion as Boston-based chief investment officer for Fiduciary Trust Co., said in
a phone interview. “It is an admission that there’s definitely
sluggish economic growth going on in the  euro zone .”  German bunds erased declines after the Bloomberg News
report on the ECB’s discussions, leaving the  10-year yield 
little changed at 1.71 percent.  Natural gas, heating oil, lean hogs and coffee rose more
than 1.4 percent to lead the S&P GSCI Index of commodities up
0.4 percent, while gold and silver had the biggest declines.  Oil for December delivery settled little changed at $93.33
a barrel after rallying earlier following data on U.S. supplies.
The Energy Information Administration said petroleum demand
averaged over four weeks reached 20.3 million barrels a day, the
most since August 2008. Stockpiles grew 375,000 barrels, below
the 1 million-barrel increase forecast by analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Distillate supplies slid to the lowest level this
year.  European Movers  Among stocks moving in  Europe ,  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , a
network-equipment maker, lost 3.5 percent after a rights
placement. The stock has almost tripled this year. Wirecard AG
dropped 5.2 percent after Barclays Plc lowered its
 recommendation  on the stock following yesterday’s earnings
report. Diageo Plc declined 1.2 percent as Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Menezes said he anticipates an “uncertain” global
economy to be a drag on sales growth. Metro AG climbed 2.4
percent after saying it is considering a partial initial public
offering of its Russian unit.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.6 percent,
declining for a second day. Benchmark indexes in Hungary, South
Korea, Indonesia, Taiwan and the Philippines dropped at least
0.7 percent today. Brazil’s stock market is closed for a
holiday. The Ibovespa dropped the most in seven weeks yesterday
on speculation Latin America’s largest economy will remain
stalled, making equity rallies hard to sustain.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  increased 0.6 percent, erasing its loss for
the year, after China’s central bank elaborated on plans to free
up foreign-exchange controls.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  