-- NLRB Accuses Wal-Mart of Illegally Disciplining Workers
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-11-19T00:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/nlrb-accuses-wal-mart-of-illegally-disciplining-workers.html
The U.S. labor board accused  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  of illegally disciplining workers, including
some who were allegedly fired for protesting the retailer’s
employee policies.  Wal-Mart “unlawfully threatened, disciplined and/or
terminated  employees” at stores in 13 states for protesting
working conditions, according to a statement today from the
 National Labor Relations Board .  The board will seek a settlement with Wal-Mart that may
include rehiring employees with back pay for actions taken
against about 117 people, according to Dan Schlademan, director
of  Making Change at Walmart , a campaign to pressure the company
to improve wages and working conditions.  “Wal-Mart will be given a chance to settle this,”
Schlademan said on a conference call with reporters. “If Wal-Mart does not agree then, the board will make an official charge
in the case.”  David Tovar , a spokesman for Wal-Mart, did not return phone
calls seeking comment.  The board rejected complaints that Wal-Mart interfered with
some employees’ right to strike at stores in Illinois and  Texas 
or retaliated against employees at stores in California and
Washington.  The NLRB case stems from charges filed against the retailer
one year ago, when Wal-Mart managers tried to discourage
employees from taking part in protests ahead of “Black Friday”
after Thanksgiving, one of the busiest shopping days of the
year.  Workers Disciplined  The case also covers 100 striking workers who took their
complaints to the company’s shareholder meeting in Bentonville,
 Arkansas  in June, according to a statement from  Our Walmart , an
association of Wal-Mart employees.  At least 43 workers were disciplined and another 23 worker-leaders were fired, the statement says.  Both Our Walmart and Making Change at Walmart are supported
by the United Food and Commercial Workers union.  More protests are being planned in the run up to “Black
Friday” later this month, according to Derrick Plummer, a
spokesman for the UFCW. Specific actions would be announced
soon, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  