-- Norway Backs Down From Talk of Splitting $800 Billion Oil Fund
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-11-19T13:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/norway-backs-down-from-talk-of-splitting-800-billion-oil-fund.html
Norway ’s government backed down from
pre-election talk it might restructure the nation’s $800 billion
sovereign wealth fund as it instead defends the investor’s
existing mandate.  “We aim at a predictable and stable investment strategy
for the fund,” Siv Jensen, finance minister and leader of the
junior partner in Norway’s ruling coalition of Conservative and
Progress parties, said today in an interview in her office in
Oslo. Asked whether the fund may yet be split, Jensen said “the
government has no plans to do that. There will be no changes in
the investment profile of the fund.”  Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who ousted the Labor-led
coalition of her predecessor Jens Stoltenberg in September
elections, promised a month earlier to look into restructuring
the nation’s wealth fund after it quadrupled in size since 2005.
Even inside the fund, its size has been raised as a hurdle that
is complicating investment decisions.  Petter Johnsen, the fund’s chief investment officer for
equities, said on Nov. 1 that the “challenge that we have, and
we have already experienced, is the size.”  Jensen, whose party entered government for the first time
since being formed as an anti-tax movement in 1973, is now
signaling that talk of reorganizing the fund, into which Norway
channels its oil and gas wealth, may have been premature.  Spending Rule  “If we receive any recommendations from the fund, we will
consider them carefully and we will evaluate if we think it is
necessary to make any changes,” Jensen said. “We will inform
the parliament in due time.” She declined to say whether her
government thinks the fund is now too big.  Norway’s government uses money from its wealth fund, the
world’s biggest, to pad its budget. Though use of the fund is
limited to 4 percent, the amount of money that figure represents
is growing. The fund has quadrupled in size since 2005 and will
grow to 5.34 trillion kroner ($877 billion) by the end of 2014,
according to government estimates.  Norway started the oil fund back in 1996 in an effort to
avoid overheating the $500 billion economy by buying offshore
assets. Yet the investor’s growth has partly undermined those
efforts and Norway is now Scandinavia’s richest economy,
struggling to contain an overheated housing market.  The rule, imposed under a Labor government, to limit public
spending to 4 percent of the fund has come to represent ever
larger sums. Jensen said her ministry doesn’t take the fund’s
growth into account when analyzing public spending options.  “It will be the analysis on the development of the economy
that will set the standard for how much money we can put into
the economy from one year to another,” Jensen said. “I think
we all agree that’s the basic idea behind the evaluation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  