-- Nuclear Reactor Waste Fees Ordered to Zero by Appeals Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-11-19T20:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/nuclear-reactor-waste-fees-ordered-to-zero-by-appeals-court-1-.html
The U.S. Department of Energy was
ordered by a federal appeals court to move toward ending a fee
utilities pay for nuclear waste disposal because the government
has no alternative to the canceled Yucca Mountain repository.  The department has failed to come up with a court-ordered
assessment to determine if the current fee is appropriate in the
wake of the suspension of the Yucca Mountain project, Circuit
Judge Laurence Silberman wrote for a three-judge panel in
 Washington . The disposal fee cost utilities $750 million last
year, according to court documents.  Because the agency hasn’t come up with a legally adequate
fee assessment, it was ordered to send Congress a proposal to
change the fee to zero until it “chooses to comply with the act
as it is currently written, or until Congress enacts an
alternative waste management plan,” the court ruled.  The decision today was hailed by the utilities and nuclear
power-plant operators who brought the suit and have been
frustrated with the Obama administration’s decision to stop work
on Yucca without providing an alternative.  Government’s Obligation  “The court’s ruling reinforces the fundamental principle
that the federal government’s obligation is to carry out the
law, whether or not the responsible agency or even the president
agrees with the underlying policy,” Ellen Ginsberg, general
counsel for the Nuclear Energy Institute, said today in a
statement. The Washington-based industry group represents
reactor owners including Chicago-based  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Southern
Co. (SO)  of Atlanta.  Finding a way to dispose of the nation’s 70,000 metric tons
of civilian nuclear waste has bedeviled politicians and the
nuclear industry for decades. Congress in 1987 designated that a
repository be built at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles
(161 kilometers) northwest of Las Vegas. The project, which has
cost taxpayers and industry about $15 billion according to the
Government Accountability Office, has faced local opposition,
notably from Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat.  President  Barack Obama  in 2010 cut funding for the Yucca
project and established a panel to consider other alternatives
for waste storage. The group last year recommended that the U.S.
begin work on a temporary site.  Nevada Hole  Meanwhile, the Energy Department has continued to collect
the nuclear waste fee. State regulators and the nuclear industry
have argued that without a repository or an alternative site,
the government shouldn’t continue to collect the fee.  Niketa Kumar, an Energy Department spokeswoman, said the
order is under review.  The National Association of Regulatory Commissioners said
more than $30 billion has been collected since the early 1980s
for a waste repository that resulted in no more than a “hole in
the  Nevada  desert.”  “Nuclear-power ratepayers should not be charged for a
program the federal government has closed down,” the group said
in a statement today, calling the decision “great news.”  The department has 45 days to ask for a re-hearing by the
court. After that, it must submit a proposal setting the fee at
zero to Congress, which has 90 days to act on it, according to
Jay Silberg, at attorney at Pillsbury Winthrop LLP, who argued
the case for NARUC.  If Congress does nothing, the fee would be eliminated,
Silberg said.  While lawmakers could set the fee at another level, Silberg
said he doubts there would be enough support to get legislation
enacted in both houses.  The current waste disposal charges remain in effect until
the Congressional process runs its course, he said.  The case is National Association of Regulatory Utility
Commissioners v. U.S. Department of Energy, 11-1066, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  