-- O’Neill Sees Nigerian Growth at 10% Led by Power Projects
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-11-19T13:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/o-neill-sees-nigerian-growth-at-10-led-by-power-projects.html
Nigeria’s economy “could easily”
grow at a rate of 10 percent if the newly privatized power
industry puts an end to daily electricity cuts, said  Jim O’Neill , a former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  Nigeria’s population of more than 160 million people, the
biggest in  Africa , is key to unlocking “enormous” growth
potential, O’Neill, now a Bloomberg View columnist, said today
in an interview in the country’s commercial capital, Lagos.
Nigeria is ranked alongside Mexico, Indonesia and  Turkey  as part
of his MINT countries with the largest emerging-market
populations outside  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China . O’Neill
coined the acronym for that grouping, BRICs, while at Goldman.  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan in September handed
over control of 14 state-owned power companies to new owners
including Siemens AG, Korea Electric Power Corp. and
Transnational Corp., starting a market-driven electricity
industry in the West African nation. Blackouts are a daily
occurrence in Nigeria, the continent’s biggest economy after
 South Africa .  “If industry and business deliver on this new power
agreement, that’s going to propel growth to so much stronger
levels,” O’Neill said. “Nigeria is all about the medium- to
long-term in my opinion.”  Nigeria’s economic growth accelerated 6.81 percent on an
annual basis in the third quarter, compared with 6.18 percent in
the second quarter as the pace of its oil industry’s contraction
eased and farm output rose, the National Bureau of Statistics
said yesterday.  Election Challenge  “Nigeria has to be careful about not thinking its success
the past decade is about its own brilliance,” O’Neill said.
“It might be just because we have these huge rising commodity
prices.”  The ruling People’s  Democratic Party , which has won all
elections held since Nigeria ended military rule in 1999, faces
its sternest challenge before an election in 2015. The nation’s
four main opposition parties merged this year in order to take
on Jonathan, who hasn’t publicly stated if he will run, while
some senior PDP figures quit the party to form their own group.  The West African nation needs expansion of 9 percent to 10
percent to reduce poverty, Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
said in a video presentation at a conference in Lagos today. The
 World Bank   estimates  68 percent of Nigerians live on less than
$1.25 a day. “Our growth has come with inequality,” she said.
“It’s not inclusive enough.”  Africa’s top oil producer intends to offer international
debt regularly to develop a benchmark for borrowers after
selling $1 billion of Eurobonds in July, Okonjo-Iweala said in
an October interview. The country plans to raise $100 million in
the first quarter of next year by selling so-called diaspora
bonds targeted at citizens living overseas, she said.  ‘Hot Demand’  Yields on the nation’s 10-year dollar denominated notes due
July 2023 declined 68 basis points, or 0.68 percentage point, to
5.9 percent since their issue. Speculation about when the
 Federal Reserve  may start tapering $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases eased demand for emerging-market debt.  “My hunch is that anything Nigerian at the moment is in
hot demand as it is very much in sub-Saharan Africa, so long as
the Fed background isn’t too negative,” O’Neill said. “So long
as people think out of the election comes a stronger Nigeria, I
think demand for such a paper would be really high.”  O’Neill said he wouldn’t put money into Nigeria’s energy
industry. The country is Africa’s biggest oil producer, pumping
about 2 million barrels a day.  “The world commodities cycle has peaked particularly for
oil and energy, so I wouldn’t want to be investing in those
things for the next few years,” he said. “ Nigeria ’s future
shouldn’t be about its commodities and its energy, at least in
terms of the raw crude. Turning that into manufacturing products
is probably what Nigeria’s future is about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  