-- Obamacare Consultants Warned of Health Website Failure
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-19T16:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/obamacare-consultants-warned-of-health-website-failure.html
Consultants hired by the Obama
administration told top officials at the White House and U.S.
health department as early as March that construction of the
government’s insurance website was at risk of failure, according
to a document released by congressional Republicans.  McKinsey & Co. consultants recommended in a slide
presentation prepared for administration officials that the
government “streamline decision-making” for the site and
“name a single implementation leader.” The New York-based
consultants also said the administration should “lock down”
technical requirements for the  site  by April 30. It’s not clear
how many of the recommendations were followed.  Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, who
obtained and released the document, said it shows promises that
the project was on schedule were incorrect. A decision in
September by health officials to let the insurance exchange open
as promised on Oct. 1 exposed the public to a flawed website
plagued by outages, garbled data and potential security holes.  “The website is still not functioning at an acceptable
level,” Representative  Tim Murphy , a Pennsylvania Republican
who is chairman of the Commerce Committee’s Oversight and
Investigations subcommittee, said at a hearing today. “The
reason the trust of the American people may be so difficult to
regain is because every day new revelations emerge that show
this wreck was entirely foreseeable.”  Security Threats  The McKinsey  review  of the insurance exchange website,
healthcare.gov, was “a standard process to identify potential
risks and develop mitigating strategies,” the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services said in an e-mail from a
spokeswoman for the agency, Patti Unruh. “The review was
completed six months before the beginning of open enrollment,
was in line with industry best practices, and was followed by
concrete action to address potential risks.”  Henry Chao, the deputy chief information officer for the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, told the committee
today that he never saw the McKinsey review and that he’s
confident that the exchange website is secure.  “There was one incident that I was aware of,” Chao said
when asked whether any hackers had tried to get in to the
website. He didn’t provide details. He said he isn’t aware of
any successful hacking attempts and there have been no reports
of major security threats since the site opened.  Presentation Attendees  McKinsey made its presentation to a succession of officials
at CMS, the  Department of Health  and Human Services and the
White House in meetings in late March and early April, according
to the congressional committee.  Officials who received the report included the U.S. health
secretary,  Kathleen Sebelius ; the White House chief technology
officer, Todd Park; CMS Administrator  Marilyn Tavenner ; director
of the Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight,
Gary Cohen; and Jeanne Lambrew, director of the White House
office of health reform.  Insurance markets in each state where people can shop for
private health plans with the help of government subsidies are a
core part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010. The federal government is running a site that serves 36
states where governors refused to cooperate or who were
incapable of building themselves. The 14 remaining states
created and are running their own sites.  Storing Data  Republican lawmakers have criticized potential security
flaws in the health exchanges as Obama administration officials
said they have made protecting customer privacy a top priority
in their efforts to fix the website. The government’s computer
networks collect personal information such as family size and
Social Security numbers, as well as financial records and other
data from seven federal agencies to determine what health plans
people can buy and whether they’ll receive tax credits.  Sebelius told senators at a hearing earlier this month that
little of the information is stored by the government’s website,
and insurers receive only enough to know who their customers are
and how much they owe. Tavenner has said her agency has been
making hundreds of fixes to healthcare.gov and conducting weekly
and monthly security tests and promised to have a fully
functioning website by the end of November.  The flawed rollout of the exchanges have hurt enrollment,
with 106,185 people signing up for private health plans through
the exchanges last month. Health officials had a goal of
enrolling 800,000 people through November and an estimated 7
million sign-ups were predicted for the first year.  About 275,000 people who tried and failed to sign up for
health plans when the website debuted were being asked last week
by the U.S. government to return and try again as the flaws are
corrected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  