-- Obamacare Failure May Shave 30% From U.S. Drug Sales
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/obamacare-failure-may-shave-30-from-u-s-drug-sales.html
Potential shortfalls in enrollment
for President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul would put a 30
percent dent in projections for U.S. prescription-drug sales in
2017, a report from IMS Health Inc. shows.  That worst-case scenario would translate to $320 billion in
drug spending, according to the  report . The best case is
supposed to be $460 billion, boosted by demand from the health
law’s expansion of insurance coverage and medical screenings,
and removal of restrictions on pre-existing conditions.  Expenditures in the $2.7 trillion U.S. health-care system
have doubled since 1980, growing to 18 percent of gross domestic
product and leading to financial success for drugmakers,
hospitals and insurers. The 2010 health law’s promise of making
medical coverage an affordable possibility for at least 25
million uninsured people was projected to provide another boost.  “There’s a lot at stake,”  Michael Kleinrock , director of
research at the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, said
in a telephone interview. “This would be a very dramatic
decline. We don’t think that that kind of sky-is-falling
scenario is most likely, but it is not off the table.”  Last month, 106,185 people enrolled in private health plans
through insurance exchanges that debuted Oct. 1 as part of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. U.S. health
officials had a goal of enrolling 800,000 people through
November and an estimated 7 million sign-ups were predicted for
the first year.  Global Spending  A middle ground that involves a slower coverage expansion
would generate as much as $380 billion in U.S. drug  spending  in
2017, according to the report from Kleinrock’s group, which is
the research arm of IMS Health, a drug sales analysis company
based in Danbury,  Connecticut . Drug spending in 2012 was about
$328 billion, the group said.  Still, global spending on drugs is projected to surpass $1
trillion in 2014 for the first time, and reach $1.2 trillion in
2017. The growth of as much as $235 billion from 2012 to 2017
would roughly match the $234 billion increase in the prior five
years, according to the report.  Oncology drugs will see the most spending in developed
countries, with sales of as much as $84 billion in 2017,
followed by $39 billion on diabetes drugs, IMS said. Pain
medicines will lead the way in  emerging markets , with as much as
$25 billion in spending.  Spending on generic drugs may make up 21 percent of sales
in developed countries in 2017 from 16 percent in 2012, the
report found.  New Drugs  Global pharmaceutical spending may also fluctuate based on
the European Union’s economic recovery, according to the report.
A middle-ground scenario where access to medicines is sustained
would generate as much as $31 billion in spending in 2017 on
novel drugs that enter the market in the 2013 to 2017 time
period, according to the report.  IMS also found 641 drug candidates are in late-stage
research, a third of which are biologics, which are made from
living organisms and are more complex than traditional pills.
About 35  new drugs  are expected to reach the market each year
through 2017, and transform treatment in skin and  breast cancer ,
multiple sclerosis and hepatitis C, among others, IMS said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  won Food and Drug Administration
approval in May for two drugs to treat the deadliest form of
skin cancer. Gilead Sciences Inc. and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Medivir AB (MVIRB)  are awaiting FDA clearance for hepatitis C treatments
that can lessen side effects.  Obamacare Setback  In the end, structural changes within health-care systems
globally will determine spending growth, according to the
report.  Japan  is pushing to control drug costs amid an aging
population,  China  is moving toward a goal of universal coverage
by 2020 and the potential for new austerity measures in  Europe 
is leading countries there to look for savings through greater
use of generics.  In the U.S., rollout of the Affordable Care Act has been
marred by website outages, negative public perceptions and
political opposition by Republican state governors.  The latest setback came last week when President Barack
Obama responded to public opposition and offered a one-year
reprieve for insurance policies that don’t meet the stricter
requirements of the health law. The about-face by Obama may
undermine enrollment in the new health law exchanges, primarily
by young and healthy people who are critical to balancing out
the costs of care for those who are older and sicker.  Americans have until Dec. 15 to sign up for coverage that
starts Jan. 1. People who don’t obtain health insurance by March
31, risk paying a fine of as much as 1 percent of their income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  