-- Obama Asks Senators for Time on Iran on Eve of Talks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-19T19:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/obama-asks-senators-for-time-on-iran-on-eve-of-talks.html
President  Barack Obama  may have
temporarily headed off congressional action to impose new
sanctions on Iran on the eve of the next round of negotiations
in Geneva.  Republican Senator  Bob Corker  said after leaving a two-hour
White House meeting today that the Senate probably won’t address
proposals for additional sanctions against Iran until next
month.  Obama sought today’s meeting with Senate leadership and the
top lawmakers on the Banking, Intelligence,  Foreign Affairs  and
Armed Services committees to appeal for time to let negotiations
among world powers and Iran proceed.  The president asked for “a period of time”  to let
negotiators in Geneva work, Corker, of Tennessee, the ranking
Republican on the Foreign Affairs Committee, told reporters.
While said he wanted time to consider Obama’s presentation, the
Senators left the meeting with a better understanding of
“what’s on the table, what the deal is.”  The meeting also included Secretary of State  John Kerry  and
National Security Adviser  Susan Rice . White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S. will continue to enforce
sanctions already in place and that Obama was seeking
flexibility to reach an agreement.  The negotiations also have come under criticism from
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu . He said over the
weekend that any easing “would endanger the whole sanctions
regime that took years to make.”  Negotiations Resume  Talks between Iran and the five permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council plus Germany are set to resume
tomorrow. The U.S. and the other nations are trying to prevent
Iran, holder of the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves,
from building a nuclear weapon.  The Persian Gulf nation of 80 million people says its
nuclear work is peaceful and wants the trade curbs that have
squeezed its economy to be loosened.  The proposal being negotiated would cap the quality and
quantity of Iran’s enriched uranium and the centrifuges used to
make it. It also would pause the construction of a heavy-water
reactor at Arak, according to diplomats informed about the
negotiations. The U.S. in return would ease sanctions on
petrochemicals, gold, autos and civilian aircraft parts, and
 Iran  would be permitted access to about $3 billion in frozen
assets, according to the diplomats, who asked not to be named
discussing the closed-door talks.  The Obama administration wants lawmakers to hold off on
enacting new sanctions “to see if these negotiations can move
forward,” Carney said.  Corker said he is “concerned we are giving up some
leverage” over Iran by easing some of the sanctions.  Brent oil for January settlement fell $1.13, or 1 percent,
to $107.34 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. West Texas Intermediate crude was little changed near
a five-month low rising 18 cents to $93.21 a barrel at 1:14 p.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  