-- Obama to Offer $100 Million Job Skills Education Plan
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-19T15:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/obama-to-offer-100-million-job-skills-education-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  plans to
announce a $100 million competitive grants program to help equip
high school students with skills needed to compete for jobs in a
global economy increasingly reliant on technology.  The program, called Youth CareerConnect, would award as
many as 40 grants ranging from $2 million to $7 million each in
the 2014-2015 academic year to schools that link up with higher
educational institutions or employers, according to a White
House fact sheet.  The goal is to motivate high schools to innovate and
restructure parts of their curriculum focusing on increasing
students’ employment chances in business or industry as a way to
boost U.S. economic growth. Grant money will come from the Labor
Department, according to the fact sheet.  The program was disclosed earlier by the Wall Street
Journal, which said the president would make the announcement
later today at an event the news organization is sponsoring in
 Washington .  Not every student has to go to a four-year college, Obama
said at a steel plant in  Cleveland  on Nov. 14. “You’ve got to
have a little bit of advanced training,” he said, and it may
“come through a  community college  or it may come through a
technical school.”  Obama said last month at a  Brooklyn , New York, high school
that other nations are pulling ahead of the U.S. in global
economic competition. He said education in science, technology,
engineering and math can be a foundation for growth.  The Brooklyn school, known as P-Tech, was cited by Obama in
his  State of the Union  address earlier this year. He called it
an example of collaboration between schools and private industry
to equip students with skills needed by companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  