-- Oberweis Defies Muddy Waters by Doubling Down on NQ
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-11-19T21:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/oberweis-defies-muddy-waters-by-doubling-down-on-nq.html
Jim Oberweis, whose China-focused
fund is the best performer this year, said he’s doubled his
stake in  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , betting that claims by Muddy Waters LLC
about the company’s finances are unfounded.  Oberweis Asset Management Inc. increased its holding to 1.8
million shares of NQ Mobile, from 990,894 on Sept. 30, he said
in a telephone interview on Nov. 18 from Lisle,  Illinois . This
would make the firm the second-largest shareholder with a 5.8
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. His
 China  Opportunities Fund has returned 53 percent this year.  The share purchases, which follow those by fund managers
including Altimeter Capital Management LLC and Toro Investment
Partners LP, show how some  investors  are seeing consumer
companies benefiting from China’s growing middle class. Shares
of the mobile-service provider have tumbled 42 percent since
 Muddy Waters , the research firm founded by short seller  Carson
Block , said NQ Mobile inflated sales and misrepresented cash
balances. The company, which has headquarters in Beijing and
 Dallas , has denied the claims.  “When you look at the business prospects, their position
in the marketplace, their ability to start to monetize and most
importantly, the valuation, the valuation, the valuation, the
business begins to look pretty compelling,” said Oberweis, who
flew to Beijing after the Muddy Waters report was published.  Carson Block said by e-mail yesterday that he stands by his
sell call on NQ Mobile.  ’Massive Fraud’  The first sentence of the 81-page report by Muddy Waters on
NQ Mobile on Oct. 24 said: “NQ is a massive fraud.” The report
went on to say that at least 72 percent of NQ’s purported 2012
China security  revenue  is fictitious.  NQ Mobile denied the allegations, holding a two-hour
conference call on Oct. 25 with analysts and investors in which
it detailed its financial statement and answered questions about
Block’s accusations.  NQ Mobile’s market capitalization has dropped to $695.4
million as of Nov. 19 from $1.2 billion on Oct. 23, the day
before Block published his sell recommendation. The decline sent
 valuations  to 10 times estimated earnings, down from a multiple
of 18 last month.  The report also alleged that Tianjin Yidatong Technology
Development Co., NQ’s largest trade debtor, is controlled by NQ
and not an independent company.  Yidatong’s owner Xu Rong said in an interview that the
Muddy Waters report isn’t accurate, and that her company has no
relationship with NQ Mobile besides a contract to process online
payments from mobile subscribers.  Beating Competitors  “I met personally with Xu Rong,” Oberweis said. “She
knows what is going on, she understands the business, she is
very clear. My guess is she was friends with the NQ people and
was able to leverage that relationship to make some money.”
This relationship doesn’t constitute a fraud, he said.  Oberweis’s  China Opportunities Fund (OBCHX)  has beaten all
competitors in 2013 and over the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. He invests in small-capitalization
companies. The “magic formula” has been buying into
entrepreneurial companies in industries serving China’s growing
consumer market, he said.  Altimeter Capital increased its  holdings  to 6.1 percent of
shares outstanding from 1.5 percent, becoming the largest
shareholder in NQ Mobile, according to a regulatory filing on
Nov. 13. Toro Investment owns 4.9 percent and Chinarock Capital
Management disclosed a 5.5 percent stake.  Stake Doubled  Oberweis’s China Opportunities Fund more than doubled its
stake in NQ Mobile to 540,000 shares as of Nov. 18 from 260,000
on Sept. 30, the fund manager said.  In the past two weeks, Oberweis has added to holdings in
 21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , which operates data centers in China, and
Hong Kong-listed  China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. (1117) , which he
visited on his recent trip there. His father owns, and his
brother runs, Oberweis Dairy Inc., which has a chain of stores
in  Chicago  and  St. Louis .  While the technology and dairy industries are very
different, they both benefit from growing consumer demand,
according to Oberweis.  “People don’t understand the growth potential,” he said.
“They’re focused around the rising spending power of the middle
class in China, and there’s a mismatch between supply and
demand.”  NQ Mobile is now the largest position in five of six
Oberweis funds, he said.  Beating Profit  The company posted profit that beat analyst estimates on
Nov. 12, boosted by sales of game software. Net income more than
doubled to $17.4 million in the third quarter, from $8.13
million a year earlier, NQ Mobile said in a statement. The
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
$16.2 million.  “It says something that they released their earnings on
time,” Oberweis said. “I don’t think Pricewaterhouse would let
them if they had significant concerns.” PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP is the auditor for NQ Mobile’s financial statements.  Block said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on
Oct. 25 that NQ Mobile will go the same way as Sino-Forest
Corp., the Chinese plantation company listed in  Canada  that
filed for  bankruptcy protection  last year after Muddy Waters
said it exaggerated revenue.  “We welcome any third party the opportunity to check the
company cash,” Matt Mathison, the vice president of  capital
markets  at NQ Mobile, said in the Oct. 25 conference call. “The
truth and the facts are on our side.”  Oberweis and his staff verified the bank accounts by going
to Standard Chartered Bank with employees of NQ Mobile. Bank
employees printed out a letter confirming the deposits and
showed it to them.  “I found that, step by step, most allegations made by
Muddy Waters are really easy to disprove, the most important one
being the cash,” he said. “The money is there and this
illusion that there is no cash is completely false.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in  New York  at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in New York at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  