-- OECD Draws on Siemens Corruption Experience With Force Head
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-11-19T15:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/oecd-draws-on-siemens-corruption-experience-with-taskforce-head.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Klaus Moosmayer has
been appointed by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development’s business advisory committee as its anti-corruption
taskforce head, drawing on the German company’s experience
fighting graft.  Moosmayer, Siemens’s chief counsel for compliance issues
since 2010, will co-ordinate the Business and Industry Advisory
Committee’s efforts to tackle corruption, the Munich-based
company said in a statement. He was first given a role tackling
sleaze at  Europe ’s largest engineering company in 2007, the same
year a new chief executive officer was hired to clean up after a
bribery scandal.  Court cases resulting from the Siemens corruption scandal
which broke in 2006 are still in progress. Investigations were
triggered in at least a dozen countries, with Siemens agreeing
to pay $1.6 billion to settle probes in the U.S. and  Germany  in
2008. The company appointed its first CEO from outside the
company in 2007 in the form of Austrian manager  Peter Loescher .  The trial of former executive Uriel Sharef over bribery
charges is ongoing in Munich after a court there rejected a bid
by the defense to drop the proceedings. The defense alleged
prosecutors didn’t properly gather all necessary materials.  Siemens has also suspended its personnel head in Germany
pending the results of an investigation into whether a top labor
representative received an illegal pay boost in 2008. A former
board member was convicted by a German court the same year of
authorizing payments intended to help cultivate an “employer
friendly” labor group.  The BIAC advises the OECD on economic issues and represents
42 industry associations from member countries. Germany’s  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  