-- Tokyo Fails to Find Builders for World’s Biggest Fish Market
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-11-19T07:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/tokyo-fails-to-find-builders-for-world-s-biggest-fish-market.html
The Tokyo Metropolitan Government
failed to find builders for a new market in Tokyo Bay to replace
 Tsukiji , the world’s biggest fish market, amid rising material
prices and demand for higher wages.  Three projects for the new fish market, worth a combined 63
billion yen ($630 million), failed to find takers among bidding
groups led by  Taisei Corp. (1801) ,  Kajima Corp. (1812)  and  Shimizu Corp. (1803) ,
according to statements on the local government’s  website  today.  As part of the drive to spur growth in the world’s third-largest economy, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for
increased spending in the  construction industry  to boost public
works. A gauge of  Japan ’s prices ended four years of declines
amid Abe’s campaign to stamp out 15 years of deflation, a
government report showed on Oct. 25.  “I’ve never heard of an auction of this size failing,”
said  Yoji Otani , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Securities
Inc. “In the past, companies would win projects even if it
meant putting in a low bid. It shows that construction companies
aren’t going to bend over backward to win work anymore.”  One project of four seeking builders -- a 7 billion yen
development of a hygiene inspection facility -- went to a group
led by Kanto Construction Co., according to a statement on the
website.  Rising Prices  The Tokyo government decided in 2001 to relocate the fish
market from Tsukiji, built in 1935, to reclaimed land in Tokyo
Bay. The move has been delayed in part because of toxic soil
that needs to be removed from the new site.  “Construction companies indicated an interest in the
projects, but pulled out in the end,” said Koji Ishii, head of
the finance department at the Metropolitan Central Wholesale
Market, which oversees markets in the Tokyo area. “A surge in
wages and construction materials probably had an impact.”  The move from Tsukiji, the size of 43 football fields, is
set to be partially financed by selling the existing site, two
blocks from Japan’s most expensive land in the Ginza shopping
district, according to the local government.  Tsukiji is listed among Japan’s most popular attractions by
the Japan National Tourism Organization. An estimated 500
visitors a day gather as early as 4 a.m. at the market to
observe tuna auctions, where buyers use hand signals to bid for
fish that are later sliced with meter-long carbon-steel knives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  