-- Oldest Italy Bell Maker Avoids Death Knell via Exports
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-11-19T11:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/oldest-italian-bell-maker-avoids-death-knell-by-growing-exports.html
The process of making bronze bells
hasn’t altered much in 1,000 years at the  Pontifical Marinelli
Foundry . What’s changing is where they chime, as  Italy ’s oldest
family business looks abroad to dodge the economy at home.  The company in Agnone, a small town about 220 kilometers
(137 miles) southeast of Rome, has increased exports to 20
percent of its revenue, four times the proportion a decade ago.
With the Italian economy entering a  third year  of recession,
reliance on sales abroad is only going to get greater, said
Pasquale Marinelli, who owns the foundry with his brother.  “In Italy, any decisions about spending, including ones
for bells like ours, are on hold until better times,” said
Marinelli, 43, whose company’s bells hang in the United Nations
building in  New York , the Vatican and Leaning Tower of Pisa.
“The orders from abroad allow us to work all year round.”  Italy is enduring its longest economic  slump  since records
began after World War II. In the past five years, at least
37,000 Italian family companies have closed,  according  to the
CGIA association of small businesses.  The euro region’s third-biggest economy will contract 1.9
percent this year before expanding 0.6 percent in 2014, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
report today. Private consumption will be unchanged next year as
 exports  “are projected to gain further momentum” as “foreign
demand accelerates,” the OECD said.  Made in Italy  Gross domestic product dropped for a ninth consecutive
quarter, falling by 0.1 percent in July to September, national
statistics institute Istat said on Nov. 14.  “Any Italian manufacturer who wants to survive the crisis
needs to sell abroad at least 80 percent,” said Carlo Alberto Carnevale Maffe, a professor of business strategy at Milan’s
 Bocconi University . “Marinelli’s bells have both a functional
value and a symbolic one, which makes them peculiar and puts
them in that small group of the so-called ‘Made in Italy’
quality products poised for success despite the downturn.”  Ravaged by the debt crisis triggered in  Greece  four years
ago, southern European countries are trying to export their way
back to some sort of prosperity.  The Italian statistical office last week forecast an 8
percent increase in  exports  for this year and next.  Portugal ,
which needed an emergency bailout in 2011, posted its first
 balance of payments  surplus in goods and services for six
decades.  Spain  expects its first current account surplus in 20
years this year.  Faith Measure  “During the long and deep financial crisis, companies that
managed to expand the range of products and strengthen trade
links with  emerging markets  were most successful in their
response to the crisis,” Emanuele Baldacci, a department head
at Istat, said by e-mail on Nov. 14.  As Italy sank into its latest economic decline, Pasquale
Marinelli traveled as far as  New Delhi  and  Equatorial Guinea 
from his town of 5,200 in the mountains of Molise to promote his
wares. The foundry’s flagship product is a 100 kilogram (221
pound) bronze bell costing about 3,000 euros ($4,000) plus
installation and delivery costs.  Clients range from heads of state to the  Sapporo Sport
Center  in  Japan , while its traditional focus of selling to
Catholic churches has meant a steady flow of business, albeit
increasingly from outside Italy.  Almost half the world’s 1.2 billion Catholics live in  Latin
America  and their numbers have increased by more than 50 percent
in the past 30 years, compared with growth of 4.9 percent in
Europe, according to  Vatican statistics .  Wax Molds  “They say we are like a thermometer for faith, meaning
that we are able to measure whether the faith is rising or
falling,” said Armando Marinelli, 53, Pasquale’s brother. “In
Italy at present there is confusion and uncertainty and, let’s
be frank, people are reluctant to spend money.”  On a November day, light filters through the dusted windows
of an otherwise dark workshop. The wood crackles in two
fireplaces, the foundry’s main power sources for centuries.  The bells are made using molds from wax and clay coming
from Agnone’s countryside. The process lasts between three and
10 months depending on size and involves a local priest who
blesses the bronze.  As the metal, molten in the wood-feed furnaces at a
temperature of 1,200 degrees Celsius (2,200 degrees Fahrenheit),
is poured into the space to form the bell, workers pray loudly.
As the bell begins to cool, they exchange good wishes.  War Stories  The place has seen it all: the Great Schism dividing the
church into east and west, the Thirty Years War that tore up
 Europe , revolutions, attacks from brigands and the plague. The
oldest record of a bell produced by the Marinellis is in 1339,
though bell-making began in  Agnone  in about 1000, they said.  During World War II, the fascist regime ordered the seizure
of half of Italy’s church bells to produce cannons. The
Marinellis’ grandfather would alert priests ahead of time so
that they could bury their bells, hiding them from authorities.  As Italy underwent reconstruction and an economic boom
after the war, the foundry employed up to 20 people, twice as
many as now. Antonio Delli Quadri, the foundry’s eldest worker,
remembers those times.  “After the war churches were being rebuilt all over and
new ones were springing up,” said Delli Quadri, 75, who was
hired in 1954. “Those were good days.”  The Marinellis, who inherited their business from their
uncle in 2003, are second on the ranking of the world’s oldest
family businesses, behind Japanese hotel  Hoshi Ryokan , which has
been run by the same family since 718, according to a list
compiled by Philadelphia-based Family Business Magazine.  The brothers don’t like talking about their finances, and
the entry on Italy’s company registry doesn’t include any
figures either. While sales abroad mean the company is
profitable, a further drop in Italian revenue means 2013’s
results will be little changed, they said.  “I hope that the bells’ sound will always be one of joy,
recovery and solidarity,” said Armando.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  