-- London Deploys Extra Police After Six Cyclists Die
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-11-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/london-deploys-extra-police-after-six-cyclists-die.html
London  police are to deploy extra
officers to improve road safety after six cyclists died on the
U.K. capital’s roads in less than two weeks.  “We’re going to put 2,000 officers on the streets from
next week, offering safety advice and stopping badly driven
lorries, dangerous lorries and also bad cycling,” Andrew
Gilligan, London Mayor Boris Johnson’s cycling commissioner,
told ITV News yesterday after a meeting at the Metropolitan
Police headquarters at New Scotland Yard. “It’s a short-term
measure of course, which we hope to choke off this appalling
spate of injuries.”  A cyclist was killed in a collision involving a truck at
lunchtime yesterday on Albany Road in Walworth, southeast
London, the Met said in an e-mailed statement. That brought the
number of bike-riders who’ve died on the capital’s roads this
year to 14, the same as in the whole of 2012. The five previous
deaths in the past two weeks also involved trucks and buses.  “All the officers within our Traffic and Safer Transport
Commands are being deployed to deliver a focused and robust
approach to those road users who put others at risk,” Assistant
Commissioner Simon Byrne said in a separate statement. “The
difference in our approach is this is now their No. 1 priority,
with all 2,500 officers from these commands deployed on these
duties.”  The Met stopped trucks and cyclists in a road-safety
operation on Vauxhall Bridge Road, Whitechapel Road and Albert
Embankment yesterday morning. Fifteen truck drivers were
penalized for offenses including driving longer than legally
permitted, the police said in a statement. About 100 bike riders
were warned about dangerous behavior, including wearing
headphones while cycling.  After the previous cycling fatality, last week, Johnson
defended the capital’s roads as safe, saying no amount of
traffic-calming measures could make up for poor driving and
riding by motorists and cyclists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  