-- Money-Market Funds Face Push for Tougher Rules by EU Lawmaker
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-11-19T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/money-market-funds-face-push-for-tougher-rules-by-eu-lawmaker.html
Money-market funds with a fixed
share price should be banned from operating in the European
Union from 2020, according to an EU lawmaker seeking tougher
rules than  Michel Barnier , the bloc’s financial services chief.  Banning funds that don’t have a floating share price would
make the industry “less susceptible to runs,” according to
 plans  prepared by Said El Khadraoui, a Belgian member of the
assembly’s Socialist group.  “A strict regulatory framework is needed” to make funds
“more stable without putting their important short-term
financing role of the real economy into danger,” according to
El Khadraoui’s plans, published on the assembly’s website. He is
also seeking tougher pay transparency rules, and for the largest
funds to be supervised at EU level.  Regulators have sought stricter curbs on money-market funds
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run on the
industry that helped freeze global credit markets.  Money-market funds hold more than a fifth of short-term
debt securities issued by governments and corporates in the EU
and more than a third of short-term bank debt. The EU industry
has about 1 trillion euros ($1.35 trillion) of assets under
management, accounting for around 15 percent of the European
fund industry, according to  EU data .  Fixed Price  Barnier unveiled proposals to regulate the sector in
September, including requiring  funds  that maintain a fixed share
price, known as constant net-asset value, or CNAV, funds, to
build up a cash buffer equivalent to 3 percent of their assets.  He rejected  calls  from German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , his French counterpart  Pierre Moscovici  and a group
of EU regulators for him to go further and seek a ban on such
funds.  Under El Khadraoui’s plan, CNAV funds would have until the
end of 2019 to convert into funds with floating share prices.  Corporate treasurers use money-market funds as an
alternative to  bank deposits  for short-term investment of cash,
or as way to diversify where they keep their cash holdings. CNAV
funds are attractive to some investors as their fixed share
price makes them more closely resemble a bank deposit than those
with a floating rate.  The split between both MMF models in  Europe  is roughly
50/50, according to EU data.  The draft law requires approval by the parliament and by
national governments before it can take effect. El Khadraoui is
in charge of guiding the parliament’s work on reaching a
negotiating position.  His proposed amendments to Barnier’s plans will be debated
by members of the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, who also have the possibility to put forward their
own suggested changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  