-- Morocco Wheat Farmers Get Planting Relief as Rain Breaks Drought
-- B y   S o u h a i l   K a r a m
-- 2013-11-19T13:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/morocco-wheat-farmers-get-planting-relief-as-rain-breaks-drought.html
Wheat planting in  Morocco  is
expected to accelerate after key producing areas had a fourth
day of rain today, according to Mohamed Saidi, head of the
country’s main agricultural business federation Comader.  “These rainfalls are important, since 90 percent of
farmers in Morocco rely on rainfall for irrigation,” Saidi said
in a telephone interview from his office in Rabat.  Wheat planting had been on hold after a dry October and
start of November. Northern Morocco received about 13
millimeters of rain (0.51 inch) from Sept. 21 to Nov. 10,
compared with a normal average of 68 millimeters,  satellite data 
published by the U.S. Department of Agriculture show.  The rains may continue until next week, with the area of
coverage and intensity “crucial” to grain farmers, Saidi said.
Parts of central Morocco didn’t get any of the recent rain, he
said.  Morocco is northern  Africa ’s third-biggest wheat buyer,
after  Egypt  and  Algeria . Imports of the grain may drop to 2
million metric tons in 2013-14 from 3.9 million tons in the
previous season after rains boosted this year’s harvest, the
International Grains Council forecasts.  Farmers in Morocco typically plant 5 million hectares (12
million acres) of wheat, according to Saidi. Production jumped
to 7 million tons in 2013 from 3.9 million tons last year,
according to the IGC.  “Small farmers will now get down to planting,” Saidi
said. “Since their properties cover 2 to 5 hectares, they can
take advantage of the rain to plow and sow in less than 48
hours. Before these rainfalls, only big cereal farmers, owning
properties of several dozens of hectares, have planted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Souhail Karam in Rabat at 
 skaram5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  