-- Moynihan Brings BofA Shares Back to Where He Started as CEO
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-11-20T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/moynihan-brings-bofa-shares-back-to-where-he-started-as-ceo.html
Bank of America Corp.  exceeded
$15.06 yesterday, the price on the day before  Brian T. Moynihan 
became chief executive officer almost four years ago.  The second-biggest U.S. lender rose 1.9 percent to close at
$15.20 in  New York , bringing this year’s gain to 31 percent.
That follows last year’s 109 percent advance, the best in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , as Moynihan eased investor concern
that mortgage costs would force the bank to issue more stock.  Before taking over in January 2010, Moynihan, 54, promised
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank’s board that he’d
simplify and shrink the company after his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , bought Merrill Lynch & Co. and Countrywide Financial
Corp. Moynihan has sold more than $60 billion of assets, boosted
capital and settled $50 billion in mortgage claims.  “He’s getting back to the starting line,”  David Konrad ,
Macquarie Group Ltd.’s head of U.S. bank research, said in a
telephone interview. “He’s done a good job on the legal side
getting us more comfortable with what’s left. Now the more
challenging part is where you have to grow core earnings, not
just shrink and eliminate risk.”  The stock remains below its best levels for Moynihan’s
tenure,  including the $19.48 close  on April 15, 2010.  Moynihan’s focus has been increasing revenue and cutting
costs. Shares have climbed amid revenue that rose 4.3 percent to
$67.5 billion in the first nine months of the year and expenses
that fell 3.4 percent to $51.9 billion in that time.  ‘A Milestone’  “It’s a bit of a milestone, they’re getting past some of
their legacy issues and are able to focus on growing the
company,” says Jonathan Finger, whose family-owned investment
firm, Finger Interests Ltd., owns 1.1 million Bank of America
shares. “We certainly hoped it would’ve happened faster.”  Bank of America’s recovery was delayed by costs from
defective Countrywide mortgages created during the housing boom.
Moynihan secured settlements with federal and state regulators,
as well as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the two U.S.-owned
housing firms, private investors and bond insurers.  Shares of the bank, which are about breakeven during
Moynihan’s tenure, still underperformed other financial firms.
The 24-company KBW Bank Index surged 55 percent since the start
of 2010. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. lender by
assets, rose 35 percent and  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest
mortgage lender, rose 61 percent.  A low point for Moynihan came in December 2011, when Bank
of America shares dipped below $5 on concerns the firm needed to
sell new stock to replenish capital depleted by mortgage costs.
The CEO lost credibility after initially failing to have a firm
grasp on Countrywide-related expenses, analysts including  Paul Miller  of FBR Capital Markets Corp. said that year.  “I don’t know how many human beings could have withstood
all the legal issues and everything else he dealt with,” said
Greg Donaldson, chairman of Donaldson Capital Management, an
Evansville, Indiana-based investment firm that oversees $750
million in assets. “Moynihan walked through the valley of the
shadow of death, and he’s come out on the other side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Eichenbaum at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net  