-- Paddy Power Dips as Sports Gamblers Win More Often: Dublin Mover
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-11-19T09:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/paddy-power-dips-as-sports-gamblers-win-more-often-dublin-mover.html
Paddy Power Plc (PWL) , Ireland’s biggest
bookmaker, fell the most in more than five years after saying
that poor sports gambling results will reduce operating profit
more than expected.  The company’s takings from sports gambling since July
missed Paddy Power’s expectations by about 10 million euros
($13.5 million), with “notably poor results” from Champions
League football and the Australian Spring Racing Carnival, it
said today in a statement.  The shares fell as much as 9.3 percent, the  biggest  drop
since October 2008, and were down 8 percent at 57.50 euros at
9:36 a.m. in Dublin. The stock has declined about 8 percent this
year, the third-worst performance on the ISEQ 20 Index.  Paddy Power Chief Executive Officer Patrick Kennedy is
contending with gamblers winning more often at some of the
world’s biggest sporting events. The Dublin-based company said
in August that its winnings from the British Open and Wimbledon
were “very poor.”  Paddy Power now forecasts that operating profit in constant
currencies will increase by a low to mid-single digit percentage
in 2013, and that currency fluctuations will trim results by 3
percent, it said today. Earnings will be about 11 million euros
less that the midpoint of previous guidance, the company said.  “The group’s overall underlying performance has been
good” from July 1 to Nov. 17, it said. Online gambling sales
growth in  Australia  accelerated to 26 percent and revenue from
gambling machines “has returned to year on year growth.”  Richard Stuber, a London-based analyst at Nomura, said
investors should buy the shares given today’s decline.  “We are confident gross win margin should return to more
normal levels next year,” Stuber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in Dublin at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  