-- Palmer Plans Bill Opposing ADM’s $2.1 Billion GrainCorp Takeover
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-11-19T06:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/palmer-plans-bill-opposing-adm-s-2-1-billion-graincorp-takeover.html
Mining magnate and lawmaker Clive Palmer plans to introduce a bill into Australia’s parliament
opposed to the planned A$2.2 billion ($2.1 billion) takeover of
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  by U.S.-based  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   “This is a great national institution that we don’t want
to sell,” Palmer, who heads the Palmer United Party, told Sky
News television today in an interview. “The infrastructure that
GrainCorp controls, it affects the market access for a lot of
people, and that’s what they’re interested in doing, choking off
Australian supply.”  The takeover by  Archer Daniels , the world’s largest corn
processor, is drawing opposition from farm groups and lawmakers,
including members of Prime Minister Tony Abbott’s ruling
coalition. A U.S. company hasn’t previously been prohibited from
buying assets in Australia under its foreign investment regime,
said Malcolm Brennan, special counsel for King & Wood Mallesons,
who deals with over 10 percent of the business cases brought
each year before Australia’s Foreign Investment Review Board.  GrainCorp, eastern Australia’s largest crop handler,
declined 1.1 percent to A$11.47 at the close of trading in
Sydney, the lowest since April 19.  Treasurer  Joe Hockey  is due to rule on the takeover Dec.
17, following a recommendation from Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board. There’s a 30 percent chance the deal
will be blocked, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Independent Members  Palmer plans to present the bill to the lower house on Dec.
9, spokesman  Andrew Crook  said by phone. Greens member  Adam
Bandt  and independent members Bob Katter and  Andrew Wilkie  told
a press conference today in Canberra that they supported
Palmer’s plan.  While Palmer’s bill would be set to fail because Abbott’s
Liberal-National holds the balance of power in the lower house,
he may need support of the Palmer United Party in the upper
house, to pass laws from July 1, when the new Senate sits.  The final make-up of the Senate is still unknown after
missing ballots emerged in a recount in Western Australia. The
balance of power may be held by a group of right-leaning, minor
parties including Palmer United.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  