-- Panthers Beat Patriots 24-20 as NFL Win Streak Reaches Six Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-19T05:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/panthers-beat-patriots-24-20-as-nfl-win-streak-reaches-six-games.html
The Carolina Panthers extended their
 National Football League  winning streak to six games by beating
the New England Patriots 24-20 on Cam Newton’s 25-yard touchdown
pass to Ted Ginn with 59 seconds remaining.  Newton had three touchdown passes last night in Charlotte
as the Panthers improved to 7-3 and remained within one game of
the first-place  New Orleans Saints  (8-2) in the National
Football Conference’s South division.  Carolina’s defense, which had allowed the second-fewest
points in the NFL entering Week 11, limited  Tom Brady  to one
touchdown pass a week after he threw four during a 55-31 rout of
Pittsburgh in which the Patriots had 610 yards of offense. Brady
guided New England to Carolina’s 18-yard line before his final
pass was intercepted in the end zone as time expired.  “The defense stood up at the end and offensively we
answered the bell each and every time we had an opportunity
to,” Newton said in a televised interview.  The Patriots fell to 7-3 and hold a two-game lead in the
American Football Conference’s East division over the  New York 
Jets and Miami Dolphins, both of which are 5-5.  The Panthers, who haven’t had a winning season since 2008,
have beaten the Patriots and defending NFC-champion  San
Francisco 49ers  in back-to-back weeks.  Flag Thrown  A flag was thrown on the final play as Patriots tight end
 Rob Gronkowski  was pushed in the end zone by Panthers linebacker
Luke Kuechly. As that happened, Carolina safety Robert Lester
stepped in front of both to intercept the pass. Officials then
waived off the penalty.  “There was no explanation given to me,” Patriots coach
 Bill Belichick  said at a news conference. “The officials ran
off the field. A flag was thrown and then the game was over.”  Former NFL quarterback Trent Dilfer, now an NFL analyst for
ESPN, said he thought the play was a face-guarding penalty.  “He obviously impeded his ability to come back to the
football,” Dilfer said on ESPN. “I understand it looks under-thrown, but if it’s pass interference, it’s pass interference.
Not taking anything away from the Carolina Panthers, but the  New
England Patriots  should have the ball goal-to-go there for one
last play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  