-- Paulson-Endorsed South Africa Split Weighs on Gold Fields
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-11-19T08:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/paulson-endorsed-south-africa-split-weighs-on-gold-fields.html
In the months following more than 40
deaths in protests over South African mineworkers’ pay last
year,  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  Chief Executive Officer  Nick Holland 
hatched a plan to spin off his company’s mines in the country.  The strategy, endorsed by billionaire hedge-fund manager
and Gold Fields investor  John Paulson , has been a success --
though not yet for Holland.  The South African assets, moved into a new company called
 Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) , have outperformed Gold Fields by 57
percentage points since the split in February. Meanwhile,
Holland is confronted by investor criticism over his pay, missed
production targets and the timing of an Australian acquisition.
His company is also the subject of a Securities and Exchange
Commission investigation over a deal with local black investors.  “The pressure has been on Holland for a long time,” said
Charl Malan, a who helps manage about $8 billion at Van Eck
Associates Corp. in  New York . “Do I think he has generated
returns for shareholders? At this time, no, he has not. Some of
those things are in his control and some are not.”  Holland intended the creation of Sibanye to insulate Gold
Fields from the labor risks, falling production and rising costs
plaguing its mature South African operations. Sibanye would be
run for dividends, while Gold Fields would retain higher-growth
mines in  Peru ,  Australia  and  Ghana  as well as South Deep, a
mechanized mine in  South Africa  where output is being expanded.  Marikana Killings  “It’s certainly been a surprise” that Sibanye has
outperformed Gold Fields to the extent it has, said Daniel Sacks, a  fund manager  at Investec Ltd., which owns shares in
both companies. “It’s been a massive success for Sibanye. Those
assets are being maximized now.”  The split was announced in November last year, three months
after 34 protesters were killed by police in a single day at
Marikana, near a platinum mine owned by  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)  Sibanye
began trading in February. That month, Paulson, the hedge-fund
billionaire who made $15 billion for investors in 2007 betting
against U.S. subprime mortgages, encouraged  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG) ,  Africa ’s largest producer of the metal, to spin off its
South African mines.  Paulson said there had been “some value creation” from
Holland’s decision to split the South African assets, in his
first-quarter report to investors.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for
Paulson & Co. with WalekPeppercomm, didn’t comment when
contacted by e-mail.  Union Negotiations  Gold Fields has fallen 50 percent since the split, while
AngloGold is down 40 percent in Johannesburg and Toronto-based
 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s biggest producer, is 43 percent
lower. Sibanye, led by CEO Neal Froneman, has advanced 4 percent
as it slashed costs, increased production and successfully
completed wage negotiations with unions.  The performance of Sibanye, which Holland said had
“inherent quality” when announcing the split, has cushioned
losses for holders of both shares. A $100,000 investment split
equally between the two stocks would now be valued at $79,125, a
drop of 21 percent. The FTSE/JSE Gold Mining Index is down 40
percent since the spinoff.  Under Holland’s five-year tenure, Gold Fields investors
have lost 42 percent, including dividends, compared with
AngloGold’s 32 percent reversal and the FTSE/JSE Gold Mining
Index’s negative 38 percent return. Bullion has risen 45 percent
in the period.  Create Value  “As a shareholder you look to your executives to create
value for you and the evidence is to the contrary at this point
in time,” said Craig Kleu, who helps manage 1.4 billion rand
($138 million) at Personal Trust International Ltd., which owns
Gold Fields and Sibanye stock.  Holland, who wore a lime green shirt and tie with gold
collar tips when he announced the split plan in November, has
come under criticism from investors including Mike Schroder at
Old Mutual Plc for his pay. He accepted 45 million rand in
salary, bonuses and long-term incentives accumulated in previous
years in 2012, 39 percent higher than a year earlier.  The company’s management, including Holland, has taken a
pay freeze for the 2012-2013 financial year.  “The strong share-price performance of Sibanye Gold in
recent months against all other major gold equities worldwide --
not only Gold Fields -- speaks to the rationale for the
unbundling as outlined by Gold Fields at the time of the
announcement in November last year,” Gold Fields spokesman Sven Lunsche said by e-mail. “This has been a good deal for Gold
Fields shareholders.”  Price Slump  Gold Fields reports third-quarter results tomorrow at 8
a.m. in Johannesburg.  Having previously used cash from its South African mines to
fund growth overseas, Gold Fields has been hurt by a bullion
price that’s down 23 percent this year, said Van Eck’s Malan.  Holland has also run into problems at South Deep, which was
due to become the company’s biggest mine within three years.
Gold Fields said it is unlikely to achieve the annual target of
700,000 ounces set for 2016 in August.  “They supposedly kept the golden child, South Deep, but
it’s now the problem child,” Malan said. “It will take a lot
of capital being sunk into that asset to get it running
properly.”  Holland agreed to buy three Australian mines from Barrick
Gold for $300 million in August, after Gold Fields posted a loss
and scrapped its dividend for the second quarter.  Waived Bonus  “Buying marginal assets when you’ve cut your dividend --
that’s not what I want to see in my companies,” said John Moorhead, who helps manage $6.5 billion at  Pictet & Cie . in
 London  and owns Sibanye shares.  Holland offered to waive his bonus this year because of
“concerns” relating to the 2010 sale of a stake in South Deep
to black  South Africans , under the country’s empowerment laws.  Gold Fields conducted a probe into the deal and said it
needed to increase transparency in August after Johannesburg-based Carte Blanche reported that the transaction benefited
influential people who helped it win a mining license. The SEC
is now investigating the deal in the U.S., where investors can
trade Gold Fields stock through American depositary receipts.  Froneman, Holland’s counterpart at Sibanye, has been
impressing investors by boosting production, cutting costs and
paying dividends.  Shareholder Returns  “I was quite skeptical when Sibanye first came out,” said
Pictet’s Moorhead. “You want to be outside South Africa when
the cost inflation is high and mine lives are short. It doesn’t
tick the boxes. What it does tick is cashflow generation and
returns to shareholders.”  Holland’s objective was to create value for shareholders
for the long term, so it may be too early to tell if he has been
successful. Holland foresaw and can claim credit for unlocking
Sibanye’s potential.  Sibanye’s mines “still have significant inherent quality
and extensive resource and reserve potential,” Holland said in
November 2012. “Under the current structure, this potential has
not been ideally exploited.”  While Sibanye has been a success, Holland still has to
deliver for Gold Fields investors, said Van Eck’s Malan.  “Look across the entire  mining industry  and how many
mining CEOs have left in the past few years?” he said. “The
reason for this sea change is previous executives didn’t deliver
on promises. If you don’t deliver on promises as a CEO then I’m
sorry but you have to move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  