-- PBOC Will ‘Basically’ End Normal Yuan Intervention: Zhou
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/pboc-will-basically-exit-normal-yuan-intervention-zhou-says.html
China ’s central bank will
“basically” end normal intervention in the  currency market  and
broaden the  yuan ’s daily trading limit, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan 
said, without giving a timeframe.  The daily range will be widened in an “orderly way” as
China seeks to enhance the currency’s two-way flexibility, Zhou
wrote in an article in a guidebook explaining reforms outlined
last week following a Communist Party meeting. The nation will
phase out investment caps for both domestic and foreign
investors, he added. A ceiling on deposit rates offered by local
banks will be gradually removed as well, PBOC Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  wrote in the book.  “We will increase the role of market exchange rates, and
the central bank will basically exit from normal foreign-exchange market intervention,” Zhou wrote. The central bank
will “establish a managed floating exchange-rate system based
upon market supply and demand,” he added.  Acceleration of yuan convertibility and liberalization of
 interest rates  were among the key reform proposals decided on at
the Third Plenum and published by the official Xinhua News
Agency on Nov. 15. The party said it plans to achieve these
targets by 2020.  “Even if Zhou hadn’t made these comments, yuan reforms
were already heading toward liberalization, and it’s just a
matter of time,” Bruce Yam, a currency strategist at Sun Hung
Kai Forex in  Hong Kong , said yesterday. “These public comments
suggest the speed’s picking up.”  ‘Favorable Time’  China should seize “any favorable time window in yuan
capital-account convertibility” to accelerate reform, Zhou
wrote in the book. The PBOC’s Yi said in April the currency’s
trading band will be expanded “in the near future.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards in the yuan rose
after Zhou’s comments were reported, gaining the most in a month
to 6.1440 per dollar as of 6:07 p.m. in Hong Kong yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The onshore currency
closed little changed at 6.0927 in  Shanghai . One-month implied
volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, jumped 13 basis points,
or 0.13 percentage point, to 1.67 percent.  The Chinese central bank limits the yuan spot rate’s daily
moves to 1 percent on either side of a fixing it sets every day.
The trading band was widened in April 2012, after being expanded
from 0.3 percent in May 2007. The yuan in Shanghai has traded
0.7 percent stronger than the fixing on average this quarter,
down from 0.8 percent in the first nine months of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment Quotas  China’s central bank governor said in November 2012 that
convertibility will be the next step in the overhaul of the
 exchange-rate  system. “We are going to realize it, we are
moving in this direction, we need to go further, we will have
some deregulation,” Zhou said at a conference in Beijing then.  Quotas under the Qualified Domestic Institutional Investor
and Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programs will be
expanded and then scrapped, Zhou said in the plenum book
comments. The PBOC will start a trial program, called QDII2,
that will allow individuals to invest overseas, Yi said. The
monetary authority has identified the QDII2 program as a major
goal for this year, according to a statement on its website in
January.  “We expect the changes to be gradual,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.
“This would likely put upward pressure on portfolio asset
prices onshore.’  Borrowing Rates  China started publishing a new prime loan rate based on
quotes from banks in October and signaled it may eventually
replace the current PBOC benchmark. In July, the central bank
scrapped a floor on lending rates.  The nation will ‘‘stick to the general direction of
establishing and improving an interest-rate formation mechanism
decided by market supply and demand,’’ Zhou said in the book.
The PBOC will also promote interbank issuance, and trading of
certificates of deposits will start soon, he added.  ‘‘It’s a big step to take,’’  Patrick Bennett , Hong Kong-based strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said by
phone yesterday. ‘‘My caution right now is these are statements
rather than a timetable that we know will happen.’’  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  