-- PGE Slumps as CEO Quits After $3.8 Billion Project Row
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-11-19T19:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/pge-slumps-as-ceo-quits-after-3-8-billion-project-row.html
PGE SA,  Poland ’s biggest power
producer, plunged from a 10-month high after Chief Executive
Officer Krzysztof Kilian resigned amid a dispute over an 11.6
billion-zloty ($3.8 billion) investment.  Kilian quit less than a month before the deadline by which
the state-controlled utility was to sign the contract to expand
its coal-fired plant in Opole. PGE in April suspended the
industry’s biggest post-communist investment, saying a slump in
power prices made it unprofitable. Prime Minister Donald Tusk
revived the 1,800-megawatt project in June, saying the expansion
“is not about business for the company but the national
interest of all Poles.”  “Investors on the whole very much appreciated Kilian’s
cautious approach toward future power prices in Poland and the
economics of new investments in conventional generation, like
Opole,”  Leszek Iwaszko  and Alberto Ponti, analysts at Societe
Generale SA, said in a research note today.  Poland sits atop  Europe ’s largest reserve of coal and is
the European Union’s most-dependent country on the fuel. It has
sought to block European action to unilaterally step up
emissions reductions and unsuccessfully opposed an EU measure
that would help push up the price of  carbon offsets .  PGE shares  slumped  as much as 4.5 percent and traded 2.4
percent lower at 18.93 zloty at the 5 p.m. close in Warsaw,
falling for the first time in six days and cutting this year’s
gain to 4 percent. The benchmark WIG30 Index fell 0.8 percent
today.  Management Changes  Kilian resigned for “important reasons, including changes
in management” last month, the Warsaw-based company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. The supervisory board on Oct. 25
fired Chief Financial Officer Wojciech Ostrowski and Strategy
Chief Boguslawa Matuszewska from its four-member management,
saying the evaluation of their work wasn’t  “satisfactory.”
Kilian said in an interview on Oct. 28 that the decision was a
sign of “no-confidence” in his management.  Piotr Szymanek, deputy CEO in charge of corporate issues,
was appointed acting CEO yesterday, PGE said. The company will
start procedures to pick a new CEO and other management board
members tomorrow, Agnieszka Jablonska-Twarog, a Treasury
Ministry spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  “New management will be considerably more compliant with
the State Treasury regarding projects in the national
interest,” Bram Buring, an analyst at Wood & Co. in  Prague ,
said in a note today. That “could mean a worsening outlook for
dividends and the company’s balance sheet over the rest of this
decade.”  Kilian, who said in August power prices should increase by
about 50 percent for Opole to be profitable, lobbied for the
government to introduce capacity market and guaranteed price
contracts to help build power units. Polish  power prices  have
slumped 15 percent this year as the country’s economic growth is
set to slow to the lowest pace in more than a decade.  Power Shortage  Poland’s power shortfall may be as much as 1,100 megawatts
at peak demand times in 2017, enough to supply more than 2
million European homes, the  Economy Ministry  said in July. The
shortage may increase in following years without Opole, which is
set to start operating in 2018.  At the same time coal prices at  four-year low  pushed state-owned Kompania Weglowa SA, the EU’s biggest coal producer, to
report a 295 million-zloty nine-month loss. Kompania in August
signed a 20-year deal valued at as much as 22 billion zloty to
supply the fuel to the Opole plant.  Tusk said in September Poland will “take care of the coal
industry” and it will be “very cautious” with subsidies for
renewable energy because the government would rather use the
funds to support the coal mining industry.  The government holds a 62 percent stake in PGE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  