-- Port-to-Facebook Sales Mission For Pacific-Trade Deal
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-11-19T05:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/port-to-facebook-sales-mission-for-pacific-trade-deal.html
The mounting resistance in the U.S.
to a Pacific-region trade deal can be found in the travel
itinerary of its chief salesman:  Michael Froman .  Over the past week Froman, the U.S. Trade Representative,
has touted the Trans-Pacific Partnership at the Port of  Los
Angeles , at Paramount Pictures Corp. studios in  California , a
breakfast hosted by  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in San Francisco and an
“armchair discussion” about trade with Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack at that city’s Commonwealth Club.  Today, as chief negotiators from the 12 nations drafting
the accord meet for discussions in Salt Lake City, Froman makes
the pitch at two events in Washington, including a lunch hosted
by the World Wildlife Fund, which says the agreement must have
provisions to discourage illegal trade in timber and animals.
The countries negotiating the pact want to reach an agreement by
the year’s end, as opposition from Congress, consumer groups,
automakers and labor unions mounts over a range of issues.  “What we do in TPP will matter for the global trading
system,” Froman said Nov. 16 after a visit to the Port of Los
Angeles. “Ultimately, TPP can serve as a platform for regional
integration, and support and bolster the multilateral trading
system.”  Republicans in Congress have said President  Barack Obama ’s
administration isn’t doing enough to advance its trade agenda,
including obtaining approval from Congress this year to put the
TPP and other future trade deals on a fast track for
congressional approval without amendment.  Prime Opportunity  House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Michigan Republican, said last week that President Barack Obama
“missed a prime opportunity” this month when he traveled to
New Orleans to give a speech about exports and the economy and
didn’t mention the need for fast-track approval.  The Pacific accord, which would cover a region with about
$28 trillion in annual economic output, would go beyond usual
trade pacts dealing with tariffs and traditional goods like
agriculture. It would establish rules for trade in digital
commerce and include environmental standards and protections for
companies that compete against government-backed businesses.  The other nations involved in the discussions are
Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New
Zealand,  Peru , Singapore and Vietnam. The U.S. is also pursuing
a separate free-trade accord with the 28-nation European Union.  WikiLeaks Document  This month the Pacific talks have run into a series of
obstacles. The anti-secrecy group WikiLeaks on Nov. 13 released
a 94-page document said to be a draft of the intellectual-property chapter of the accord, which Froman’s office declined
to comment on.  Later in the day,  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina
Republican, and Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, said they wouldn’t vote for the accord unless it
includes a provision to address currency manipulation.  Groups including the American Automotive Policy Council --
which represents Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC -- and the AFL-CIO labor federation support the
inclusion of such a provision and a group of 60 senators in
September asked the administration to address the issue in
future accords.  Last week, 151  House Democrats  sent a letter to Obama
opposing his getting fast-track authority, citing lack of
congressional consultation in the Pacific-rim negotiations -- a
day after 22  House Republicans  said they won’t cede authority to
the president to negotiate trade deals.  Reshaping Trade  “Over time Congress has lost its leverage to reshape these
trade deals,” said Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a Connecticut
Democrat. “The old fast-track authority must be history.”  Froman called for fast-track approval during his visit to
the Port of Los Angeles. While talks between top Democrats and
Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee and House Ways and
Means Committee began months ago, there’s little chance they
will finish anytime soon.  The World Wildlife Fund is encouraged by a summary of the
U.S.’s environmental proposals for the deal, Vanessa Dick, the
group’s senior program officer for U.S. government relations,
said in a phone interview. The WWF said on Sept. 25 that an
earlier estimate of the accord’s environmental impact “leaves
out a number of important issues,” including  climate change .  Public Citizen , a Washington-based consumer advocate, and
the AFL-CIO labor group have called for more transparency in the
trade discussions. Doctors Without Borders, the international
humanitarian medical organization, has said the intellectual-property provisions in the TPP could limit access to low cost
generic drugs by bolstering patent protections for
pharmaceuticals made by companies including Pfizer Inc. and
Merck & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  