-- Prudential Hires Goldman’s Cignarella for Bonds, Loans
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-11-19T20:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/prudential-hires-goldman-s-cignarella-to-oversee-33-billion-1-.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, hired Robert Cignarella as co-head of global leveraged finance from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Cignarella will join in January and help oversee more than
$33 billion, including bank loans and high-yield bonds in the
U.S. and Europe, the Newark, New Jersey-based company said today
in a statement. He’ll work withPaul Appleby, a managing
director and the current head of Prudential Fixed Income’s
leveraged finance team.  “Rob’s more than 20 years of experience and insight in
leveraged finance will be a valuable addition in leading our
investment management efforts,” Appleby said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld, 59, is bolstering
Prudential’s asset-management businesses to expand fee income, a
strategy also pursued by rivals including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and
Principal Financial Group Inc. Prudential Fixed Income had about
$397 billion in assets under management as of Sept. 30, compared
with $232 billion at the end of 2009.  Loans to junk-rated companies in the U.S. are on pace to
exceed $1 trillion this year, a level not seen before the
financial crisis. The boom is being fueled by lenders and
investors seeking to boost returns as the  Federal Reserve  keeps
 interest rates  at  about zero  for a fifth year.  Cignarella was a managing director and co-head of high
yield and bank loans at Goldman Sachs’s asset-management unit,
according to the statement. He also served as a high-yield
portfolio manager and credit analyst at the New York-based bank.  Goldman Alumni  Insurers have poached money managers from Goldman Sachs as
they pursue more complex investment strategies. Aflac Inc. hired
Eric Kirsch as chief investment officer in 2011 and Lincoln
National Corp. named Ellen Cooper to a similar post in 2012.
Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the latest departure.  Cignarella has a master’s degree in business administration
from the  University of Chicago  and a bachelor’s degree from
 Cornell University , according to the statement.  Prudential  advanced  0.6 percent to $89.17 at 2:35 p.m. in
 New York . The insurer has surged 67 percent this year, beating
the 25 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  