-- Puerto Rico Flight Produces Biggest Guam Win Streak: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/puerto-rico-flight-produces-biggest-guam-win-streak-muni-credit.html
Municipal investors looking for an
escape from Puerto Rico, whose debt has lost the most since at
least 2000, may find one almost halfway around the world in
Guam.  Amid declines this year in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, Guam bonds have lost 12 percentage points less than
Puerto Rico’s, the best relative performance in at least 13
years, Barclays Plc data show. Last year, the Pacific island’s
debt also outpaced Puerto Rico’s. The territories are among five
that issue bonds with interest that’s tax-free nationwide.  Guam is 9,372 miles (15,080 kilometers) from Puerto Rico.
Yet the gap between the territories’ ratings is narrowing.
 Standard & Poor’s  raised Guam one step to BB- last month, the
highest since 2003 and three steps below investment grade. It
cut Puerto Rico in March to one step above junk. The company
cited Guam Governor Eddie Calvo’s steps to curb expenses while
boosting transparency for investors.  “Guam hit bottom and had to put a structure in place to
move forward,” said John Loffredo, co-head of Princeton, New
Jersey-based MacKay Municipal Managers, which oversees $7.5
billion of local debt. “We like when an entity follows through
on what they want to do. Guam has done that. They’re on the
right path and they’re being rewarded.”  Tax Havens  Interest on territory bonds is exempt from federal, state
and local taxes nationwide, helping explain why more than 75
percent of U.S. municipal-debt mutual funds hold  Puerto Rico 
bonds. Guam isn’t as widely owned, with just $2.3 billion of
securities outstanding from island issuers, compared with more
than $70 billion from Puerto Rico, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Guam’s improved credit grade serves as a backdrop for a
$174 million deal that begins today from its waterworks
authority. The agency had its rating raised this month by
Moody’s Investors Service to Ba1, one step below investment
grade. S&P has the bonds at A-, four steps above junk.  Some investors have been buying Guam bonds instead of
Puerto Rico’s. MacKay didn’t own any Puerto Rico debt from April
2012 to September, Loffredo said. The company’s  New York fund 
has 8.8 percent of its holdings in  Guam , and Loffredo said he’d
consider purchasing some of the new waterworks securities.  ‘Upside Potential’  Guam officials say they don’t try to compare their finances
with those of Puerto Rico, which has a negative outlook from the
three major rating companies.  “We feel badly for the economic conditions that have been
persistent in Puerto Rico, and we don’t do anything overtly to
compare ourselves to them,” said Lester Carlson, public finance
manager for the Guam Economic Development Authority, which
oversees debt issuance.  “The difference is night and day,” he said in an
interview last week from  Boston , where he was presenting the
water deal to investors. “We have upside potential.”  Puerto Rico vowed seven years ago to fix its finances after
posting a $740 million  budget deficit . Yet the commonwealth and
its agencies doubled borrowing since 2004.  Fitch Ratings  last
week said it would cut the island’s general obligations to junk
by June if its access to markets is limited.  After Fitch’s announcement, Jose Pagan, interim president
of the commonwealth’s development bank, said in a statement the
administration “continues its focus on creating sustainable
economic growth through  job creation , making ongoing progress
towards our goal of a structural budget balance by fiscal 2016,
and strengthening our credit profile,  market access  and
liquidity.”  Pepsi Governor  Guam in fiscal 2013 achieved a $13 million general-fund
operating surplus, its first in five years, according to S&P.
Upon taking office in January 2011, Calvo, a 52-year-old
Republican and former  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  executive, quashed raises for
government workers and limited expenditures to 98 percent of
revenue until the territory erases its deficit.  Calvo leads an island of about 160,000 people, while Puerto
Rico has 3.7 million residents, Census Bureau data show. The
smaller population base has helped the Guam governor turn
actions into quicker economic gains, said Jamie Iselin, head of
munis at New York-based  Neuberger Berman , which oversees about
$9 billion in local debt.  Both territories have jobless rates above 13 percent,
higher than any U.S. state.  Hoarding Holdings  The increased ratings on Guam issuers mean investors are
less willing to part with their bonds, Iselin said. Neuberger
Berman owns some Guam waterworks debt and may buy some of this
week’s deal, he said.  “Some investors are motivated to trade in and out of
Puerto Rico,” Iselin said. “Guam investors have generally been
pleased with the directionality of the credit, and as a result
they’re much more apt to hold their bonds.”  Guam sold 30-year general obligations in June 2009 with a
7.18 percent yield, Bloomberg data show. Puerto Rico issued
similar-maturity securities that year at a yield of 6.2 percent,
the data show.  The Guam bonds traded last week at an average yield of 5.89
percent, compared with 8.95 percent on the Puerto Rico
obligations, Bloomberg data show. Top-rated munis due in 26
years yield 4.1 percent.  Guam bonds have declined 3.7 percent this year, Barclays
data show. Puerto Rico securities have plunged 16 percent. Both
have trailed the broad market’s 2.5 percent drop as investors
have pulled $7.9 billion from high-yield muni mutual funds,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows data.  BBB Override  Guam would have a BBB grade if not for reasons such as the
lesser support the U.S. government provides to territories
relative to states, S&P said. The island also lacks economic
diversity, relying on tourism and the military, the report said.  To get a BBB grade, the island would need characteristics
of a single-A rated state or locality, Paul Dyson, an S&P
analyst, said in an interview.  “Guam, despite those inherent risks it always has, is
moving in the right direction,” Iselin said. “From a financial
performance standpoint, you have a positive trend in Guam, and
Puerto Rico has been moving in the other direction.”  Weekly Offerings  Proceeds from this week’s Guam sale will finance
infrastructure such as wastewater treatment plants to comply
with federal regulations. A 2011 court order mandated about $350
million of investment, offering documents say.  Elsewhere in the municipal market, issuers nationwide are
joining the authority in offering about $7.9 billion in long-term debt this week, the most since July, Bloomberg data show.  The  interest rate  on AAA 10-year munis is  2.82 percent ,
close to a four-week high, and compares with  2.67 percent  on
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 106 percent, close to a three-week high. It compares with
an average of 94 percent since 2001. The smaller the number, the
more expensive munis are compared with federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  