-- Puerto Rico Panic Signaled Buy at American Century, Permut Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-11-19T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/puerto-rico-panic-signaled-buy-at-american-century-permut-says.html
The wave of selling in Puerto Rico
bonds that started in September pushed  yield spreads  to record
highs. During that month,  American Century  Investment Management
boosted holdings of commonwealth debt in its  intermediate-term
tax-free fund  to 1 percentage point more than its benchmark
index, said Steven Permut, who oversees about $6 billion of
local debt as head of munis in  Mountain View , California.  Permut also discussed why California is poised for another
rating increase and the future of bond insurance for today’s
Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market Newsletter.  Q: How have you adjusted your Puerto Rico holdings given
the increase in yields since September?  A: Our tax-free bond fund currently owns about 4 percent in
Puerto Rico, which is about a 1 percent overweight versus the
index. We view that as a moderate bet. Most of that overweight
was purchased in September when spreads were quite wide.  In moderate amounts, Puerto Rico and  Detroit  can be used by
professional managers to add alpha. But double-digit percentages
aren’t appropriate, and an individual investor purchasing high-risk, high-profile names isn’t appropriate.  We put the overweight on as the trading value of Puerto
Rico securities became attractive. We were basically flat to the
benchmark for most of 2013, and then we added to our holdings in
mid-September.  Q: Does your increase in Puerto Rico debt mean you believe
the island’s economy is going to improve?  A: The economy is only one factor we’re viewing in Puerto
Rico. The credit remains problematic from the standpoint of its
political situation as well as its debt levels. But we believed
fundamentals were being overshadowed by technical factors in the
last three months. The fundamentals were much stronger than its
trading value was indicating.  Q: Turning to  California , are the  yield spreads  on general-obligation bonds there too narrow given the state’s strains just
a few years ago?  A: On the long-end, California is at fair value. Down the
curve, it has become on the richer side.  The bonds are still in the high single-A category from a
credit standpoint. But with some of the changes and the remarks
from the rating agencies, we wouldn’t be surprised within the
next 12 to 24 months to see California receive a AA rating.  With the state improving its credit quality and tax rates
on the wealthiest residents in the state going up substantially,
even at these levels we view California as providing a role in
an individual’s portfolio.  Q: Is there a need for bond insurance in the muni market
now that investors have adjusted to life without much of it?  A: We don’t see a need for bond insurance for institutional
investors, and we don’t believe the market will ever return to
the pre-crisis levels where 50 or 55 percent of issuance was
coming insured.  There’s a small niche for bond insurers for individual
investors who are looking for a secondary guarantee of their
principal payments. We will see a slow growth in bond insurance
for those individual buy-and-hold investors, but I don’t believe
we’ll see bond insurance get to double-digit penetration again.  Q: Do you have any concerns about how bonds are priced in
the municipal market?  A: Pricing in the last few years has become much more
transparent than it once was, with real-time pricing available
to both institutional and individual buyers.  But in periods of stress and periods in which there are
high-profile credits that come under pressure like  Puerto Rico ,
pricing has become more of an issue and bears further watching.  Q: Are muni-bond buyers going to have to recalibrate their
expectations headed into 2014 after a year of negative returns?  A: It is negative total returns, but we’re still talking
about a very stable asset class. We’re not looking at double-digit returns like we’ve seen in past years, but for what people
buy municipal securities for -- tax-free income, preservation of
principal and high-quality, low-volatility investments --
they’ve basically provided it.  Being down 2 percent during a fairly bad time period in the
fixed-income market to me signals the asset class is doing what
it should do.  Q: What will stem the current streak of outflows from muni
mutual funds?  A: There are going to be some surprises at year-end or
April 15, 2014, when people file their taxes. There’s also been
a fairly substantial phase-out of deductions for high-income
earners.  That will make municipals, which continue to be dual
exempt, more attractive and will bring more investors to the
asset class than is currently being priced into the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  