-- Putin Adviser Sees Political Will to End Greenpeace Row
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-11-19T16:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/putin-adviser-sees-political-will-to-overcome-greenpeace-dispute.html
Russia  is showing “political will”
to end a two-month-long dispute over the prosecution of
Greenpeace activists as courts start to set them free on bail,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s human rights adviser said.  “It’s a good sign,” Mikhail Fedotov said in a phone
interview today from Moscow. “I hope the same will happen to
the others.”  Courts in St. Petersburg today granted bail to a Brazilian,
two Argentines, a New Zealander, a Canadian, an Italian, a
Frenchman, a Finn and a Pole a day after three Russian citizens
detained during an Arctic protest were also set free,
Greenpeace’s Russian branch said on its Twitter Inc.  account .  The legal moves have the potential to defuse a dispute that
has pitted the world’s biggest energy exporter against the
environmental organization after Russia detained 30 people for
participating in a  Greenpeace  protest at an OAO Gazprom offshore
oil platform in September. Russian authorities last week
transferred 28 Greenpeace activists and two journalists from 18
countries to  St. Petersburg  from the port city of Murmansk,
easing consular access to them.  Russia has faced worldwide protests and a legal claim from
the Netherlands since it impounded Greenpeace’s ship and charged
the campaigners with piracy, which is punishable by as much as
15 years in prison. Prosecutors then cut the charges to
hooliganism, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years.  Good News?  “In the space of two mornings, we have had good news and
bad, and the good news comes with a warning,,” Kumi Naidoo,
Greenpeace’s executive director, said by e-mail. “We still have
no idea what conditions our friends will endure when they are
released from jail, whether they will be held under house arrest
or even allowed outside. What we do know for certain is that
they are still charged and could spend years behind bars if they
are convicted for a crime they did not commit.”  Ana Paula Alminhana Maciel  of  Brazil  was the first
foreigner to be let out of prison following the release of three
Russians: doctor Ekaterina Zaspa, photographer  Denis Sinyakov 
and activist Andrey Allakhverdov. Another court in Russia’s
second-largest city yesterday extended the detention of
Australian Colin Russell by an additional three months.  St. Petersburg courts will decide in the coming days
whether to grant bail in the remaining 17 cases.  Fedotov’s presidential human rights  council  last week asked
the Investigative Committee to set free all 30 people on bail
and is calling for the criminal charges to be dropped.  ‘Diplomatic Means’  “Legally, the current situation is absolutely unfounded,”
the Putin adviser said. “We need to get out of this impasse
through diplomatic means and I have explained this to top
Russian officials and ambassadors of foreign countries.”  The affair has provoked a diplomatic dispute with the
Netherlands, which is suing Russia to force it to release the
crew and Greenpeace’s Dutch-registered Arctic Sunrise ship.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , 11 Nobel Peace Prize
laureates including South African bishop  Desmond Tutu  and the
chief executive officer of Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  have also appealed
for an end to the activists’ prosecution.  Paul McCartney  wrote
to Putin last month, urging him to free the detainees.  The Greenpeace protesters scaled Gazprom’s Prirazlomnoye
rig in the Pechora Sea on Sept. 18. A day later Russia’s Coast
Guard boarded the Arctic Sunrise in international waters and
towed the vessel to Murmansk.  Greenpeace has vowed to target Gazprom and its partners.
The Russian state gas exporter provides a quarter of Europe’s
gas, including to companies such as Eni and Germany’s  RWE AG. (RWE)   Gazprom plans to become the first Russian company to start
producing oil in the Arctic offshore as soon as this year.
Greenpeace activists tried to scale the same platform in 2012.  The activists include citizens of the U.S.,  Finland ,
 Argentina , Switzerland, the U.K., Australia, Brazil, Canada,
 Denmark , the  Netherlands , New Zealand, Ukraine, Russia, France,
Italy, Turkey, Poland and Sweden, according to Greenpeace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  