-- Rand Declines to Halt Rally After Power Cuts Warning
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-11-19T15:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/rand-declines-to-halt-rally-after-power-cuts-warning.html
The rand weakened, halting four days
of gains, after  South Africa ’s state-owned power utility said
the risk of blackouts is the highest since outages in 2008
halted mines and factories in the continent’s largest economy.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest utility, had more
generation units taken out of operation than it planned, the
company said in a statement today. The rand earlier strengthened
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain monetary
stimulus that drove demand for emerging-market assets.  “I think undoubtedly the Eskom announcement will certainly
factor through into some negativity on the rand,” Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd., said by
phone from Johannesburg. “Potentially the international markets
are considering the news more negative than the local guys.”  The rand fell as much as 0.4 percent, the most since Nov.
15 on an intraday basis, and traded 0.3 percent lower at 10.1768
per dollar by 5:44 p.m. in Johannesburg. It gained as much as
0.6 percent before Eskom’s announcement. Yields on bonds due
December 2026 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 8.16 percent, the first gain in five days.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said yesterday
he’s more hopeful about the economy while indicating no change
in bond buying. Bernanke is speaking later today. Economists
forecast the Fed will delay tapering asset purchases until
March, even after a report showed employers added more jobs than
forecast in October.  Foreign Buyers  Foreign investors  bought  a net 886 million rand ($87.7
million) of South African bonds yesterday, the most since Oct.
17, paring outflows this month to 7.22 billion rand, according
to JSE Ltd. data.  South Africa’s central bank will leave its policy rate
unchanged on Nov. 21, according to all 23 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Inflation (SACPIYOY)  in Africa’s biggest economy probably
slowed to 5.7 percent in October from 6 percent the previous
month, a report may show tomorrow, according to the median
estimate of 23 economists.  “With the  Reserve Bank  not expected to change rates, and a
positive inflation outcome likely, we believe that this past
week’s bond rally will continue,” Asher Lipson, a fixed-income
analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in an
e-mail. “Monday’s offshore purchases saw some support coming
back into the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  