-- TransCanada Pushes Keystone XL Pipeline Start to 2016
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-11-19T21:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/transcanada-pushes-keystone-pipeline-startup-into-2016.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pushed the start
date for its $5.4 billion Keystone XL oil pipeline into 2016,
the second delay this year as the company awaits U.S. approval
for the project.  The pipeline, which would stretch from Alberta’s oil sands
to the U.S. Gulf Coast, can begin operating no sooner than two
years after it gets a U.S. presidential permit, Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  said in an interview today. With the permit
expected early next year, “there’s no way we can get it done
faster than two years,” Girling said.  The company has previously suggested it may be able to
build the northern leg of the project within two years.
TransCanada split its original Keystone XL project after
President  Barack Obama  rejected a prior route last year because
of fears its path through Nebraska would threaten ecologically
sensitive lands. TransCanada is currently building the southern
leg, which doesn’t require a permit because it doesn’t cross the
U.S. border, and has revised the route for the other portion.  The project has galvanized environmental groups that argue
it will increase greenhouse-gas emissions by encouraging
development of Alberta’s  oil sands , which require more energy
than most conventional crude production. Supporters say the oil
sands will be developed with or without Keystone XL and the
line’s construction will create jobs.  Department Review  The U.S. State Department is overseeing an environmental
review to estimate the extent Keystone XL would contribute to
global warming. A draft analysis released in March found the
project wouldn’t have a big impact on greenhouse-gas emissions
because companies can find other ways to transport the bitumen
to market, such as by train.  Costs for the line will continue to rise as delays push the
start date back, TransCanada Chief Financial Officer Don Marchand said today in Toronto. The pipeline’s $5.4 billion cost
includes extensions to reach the U.S. oil storage hub in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , and to gather supplies from the Bakken
formation in  Montana  and  North Dakota , James Millar, a company
spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  TransCanada fell 1.2 percent to C$46.75 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  