-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Rises From 1-Week Low on Fed Speculation
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-11-19T22:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/treasury-volatility-approaches-record-low-before-bernanke-speech.html
Treasuries fell, pushing the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note up from a one-week low, before a
speech by  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that may help
gauge the outlook for monetary stimulus.  U.S. debt  had rallied since Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , in
her confirmation hearing Nov. 14 to be the next Fed chairman,
said she’ll ensure stimulus isn’t removed too soon. The central
bank will release minutes of its October meeting tomorrow.
Treasuries extended losses as Coca-Cola Femsa SAB, the largest
bottler of the soft drink in  Latin America , sold $2.15 billion
of bonds, according to a person familiar with the offering.  “There is some  risk premium  being built in as the market
is still waiting to see what Bernanke might say tonight and we
still have the FOMC minutes tomorrow,” said Thomas di Galoma,
head of U.S. rates sales at ED&F Man Capital Markets in New
York. “The unexpected announcement of the Coca-Cola deal is
weighing on the Treasury market some as more bond supply is
entering a somewhat undecided and quiet market.”  U.S. 10-year  yields  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.71 percent as of 5:06 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields fell earlier
to 2.66 percent, the least since Nov. 8. The price of the 2.75
percent note due in November 2023 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 3/8.  Yield Moves  After sending 10-year Treasury yields more than a
percentage point higher from their 2013 low by fueling taper
expectations in May and June, Fed officials are weighing when to
reduce debt purchases that have swelled the central bank’s
balance sheet to a record $3.91 trillion.  Treasuries due in 10 years and longer have lost 9.5 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Those maturing between one- and three years returned
0.4 percent, the indexes show.  Investors in Treasuries were  long  for the first time in
four weeks ending yesterday, betting that the prices of the
securities will rise, according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  The proportion of net longs was at seven percentage points,
according to JPMorgan. The percent of outright longs, or bets
the securities will rise in value, rose to 26 percent from 19
percent the previous week in the biggest increase since July 1.
The percent of outright shorts dropped to 19 percent from 25.  Investors cut neutral bets to 55 percent from 56 percent,
the survey reported.  Fed View  “There’s the potential for some action from the Fed in
December, but our base assumption is that they wait until the
first quarter of 2014,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The  difference  between five- and 10-year yields was 1.35
percentage points, after reaching 1.37 percentage points on Nov.
14, the most since August 2011, as investors bet Yellen will
keep short-term rates low.  U.S. 10-year yields will rise to 2.90 percent in March and
to 3.39 percent at the end of 2014, according to weighted-average estimates in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
 mortgage-backed securities  each month to put downward pressure
on borrowing costs. Officials will pare the purchases to $70
billion a month at their March 18-19 meeting, according to the
median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey on Nov. 8.  The Fed bought $3.17 billion of securities maturing between
May 2021 and August 2023 today. Bernanke is  scheduled  to speak
at 7 p.m. in  Washington .  Yellen Message  Yellen defended bond purchases by the Fed in a letter to a
U.S. senator, saying the easing boosted economic growth and
provides benefits that exceed its risks.  “By putting downward pressure on longer-term  interest
rates  and helping to make financial conditions more
accommodative, the Federal Reserve’s asset purchases have
supported a stronger economic recovery, improved labor market
conditions, and helped keep inflation closer to its 2 percent
objective,” Yellen said in a Nov. 18 response to Senator  David
Vitter , a Republican from Louisiana.  “Yellen is trying her best to keep the  bond market 
vigilantes at bay,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “She again
tried to deliver a dovish tone in the letter, but in doing so it
didn’t seem like it sat well with the equity or the bond market.
The comments were not dovish enough.”  The Treasury will offer $13 billion of 10-year Treasury
inflation protected securities on Nov. 21. The U.S. previously
sold the debt on Sept. 19 at a yield of 0.5 percent, the highest
since July 2011. TIPs pay interest at lower rates than regular
Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the
Labor Department’s consumer price index.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity TIPS, a gauge of expectations for consumer prices over
the life of the debt,  rose  was at 2.19 percentage points,
compared with the average of 2.31 percentage points during the
past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  