-- ResCap Opens Last Bankruptcy Phase Fighting Hedge Funds
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-11-19T17:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/rescap-opens-last-bankruptcy-phase-fighting-hedge-funds.html
Residential Capital LLC, the defunct
mortgage company, opened a weeklong bankruptcy trial in which it
will fight  hedge funds  including Aurelius Capital Management LP
over a liquidation plan that resolves more than $100 billion in
claims.  The company is asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in
 Manhattan  to approve a plan to distribute billions of dollars to
creditors that ResCap raised by liquidating assets. The assets
included a mortgage platform bought by Ocwen Loan Servicing LLC
and Green Tree Servicing LLC for $3 billion.  All the company’s big creditors voted for the bankruptcy
plan except for a group of hedge funds holding about $1 billion
in notes, ResCap’s lead attorney, Gary Lee, said today in court.  Bankruptcy law won’t allow “one party to hold everyone
else hostage,” Lee, of the law firm of  Morrison & Foerster LLP ,
told Glenn. “And that’s what’s happening this week.”  ResCap, which is owned by Detroit-based  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY) , filed for bankruptcy in May 2012 with plans to sell its
mortgage unit and other assets. The company completed those
sales this year, raising about $4.5 billion.  Under the plan, junior-secured noteholders would recover
all the principal and interest owed them at the time ResCap and
its affiliates entered bankruptcy. The noteholders have demanded
interest since the filing and other payments they say they’re
owed as a result of the bankruptcy.  The noteholders have attacked a $2.1 billion settlement
that the bankruptcy plan is based on. The accord ends lawsuits
and other claims by mortgage bond investors who blame New York-based ResCap and its parent for losses. The noteholders say the
settlement damaged their collateral and let Ally off too easily.  Earlier Ruling  In a tentative ruling last week, Glenn rejected some of the
noteholder allegations, finding their collateral was not worth
what they claimed.  The trial that starts today will feature dozens of
witnesses testifying about the settlement with Ally and
technical issues of bankruptcy law. It is scheduled to last
through Nov. 26.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  