-- Retail Gasoline in U.S. Rises From 33-Month Low on Plant Upsets
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-11-19T02:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/retail-gasoline-in-u-s-rises-from-33-month-low-on-plant-upsets.html
Gasoline at U.S. pumps gained for
the first time in four weeks, rebounding from a 33-month low, as
a fire at Citgo Petroleum Corp.’s refinery in  Illinois  lifted
prices in the Midwest.  Regular, unleaded gasoline  at filling stations increased
2.5 cents from a week earlier to $3.219 a gallon, rising from
the lowest level since Feb. 21, 2011, the Energy Information
Administration said on its website yesterday. Prices are about 6
percent below year-earlier levels. The biggest gain was in the
Midwest, where prices climbed by more than 5 cents to $3.126.  U.S. retail gasoline has declined nine out of the past 11
weeks as refiners restored plant operations after seasonal
maintenance and produced a record amount of the motor fuel amid
lower crude prices. Pump prices rose the past week after an Oct.
23 fire at Citgo’s Lemont refinery and shutdowns at plants that
supply fuel to the country’s east.  “Softening crude prices are being offset by supply
disruptions,”  David Hackett , the president of Stillwater
Associates, an energy markets consultant in  Irvine , California,
said by phone yesterday. “Crude seems to be trading in a narrow
range and, if anything, is trading down. As long as crude stays
soft, retail should soften with it.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for December delivery slid as
much as 0.1 percent to $92.90 a barrel in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  today. Futures have lost 3.5
percent in November after two months of declines.  Lemont Fire  Citgo, the Houston-based unit of Venezuela’s state-owned
Petroleos de Venezuela SA, shut a crude unit at its 170,500
barrel-a-day Lemont refinery after the blaze, which damaged the
vacuum distillation section. It resumed the atmospheric portion
of the unit on Nov. 11.  Irving Oil Corp.’s 298,800 barrel-a-day Saint John refinery
in New Brunswick,  Canada , which supplies fuel markets in the
eastern U.S., was restarting the catalytic cracker on Nov. 5
after repairs. The unit had been closed since Oct. 29, according
to Genscape Inc., an energy information provider in Louisville,
 Kentucky , which uses cameras and heat sensors to determine
refinery operations.  The fluid catalytic cracker at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s
Trainer refinery in  Pennsylvania  was also back online on Oct. 31
after shutting Oct. 28 for unplanned work, the company said. The
plant has a capacity of 185,000 barrels a day.  800 Stations  Retail gasoline rose in the U.S. East Coast, Midwest and
 Gulf Coast , while the fuel in the Rocky Mountain and West Coast
regions declined, according to the EIA. The Energy Department’s
statistical arm collects data from about 800 filling stations as
of 8 a.m. local time on Mondays.  The lowest price the past week was on the Gulf Coast,
averaging $3.004 a gallon, while the West Coast had the most
expensive at $3.467.  Gasoline futures for December delivery in  New York  dropped
as much as 0.3 percent in electronic trading to $2.6485 a gallon
today. Prices are down for a third day.  U.S. gasoline  production  surged 13 percent to 9.43 million
barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 8, the fastest rate for
that period since at least 1982, when the EIA began compiling
the data. Stockpiles of the motor fuel were at 209.2 million
barrels, the highest seasonal level in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  