-- Roche Withholding Data Didn’t Harm Patients: EU Agency
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-11-19T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/roche-withholding-data-didn-t-harm-patients-eu-agency.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s failure to
disclose some safety data on medicines didn’t put patients at
risk, European regulators said today in a decision that leaves
open whether the Swiss drugmaker will be fined for not initially
providing the information.  The risk-benefit profile of 19 Roche drugs approved in
 Europe  hasn’t changed, and patients should continue taking their
medicines as prescribed, the European Medicines Agency said in a
 statement .  The agency started reviewing the drugs after an inspection
early last year found that Roche didn’t evaluate reports from
the U.S. about potential safety issues to determine whether they
had been flagged to the EU as suspected adverse drug reactions.
Still open is a separate review begun in October 2012 into
whether Roche met its legal responsibilities, with potential
consequences of fines totaling as much as 5 percent of the
drugmaker’s  EU sales , which were 12.2 billion Swiss francs
($13.4 billion) last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “These two strands run parallel,” Monika Benstetter, a
spokeswoman for the EMA, said in a telephone interview. The EMA
didn’t say today when it expects the legal review to finish.  Roche and the agency revised the number of unprovided
reports down to about 23,000 from the original 80,000 estimate
while taking corrective action, spokesman Daniel Grotzky said.  When the legal assessment started last year, the agency
said it’s required to make a legal recommendation to the
European Commission by April 2014.  Roche has taken steps with the EMA’s approval “concerning
the collection, processing, evaluation and reporting of adverse
event data,” the Basel-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  