-- Romanian Art Theft Ringleader May Face Seven-Year Prison Term
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-11-19T14:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/romanian-art-theft-ringleader-may-face-seven-year-prison-term.html
Radu Dogaru, the admitted Romanian
ringleader of thieves who stole seven works by artists including
Picasso and Matisse, may be handed a sentence of seven years in
prison next week, his lawyer said.  A Bucharest court will issue a verdict on Dogaru and one
accomplice, Eugen Darie, on Nov. 26, while the trial of four
other suspects will continue on Dec. 3, judge Adrian Chitoiu
said today. The court is hearing statements from the
perpetrators of the October 2012 theft of the art, owned by the
Rotterdam-based Triton Foundation and insured for a combined 18
million euros ($24.3 million).  The theft of works by Pablo Picasso, Claude Monet, Lucian Freud, Henri Matisse, Paul Gauguin and Meyer de Haan is among
the most spectacular art heists of the last decades. Dogaru’s
lawyer, Catalin Dancu, claimed on Oct. 22 that the works may
have been faked and his client was duped into stealing them as
part of a massive insurance fraud. Rotterdam’s Kunsthal museum,
where the crime occurred, has refused to comment.  “There’s no document to prove that the Triton Foundation
exhibited original works of art at the museum,” Dancu told
reporters at the courthouse today. “Given the absence of this
information, I asked the judge whether he’ll have a clean
conscience when he considers the verdict.”  There are also questions about whether the works, if
genuine, still survive after Dogaru’s mother, Olga Dogaru, first
confessed to burning all of them in her stove, only to withdraw
her statement on July 22. She now claims that none were
incinerated.  Reduced Sentence  According to Romanian law, Dogaru would face between two
years and 18 years in prison. The admissions to the crime may
reduce the defendants’ sentences by a third, Chitoiu said in
October.  A scientific analysis of the ashes in Olga Dogaru’s stove
showed they contained fragments of oil paintings, according to
Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, the director of the Romanian
museum that carried out the tests.  The Triton Foundation, started by Rotterdam port
entrepreneur Willem Cordia, owns a collection of about 250
paintings, drawings and sculptures from 1860 to 1970.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  