-- Russia Crew Blamed for Crash as CEO Says Pilots Unpaid for Month
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2013-11-19T15:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/russia-crew-blamed-for-crash-as-ceo-says-pilots-unpaid-for-month.html
The crew of a Russian airliner that
crashed in the Tatarstan capital of Kazan, killing all 50 people
aboard, failed to make a “standard approach” and tried to pull
up for a second attempt, a regional air safety  body  said.  The  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-500 lost speed and nosedived after
reaching a height of 700 meters (2,300 feet), hitting the ground
at a speed of more than 450 kilometers (280 miles) an hour, the
Moscow-based Interstate Aviation Committee, which oversees air
safety in the  Commonwealth of Independent States , said in a
preliminary report released today.  The two pilots hadn’t been paid for the past month because
of financial difficulties of the plane’s operator,  Tatarstan
Airlines , its chief executive officer Aksan Giniyatullin said in
televised comments. Their plane had been in service since 1990,
according to data published yesterday by Flightglobal’s Ascend
aviation consultancy.  The crash, Russia’s deadliest this year, took the lives of
the elder son of Tatarstan President Rustam Minnikhanov and the
head of the regional branch of the Federal Security Service.
Russia’s last fatal crash of a commercial passenger airliner was
in December, when four people died after a plane flying into
Moscow’s Vnukovo Airport from the  Czech Republic  tore through a
runway barrier. A disaster in 2011 killed the entire Lokomotiv
Yaroslavl professional hockey team.  When Tatarstan’s pilots tried to make a second landing
attempt, taking manual control of plane, the jet descended at a
near-vertical angle, crashing 20 seconds later into a fireball,
according to airport video  footage  of the accident.  The plane that crashed in Kazan had flown in France,
Brazil,  Bulgaria , Romania and  Uganda , before being leased in
Russia, according to Ascend. The Boeing survived another
incident on landing in Brazil more than a decade ago, in which
one set of wheels was torn off on approach to  Belo Horizonte  in
poor weather, the consultancy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  