-- MTS Premium Shrinks to Eight-Year Low: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-11-20T02:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/mts-premium-shrinks-to-eight-year-low-russia-overnight.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , Russia’s
largest wireless carrier, fell in New York on concern sales will
falter amid an economic slowdown. The stock’s premium to its
price in Moscow shrank to the smallest in eight years.  American depositary receipts of MTS, as the company is
known, slid 2.7 percent to $21.30 in New York, trading at a 6
percent premium to the Moscow stock. Qiwi Plc rallied 6.4
percent to the highest since its May initial public offering as
earnings beat estimates. The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. fell 1.5 percent to
99.56.  RTS  stock-index  futures (VEA)  declined in U.S. hours.  Sales at MTS will increase at least 5 percent in 2013 from
a previous projection of as much as 7 percent, the company said
yesterday, citing slower economic growth. While the carrier
controlled by billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov boosted third-quarter earnings, revenue trailed the average of 11 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  Russia ’s growth will probably fall short of
the government’s 1.8 percent target this year, Economy Minister
Alexey Ulyukayev said Nov. 13.  “Corporate clients of mobile companies are particularly
sensitive to an economic slowdown as companies cut spending in
response to slower growth,” Ksenia Arutyunova, an analyst at
Rye, Man & Gor Securities who has a hold rating on MTS, said by
phone from Moscow yesterday. “Investors are concerned over
macroeconomic risks as disposable incomes also fall as the
economy slows.”  Russia’s Economy  Russian  gross domestic product  expanded 1.2 percent from a
year earlier, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said Nov.
12. That trailed the 1.4 median of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg
 survey . Real disposable incomes unexpectedly fell in September
and  consumer spending  slowed, adding to signs the economic
recovery is failing to gain momentum.  OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY) , Russia’s state-controlled
telecommunications operator, may merge its mobile assets with
VTB Group’s Tele2 Russia, boosting competition for carriers
including MTS, Russia’s telecommunications Minister Nikolay Nikiforov said in a Nov. 15 interview in New York.  “The market is showing some concerns over how MTS’s
revenue will look like next year, as the economy continues to
slow, while competition in the mobile market intensifies,”
Alexander Kazbegi, an analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd. in
Moscow, said by phone yesterday. He cut his recommendation on
the ADR to a hold on Nov. 4 and is  the most accurate  among 24
analysts covering it, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qiwi Rallies  Qiwi (QIWI)  rallied to $44.73, extending a surge since its May IPO
to 163 percent. The Russian electronic-payment operator posted
third-quarter adjusted earnings of 35 cents a share, beating the
average estimate of four analysts in Bloomberg survey by 10
cents. Sales will increase at least 42 percent this year from an
earlier prediction of 30 percent at most.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, fell 1.2 percent to $28.51.
Futures expiring in December on the RTS slipped 0.3 percent to
144,580, while the RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the  stock futures , increased 2.7 percent to 21.78.  United Co. Rusal, a Moscow-based aluminum producer, was
unchanged at HK$2.20 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:35 a.m. local
time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  