-- SAC Manager Steinberg’s Trial Begins With Jury Selection
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-11-19T20:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/sac-manager-steinberg-s-trial-begins-with-jury-selection.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager
Michael Steinberg’s insider-trading trial began with a  Manhattan 
federal judge questioning about 100 potential jurors about their
views on Wall Street, fund managers and financial fraud.  Steinberg, 41, is charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud one and four counts of securities fraud
stemming from what Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said
was a scheme that ran from late 2007 to 2009 and reaped more
than $1.4 million through trading on illegal tips on  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and Dell Inc.  Today, U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan presented a
pool of about 100 prospective jurors with a questionnaire that
includes the names of about 38 people, including Jon Horvath,
Steinberg’s former research analyst. Horvath has pleaded guilty
and is cooperating with the U.S. Prosecutors have said he will
testify against his former boss.  Several people from the pool said they worked for hedge
funds, including one man who said he’d been investigated by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and another who’d been
probed by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Both said
they have strong views about regulatory investigations. Another
man said he had been a demonstrator and a participant in the
 Occupy Wall Street  movement.  Sullivan told lawyers in the case that he will begin to
individually question prospective jurors outside the presence of
others in the pool when court resumes after lunch.  “We’re going to have a lot of issues with these people and
will have to follow up with quite a lot of them,” Sullivan told
the attorneys.  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, 12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal Court in Manhattan at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  