-- Samruk-Kazyna Won’t Buy Pension Funds as Halyk Rejects BTA Deal
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-11-19T12:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/samruk-kazyna-won-t-buy-pension-funds-as-halyk-rejects-bta-deal.html
Kazakhstan ’s sovereign wealth fund
Samruk-Kazyna said it’s scrapping a planned acquisition of three
pension funds controlled by commercial lenders after Halyk Bank
halted talks on buying the government’s shares in BTA Bank.  “Taking into account that the sale of BTA Bank to Halyk
won’t happen, Samruk-Kazyna doesn’t plan to purchase stakes in
pension funds, including Halyk’s unit,” the Astana-based wealth
fund said in a  statement  e-mailed today.  Halyk said yesterday that talks on buying a stake in BTA
were discontinued by mutual consent after the completion of due
diligence on the twice-defaulted lender. Halyk will transfer
assets of its pension fund to the state-run Single Pension Fund
without compensation under existing law, Chief Executive Officer
Umut Shayakhmetova told reporters in Almaty today.  As part of a move to unify Kazakhstan’s almost $23 billion
of retirement savings under a single state-run pension fund, the
Kazakh government had said it planned to swap its stake in BTA
for Halyk’s pension fund. It then wanted to offer its remaining
shares in the defaulted bank to Halyk, which is controlled by
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev ’s daughter and son-in-law.  The central Asian nation has sought to shed assets after
bailing out defaulted lenders in the 2007-2009 economic crisis
and handing them to the wealth fund. After credit markets froze
and a property bubble burst, Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA, the
biggest lender at the time, Alliance Bank and Temirbank.  Presidential Orders  Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev has ordered the sale
of state stakes in Alliance, Temirbank and BTA by the end of
this year. The lenders restructured about $20 billion in debt
after defaulting in 2009. BTA overhauled its debt in December
for the second time since 2010.  “Potential buyers continue due diligence on BTA Bank,”
Samruk-Kazyna said today.  Under a government decree published in March, Samruk-Kazyna
was allowed to become a shareholder in pension funds controlled
by Halyk, BTA and Kazkommertsbank. Halyk, the country’s second-largest lender, wanted to separate the planned sale of its
pension fund from the acquisition of BTA shares.  Halyk’s fund is the country’s biggest, controlling 1.2
trillion tenge ($7.8 billion) of pension assets as of Oct. 1, or
33 percent of the total, according to the regulator’s  website .
It’s followed by the state-owned pension fund with 741 billion
tenge in assets. BTA’s Ular Umit and Kazkommertsbank’s Grantum
managed 425 billion tenge and 332 billion tenge, the data show.  Government Plans  Then-Deputy Prime Minister Kairat Kelimbetov, who was
appointed central bank chairman last month, said in February
that the government wanted to buy Halyk’s pension fund with BTA
shares, according to Interfax. Kazakhstan also planned to
propose to Kazkommertsbank the state’s shares in the lender in
exchange for its pension fund, Kelimbetov was cited as saying.  If the government takes over retirement savings in Halyk’s
fund, the lender may use the “very liquid” 41 billion tenge it
has invested in the pension fund’s equity capital to pay a
special dividend, Shayakhmetova said today.  “That’s the current situation, but we will see what can be
done on this issue,” Shayakhmetova said, without elaborating.  The transfer of assets under management of Halyk’s pension
fund will begin on March 26 and is scheduled to be completed by
June 26, the lender said in a presentation on its website.  Halyk ’s pension fund had a net income of 3.9 billion tenge
in the third quarter as it charged management fees equal to 15
percent of investment income and 0.6 percent of assets a year,
according to its  presentation . The lender managed money
belonging to  2.5 million  individuals, according to the pension
fund’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  