-- Senate Republicans Block Third U.S. Appeals Court Nominee
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-11-19T20:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/senate-republicans-block-third-u-s-appeals-court-nominee.html
Senate Republicans blocked the last
of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominees to a federal appeals
court that oversees some of the nation’s biggest business cases,
dealing a blow to his efforts to reshape the panel.  The 53-38 roll call yesterday was shy of the 60 votes
needed to advance the nomination of U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, often regarded as the nation’s second-highest
after the Supreme Court.  Republicans have accused Obama of trying to fill the court
-- which often rules on challenges to government regulations --
with nominees sympathetic to his regulatory agenda. Democrats
argue that Republicans are trying to deny Obama the confirmation
votes they routinely gave to President George W. Bush.  “This obstruction is completely unprecedented,” Obama
said in a statement yesterday, saying he’s “deeply disappointed
that Senate Republicans have once again refused to do their
job.” He urged the Senate again to take a yes-or-no vote on his
judicial nominees.  At stake is the future of a tribunal that has acted as a
steppingstone to the Supreme Court. Chief Justice John Roberts
served on the D.C. Circuit as did Justices Antonin Scalia,
Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Two other chief
justices, Warren Burger and Fred Vinson served there as well.  Republicans yesterday argued that the 11-member court’s
caseload is insufficient to justify filling three vacancies. In
a floor speech, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said Democrats
were trying to “concoct a crisis” over the court so they can
“distract Americans from the failings of Obamacare.”  ‘Manufactured Excuse’  Senate Democrats should instead seek votes to fill
vacancies where the U.S. court system has declared a judicial
emergency to denote a shortage of judges on courts with
overwhelming caseloads “rather than complain about a fake
one,” said McConnell, a Kentucky Republican.  Senator Dick Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, called the workload argument “a manufactured excuse
for them to filibuster an Obama nominee.” Durbin said that when
Bush was president “Republicans were eager to confirm nominees
for the ninth, 10th and 11th seats on the D.C. Circuit.”  On Oct. 31, the Senate blocked consideration of Washington
lawyer Patricia Millett for another vacancy on the court. On
Nov. 12, Republicans blocked Georgetown University law professor
Nina Pillard’s nomination to a vacancy on the same court.  Senate Rules  The actions have revived a call from some Democrats for a
change in the Senate’s rules to ban or curb moves to block
judicial and some executive-branch nominees.  Today, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid told reporters he
was “considering looking at the rules” to curb such procedural
moves because of the continued obstruction of Obama’s nominees.  Reid said he wasn’t referring to barring such tactics
against Supreme Court nominees or legislation. “I am talking
about executive-branch nominations,” he told reporters. “I am
at the point we need to do something to allow government to
function.”  The Nevada Democrat said that Republicans blocked North
Carolina Representative Mel Watt’s nomination to lead the agency
that oversees government-chartered mortgage finance companies
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae because they oppose the law Congress
enacted to regulate financial institutions in the wake of the
2008 financial crisis.  Current Lineup  During almost five years in office, Obama has placed only a
single judge, Sri Srinivasan, on the D.C. Circuit. Srinivasan
was confirmed in May after Obama’s first nominee, Caitlin Halligan, was blocked by Senate Republicans. They objected to
Halligan’s work as  New York  State’s solicitor general on a
lawsuit against handgun manufacturers.  Among the cases being reviewed by the D.C. Circuit is one
on the Federal Communications Commission’s “net neutrality”
rules requiring Internet-service providers to treat all traffic
equally. The court -- where Republicans now have an edge -- also
would probably rule on the administration’s proposal to limit
carbon-dioxide pollution from power plants.  The court’s current lineup gives Republicans an advantage
even though its full-time judges include four appointees from
each party. That’s because six senior judges also hear cases,
and five of them were selected by Republican presidents.  Party Breakdown  The party breakdown can make a difference when three-judge
panels consider high-stakes regulatory cases. When the D.C.
Circuit threw out an Environmental Protection Agency rule that
would curb emissions from coal-fired power plants in upwind
states, the vote was 2-1, with the lone Democratic appointee in
the minority.  Democrats prevented a vote on Roberts, when he was first
nominated to the D.C. Circuit in 1992 by President George H.W. Bush. Roberts was nominated again by the second President Bush
in 2001, winning confirmation only after Republicans took
control of the Senate in 2003. Bush elevated Roberts to the
Supreme Court two years later.  Democrats stopped two other Bush nominees: Miguel Estrada,
an appellate lawyer once seen as a possibility to become the
first Hispanic on the Supreme Court, and Peter Keisler, who ran
the Justice Department’s civil division.  During a conference call last night hosted by Organizing
for Action, the former Obama campaign operation that’s now a
nonprofit promoting his second-term agenda, the president
accused Republicans of “wholly unprecedented” obstruction.  “It’s really time for Senate Republicans to stop playing
partisan politics with our courts,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  