-- Singapore Contractor in Navy Bribes Case Sued Over Bills
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-11-20T02:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/singapore-contractor-in-navy-bribes-case-sued-over-bills.html
Glenn Defense Marine (Asia) Pte, the
Singapore-based contractor whose chief executive officer has
been charged with bribing U.S. Navy officials, was sued for
failing to pay a supplier for marine fuel.  Transocean Oil Pte is seeking $879,000 and interest after
Glenn Defense missed payments on a $2.2 million settlement
agreement, according to a Nov. 11 lawsuit in the  Singapore  High
Court. Transocean  provides fuel  to naval vessels including from
the U.S.,  Japan  and Singapore.  Two top U.S. Navy admirals have had their access to
classified information suspended pending a review of allegations
connected to the bribery probe.  Glenn Defense  CEO Leonard Glenn
Francis, a U.S. Navy commander and a Navy Criminal Investigative
Service officer have pleaded not guilty to charges of a
conspiracy in which Francis provided prostitutes, travel
expenses and entertainment in exchange for classified
information about ship movements.  Neil Peterson, assistant vice president of global
operations at Glenn Defense, declined to comment on the
Singapore lawsuit. The company hasn’t filed its defense.  Navinder Singh, a lawyer representing Transocean, declined
to comment on the Singapore company’s claim.  Revenue Streams  “My USN business is picking up and compounded with new
revenue streams that are coming in,” Francis, referring to the
U.S. Navy, wrote in a May 17 e-mail to Transocean and cited in
the Singapore court papers. “You have my word that I have full
intentions to clear these debts as soon as possible.”  Glenn Defense provided U.S. Navy ships with hundreds of
millions of dollars in goods and services in at least a dozen
countries for more than 25 years, according to the U.S.
attorney’s office in San Diego.  Glenn Defense had blamed its delayed payments to Transocean
on automatic budget cuts in the U.S. known as sequestration,
according to Francis’s e-mail. The company was also impacted by
“recent and sudden changes in the Navy’s change of schedule
resulting from the Syrian situation which is unanticipated,”
according to court papers, citing a Sept. 10 e-mail from Glenn
Defense’s financial controller Chris Kirk.  Transocean is seeking an order for a vessel owned by Glenn
Defense to be sold to repay the debt owed. The vessel, Glenn
Gladiator, was  arrested  by the Singapore High Court sheriff on
Sept. 20.  Glenn Defense in 2011 sued the U.S. claiming a decision to
award a Navy port services contract to another company was
arbitrary and based on a flawed evaluation. The U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit in June  tossed  the complaint and
upheld an earlier ruling that the deal was lawfully awarded.  The cases are Transocean Oil Pte v Owner Charterer and/or
Demise Charterer of vessel Glenn  Australia . ADM318/2013.
Transocean Oil Pte v Glenn Defense Marine (Asia) Pte.
ADM347/2013. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  