-- Singapore Property Boom Fuels Malaysia Spillover Bubble
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-11-20T09:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/singapore-property-boom-fuels-malaysia-spillover-bubble.html
Chris Metcalf commutes for 45
minutes to  Singapore  each day from Iskandar, a region just over
the border in  Malaysia , to work as a lawyer at Clyde & Co LLP.  “It’s too expensive to live in Singapore,” said Metcalf,
who moved across the Johor Strait in June after finding he could
no longer afford the island-state on a local salary and with
four children. “We’re selling a house in the U.K. and when we
do we’ll consider buying in Malaysia because it’s definitely
better value.”  Malaysia is seeing the spillover from Singapore’s four-year
property boom and its subsequent efforts to cool the market.
Prices of homes at  Horizon Hills , where Metcalf now lives, have
jumped almost threefold over the past five years amid a flurry
of foreign buying, according to data from property broker  Knight
Frank  LLP.  Now Malaysia is taking steps to prevent its own real estate
inflation from emerging and appeasing locals who say they can no
longer afford to own a home. In last month’s budget, Prime
Minister Najib Razak doubled the minimum amount foreigners must
spend on property and raised the capital gains tax to 30 percent
on homes they sell within five years. The local governments of
southern Johor state, where Iskandar is based, and Penang to the
north, are considering additional tariffs on overseas buyers.  While Horizon Hills surrounds a golf course and is
luxurious by Malaysian standards, homes cost far less than in
Singapore. Four-bedroom houses in the 1,200-acre (487-hectare)
development, popular with expatriates, are advertised online at
$270 per square foot, compared with the $503 per square foot
asked for a four-bedroom public-housing flat in Singapore’s
central Bishan district.  Comparative Costs  The average price of a new 1,000-square-foot (93-square-meter) condominium in Singapore is between $800,000 and
$960,000, according to London-based broker Savills Plc. A
similar-sized place in Kuala Lumpur costs about $374,000,
according to CBRE Group Inc.’s Malaysian unit.  Singapore has ramped up efforts to bring down housing costs
with measures such as linking borrowers’ maximum debt levels to
their incomes, higher stamp duties and capital gains taxes.  Home
prices  have still jumped  40 percent  to a record since the
island-state started introducing curbs four years ago. The gains
led to Singapore being ranked the most-expensive city to buy a
luxury home in  Asia  after  Hong Kong  by Knight Frank in a  wealth
report  in March.  Malaysia Attracts  The difficulties of purchasing in Singapore have prompted
potential buyers to explore Malaysia.  “Malaysia has certainly been the recipient of a lot of
Singaporean money since the tighter cooling measures here,”
said Nicholas Holt, Knight Frank’s Asia-Pacific research
director. “Singaporeans probably top the list in terms of
overseas buyers in Malaysia, most notably in Iskandar, but also
in Kuala Lumpur and Penang.”  That’s prompting Malaysia to act, joining Hong Kong and
mainland  China  in seeking to cool surging housing markets to
help combat concerns over affordability and prevent a housing
debacle from emerging in the financial system.  Malaysia’s central bank shortened the maximum length on
mortgages in July, saying household indebtedness had risen by an
average 12 percent per annum in the past five years. Last month,
the government barred developers from helping home buyers by
absorbing some interest payments on loans.  Malaysians have accumulated  Southeast Asia ’s highest level
of household borrowings at 80.5 percent of gross domestic
product, according to Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit.  Priced Out  B. Shashikumar, a 32-year-old Malaysian bank manager, wants
to buy a home before he gets married.  “Even with my 5,000 ringgit ($1,568) monthly salary, I
can’t buy a house in  Kuala Lumpur  or Selangor below 300,000
ringgit,” said Shashikumar, who typically spends three hours
each day commuting to and from work in Malaysia’s capital from
Shah Alam, a city where he lives with his parents. “I’ll have
to find one in another state. It’s difficult to get high loans
for a house in the city.”  Average Malaysian home values rose 43 percent to a record
in the four-and-a-half-years to June, according to government
data. Prices in Kuala Lumpur climbed 62 percent to 605,711
ringgit between the start of 2009 and the end of the second
quarter this year, said CBRE, citing government data. They rose
49 percent to 298,697 ringgit in Penang and 37 percent to
187,644 ringgit in Johor during the same period, the data
showed.  Cooling Measures  Cooling measures may slow home sales, according to
consultants including CBRE and Knight Frank. “The market is
expected to self-correct in the next six to 12 months,” said
Judy Ong Mei-Chen, a Kuala Lumpur-based executive director at
Knight Frank.  Iskandar, a development zone spanning 2,217 square
kilometers (856 square miles), three times the size of
Singapore, was started in 2006 to compete for manufacturing and
logistics business with its neighbor in the south. It’s aimed at
piggy-backing on Singapore’s economic rise, just as Guangdong
gained from Hong Kong, by offering lower-cost alternatives to
manufacturers, food processors and energy companies.  Residential neighborhoods featuring large homes, gardens
and swimming pools, are being built. Spin-offs of foreign
schools and universities are also opening offering cheaper
international-standard education than Singapore, including
Britain’s Marlborough College, where Metcalf now sends his kids.  Legoland, Pinewood  Some high-profile projects, including the Legoland Malaysia
amusement park and Pinewood Iskandar Malaysia Studios -- a
franchise of the U.K.-based company where James Bond films were
made -- are done or nearing completion in a flagship development
zone called Nusajaya.  Wealthier foreigners are encouraged to settle in the
country under the government’s  Malaysia My Second Home
Programme , which provides them with renewable 10-year multiple-entry social visit passes. About 77 percent of the 22,709 people
who have applied are from Asia, with the largest number of
recent arrivals coming from China, government data showed.  Singaporeans account for 70 percent of overseas buyers in
Malaysia, making them the largest group of foreign purchasers,
Wan Abdullah Wan Ibrahim, chief executive officer of  UEM (UEMS)  Sunrise
Bhd., told reporters Nov. 13. UEM, which is co-developing
Horizon Hills with  Gamuda Bhd. (GAM) , is the biggest landowner in
Iskandar.  “The impact of the budget measures will be temporary,”
Wan Abdullah said. “Developers are very creative. We will find
other means of attracting buyers.”  Developers Fall  UEM, UOA Development Bhd. and Mah Sing Group Bhd. may post
slower sales growth due to the cooling measures, K&N Kenanga
Holdings Bhd. said a research note dated Oct. 28, predicting a
knee-jerk reaction to foreigners’ appetite in the next few
months.  UEM shares have fallen 14 percent since Najib announced
property cooling measures on Oct. 25. UOA dropped 12 percent and
Mah Sing is down 9.5 percent in the same period, under-performing a 1 decline in the benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI
Index.  “Currently, Malaysia has a rather low number of foreign
purchasers despite having one of the most accommodative
environments for property investment in the region,” Leong Hoy
Kum, Mah Sing’s group managing director, said in an e-mailed
response to  Bloomberg News  queries. “This means that even
should sales be slower, it may not have a very strong impact on
the market in terms of pricing and sales volume.”  Johor, Penang  Johor is planning to impose an additional 2 percent tariff
on buyers from overseas across all segments of the  property
market  from May, Singapore’s Business Times reported Nov. 13,
citing Koh Moo Hing, chairman of the Johor branch of the Real
Estate and Housing Developers’ Association.  Penang is seeking public feedback on proposals to introduce
a 3 percent levy on foreigners purchasing homes next year, Lim
Guan Eng, the state’s chief minister, said last month.  “If I buy a property, I’m not going to buy it to
speculate,” Metcalf said. “I want to buy a house that I can
live in and the kids can grow up in and that we can call home.
Iskandar feels more like living in the U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  