-- Somali Women Watch Soccer as Mogadishu Defies al-Shabaab
-- B y   M o h a m e d   S h e i k h   N o r
-- 2013-11-20T13:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/somali-women-attend-soccer-games-as-mogadishu-defies-al-shabaab.html
Sahro Ali did something this month
that she hadn’t dreamed possible for years: she and two female
friends went to a soccer match between Banadir Sports Club and
Elman FC in the Somali capital.  The match in the rebuilt Banadir Stadium was the third of
the season that kicked off Nov. 8. That marked the return of
competitive soccer to Mogadishu for the first time since the
1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and the start of two
decades of civil war. It’s a symbol of the state’s success in
beginning to rebuild the city after its army, backed by African
Union troops, drove out al-Qaeda-linked fighters in 2011.  “I was locked at home since the Islamists banned the
mixing of sexes,” Ali, a 29-year-old primary school teacher,
said in a Nov. 12 interview at the game, where she sat next to
men. “But today for the first time in six years, I have managed
to watch a match.”  The renovation of Banadir Stadium, complete with an
AstroTurf field, is part of a revival of Mogadishu that includes
the city’s first traffic lights, new beach-front restaurants and
a 24-hour taxi service. Billboards advertise services ranging
from banking to mobile-phone networks.  The 30,000-seat arena, originally built in 1956, was
destroyed during shelling in 2009 by Somali government forces
attacking fighters of the Islamist al-Shabaab group who used the
stadium as a base and dug trenches to evade gun and mortar fire.
It was rebuilt with the aid of FIFA, soccer’s world governing
body.  Business Confidence  While al-Shabaab is still capable of carrying out sporadic
bomb attacks, Abdi Abshir Dhoorre, director-general of the
 Somali Chamber of Commerce , says businessmen are increasingly
confident about the city’s future.  “The relative peace in Mogadishu has enabled the revival
of the business sector,” Dhoorre said in an interview on Nov.
14. “Business in  Somalia  is growing very fast. Everyone in the
country is thinking of starting their own business.”  The economy is gaining momentum, according to the Central
Bank of Somalia, with annual growth of 3.5 percent to 4 percent
in the first half of the year. Foreign investment and financial
support for humanitarian and development programs helped the
Somali shilling gain 32 percent so far this year to 1,215 per
dollar, ranking it as  Africa ’s best-performing currency.  Diaspora Returns  Improving stability and the nascent economic recovery are
attracting members of the Somalia diaspora, such as Suleyman
Jama Dharas, the 41-year-old manager of Mogadishu Taxi, the
city’s first 24-hour taxi service, back to the country. The
United Nations Development Program estimates 1.5 million
Somalis, more than a 10th of the nation’s population, live
abroad in countries such as Canada, the U.S. and the U.K.  “We formed the idea last year when we found out that
security in Mogadishu is gradually improving,” said Dharas, who
lived in  Sweden  for 16 years before returning to Somalia. “We
realized there was an opportunity and we acted on it
immediately.”  Dharas’s blue and yellow taxis ferry patrons to any
destination in the city for a flat fee of $10, undercutting
other services that can charge as much as $30, according to Isse
Ali, a client. Restaurants on the city’s Lido beach are a
popular destination, such as the newly opened Beach View where
customers can spend more than $50 for a lunch including
crayfish, lobster and oysters.  ‘Excessive’ Prices  “I am happy with the number of restaurants that have
reopened in Mogadishu in the past two years, but the price of
their food is excessive, mainly because the owners are from the
diaspora,” Muhyadin Aynte said as he ate lunch at the beach-front venue.  Yet Somalia’s transition to a stable economy remains
fragile.  Spectators attending the match were subjected to full-body
searches by policemen wielding AK-47 assault rifles. A car
bombing at a hotel in the city center killed five people on the
day the season started, underlining al-Shabaab’s enduring
menace. Yesterday, at least 21 people died in a suicide-bomb
attack on a police station in the central town of Beledweyne,
about 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of Mogadishu, that the
authorities said was carried out by al-Shabaab.  “Threats are imminent and we expect an attack at any
time,” said Abdikadir Ali, a Banadir Sports Club supporter, in
between hurling insults at the Elman players. His team won 3-1.  Somali Football Federation  Secretary-General Abdi Qani Said
Arab said soccer “is the only tool to bring people together”
and can take people’s minds off the recent conflict.  “I really feel comfortable with where I am today,” Ali’s
friend Nima Hussein said as she sat among the 20,000 people who
attended the game. “You can see I am watching the match without
fear and turmoil. The atmosphere is amazing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohamed Sheikh Nor in Mogadishu via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 