-- South Korea to Raise Power Prices as Demand Causes Shortages
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e
-- 2013-11-19T06:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/south-korea-to-increase-power-prices-as-demand-causes-shortages.html
South Korea  will increase power
prices by an average 5.4 percent this week, the second increase
this year, as the government seeks to curb soaring demand for
electricity that’s caused shortages.  Electricity prices will rise 6.4 percent for industrial
plants and buildings, 2.7 percent for households and 3 percent
for farms from Nov. 21, the Ministry of Trade and Energy said in
an e-mailed statement, following an average 4 percent increase
in January. The government also plans to impose a tax on soft
coal of 30 won ($0.03) per kilogram from July 2014, and reduce
duties on liquefied natural gas and kerosene to shift
consumption of coal to gas and oil, the ministry said.  South Korea consumes power at almost twice the average of
countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development relative to the size of its economy, according to
the Hyundai Research Institute in  Seoul . The nation has suffered
power shortages over the past five years, with demand reaching
an “excessive level” and supply failing to keep pace, the
institute said in a June 19 report.  “Electricity should be more expensive than other energy
because it’s a secondary source that needs other energy to
produce it,” Park Kwang Soo, senior research fellow at the
 Korea Energy Economics Institute  in Seoul, said by phone after
the announcement. “Most countries have priced electricity
higher for this reason, but we’ve kept it lower.”  South Korea’s government has maintained electricity prices
at an artificially low level to contain inflation and help
export-driven companies make products at lower costs. Power
prices rose 32.3 percent between 2000 and 2012, compared with a
117.5 percent increase in city gas prices and a 149.1 percent
jump for kerosene, the institute said in a September report.  Over-dependence  That’s led companies and households to depend too much on
electricity, rather than other energy sources, according to the
report. Electricity accounted for almost 40 percent of energy
consumption of industries last year, while gas and oil accounted
for 19 percent and 15 percent, the institute said.  With the government setting power prices, state-run  Korea
Electric Power Corp. (015760) , the monopoly electricity distributor known
as Kepco, has reported a combined 11.2 trillion won ($10.6
billion) of losses over the past five years. Kepco shares rose
6.9 percent to 31,850 won in Seoul, the biggest gain since
August 2011.  Power demand has surged in recent years as domestic
electricity prices were kept at low levels, even as
international prices of other energy sources such as oil and gas
climbed, the ministry said in today’s statement.  ‘Shocking’  The price increase is “shocking” and will increase costs
for steelmakers, the Korea Iron & Steel Association said in an
e-mailed statement. Raising power rates by 6.4 percent may add
extra costs of 268.8 billion won in the  steel industry , which is
already in a slump, the association said.  Power shortages were exacerbated in May when the government
ordered the shutdown of two nuclear reactors found to be using
components whose safety certificates were faked, and ordered the
replacement of cables at two others, one offline for maintenance
and the other under review pending the start of operations.  In 2008, South Korea set a goal to generate 41 percent of
its electricity from nuclear power by 2035.  An energy ministry-sponsored group of academics and state
officials said last month that target should be cut to between
22 percent and 29 percent amid growing public opposition to
atomic power after the Fukushima disaster and the domestic
safety scandal.  The energy ministry plans to adopt the upper-end of the
working group’s range recommended range, an increase from the
current 26.4 percent reliance on nuclear power, Song Yoo Jong,
director general of energy and resources policy at the ministry,
said by phone on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  