-- Squire Sanders Forms Link With Indonesian Firm: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-11-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/squire-sanders-forms-link-with-indonesian-firm-business-of-law.html
Squire Sanders  and the Indonesian
law firm Melli Darsa & Co. are forming an alliance to share a
joint platform for business development and legal services in
 Indonesia  and international markets.  “This alliance is a logical next step for the firm as we
seek to support our clients who do business in Indonesia and
across the  Asia  Pacific region,” James J. Maiwurm, chief
executive officer and chairman of Squire Sanders, said in a
statement. “We are seeing increasing investment in Indonesia
from countries such as China, Japan and Korea, and with our
presence in all of those locations, and our desire to offer
extensive, integrated regional coverage, it was clear that
Indonesia was a missing link.”  Ignatius Hwang, managing partner of Squire Sanders’s
Singapore office, said the firm saw a growing demand for local
law expertise in Indonesia, particularly in energy, natural
resources and infrastructure matters.  The new alliance will operate under the name “Melli Darsa
& Co. in strategic alliance with Squire Sanders.”  Melli Darsa & Co., established in 2002, has 33 lawyers with
experience in capital markets and securities, M&A, corporate
finance and banking, project finance, anti-competition,
commercial law and litigation.  The firm’s founder and managing partner, Melli Darsa, holds
a law degree from the University of Indonesia and a Master of
Law degree from  Harvard Law School . She has practiced in
Indonesia since 1990 and is admitted in  New York .  “We are operating in a dynamic economy where our clients
are increasingly looking to establish their businesses in
international markets,” Darsa said in a statement. “Squire
Sanders’s impressive global presence and depth of experience in
countries where our clients wish to do business is compelling,
and its strength in infrastructure and natural resources were
key to our decision to enter into an alliance with the firm.”  Squire Sanders has approximately 1,300 lawyers in 39
offices and 19 countries in the Americas, Europe and the  Middle
East  and Asia Pacific.  Moves  London Restructuring Lawyer Howard Morris Joins MoFo in London  Dentons partner Howard Morris, the former co-CEO of SNR
Denton and previously chair of legacy U.K. law firm Denton Wilde
Sapte, has joined  Morrison & Foerster LLP  as head of the
business restructuring and insolvency group in  London .  Morris’s practice will focus on cross-border and pan-European transactions and insolvency proceedings. He has
experience in restructuring and insolvency matters as well as a
background in banking and finance.  “The growth of our business restructuring and insolvency
group is a key component of MoFo’s strategic development,” Gary Lee, chairman of Morrison & Foerster’s restructuring group, said
in a statement. “The addition of Howard comes at a crucial time
with significant levels of corporate debt still to be
restructured across the U.K. and more widely in Europe. His
experience and track record make him the ideal individual to
head this group in London.”  Among Morrison & Foerster’s recent global restructuring and
insolvency cases are representation of Residential Capital LLC,
as the debtor in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy case.  “Morrison & Foerster’s terrific global reputation, coupled
with the global scale of its market leading restructuring and
insolvency practice, make the firm the obvious choice for me,”
Morris said in a statement.  Morrison & Foerster has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Hogan Lovells Adds Los Angeles Corporate Partner Trio  A longstanding corporate transactional team from Kaye
Scholer LLP is joining  Hogan Lovells  LLP’s Los Angeles office.  Los Angeles corporate and mergers and acquisitions partner
Barry Dastin, media and entertainment partner Sheri Jeffrey and
corporate and M&A partner Russ Cashdan, who join is Los Angeles,
have worked together as a team for more than fifteen years.  “The profile and experience this group brings to our Los
Angeles office are precisely what we are focused upon at Hogan
Lovells,” Warren Gorrell, Co-CEO of Hogan Lovells, said in a
statement. “Barry, Sheri, and Russ will complement our firmwide
corporate transactional group, increasing both our breadth and
depth on the West Coast, and their cross-border and domestic
practices will integrate well with our global practice.”  Dastin and Cashdan have experience handling corporate
transactions, including representation of boards of directors,
special committees and investment banks.  Jeffrey has experience in entertainment transactional
matters, as lead outside counsel in the legal management of
major theatrical motion pictures, television programming and the
interplay between media and new technologies, the firm said. She
has been lead counsel in the development, distribution and
financing, and worldwide exploitation of theatrical motion
pictures including “Argo,” “The Departed,” “Hugo,” “The
Aviator” and “Gangs of New York.”  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers in 40 offices in
the U.S., Europe,  Latin America , the Middle East, and Asia.  Thompson Hine Brings on New York Securities Litigation Partner  Thompson Hine LLP announced that securities litigator Tammy
Bieber joined the New York office as a partner in the business
litigation practice. She was previously a partner at Shearman &
Sterling LLP.  Bieber has represented auditors, issuers and investment
funds in shareholder litigation and government and internal
investigations. Most recently, she handled several Madoff-related matters, including representing Sterling Stamos Capital
Management LP in connection with the Picard v. Katz clawback
action, the firm said.  She also previously worked as a senior legal adviser to the
Chief Accountant of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Bieber consulted on policy issues affecting the audit and
accounting professions and participated in rulemaking,
enforcement proceedings and congressional testimony, the firm
said.  “The addition of Tammy to our New York office increases
the depth of our litigation practice here and further enhances
the firm’s national securities bench,” Katherine D. Brandt,
partner-in-charge of the firm’s New York office, said in a
statement. “With intensified scrutiny by the SEC, regulatory
enforcement has increased. Securities litigation is a growing
practice area for our firm, and we have been looking to add to
our expertise in this area.”  Thompson Hine has lawyers at offices in Atlanta,
Cincinnati,  Cleveland , Columbus, Dayton, New York and
 Washington .  Finance Partner Marcus Returns to Weil Gotshal in Dallas Office  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP announced that Courtney Solcher Marcus has rejoined the firm as a partner in the global finance
practice, based in the  Dallas  office. She was most recently a
partner of Fulbright & Jaworski LLP, a member of Norton Rose
Fulbright, in Dallas.  Marcus has experience representing investors in financing
transactions, including leveraged acquisition and
recapitalization transactions, bridge and mezzanine financing,
 cash flow  and asset-based lending, debtor-in-possession
financing, and loan restructurings and workouts.  “Her broad experience in financing matters will be of
enormous benefit to our clients, many of whom already know and
respect Courtney,” Weil executive partner Barry Wolf said in a
statement. “As a former Weil partner, she knows the firm’s
culture and, in particular, the talents of the partners in the
Dallas office and throughout the firm.”  Weil has approximately 1,200 lawyers at 21 offices
worldwide, 10 of which are in the U.S.  Global Asset Finance Lawyer Joins White & Case in New York  White & Case  LLP added to its global asset finance practice
with the hiring of Ji Hoon Hong as a partner in New York. He
joins from Shearman & Sterling LLP.  Hong’s practice focuses on aviation-related structured debt
capital markets transactions. In the mid-1990s, He was integral
to the creation of the Enhanced Equipment Trust Certificate
product, the firm said. His experience also includes advising
clients on aviation-related asset-backed securitizations, other
asset class finance transactions, equity and debt capital
markets transactions, sovereign debt restructurings and general
corporate matters.  White & Case’s global asset finance practice includes more
than 70 lawyers in New York, London and elsewhere. Over the past
10 years, the firm helped structure and execute more than $70
billion in aircraft, equipment and facility finance
transactions, according to a firm statement.  White & Case has lawyers in 40 offices in 27 countries.  News  U.S. Tax Firm Expands in Europe by Linking with French Law Firm  U.S. tax firm WTAS is joining an 80-lawyer French business-law firm to create a tax and legal services company in a model
it hopes to expand across Europe and beyond.  WTAS Global, the international unit of WTAS, is acquiring
the Paris-based law firm STC Partners, which has annual revenue
of 19 million euros, the firm said in a statement.  STC Partners provides full-service tax and legal advice to
wealthy French families and their businesses, as well as locally
based investment and private equity firms.  Led by co-managing partners Hervè-Antoine Couderc and David
de Pariente, STC Partners will continue to operate autonomously
and eventually rebrand itself WTAS France.  “It’s the big four and then major law firms and almost no
alternative for more of a boutique practice that would have
coverage across the continent,” Mark Vorsatz, CEO of WTAS LLC
said in a phone interview. “Our vision for a business model is
that we’ll go to market on legal and tax services rather than
accounting and that will change the dynamic.”  This is WTAS Global’s second acquisition in Europe. The
firm first expanded into the European market in June 2013 when
it joined forces with PrimeTax AG, a tax-only firm based in
 Switzerland .  In addition to tax services, STC Partners works  with
companies on national or cross-border transactions. The firm
advises private and family groups, their shareholders and
executives as well as the management teams of major company
groups on shareholding structures.  WTAS Global is in talks with several other law firms in
European countries and expects to have two or three acquisitions
in Europe next year.  “We think we can be an alternative and will gain momentum
as we build out in Europe,” Vorsatz said.  Litigation  News Corp. Lawyer Says He Never Gave Legal Opinion on Hacking  A top lawyer at  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloids told jurors that he was
never asked to give an opinion on the legality of phone hacking
and was assured that it only took place at the News of the
World.  Justin Walford, who has worked at  News Corp .’s U.K. unit
since 2005, said yesterday that he was told that phone hacking
didn’t take place at the company’s daily Sun tabloid. He also
praised two of the tabloid editors on trial in the case, Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson .  Brooks “was a demanding editor,” said Walford, who worked
with the 45-year-old Brooks while she was editor of the Sun.
“She was passionate about the paper. We had many an argument
about what went into the paper.”  Brooks, who later became chief executive officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, and the 45-year-old Coulson are among eight
people on trial over phone hacking and bribes to public
officials. News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the News of
the World in 2011 to defuse a scandal over revelations that
journalists had hacked the phone of a missing teenager, who was
later found murdered.  News of the World was the center of phone-hacking
allegations. Journalists at the Sun are accused of paying bribes
for stories.  Walford said that as a lawyer he didn’t try to find out the
name of the source for stories.  “Editors will push the lawyer to agree the copy they have
let into the paper,” he said. “But I have never felt undue
financial pressure or anything like that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  