-- Standard Bank Weighs Ivory Coast Banking License
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-11-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/standard-bank-weighs-ivory-coast-banking-license.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  Africa ’s
largest lender, will consider setting up a bank in  Ivory Coast 
in two years as a base to expand to French-speaking West Africa.  The Johannesburg-based lender would consider an acquisition
of another bank or branch or starting its own branch, Herve Boyer, the bank’s head for French-speaking nations in Africa,
 Sierra Leone  and Liberia, said in an interview in the commercial
capital, Abidjan, on Nov. 15. Standard Bank will open a
representative office in February in Abidjan after it shut its
office in 2003 following a failed coup that divided the country
into a rebel north and government-run south.  “We will use Ivory Coast as a hub, a center from where we
will cover the other Francophone countries of the region,” he
said. “We can’t be the biggest African bank without reaching
Francophone countries.”  Standard Bank  has been selling assets in  emerging markets 
outside Africa since 2011 to raise cash necessary to expand on
the continent, the second-fastest growing region after
developing Asia. Citigroup Inc., Standard Chartered Plc and
Barclays Africa Group Ltd. are increasing their presence in
Africa as discoveries of oil, natural gas and other commodities
in sub-Saharan Africa propel economic growth. Standard Bank has
operations in Ghana and Nigeria. Paris-based  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) ’s local unit is the largest bank in Ivory Coast.  Standard will target infrastructure projects including
roads and airports, energy and mining, Boyer said. Ivory Coast,
which is bouncing back after a decade-long crisis, is a priority
for the bank, Boyer said. President  Laurent Gbagbo  refused to
hand over power after losing 2010 presidential elections,
leading to a collapse of the economy and violence that left more
than 3,000 dead.  The biggest economy of the eight-member West African
Economic and Monetary Union and the world’s largest cocoa
producer will grow 9 percent this year, slower than the 9.8
percent expansion last year, according to the government.  “We remain positive on the future of the region because of
these huge investments in infrastructure projects,” he said.
“This is the key for the development of the region.”  Standard Bank is the second-worst performing stock on the
six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index this year after Barclays
Africa Group Ltd. The shares rose 0.4 percent to 123.25 rand on
yesterday in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  