-- Stiritz Boosts Herbalife Stake, Seeks Strategy Talks
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-11-20T22:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/stiritz-seeks-herbalife-strategy-talks-as-he-lifts-stake-to-6-4-.html
Bill Stiritz, chief executive
officer of  Post Holdings Inc. (POST) , the Raisin Bran maker, boosted
his holding in  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  to 6.4 percent and said he’ll seek
talks with the nutrition company.  Discussions may include potential financing and share
repurchase strategies, as well as ways to leverage Herbalife’s
product distribution, Stiritz said in a  filing  yesterday.
Stiritz, who previously reported a 5.3 percent stake, is
Herbalife’s fifth-largest shareholder.  The investor said last week that he’s willing to take part
in a leveraged buyout of the company that would reward
shareholders and help Herbalife fend off allegations by hedge
fund billionaire  Bill Ackman , who for a year has accused it of
operating an illegal pyramid scheme. Herbalife, which makes
vitamins, skin creams and meal-replacement shakes and operates
in more than 80 countries, has denied Ackman’s claim.  Stiritz, 79, has “analyzed the company and concluded that
it has a sound business model, a strong distribution system and
a positive outlook for long-term growth opportunities,”
according to the filing. “The company’s market capitalization
is undervalued at this time.”  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP initially
sold short at least 20 million Herbalife shares. Ackman has
since reduced the equity short position in the company while
maintaining his bet through options. He has urged U.S.
regulators, elected officials and community activists to help
shut it down.  Herbalife, based in the Cayman Islands, rose 6.5 percent to
$70.24 at the close in New York. The stock has more than doubled
this year.  Barb Henderson, a spokeswoman for Herbalife, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  