-- Tsunami-Blocking Mangroves Lure Carbon Investors: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e
-- 2013-11-20T07:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/tsunami-blocking-mangroves-lure-carbon-investors-southeast-asia.html
Replanted mangrove trees in
 Southeast Asia  are getting credit for protecting against deadly
tsunamis and typhoons such as Haiyan in the Philippines and
cutting greenhouse gas emissions.  Mangrove regeneration in Northern Samar, about 100 miles
(160 kilometers) north of the worst-hit Philippine city of
Tacloban, helped minimize damage from the Nov. 8 storm,
according to the Trowel Development Foundation, which oversaw
the plantings. On Indonesia’s Sumatra island, where a 2004
tsunami killed 170,000 residents, companies including Danone and
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  have put up about $4 million in exchange for
tradable  carbon offsets  tied to the reforestation.  Mangroves have twisted webs of roots above ground that
absorb carbon dioxide linked to  climate change  and help protect
coasts from tidal surges such as the one that killed at least
3,900 people when Typhoon Haiyan swamped the Philippines this
month. The storm, one of the strongest to make landfall, has
gripped  UN climate talks  in Warsaw this week, with a Philippine
delegate tearfully calling for action to slow climate change.  “Had we not protected the mangrove trees against illegal
cutting and had we not planted the areas surrounding the fish
farms with native mangrove species, the super typhoon would have
destroyed everything that the poor fisherfolks established,”
Leonardo Rosario, a development consultant on the Northern Samar
project, said by e-mail on Nov. 19.  The devastation in Tacloban was aggravated because it is
near open seas with no mangroves to provide a buffer, he said.
“So the super typhoon hit the land with its strongest might and
high speed because there is no mangrove forest that should have
slowed it down,” he said. “I hope the government would now
realize the import of mangrove forests in protecting people,
structures and livelihoods in the coastal areas.”  ‘Very Much Degraded’  Mangroves in the  Philippines  have been lost at a rate of
about 1 percent a year, with conditions “very much degraded,”
Daniel Murdiyarso, a forestry scientist at the Bogor, Indonesia-based Center for International Forestry Research, said Nov. 18.  Mangroves, found on marine coasts and estuaries, may help
low-lying coasts adapt to rising sea levels by increasing
sedimentation, he said. The trees, adapted to changing water
levels with roots several feet above ground, can help reduce the
height and power of waves generated by storms, according to a
Cambridge University report published in 2012 by The Nature
Conservancy and Wetlands International.  2004 Tsunami  A study in the wake of the 2004 tsunami of Aceh,  Indonesia ,
which killed 220,000 people living near the  Indian Ocean , cited
models showing that 30 coastal trees per 100 square meters may
reduce the flow of a tsunami by 90 percent, according to a 2005
report in the journal Science. While field-based evidence was
limited, replanting coastal mangroves should buffer communities
from future tsunamis, it said.  “I have been in far too many disaster areas as a member of
the UNESCO International Tsunami Survey Team and seen too many
coastal forests overwhelmed to put much faith in trees being
effective defenses against a tsunami,” said Brian McAdoo,
professor of science at Yale-NUS College in  Singapore .  The Aceh project by the Medan-based conservation group
Yagasu involves restoring 5,000 hectares (12,355 acres) on the
northern coast of Sumatra. The program will help develop a
methodology for a program letting Indonesian companies buy
credits to voluntarily offset their greenhouse gas emissions,
said Bambang Suprayogi, Yagasu’s founder, in a Nov. 18
interview.  Indonesian President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who leaves
office next year, pledged in 2009 to reduce Indonesia’s
emissions by 26 percent at the end of the decade. Deforestation
is the main cause of emissions from Indonesia, named by the
World Bank as the third-largest emitter on earth in a 2007
report.  Warsaw Talks  Indonesia and the Philippines are among about 200 nations
meeting in Warsaw this week for climate talks. Indonesia,
Southeast Asia’s largest economy, doesn’t have an obligation
under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , which envisioned that  developing
countries  would host emission-reduction projects to generate
offsets against pollution limits in richer nations.  The U.S. never signed the treaty, while  Japan ,  Russia ,
 Canada  and  New Zealand  have opted against extending their
commitments to Kyoto. The UN has yet spell out how credits from
reforestation can be recognized.  Yagasu hopes to save 9 million tons of carbon dioxide over
the Aceh project’s 20-year timeframe, Suprayogi said. While it
has applied for UN validation, he expects most of the credits to
be sold under a voluntary emission program to avoid the  length
and uncertainty of the UN approval process.  Voluntary Credits  While Indonesia has 141 UN-approved projects designed to
cut 249 million metric tons of emissions, the nation is
designing its own program and methodology, Agus Purnomo, a
presidential adviser for climate change, said in Jakarta on Nov.
14. The domestic plan would rely on companies voluntarily buying
offsets, he said.  “Most investors in the Yagasu project are corporate and
will use those credits to offset part of their own CO2
emissions,” said  Charlotte  Pasternak, head of external
communications for  Danone (BN)  in Paris.  Indonesia’s rate of deforestation is about half the level
of a decade ago because of a government moratorium on logging in
natural forests, Purnomo said. Government figures put annual
deforestation at about 450,000 hectares (4,500 square
kilometers) for 2011/2012, he said.  A report in the journal Science this month, based on high
resolution global maps of forest cover change, said Indonesia’s
deforestation has accelerated and put the level at more than
20,000 kilometers a year in 2011/2012, most than four times the
government’s figure.  Losing the Forest  “Of all countries globally, Indonesia exhibited the
largest increase in forest loss,” the report said.  Total emissions from Indonesia may reach 2.9 billion tons
of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2020 under business as usual
projections, Purnomo said. That compares with an environment
ministry estimate of 1.79 billion tons in 2005, with 63 percent
of that from land use change, forestry and peat fires. The  World
Bank  put the 2005 figure at 3 billion.  Greenpeace, the global environmental group, targeted
Indonesian paper company APP and palm oil producer PT Sinar Mas
Agro Resources and Technology, and buyers of their products such
as Mattel Inc and Nestle SA, for clearing forests that are home
to orangutans. APP said in February it would end natural forest
clearance. PT Sinar Mas has said a 2010 audit showed the
Greenpeace allegations were largely unfounded.  “Most of our coastal areas used to be mangroves, and many
of them are no more,” said Purnomo. Coastal forests were
destroyed for pools to grow shrimp and for agriculture, but with
intensive prawn farming being abandoned in some areas because of
pollution, replanting was now viable, Purnomo said.  Rural Ecosystems  The north coast of Sumatra had 200,000 hectares of
mangroves in 1987 and has 83,000 hectares now, according to
Livelihoods, an organization to sustain rural ecosystems. It’s a
vehicle for corporate support of the Yagasu project.  Suprayogi started Yagasu in 2001 to protect Sumatra’s
elephants and switched his focus on mangroves after the tsunami
devastated Aceh. Replanting has helped the economy of the local
community by increasing villagers’ catch of the fish and crabs
that shelter in the mangroves, he said.  Coastal forests reduce the risk of losses from typhoons and
tsunamis by increasing the sustainable livelihoods and wealth in
exposed areas, giving more resources to help communities
recover, Yale-NUS’s McAdoo said.  “Where the mangroves are, the people are happy,”
Suprayogi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  