-- U.K. Property Market at Risk Without Supply Boost, OECD Says
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-11-19T10:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-k-property-market-at-risk-without-supply-boost-oecd-says.html
Britain’s property market may be
facing a potential bubble unless the government implements
measures to boost the supply of housing for sale and contain
price growth, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development said.  “It is urgent to continue to relax the barriers to housing
supply to prevent overheating in the property markets,” the
Paris-based group said in its semi-annual Economic Outlook.  While the OECD raised its forecasts for U.K. economic
growth, it said risks to recovery include “vigorous” house-price increases that could hamper affordability, especially for
first-time buyers. The government’s Help to Buy program that
aids buyers with smaller deposits has been criticized by the
International Monetary Fund and politicians for potentially
stoking a property bubble as it boosts demand.  Asking prices  in England and  Wales  rose 4 percent in
November from a year earlier to an average 246,237 pounds
($397,000), Rightmove said yesterday. The Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said this month its house-price index rose
to the highest in more than a decade in October.  The OECD forecast the U.K. economy will grow 1.4 percent
this year, 2.4 percent in 2014 and 2.5 percent in 2015. Growth
will be supported by an upturn in investment and exports, the
organization said.  The Bank of England has pledged to support the economy by
keeping its key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent at least until
unemployment reaches at least 7 percent. The OECD said monetary
policy is expected to start to normalize in the last quarter of
2015, according to inflation and unemployment projections.  “While forward guidance provides assurance that monetary
policy will not choke off the recovery with premature policy
hikes, risks of rising medium-term inflation need to be closely
monitored as the extent of slack in the economy might be less
than expected,” the OECD said.  BOE policy maker Martin Weale said last week that U.K.
inflation expectations have increased and that if joblessness
falls rapidly, officials would have to consider the risk of
holding rates too low for too long.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  