-- U.K. Summons Spanish Ambassador After Gibraltar Incursion
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-11-19T17:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-k-summons-spanish-ambassador-after-gibraltar-incursion.html
Britain summoned Spain’s ambassador
in  London  to the Foreign Office to protest an incursion by a
Spanish ship into  Gibraltar  waters, exacerbating a dispute over
the sovereignty of the territory.  A Spanish government research vessel spent more than 20
hours conducting “significant surveying activity” in
Gibraltar’s territorial waters yesterday and today, the Foreign
Office said in an e-mailed statement. Spain has increased such
unlawful incursions into Gibraltar waters eightfold to about 40
a month over the past two years, the ministry said.  “I strongly condemn this provocative incursion and urge
the Spanish government to ensure that it is not repeated,”
Foreign Office minister David Lidington said in the statement.
“We stand ready to do whatever is required to protect
Gibraltar’s sovereignty, economy and security.”  There’s been increasing tension this year between Britain
and  Spain  over Gibraltar, situated on the southern tip of the
Iberian peninsula. Spain disputes U.K. sovereignty over the
territory, which is home to about 30,000 people.  Increased border checks by Spanish frontier officials after
a dispute over fishing rights in July led to delays for
travelers, sparking British protests and European Union
mediation. The EU said last week it had found no evidence that
the extra controls infringed European law.  Spain’s Foreign Ministry wasn’t immediately available for
comment about the British protest.  Today’s move by the U.K. comes two weeks after the Foreign
Office made a formal written protest over what it said was
“dangerous maneuvering” by a Spanish Guardia Civil boat in
Gibraltar waters on Oct. 30 that caused a “minor collision”
with a British military vessel.  Gibraltar, commanding a strait at the narrowest crossing
between Europe and  Africa , has been under British control since
it was captured by an Anglo-Dutch force in 1704 during the War
of the Spanish Succession. Spain ceded the territory to Britain
under the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. Gibraltarians voted almost
unanimously in referendums in 1967 and 2002 to retain their
association with the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  