-- U.S. Bancorp Said to Be Top Suitor for Citizens Chicago Branches
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-11-19T18:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-s-bancorp-said-to-be-top-suitor-for-citizens-chicago-branches.html
U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the largest bank based
in the Midwestern U.S., is the leading contender to buy the
Chicago branches of  Citizens Financial Group Inc.  because
smaller bidders are wary of raising capital to fund the deal,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Minneapolis-based bank is in talks with Citizens, the
U.S. subsidiary of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , about
buying 100 branches, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. The talks may not
lead to a sale, and Citizens is still engaged with other
potential buyers, one person said.  U.S. Bancorp is the largest of the lenders who expressed an
interest in the branches, and others may have to raise  funds  to
assume Citizens’ liabilities and pay for the purchase, the
people said. The branches hold $6 billion in deposits and $2.4
billion in loans, mostly home-equity lines of credit, the people
said.  The sale, which could fetch $500 million, also drew
interest from  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB) , PrivateBancorp,  Wintrust
Financial Corp. (WTFC)  and  FirstMerit Corp. (FMER) , people familiar with the
bidding said last month.  With $361 billion in assets at the end of September, and a
market value of over  $70 billion , U.S. Bancorp has long been
interested in expanding in Chicago, among the largest and most
fragmented markets in the U.S. It plans to continue doing small
deals, according to Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis.  “We will continue to cobble together small M&A deals, some
of which won’t even hit your radar screen,” Davis said at a
conference last week sponsored by Bank of America, according to
a Bloomberg transcript of the event.  IPO Plan  U.S. Bancorp has 72 branches in  Chicago , according to data
from the Federal Reserve. Buying Citizens’ branches in the city
would boost its market share of the region’s deposits to 6th
from 11th, the data show.  Citizens, based in Providence, Rhode Island, is working
with Bank of America Corp. on the branch sale. Spokesmen for
Citizens, U.S. Bancorp and Bank of America all declined to
comment, while spokesmen at the other bidders didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  RBS, which is majority owned by the U.K. government,
announced a restructuring this month that involves an initial
public offering of Citizens in the second half of next year.
Citizens has $118 billion in assets and about 1,400 branches in
12 states, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  