-- U.S. 10-Year Swap Spread Plunges to 10-Month Low Amid Unwind
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-11-19T16:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-s-10-year-swap-spread-plunges-to-10-month-low-amid-unwind.html
     Nov. 19 (Bloomberg) --The U.S. 10-year interest-rate swap
spread narrowed to the least in 10 months as traders exit bets
on higher rates after  Janet Yellen  said the economy must improve
before monetary stimulus can be reduced.  The gap, or difference, on the rate to exchange floating
for fixed payments over the next 10 years and similar maturity
 U.S. Treasury  yields  touched  3.75 basis points today, the least
since Jan. 17. The spread has narrowed by over 10 percent each
of the last three trading sessions, after closing on Nov. 13 at
11 basis points. The spread was 5.38 basis points as of 11:49
a.m. in  New York , down 0.62 basis point, or 10 percent from
yesterday’s closing level.  Yellen, the Federal Reserve vice chairman nominated to
succeed  Ben S. Bernanke , told lawmakers last week that the
economy is performing far short of its potential. Since lowering
their benchmark  interest rate  to near zero in December 2008, Fed
officials have relied on bond buying and forward guidance about
their plans on their benchmark rate to try to spur growth. Fed
policy makers surprised market participants in September and
held steady the pace of the bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond
buying.  “There is some very large position unwind going on now,”
as far as people getting out of prior bets the spread would
widen, said Ralph Axel, analyst in New York at Bank of America
Corp. “For a long time people have been sniffing around and
buying spreads with it seen as the best trade in a sense to
position for higher rates, higher volatility and the
normalization of credit spreads. That didn’t work for now.”  Swap Rates  Swap spreads are the premium charged over Treasury yields
to exchange floating for fixed-rate payments. Swap rates are
typically higher than Treasury yields in part because the
floating payments are based on  interest rates  that contain
credit risk, such as the Libor, the London interbank offered
rate.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt often purchased with borrowed money, including mortgage-backed securities and auto-loan securities.  The  five-year  swap spread was little changed at 10 basis
points; the  seven-year  dropped 0.19 basis point to 7.88 basis
points and the 30-year declined 0.88 basis points to negative
9.88 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  