-- U.S., EU Officials Seek Data-Protection Plan by Mid-2014
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-11-19T00:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-s-eu-officials-seek-data-protection-plan-by-2014s.html
U.S. and European Union officials
agreed to try to complete an agreement by mid-2014 to protect
individuals’ private data while sharing information for law
enforcement, weeks after Europeans were angered by allegations
that the U.S. eavesdropped on some world leaders.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and Rand Beers, acting
secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, met yesterday
with European Union Justice Commissioner Vivane Reding,
Lithuanian Justice Minister Juozas Bernatonis and other European
officials at the Justice Department in  Washington .  The meeting followed media reports that the U.S. National
Security Agency listened in on the phone of German Chancellor
Angela Merkel.  U.S. intelligence activities “led to regrettable tensions
in the trans-Atlantic relationship, which we seek to lessen,”
according to the joint statement issued by the U.S. and European
officials after the meeting.  The officials said they are “committed to advancing
rapidly in the negotiations” with a goal of reaching a data-protection agreement by mid-2014, according to the joint
statement.  The EU and U.S. started  talks  in 2011 on such an agreement
for cooperation to combat terrorism and crime. More than 15
negotiating rounds have failed to yield a deal, Reding said in
advance of the meeting.  The U.S would win back lost trust by granting EU citizens
the right to sue U.S. agencies that violate their privacy
rights, Reding said in a statement before the meeting.  ‘Judicial Redress’  “It is important that a European boarding a plane in  Rome 
or searching the web from his home in  Germany  has a right of
judicial redress in the U.S. whenever their personal data are
being processed in the U.S.,” Reding said. An accord “will
contribute to restoring trust in trans-Atlantic relations, which
is of particular importance at this moment in time.”  “Every U.S. citizen in the European Union already enjoys”
the right to judicial redress “irrespective of whether he or
she is resident in the EU,” said Reding. “But European
citizens who are not resident in the U.S. do not enjoy this
right.”  Officials would work to resolve that question, according to
the joint statement, which called it “a critical issue for the
EU.”  EU Home Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem also took
part in yesterday’s talks as the 28-nation bloc pressed for
clarification of the extent of U.S surveillance programs.  NSA Restrictions  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and U.S. lawmakers
have said they are open to placing restrictions on the NSA,
including what kind of data it can collect, how its databases
can be mined, the ability to eavesdrop on foreign leaders and
requiring the agency to defend its requests against a privacy
advocate before a secret intelligence court. Most of the spying
was exposed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.  The EU’s Reding is struggling to win approval for separate
proposals to bolster the EU’s privacy rules, which date to 1995,
including measures to implement tougher constraints on U.S.
technology companies. The overhaul could result in U.S.-based
technology companies facing fines as high as 100 million euros
($135 million) for data-protection violations.  Advocates of toughening Europe’s data protection have
called for new rules to be adopted before European Parliament
elections in 2014. EU leaders last month bowed to U.K. demands
for a slowdown in adoption of the data-protection law to
consider the effect of the legislation on businesses, dropping
the 2014 deadline in favor of a pledge to introduce the plans in
“timely fashion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Trier at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  