-- U.S. Court Allowed Internet Data Mining After Violations
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-11-19T05:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/u-s-court-allowed-internet-data-mining-after-violations.html
A secret U.S. court authorized
expanded government collection of Internet data for terrorism
investigations even after finding “longstanding and pervasive
violations” of prior court orders.  The court  ruling  and other documents were  released  last
night by Director of National Intelligence James Clapper in
response to a lawsuit by privacy advocates. The date of the
ruling by U.S. District Judge John D. Bates was redacted, though
a footnote referred to a June 2010 case, meaning the decision
was issued during President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  “The government acknowledges that NSA exceeded the scope
of authorized acquisition continuously” during prior years of
authorized Internet data collection, Bates wrote, referring to
the National Security Agency. He cited “systemic
overcollection” of data that wasn’t authorized for collection.  An NSA review “overlooked unauthorized acquisitions that
were documented in virtually every record of what was
acquired,” Bates wrote.  The Obama administration is fighting a global backlash over
revelations that the NSA spied on foreign leaders, including
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , hacked into fiber-optic cables
to get data from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , and intercepted
Americans’ communications without warrants.  Most of the spying was exposed by former NSA contractor
Edward Snowden, who fled to  Hong Kong  and then  Russia , where he
has temporary asylum.  Prism Program  Internet companies are compelled under court orders to
provide the NSA with e-mails and other online communications of
U.S. citizens without warrants under a program known as Prism,
intended to identify foreign terrorists, as long as the subject
of the investigation is a suspected foreign terrorist.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Yahoo were cited in
documents leaked by Snowden as providing the NSA with data under
the program. Bulk collection of e-mail records was ended by the
Obama administration in 2011, Clapper said last night.  The prior authorization of the Internet data-collection
program was allowed to expire, according to Bates’s opinion. He
wrote that the U.S. was seeking a new authorization that would
allow an 11-to 24-fold increase in the volume of Internet data
it would collect.  The history of government “misstatements” and non-compliance with previous orders “gives the court pause before
approving such an expanded collection,” the judge wrote.  ‘Useful’ Leads  Still, Bates wrote that bulk data collection can help the
NSA “generate useful investigative leads to help identify and
track terrorist operatives.” He ordered stricter compliance
procedures and barred the U.S. from using earlier-captured data
that it hadn’t been authorized to collect.  The opinion was part of more than 1,000 pages of documents
released last night by the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence. A panel appointed by Obama has undertaken a review
of U.S. surveillance programs and is due to submit a final
report by Dec. 15.  Earlier yesterday, the  Supreme Court  turned aside a
challenge to U.S. spying practices, leaving intact an order that
required Verizon Communications Inc. to turn over records of its
customers’ domestic phone calls.  The justices said they wouldn’t hear arguments from the
Electronic Privacy Information Center, which argued that the
national-security court exceeded its authority by ordering
Verizon to provide the call data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  