-- Lufthansa Adds Freighters in Flat Market to Face Gulf Threat
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-11-19T16:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/lufthansa-adds-freighters-in-flat-market-to-fend-off-gulf-threat.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, will boost cargo capacity as much as 5
percent next year as it operates four new  Boeing Co. (BA)  777F
freighter planes while retiring only two older MD-11 models.  Lufthansa Cargo will add a second 777F next month after
taking the first today, plus two in 2014, Karl Ulrich Garnadt,
the unit’s chief executive officer, said in  Frankfurt . The jets
will debut on U.S. flights and serve Asia routes from next year.  Lufthansa is adding aircraft with the air-cargo sector
still struggling to regain lost ground after the 2008 slump in a
bet that new planes will keep it competitive as passenger-jet
orders from Gulf rivals add huge volumes of belly capacity. Its
cargo unit has five 777F’s due for delivery through 2015, with
options for five more that can be converted from next September.  “It’s no surprise that global freight markets have
developed weaker than anticipated this year,” Garnadt said at a
press briefing on the new model at Lufthansa’s main hub, adding:
“We will see a return to growth next year.”  Lufthansa is spending 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) on the
777Fs, an expanded cargo terminal and a move to digital
platforms by 2020. The new planes can carry 103 metric tons of
freight, versus 90 tons on its Boeing MD-11s, of which there are
18 in the fleet before the two retirements due next year.  Winners Emerging  “In a world where cargo markets have not grown for four
years, this investment is a sign of trust in Lufthansa Cargo and
its operations,” group CEO Christoph Franz told reporters.  While Mideast operators led by Dubai-based Emirates are
adding belly space and freighters, the stuttering economy that
led Air Cargo Germany GmbH to fold in March and prompted Denver-based  Frontier Airlines  to cease freight flights at the end of
September should ease overcapacity, Lufthansa reckons.  “We’ve heard the Gulf carriers ordering hundreds of new
planes, and we’re often asked how we plan to deal with this,”
Garnadt said. “Yes, the cargo industry is under pressure. But
the market is just beginning to separate winners from losers. We
are among the few companies that will keep making profits.”  The executive added that new planes won’t guarantee success
amid the heightened competition, and that Lufthansa’s cargo unit
also needs innovation and improved service quality.  Lufthansa Cargo, which gets about half its business from
freighters and the rest from passenger aircraft, said Oct. 31 it
would offer 6 percent more cargo capacity this quarter, while
raising carriage prices. The parent company said Oct. 22 that
full-year operating profit would probably fall short of analyst
estimates, blaming weaker cargo operations, together with
restructuring costs and the strong euro.  Garnadt reiterated that the freight division is looking to
partner with other airlines, and said the first such accord will
be announced next year, without providing details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  