-- UN’s Challenge: The 638 Million in India Who Go Outdoors
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-11-19T18:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/un-s-challenge-the-638-million-in-india-who-go-outdoors.html
About 638 million people in  India ,
or more than half of those residing in the second-most populous
nation on Earth, defecate in the open.  Remedying the dearth of toilets, its toll on children from
diarrhea and other diseases related to dirty water and
sanitation, and the lack of a safe clean place to go is the
challenge facing India and others on the first World Toilet Day.  On a planet where one in three don’t have access to proper
sanitation, toilets are out of reach for 53 percent of India’s
1.2 billion residents left with little choice but to go
outdoors, according to  UNICEF .  “Having access to a toilet is still an alien concept in
India,” said Subramanya Kusnur, chairman and chief executive
officer of Aquakraft Projects Ltd., a company that’s setting up
water vending machines in rural India.  The good news is that the figure for those lacking a toilet
in India is an improvement from 63.6 percent in 2001. According
to the  United Nations , 1.8 billion people in a world of 7
billion have gained access to sanitation since 1990 though 15
percent of the globe still practices open defecation.  Twenty countries, most in  South Asia  and sub-Saharan
Africa, account for 80 percent of the 1.1 billion that practice
open defecation. About 526 million women have nowhere safe to go
to the toilet except in the open, the  WaterAid  agency says.  ‘Basic Service’  “At the turn of the millennium, world leaders promised to
halve the proportion of people living without access to a basic
toilet by 2015,” Barbara Frost, chief executive of WaterAid,
said in a statement. “At current rates of progress, around half
a billion people will have to wait another decade before they
get this basic service they were promised.”  According to the UN, open defecation is the riskiest
sanitation practice, one of the main causes of diarrhea. Each
day about 3,000 children age 4 and younger die from it, most
before their second birthday.  “The biggest public health impact on the rural population
is because of lack of access to proper sanitation,”  Kusnur
said today in a phone interview. “Education access depends on
availability of clean drinking water, especially for the girl
child. And this has been a big problem in this country.”  Use of simple pit toilets helped 6-year-old Indian children
study better because of improved physical and mental health,
according to a  World Bank  study based on a government-run
sanitation program.  India’s  Total Sanitation Program , which started in 2001,
helped cut open defecation in the Asian nation by more than 10
percent in as many years, according to the study released by the
World Bank.  Latrines Help  Children living in villages in which more latrines had been
constructed by their first year of life were more likely to
recognize letters and numbers when they are 6, the World Bank
paper showed.  Open defecation remains a threat to India’s labor force.
Waterborne diseases deprive India of 73 million working days
each year and along with the health impact affects economic
gains, according to a  report  by the WaterAid group.  While more than half of India’s people go to the toilet
outdoors, in Bangladesh and  Brazil  only 7 percent do. That
figure is 4 percent in  China , Unicef data shows.  Let’s “break the taboos and make sanitation for all a
global development priority,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon
said in declaring today the inaugural World Toilet Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  