-- United Reaches 5-Year High After $2 Billion Cost-Cut Plan
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-11-19T21:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/united-to-trim-2-billion-in-costs-in-shareholder-return-plan.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
climbed to the highest price since 2008 after the world’s
biggest airline said it would cut $2 billion in annual spending
and boost profit.  Half the savings will come from a 7 percent reduction in
fuel expense as it flies newer, more efficient planes such as
 Boeing Co.’s (BA)  787 Dreamliner and existing aircraft are equipped
with winglets to boost conservation. At a presentation in  New
York  today, the Chicago-based carrier also said it expects to
boost fee revenue by $700 million a year.  United combined with Continental Airlines in 2010 and has
struggled since then to control costs that are growing faster
for each seat flown a mile than  revenue  on the same basis.
 Profit growth  trailed competitors in the last quarter and the
carrier is counting on an overhaul of its fleet designed to swap
gas-guzzlers with more fuel-efficient models.  “We are very positive on these stated goals, but where UAL
has run into problems over the past two years is in execution of
its stated plans,” James Corridore, an analyst with Standard &
Poor’s Capital IQ, wrote in a note to clients today. “We would
like to see some traction on these plans.”  United  rose  3.9 percent to $37.80 at 4 p.m. in New York. It
was the highest close since Feb. 13, 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that reflect the merger with Continental.  Return Cash  United’s plan, which includes an unspecified return of cash
to shareholders in 2015, was outlined after a series of
operational issues snarled flights and drove away some customers
and four public computer disruptions since the airline switched
to a new reservation system in March 2012.  “We’re very confident we can deliver,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Smisek  said today at the presentation, the first as
a combined airline. “We believe that we can deliver for you,
our investors, multiples of our current earnings.”  The plan calls for as much as a 20 percent increase on a
per-mile-flown basis in employee productivity, which has fallen
each year since the merger. The changes as a whole will raise
pretax earnings in a range of 2 percent to 4 percent over the
next four years, the airline said.  United, which said it will pay as much as $13 billion for
fuel in 2013, will take delivery of 25 new planes annually over
the next four years to replace older models and smaller regional
aircraft.  Potential Gains  The new planes and other measures are projected to lower
maintenance costs by $100 million annually, while another $500
million in potential gains is anticipated from boosting employee
productivity. The company also sees $150 million in potential
savings from sourcing and $100 million by shifting distribution
channels by which it sells fares, according to the presentation.  “The plan we’ve laid out today will allow us to grow our
earnings by delivering on cost reductions and revenue
initiatives, and will remove a lot of risk in the business,”
Chief Financial Officer John Rainey said. Achieving those
targets “will allow us to get to the point sometime in 2015
that we can begin returning cash to shareholders.”  United will shift use of some of its largest planes, as
well as cancel flights between Seattle and  Tokyo , and Tokyo and
Bangkok. A smaller plane will be used for flights between Tokyo
and  Seoul  and a second daily Houston-Tokyo flight will be added.
The carrier will also put Dreamliners into new markets.  Redesigned Website  The airline said it would generate $3.5 billion in
ancillary revenue by 2017 through new purchase options for
customers and improved pricing on existing products. It also
will introduce a redesigned website that will be unveiled in
phases over the next year.  United’s third-quarter pretax margin of 5.8 percent trailed
the 11.5 percent at Delta Air Lines Inc., 9.5 percent at  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and 9.2 percent at Southwest Airlines Co.  In October, Smisek said the carrier had addressed
maintenance issues with its biggest planes that resulted in them
being placed on less-than optimal routes. Those changes are
expected to create a $40 million annual benefit, the airline
said. United also has resolved a revenue management system error
that caused it to sell too many low fares for too long.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  