-- University of Maryland Must Face ACC’s Exit Fee Lawsuit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-11-19T21:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/university-of-maryland-must-face-acc-s-exit-fee-lawsuit.html
The Atlantic Coast Conference can
proceed with its lawsuit seeking to force the  University of
Maryland  pay $52.3 million for leaving the athletic conference,
a North Carolina appeals court said.  The ACC sued in state court in Greensboro, North Carolina,
to enforce the withdrawal penalty after the school announced in
November 2012 that it would join the  Big Ten Conference  in July
2014. A judge in February denied the university’s request to
dismiss the case based on the defense that Maryland, which
governs the  university , has sovereign immunity protecting it
from lawsuits in North Carolina courts.  Allowing Maryland to assert such a defense would violate
public policy, the state appeals court in Raleigh, North
Carolina, ruled today in upholding the lower court.  “Public policy is violated in North Carolina when the
state is allowed to assert sovereign immunity as a defense to
causes of actions based on contract,” the appeals court said.
The ACC is suing based on the its constitution, which is alleged
to be a contract among its members, the judges said.  Maryland announced its departure from the ACC after the
conference voted to triple the penalty for leaving. The
university filed its own complaint in state court in Maryland in
January alleging the decision to boost exit fees was made
without basis, analysis or justification. Maryland and  Florida
State University  voted against the increase.  Brian Ullman, a spokesman for the University of Maryland,
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the
appeals court decision.  Maryland has been a member of the ACC since the
conference’s founding in 1953. The ACC consists of 12
institutions, including the University of North Carolina,  Duke
University  and  Boston College . The Big Ten includes  Pennsylvania
State University , the University of Nebraska and Purdue
University.  The case is Atlantic Coast Conference v. University of
Maryland, COA13-532, North Carolina Court of Appeals
(Raleigh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in federal court in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  