-- Tusk Poised to Start Rescue Mission With Polish Cabinet Revamp
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-11-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/tusk-poised-to-start-rescue-mission-with-polish-cabinet-revamp.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk is
set to trigger a cabinet shakeup that may claim the country’s
longest-serving finance minister in an attempt to boost the
popularity of the second-term government.  Tusk on Nov. 18 said the revamp will have a “deeper
dimension.” Personnel and “structural” changes to the cabinet
will be announced today at a midday press conference in Warsaw,
the prime minister told reporters yesterday. Jacek Rostowski,
who’s overseen finances since 2007, will probably be included
according to Dariusz Rosati, a senior member of the ruling party
and European Union Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski.  Tusk’s  Civic Platform  party lost its poll lead in May for
the first time since 2007 and trailed the opposition Law &
Justice party by 9 percentage points this month. Voters were
angered by government plans to take over pension-fund assets and
by corruption scandals, putting government on its heels,
according to Rosati, the head of parliament’s budget committee.  “As a ruling party, we’ve been put on the defensive,”
Rosati said in a Nov. 18 interview. “The  Finance Ministry  is
the most demanding post and a cabinet reshuffle without a change
there doesn’t make sense.”  The zloty has been resilient amid the political turmoil,
having weakened 0.3 percent against the euro in the past month.
The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-year bond was 4.38
percent yesterday, compared with 4.23 percent on Oct. 18.  ‘No Problem’  “The markets have already gotten used to the idea of a
changing of the guard,” Jakub Borowski, a Warsaw-based
economist at  Credit Agricole (ACA)  and member of Tusk’s Economic
Advisory Council. “With the parameters for next year’s budget
and pension reform already set, timing won’t be a problem.’  As many as seven of Tusk’s 19 ministers may be replaced
today, including Rostowski and Environment Minister Marcin Korolec, according to a Nov. 18 report by Wprost magazine, which
didn’t give the source of its information.  Rosati, named the ‘‘very probable” successor to Rostowski
by website 300polityka.pl yesterday, said he didn’t “have such
plans.” Lewandowski yesterday said by phone he still has his
“mission in Brussels.” Boguslaw Grabowski, a former central
banker who heads the supervisory board at the Warsaw-based
Skarbiec investment fund, is another “most probable” candidate
for the post, the Puls Biznesu newspaper said yesterday.  Growth, Deficit  Rostowski, 62, has been finance minister for six years,
twice as long as  any predecessor  since 1989, and helped  Poland 
become the only EU member to avoid a recession since 2008. He
declined to address speculation that the ruling party’s falling
popularity has put his job in jeopardy, a claim that Tusk denied
last month.  Tusk promoted Rostowski to deputy premier in February to
stress the government’s focus on fiscal discipline and economic
growth. The backdrop is an economy poised to grow at its weakest
pace since at least 1997, which led to a tax-revenue shortfall
and forced Rostowski to announce a deficit overshoot for 2013,
triggering talk in August that his job may be at risk.  Tusk had been expected to announce the changes after Nov.
23, when the ruling party elects new leadership. The timing was
moved up after Transport Minister Slawomir Nowak resigned Nov.
15 after he failed to report a gift watch. Science Minister
Barbara Kudrycka the same day said she’d leave the cabinet.  The scandal erupted as Civic Platform continued to founder
in the polls. Support for Law & Justice rose to 31 percent from
30 percent last month, while the ruling party’s backing fell to
22 percent from 25 percent, the PAP news service reported,
citing a Nov. 8-15 survey of 965 Poles by the polling company
TNS Polska. No margin of error was given.  The government’s plan until the next election in 2015
should include a “radical simplification” of the  tax code  and
a health-care overhaul to include more paid services, Rosati
said.  “If a new finance minister changes anything, it should be
for the better,”  Lutz Roehmeyer , a  fund manager  at Landesbank
Berlin Investment who helps oversee the equivalent of $13.5
billion, said by e-mail yesterday. “They have no incentive to
do funny things because then they won’t be re-elected for
sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  