-- Vance Cybercrime Unit to Be Funded With Bank Settlements
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-11-19T19:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/vance-says-cybercrime-unit-to-be-funded-with-bank-settlements.html
A new unit to track the movement of
illicit money from around the world through  Manhattan  will be
funded with some of the $3 billion brought in through agreements
with banks over violations of U.S. sanctions law, District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. told a cybercrime symposium.  “Due to money received in the sanctions investigations, we
can invest in public-safety efforts in  New York City  that relate
to cybercrime and technology,” Vance, 59, said today at the
Federal Reserve Bank in  New York . The unit, as yet unnamed, is
being referred to internally as an international money movement
unit, and is expected to start by the end of the year.  Patterns in money transfers can help detect other crimes,
such as human trafficking, Vance said. He said his office will
continue to work with private industry on other areas of
cybercrime including intellectual property theft.  The new unit will be part of the district attorney’s Major
Economic Crime Bureau, and is the latest of Vance’s initiatives
to focus on new technology to fight all types of crime. In May,
his office announced it had formed a data-focused group to probe
financial activity involving everything from street crime to
computer crime. The new unit will operate within that one, Vance
said.  Computer Forensics  Vance’s office “has been involved in so many
groundbreaking initiatives to lead this country in what it needs
to do: investigate and prosecute high-tech crimes,” said Don
Brackman, director of the National White Collar Crime Center, an
agency that helps  law enforcement  and regulatory agencies
prosecute crimes using computer forensics and intelligence
analysis.  Six settlements have been reached with large foreign banks
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  over
disguised wire transfers with governments subject to U.S. trade
sanctions. A small portion of the almost $3 billion the money-laundering settlements have brought in will be used to fund the
new unit, which will also train other prosecutors’ offices in
New York, Vance said.  In September, Vance released a report that said New York
needed to update state laws dating from 1986 to better prosecute
white-collar criminals. Current laws predate the Internet,
social media and e-commerce and can’t keep pace with the
increasingly sophisticated frauds his office handles, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in the Federal Reserve Bank in New York at
   tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  