-- Verisk Promotes Hays to Run Health Unit After Sales Slump
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-11-19T21:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/verisk-promotes-hays-to-run-health-unit-after-sales-slump.html
Verisk Analytics Inc. (VRSK) , the supplier
of actuarial and risk data to banks and insurers, promoted
Nadine Hays to lead the health unit after a slump in sales.  Hays was named president of the business, which has 1,850
employees and focuses on clinical risk-assessment technologies
and data, the Jersey City, New Jersey-based company said today
in a statement. She replaces Joel Portice, who is leaving to
“pursue other interests” and will report to Verisk Chief
Executive Officer Scott Stephenson, according to the statement.  Verisk plunged 8.6 percent to $62 on Nov. 6, its biggest
drop since 2009, after revenue missed analysts’ estimates as
growth slowed in the health segment. Third-quarter health-care
sales climbed 6.2 percent to $73.6 million from a year earlier.
That compares with a 21 percent increase in the second quarter.  Hays plans to “help our customers navigate the
unprecedented challenges that the health-care market is
facing,” she said in the statement.  She was previously executive vice president and head of
sales, marketing and strategic partnerships at the health unit.
Hays joined through the company’s 2009 acquisition of D2Hawkeye,
a health-care data company where she served as chief marketing
officer. She graduated from University of  California , Santa
Barbara, and holds a law degree from Loyola Law School in Los
Angeles.  ‘Mutually Agreeable’  Portice’s departure results from a “mutually agreeable
decision,” Verisk said in an e-mailed statement today. He
“played an important role in bringing together the company’s
health-care strategy and acquisitions under a unified brand and
single management team. Verisk thanks Joel for his contribution
and wishes him well in his future endeavors.”  Verisk slipped 0.2 percent to $63.19 at 4:30 p.m. in New
York. The company has advanced 24 percent this year, trailing
the 25 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Growth at the health unit was “below our plan,”
Stephenson said Nov. 5 when it announced third-quarter results.
“But we remain enthusiastic about our longer-term outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  