-- Video Violations That Cost Woods Strokes Dropped by Golf Groups
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-11-19T15:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/video-violations-that-cost-woods-strokes-dropped-by-golf-groups.html
Golf’s governing bodies eliminated
penalties for violations detectable only through video evidence
such as one that cost  Tiger Woods  two strokes in a PGA Tour
playoff event this year.  The rule  change , one of several announced today, follows
cases where players had been penalized for an infraction only
seen when reviewing high-definition replay, often after a
television viewer alerted officials.  The groups delayed a decision until 2016 regarding the
appropriate penalty for instances when a player turns in an
incorrect scorecard when unaware that a penalty had occurred.
This allows television viewers and others to continue to call in
potential penalties they spot while not on site.  “The USGA and The R&A will continue to be guided by the
view that, regardless of the timing or the type of evidence
used, the integrity of the game is best served by getting the
ruling right.”  At the U.S. PGA Tour’s BMW Championship in  Lake Forest ,
 Illinois , in September, Woods was assessed a two-stroke penalty
when a freelance videographer for PGA Tour Entertainment alerted
his supervisor that the top-ranked player’s ball moved while he
was removing a stick and pine cone near it. The movement was
only detectable through high-definition video.  Under the change disclosed in a press release by the U.S.
Golf Association and Royal & Ancient Golf Club of  Scotland ,
“the ball will not be deemed to have moved if that movement was
not reasonably discernible to the naked eye at the time.”  “The decision ensures that a player is not penalized in
circumstances where the fact that the ball had changed location
could not reasonably have been seen without the use of enhanced
technology,” the groups said in a joint statement.  Woods’s Denial  Woods was shown video evidence following his round and
denied that his ball moved. He repeatedly defended his position
and said his ball oscillated slightly and returned to its
original spot, which is not a penalty.  The call-in rule also affected Woods. At the  Masters
Tournament  in April, he was assessed a two-stroke penalty after
a viewer called in to tell officials Woods took an improper drop
after hitting into a water hazard in the second round. He
avoided disqualification for signing an incorrect scorecard when
Masters officials said the rules committee previously determined
that the drop was legal.  In other rule modifications today, the USGA and the R&A
said players will be allowed to use smart-phones to access
weather reports during a round to protect their safety. They
also may go forward approximately 50 yards after a shot without
forfeiting the right to go back and play a provisional ball.  The changes will be in effect from 2014 through 2015 and
are part of the groups’ biennial rules review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  