-- Western Union Raises $250 Million in Bond Sale as CFO to Exit
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-11-19T21:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/western-union-said-to-plan-bond-offering-as-cfo-to-exit-1-.html
Western Union Co. (WU) , the provider of
money transfer services whose chief financial officer is
stepping down, raised $250 million of bonds to help repay debt.  The company sold 3.35 percent notes due May 2019 to yield
200 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt is expected to
be rated Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service after it lowered
Western Union’s senior unsecured rating one level from Baa1,
according to a statement yesterday from the ratings firm.  Western Union’s CFO Scott Scheirman will leave the company
on Feb. 28 and step down from his position at year-end, with Raj K. Agrawal, president of Western Union Business Solutions, to
serve as interim CFO starting Jan. 1, the Englewood, Colorado-based company said in a Nov. 14 statement.  “We believe  capital markets  are receptive to deals now,”
Daniel Diaz, a Western Union spokesman, wrote in an e-mail. The
company plans to use proceeds for general corporate purposes,
including debt repayment, he wrote. Western Union has $500
million of 6.5 percent senior unsecured notes maturing in
February, Bloomberg data show.  Operating income at the company, which in 2006 abandoned
its founding telegraph business, is estimated to have fallen to
$1.12 billion this year, the lowest since 2004, Bloomberg  data 
show.  Charging Fees  The offering contains a provision that increases the coupon
payment should Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s cut Western Union’s
rating below investment grade, according to a company filing
today. The interest payment will increase by 25 basis points per
level per credit grader to as much as 200 basis points.  Western Union last sold debt in August, issuing $250
million of floating-rate, two-year debentures to yield 100 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, Bloomberg
data show.  The company makes money by charging fees on money transfers
and through spreads on exchange rates. A customer who wants to
send $100 by  credit card  to  Mexico  pays a $5 fee in the U.S.,
according to the company’s website. The recipient in Mexico
would get pesos calculated at a rate that gives the company an
additional profit.  Western Union ranked 41st out of the 100 largest short
interest positions on the  New York  Stock Exchange as of the Oct.
31 settlement date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  