-- Bangladesh Garment Workers Stage Fresh Protests After Two Deaths
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-11-19T08:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/two-bangladesh-garment-workers-die-in-protests-for-higher-wages.html
Bangladesh  garment workers took to
the streets today in the Ashulia industrial zone outside of the
capital Dhaka, protesting the second-lowest wages in Asia, after
another demonstration yesterday left at least two dead.  Hundreds of workers demanded a higher monthly salary of
8,000 taka ($103) today and the protests forced 50 clothing
factories to suspend production, Abdus Sattar Miah, a spokesman
of Industrial Police, said over the phone. A group of plant
owners held a meeting with the home ministry seeking help to
control the labor unrest, said Abdus Salam Murshedy, president
of Exporters Association of Bangladesh.  “We are very frustrated,” Murshedy said. “It seems that
we have to fold our business, hand over the factory keys to the
government and go home.”  Unsafe factories and wages higher than only Myanmar in Asia
have sparked labor tensions in Bangladesh’s $20 billion garment
industry, which supplies global retailers from  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  with cheap apparel. Thousands of
workers walked out of factories and clashed with the police
yesterday in the industrial zone of Gazipur, leaving two dead,
30 people injured and forcing the shutdown of 100 plants,
according to Mohammad Abdul Barek, an assistant sub-inspector of
police.  One of the deceased in yesterday’s protests had bullet
wounds, said Zahidur Rahman, a spokesman for Enam Medical
College and Hospital in Savar, Bangladesh. The government last
week increased the minimum wage to 5,300 taka, below the amount
unions are demanding.  The demonstrations follow last week’s labor unrest that
shut about 250 factories in the industrial zone of Ashulia. The
South Asian nation has struggled to rebuild its image after the
April collapse of the Rana Plaza factory complex killed more
than 1,100 people in the country’s worst industrial disaster.  International Pressure  The two who died in the industrial zone outside the capital
Dhaka were workers, said Barek, the assistant sub-inspector of
police, without providing details on the cause of the deaths.
The nation’s top-selling newspaper Prothom Alo identified the
workers as Badsha Miah, 25, and Ruma Akter, 22.  International retailers have been under pressure to improve
conditions across the country’s apparel industry. Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest retailer, has posted  online  the names and safety
assessments of 75 factories in the South Asian country. About 10
of them failed their initial assessments and improved their
scores by follow-up inspections, Wal-Mart spokesman Kevin Gardner said.  Two facilities didn’t meet standards during follow-up
assessments and Wal-Mart no longer will use those locations, he
said.  In September, thousands of demonstrators demanding higher
wages forced the closure of 400 of the country’s 5,000 clothing
factories. Monthly manufacturing wages in Bangladesh average
$74, only higher than the $53 workers receive in Myanmar,
according to an Asia survey by the Japan External Trade
Organization released in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  