-- Four Senate Republicans Back Yellen for U.S. Fed Chairman
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-11-19T23:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/two-senate-republicans-back-yellen-for-u-s-fed-chairman.html
Four Senate Republicans say they’re
inclined to support  Janet Yellen  to be chairman of the U.S.
Federal Reserve, leaving her nomination one vote shy of the 60
she needs to be confirmed by the full Senate.  Republicans  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma,  Susan Collins  of Maine,
 Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina and  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said
today in interviews at the Capitol that they’d probably support
Yellen when the nomination comes to the Senate floor, which may
occur the week of Dec. 9.  “I’m inclined to,” Coburn said when asked if he’d back
her nomination. “She’s obviously qualified. I don’t agree with
a lot of her philosophy, but she’s qualified.”  Coburn is a member of the Banking Committee, which will
vote Nov. 21 on Yellen’s nomination. Democrats have a two-seat
edge of that panel, so could recommend her confirmation even
without the Republican support.  Democrats, who control 55 seats in the Senate, are united
behind Yellen. She would need the support of at least five
Republicans to overcome opponents’ attempts to thwart her
confirmation.  “She seems to be a qualified lady,” Graham said of
Yellen, 67. He said he’s “inclined to support her” when asked
about his position on her nomination.  ‘Well Qualified’  Collins said she was “certainly inclined to support”
Yellen, adding, “I believe that she’s well qualified for the
position.”  Even with the backing of Coburn, Collins, Graham, Hatch and
all 55 Democrats, Yellen would need the vote of one more
Republican on the Senate floor to ensure that opponents couldn’t
block her nomination.  Kentucky’s Rand Paul, Alabama’s  Richard Shelby ,
Pennsylvania’s  Pat Toomey , North Dakota’s  John Hoeven  and
Kansas’s  Pat Roberts  are among Republicans who have said they
probably will vote against her confirmation.  At least three Republican senators --  Kelly Ayotte  of New
Hampshire, Mike Johanns of Nebraska, and  Lisa Murkowski  of
Alaska -- said today that they hadn’t made up their minds about
Yellen and didn’t rule out supporting her.  Yellen faces opposition from some Republicans who
disapprove of the Fed’s recent monetary policy.  Republican Opposition  Republicans have opposed the bond-buying pace that has
swelled the  Fed’s balance sheet  to almost $4 trillion. The
Federal Open Market Committee began $40 billion in monthly
purchases of mortgage-backed securities in September 2012 and
announced the addition of $45 billion in Treasury securities to
that pace in December.  Fed officials have said their current pace of purchases
will continue until the  labor market  improves “substantially.”  “I haven’t made a final decision,” Johanns, who’s a
member of the Banking Committee, said in an interview. “But
today I’m still of a mind that I’m open to her.”  Johanns predicted that Yellen probably would get the
backing of at least five Republicans on the Senate floor to
assure her confirmation.  “Yeah, I think that’s doable,” he said.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican and member of
the banking panel, said he would announce his position tomorrow.
He said he met with Yellen yesterday and discussed monetary
policy.  ‘Very Transparent’  “She obviously has a lot of attributes. She’s certainly
likable and has been very transparent,” Corker said. “At the
same time, though, there is a view of the world that is somewhat
different than mine, and I have to take that into account.”  Paul of Kentucky said he will oppose Yellen’s nomination
unless he receives consideration of his measure requiring a
public audit of the Federal Reserve.  In two hours of testimony before the banking panel last
week, Yellen indicated she’ll press on with the  Federal
Reserve ’s unprecedented monetary stimulus until she sees a
robust recovery. Yellen signaled her determination to use bond
buying to strengthen the economy and lower the 7.3 percent U.S.
unemployment rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  