-- Won Approaches Two-Year High on Fed Delay Optimism; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-11-19T01:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/won-approaches-two-year-high-on-fed-delay-optimism-bonds-rise.html
The won approached a two-year high
as global investors bought South Korean shares before a Federal
Reserve report that may detail reasons for maintaining stimulus
that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets. Bonds rose.  Fed Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley said
yesterday that while the world’s largest economy has improved,
the growth momentum isn’t strong enough to boost the outlook for
jobs. The U.S. central bank releases the minutes of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s Oct. 29-30 meeting tomorrow. Overseas
funds bought more local equities than they sold today, exchange
data show. The won touched a two-year high of 1,054.35 per
dollar on Oct. 24 before suspected intervention by the Bank of
 Korea  to curb gains that may harm exports.  “Some of the remarks by Dudley added to speculation the
Fed will maintain its stimulus,” said Yoo Hyen Jo, an economist
at Shinhan Investment Corp. in  Seoul . “Investors would like to
find out from the FOMC minutes the opinions of other Fed
officials on the policy.”  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,055.95 versus the dollar
as of 10:32 a.m. in Seoul, the strongest level since Oct. 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility in the won, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 5.97 percent.  Morgan Stanley favors buying the won because South Korea’s
economy will benefit from U.S. growth and as the Bank of Korea
prepares to scale back currency intervention, strategists led by
 Hans Redeker , its London-based head of global currency strategy,
wrote in a research note yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2016 dropped one basis point to a one-week low of 2.92
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  