-- World Bank’s Kim Urges Gradual Fed Tapering as Nations Prepare
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-11-19T15:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/world-bank-s-kim-urges-gradual-fed-tapering-as-nations-prepare.html
World Bank  President Jim Yong Kim
said he hopes the  Federal Reserve  will exit its monetary
stimulus bit by bit as he urged emerging markets to prepare for
a wave of higher global  interest rates .  “As long as anything that happens is gradual, we think
that developing economies will be able to respond effectively,”
Kim told Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu . “Anything abrupt
would be more problematic.”  Bond prices slumped internationally and emerging-market
stocks plunged after May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said for the first time the central bank could taper its $85
billion-a-month asset-purchase program. While those market
movements were partly reversed after the Fed maintained its
policy, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have
called on nations from Turkey to Indonesia to strengthen their
economies in preparation for the reduction.  Kim said there’s “a little window” for developing
economies to act and take measures ranging from fiscal policy to
debt management.  Some of the emerging markets that were growing fast are
beginning to pay the price of not having adjusted their
policies, former Bank of Israel governor Stanley Fischer said at
a conference in Washington today. India in particular has been
“a great disappointment,” with next year’s election
threatening to drive policy-making, Fischer said.  “India had it right and then the politics has taken over
and it’s doing things that do not make a lot of sense
economically,” Fischer said at the Wall Street Journal’s CEO
Council conference. “Whenever there’s an election coming up,
it’s worth considering what they’re going to do up to the
election and how long it will take them to undo it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  