-- WTI Oil Rises From 5-Month Low as Refinery Use Climbing
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-11-19T21:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/wti-little-changed-near-lowest-level-in-five-months.html
West Texas Intermediate oil rose
from a five-month low on speculation that demand for crude
increased as refineries boosted production after ending seasonal
maintenance.  Futures advanced 0.3 percent. An Energy Information
Administration report tomorrow will probably show that
refineries  utilized  89.2 percent of capacity last week, up 0.5
percentage point from Nov. 8, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Crude  supplies  gained a ninth week in the poll. Talks between
Iran and the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council plus  Germany  will resume tomorrow in Geneva.  “I’ve changed my outlook for WTI from bearish to
bullish,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “We are coming out of
turnaround season and can expect refiners to boost operating
rates, which will increase crude demand.”  WTI for December delivery rose 31 cents to settle at $93.34
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Futures touched
$92.43, the lowest level since June 4. The volume of all futures
traded was 8 percent below the 100-day average at 4:37 p.m.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
 American Petroleum Institute  reported supplies rose 512,000
barrels last week. WTI climbed 32 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$93.35 a barrel at 4:37 p.m. in electronic trading. It was
$93.40 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent Decline  Brent oil for January settlement fell $1.55, or 1.4
percent, to end the session at $106.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The volume of all futures
traded was 7.3 percent below the 100-day average.  The European benchmark crude closed at a $13.03 premium to
WTI for the same month, down from $14.79 at yesterday’s settle.  Refineries last week operated at the highest level since
September, according to the survey. Units were idled for
maintenance in September and October after the peak summer
gasoline-demand season ended and before heating demand increased
with the arrival of winter.  U.S.  crude supplies  probably rose by 1 million barrels to
389.1 million in the week ended Nov. 15, the most since June,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg before tomorrow’s EIA report. Inventories climbed 32.5
million barrels in the eight weeks ended Nov. 8. The EIA is the
Energy Department’s statistical unit.  Market ‘Consolidating’  “The market is stabilizing and consolidating as we wait
for fresh news,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “We have the weekly inventory
reports tomorrow and the Iranian nuclear talks, which resume
tomorrow, have been a preoccupation.”  The negotiations with Iran are aimed at reaching a deal
that would relieve international sanctions on the country in
exchange for curbs on its nuclear program.  Iran  denies
allegations its atomic energy and medical research work is a
cover to build weapons. An initial attempt to reach a deal
faltered in the last round of talks that ended Nov. 10.  “There’s hopefulness about the resumption of talks in
Geneva,” said John Kilduff, a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “A lot of
optimism has been built in here, so watch out for the market to
whipsaw on any scent that negotiations are in trouble.”  Iranian Output  Iran’s oil output has decreased 16 percent since the U.S.
and the European Union tightened sanctions in July 2012 to curb
its nuclear program, a Bloomberg survey of oil companies,
producers and analysts showed. Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest
producer in June 2012, is now in sixth place.  “Anyone expecting a spigot of Iranian oil will open on
Thursday is out of touch with what will occur, even if the talks
are successful,” Evans said.  A Libyan oil terminal loaded probably its first crude cargo
onto a tanker in at least a month. The Matilda, a ship able to
haul about 600,000 barrels of crude, is currently loading at the
Brega facility in the center-east and will depart today, Ibrahim Al Awami, the director of measurement for the oil ministry, said
by phone today. Libya’s National Oil Corp. said yesterday that a
tanker would load at Mellitah, a facility in the west.  Libyan output  climbed 150,000 barrels a day to 450,000 in
October, according to a Bloomberg survey. Output averaged about
1.3 million barrels a day in the first six months of this year
before tumbling.  Libyan Improvement  “Signs of some improvement in Libya are putting pressure
on Brent,” Kilduff said.  WTI fell as much as 0.6 percent earlier as the  Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development  cut its global growth
forecasts. The Paris-based OECD said the world economy will
probably expand 2.7 percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2014,
revised from the 3.1 percent and 4 percent predicted in May.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
January was 17.9 percent, little changed from yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 505,760
contracts as of 4:38 p.m. It totaled 492,427 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.64 million contracts, the least since March 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  