-- WTI-Brent Discount Nears Widest Level Since March
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2013-11-19T12:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/wti-near-five-month-low-as-stimulus-outlook-counters-supply-drop.html
West Texas Intermediate oil traded
near its widest discount to North Sea Brent crude in eight
months as investors weighed a possible easing of U.S. financial
stimulus.  WTI lost as much as 0.3 percent in  New York  before a
planned speech by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in
 Washington , as investors speculate about whether he’ll maintain
bond purchases that have been pumping liquidity into the
economy. U.S. crude traded at a five-month low yesterday after
Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley
raised the prospect the central bank will trim stimulus. Crude
stockpiles probably fell in the U.S. after eight weeks of gains,
a Bloomberg survey showed before a government report tomorrow.  “WTI’s weakness represents the fact that the market is
comfortable with the demand and supply situation,” Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, said by
telephone today. “There’s the expectation of higher supply and
no big increase in demand. There is still uncertainty over
economic development in the next six months and that’s a factor
that’s keeping prices down.”  WTI for December delivery slid as much as 28 cents to
$92.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $92.85 at 11:57 a.m. London time. It fell 81
cents yesterday to $93.03 a barrel, the lowest level since May
31. The more active January contract lost 16 cents to $93.52.
The volume of all futures traded was about 32 percent below the
100-day average.  Brent for January settlement fell as much as 56 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $107.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $14.85 to WTI for the same month. The spread closed at $14.79
yesterday. On Nov. 14, it was the widest in intraday trading
since March 18.  Economic Stimulus  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has been buying
$85 billion of bonds every month to spur growth, has indicated
plans to slow the purchases. Dudley said while he’s “more
hopeful” the  U.S. economy  is strengthening, the signals aren’t
yet sufficient to warrant stimulus cuts. His comments echoed
those made last week by Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , the
nominee to succeed Bernanke, whose term ends on Jan. 31.  The FOMC won’t taper its purchases until its March 18 to
March 19 meeting, according to the median estimate of 32
economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Nov. 8. The U.S., the
world’s largest oil consumer, will account for about 21 percent
of global demand this year, according to the  International
Energy Agency  in Paris.  Crude Supplies  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably shrank by 1 million barrels
in the week ended Nov. 15, according to the median estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s report
from the Energy Information Administration. Supplies have risen
for eight weeks to 388.1 million, the highest level since June.  Gasoline inventories  are expected to have climbed by
900,000 barrels last week, the survey shows. Distillate
supplies, including heating oil and diesel, were probably
unchanged after three weeks of declines.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in Washington will release
separate stockpile data today. The industry group collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines. The government requires that
reports be filed with the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  