-- Ban Ki-Moon Scolds Rich Countries Backtracking on Climate
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-11-19T16:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-19/typhoon-may-be-last-alarm-bell-on-climate-ban-ki-moon-says.html
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon lashed out at rich nations that are watering down
commitments to fight global warming, citing the typhoon that
devastated the  Philippines .  Some developed countries “that are supposed to be taking
leadership are now backtracking,” Ban said at  UN climate talks 
in Warsaw today. “That’s quite disappointing. We have to take
urgent action.”  The comments were meant to goad envoys from almost 190
nations at the meeting to step up their efforts to cut fossil-fuel emissions blamed for damaging the atmosphere. For the first
time since the UN-led discussions started in 1992, richer
nations led by  Japan ,  Canada  and  Australia  have stepped away
from promises to rein in emissions.  Scientists say rising temperatures are spreading droughts,
more violent storms and boosting sea levels. Typhoon Haiyan
struck the Philippines with 195 mile-per-hour winds earlier this
month, killing thousands and leaving more without homes.  The tragedy represents “an alarm bell, maybe the last
alarm bell,” Ban said.  Japan last week shelved its target to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions from 1990 levels, arguing that the closure of nuclear
reactors following the meltdown in Fukushima in 2011 make
meeting that goal impossible.  Inadequate Pledges  Ban urged nations to ratify the second commitment period of
the  Kyoto Protocol , step up financial aid for  developing
countries  and commit to more ambitious emissions-reduction
targets to keep warming below the internationally agreed limit
of 2 degrees Celcius (3.6 Fahrenheit) since industrialization.  “Current pledges are simply inadequate,” Ban told
delegates at a joint event with Polish President Donald Tusk.
“We must set the bar higher.”  Two weeks of talks in Warsaw are due to wrap up on Nov. 22.
The delegates are aiming to put in place the building blocks for
a treaty limiting emissions that could be adopted in 2015 and
come into force in 2020.  Ban said there are “serious concerns” about how
industrial nations meet their commitment to boost climate-related aid to $100 billion by 2020. “I am urging you to do
more.”  The U.S. is still expected to take a leadership role, Ban
told a press conference. “We need the developed world to lead
this campaign. They have capacity. They have systems and means.
It is absolutely necessary and crucial.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Warsaw at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  