-- ‘The Devil Inside’ Leads Box-Office Sales in Opening Weekend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/-the-devil-inside-leads-box-office-sales-in-opening-weekend.html
The exorcism film “The Devil
Inside” opened in first place with $34.5 million in sales at
U.S. and Canadian theaters, knocking off  Tom Cruise ’s “ Mission
Impossible : Ghost Protocol” after a two-week run at the top.  “Mission: Impossible” dropped to second place with $20.5
million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures released both films.  Box-office sales rose 30 percent in the first full weekend
of the new year, suggesting studios and theater owners are
getting off to a faster start in 2012. Domestic ticket sales
declined 3.4 percent last year and attendance dropped 4.2
percent to the lowest level in 16 years.  “‘Devil Inside’ just took the whole industry by
surprise,” said  Jeff Bock , a box-office analyst for Exhibitor
Relations Co. in Los Angeles, in a telephone interview. “A
horror film that comes out at this time of year is expected to
open at $5 million to $10 million. It’s usually a wasteland for
films that come out in January.”  The movie, made for $1 million, won over audiences in
spite of critical reviews. Of 28 posted on rottentomatoes.com,
26 were negative. The film is about a woman who is controlled by
an evil presence and her daughter’s effort to free her by
arranging for an exorcism.  The movie features Fernanda Andrade, Bonnie Morgan and Evan
Helmuth. “The Devil Inside” was expected to have sales of
$14.1 million, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  ‘Mission: Impossible’  Bock said the film was helped by a social media campaign
aimed at younger people that used  Facebook ,  Twitter  and other
websites to spread messages that teenagers shouldn’t see the
film. It was a strategy similar to one used for “Paranormal
Activity,” a low-budget horror film propelled by Internet
marketing and word of mouth to claim the top spot in October
2009.  “The viral marketing team at Paramount was the same team
that launched ‘Paranormal Activity,’ so they had an inside scoop
into what makes a viral and grassroots success,” Bock said.  In “Mission: Impossible,” Cruise returns as  Ethan Hunt ,
leader of an elite special-operations squad that takes on the
government’s most difficult assignments. This time, team members
go underground to clear their names after being falsely
implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The movie also features
 Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  ‘ Dragon Tattoo ’  “Mission: Impossible” was expected to have weekend sales
of $15.8 million, according to Box Office Mojo. It has collected
$170.2 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters since its Dec. 16
release, Hollywood.com said.  “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,” fell to third place
from second with sales of $14.1 million. The film from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. features Robert Downey Jr. as the
cerebral sleuth created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle.  “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” from  Sony Corp. (6758) , was
fourth with $11.3 million in its third weekend. Rooney Mara
stars as Lisbeth Salander, a computer hacker employed by a
security firm. She joins with a journalist, played by  Daniel Craig , to investigate a chain of homicides. The film is an
English-language remake of a Swedish adaption of the novel by
Stieg Larsson.  “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox studio, was fifth with $9.5 million. The movie is the third
in a series that began in 2007. The picture has generated $111.6
million since it was released on Dec. 16, according to
Hollywood.com.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose to $128.4
million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Through Jan.
8, revenue and attendance in 2012 have both risen 15 percent.
The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Jan. 6
and Jan. 7 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  