-- Adidas, Aer Lingus, Dexia, EON, HMV, VW: Europe Equity Preview
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-01-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/adidas-aer-lingus-dexia-eon-hmv-vw-europe-equity-preview.html
The following companies’ shares may
have unusual moves in  European (SXXP)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.1 percent to 247.53. The
 Stoxx 50 Index (SX5P)  gained 0.1 percent to 2,400.15. The  Euro Stoxx 50
Index (SX5E) , a benchmark measure for nations using the euro, retreated
0.7 percent to 2,298.65.  Adidas AG (ADS) : The German sportswear maker expects to
increase sales of soccer products this year to more than the
record 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) posted in 2010 as the
 European (SXXP)  Cup boosts demand, Chief Financial Officer Robin
Stalker told  Boersen-Zeitung  in an interview. Adidas slipped 1
percent to 51.77 euros.  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  : Ireland has no plans to
discuss the sale of its stake in the Irish carrier to Abu Dhabi-
based  Etihad Airways , a spokesman said. The shares rose 0.8
percent to 65 cents.  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  : Boeing Co.’s new order for 25
composite-plastic Dreamliners is with  Europe ’s biggest airline,
which agreed to buy the jets more than three months ago without
signing the purchase, a person familiar with the plan said. Air
 France  gained 3.9 percent to 3.96 euros.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  : France’s shareholding agency head Jean-
Dominique Comolli rejected Dexia Chief Executive Officer Pierre
Mariani’s proposal that the government nationalize the lender’s
French units Dexia Credit Local and Dexma,  Le Figaro  said,
citing an unidentified participant at the meeting. Dexia was
little changed at 29.2 cents.  EON AG (EOAN)  (EOAN GR):  Germany ’s biggest utility has at least
five potential bidder groups for its gas distribution network
and is asking them to indicate interest by Jan. 20, Reuters
reported, citing an unidentified banker. EON fell 0.1 percent to
17.11 euros.  Fraport AG (FRA)  (FRA GY): The owner of Frankfurt airport has
abandoned plans to bid for 20-year concessions to run  Spain ’s
largest airports because of “difficult” market conditions,
 Cinco Dias  reported, citing an unidentified company spokesman.
Fraport rose 3.1 percent to 40.10 euros.  Genel Energy Plc (GENL)  (GENL LN): The U.K. energy company will
pay $70 million to buy a 40 percent share of the Chia Surkh
oilfield in northern  Iraq  from  Longford Energy Inc. (LFD) , the Sunday
Times reported. Genel fell 1.9 percent to 751.5 pence.  HMV Group Plc (HMV)  : Warner Music Group Corp., Sony
Corp. and private-equity firm Exponent are among potential
buyers of HMV’s Live unit, the Sunday Telegraph reported,
without saying where it got the information. HMV fell 3.2
percent to 3 pence.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  :  Switzerland ’s biggest drugmaker said
it is voluntarily recalling some over-the-counter products in
the U.S. over consumer complaints. The recall is estimated to
result in a one-time charge of $120 million, the company said in
a statement. The shares rose 0.6 percent to 54.70 francs.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : The U.K. lender
may combine its  investment banking  and global transactions
services divisions, the Sunday Telegraph reported, without
citing anyone. RBS gained 1.2 percent to 20.51 pounds.  Solarhybrid AG (SHL)  (SHL GY): The German solar-park developer is
building the first phase of  Italy ’s largest project in Puglia
without external funding while it seeks financing for the rest,
Chief Financial Officer Albert Klein said. Solarhybrid climbed 3
percent to 5.72 euros.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  : Banco di Sicilia foundation won’t
take part in Unicredit’s planned share sale,  la Repubblica 
reported, citing Chairman Giovanni Puglisi. Unicredit fell 11
percent to 3.98 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  (VOW GY): Europe’s biggest carmaker plans to
invest in technology for lighter and more fuel-efficient cars to
avoid becoming embroiled in pricing battles with competitors
amid potentially weakening demand, Automobilwoche reported,
citing an internal memo. Volkswagen fell 1.3 percent to 110.71
euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  