-- Ahmadinejad Woos Chavez-Led Allies in Latin America
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-06-19T14:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/ahmadinejad-woos-chavez-led-allies-as-he-hunts-influence-in-u-s-backyard.html
(Corrects third paragraph of story from Jan. 9 to reflect
trip was Ahmadinejad’s fifth to the region.)  Iranian President  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad , facing tighter U.S. sanctions and rising tensions
in the Persian Gulf, will turn to his diminished group of allies
in Latin America for support this week.  Ahmadinejad arrived in Venezuela yesterday to kick off a
four-nation tour to push investment projects such as a hydro-
electric power plant in Ecuador. He’ll be joining forces with
leaders like Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez  and Cuba’s  Raul Castro  in
taking shots at the U.S. in its own backyard, defying attempts
to isolate Iran over its nuclear activities.  Iran’s Latin American allies shouldn’t expect too much in
return. Iran has yet to fulfill pledges made by Ahmadinejad on
previous trips -- he’s made four since 2005 -- to build a port
in Nicaragua and an  oil refinery  in  Ecuador . Unlike during his
last regional tour in 2009, he won’t visit Brazil, where
President  Dilma Rousseff  has shown little interest in deepening
ties forged by her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  “The promises of aid and investment have not been kept,”
Cynthia Arnson, Latin America program director at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars in  Washington , said in
a phone interview. “This is clearly a political solidarity tour
to reinforce relationships with a small number of allies.”  After holding talks with Chavez today, Ahmadinejad will
travel to Nicaragua to attend the swearing-in ceremony tomorrow
of President Daniel Ortega, who was re-elected to a second
consecutive term in November. He’ll also visit Cuba and Ecuador
during the five-day tour.  Growing Influence  Under Ahmadinejad, Iran has expanded its economic,
political and military influence in  Latin America , taking
advantage of an upswell of anti-American sentiment in the region
led by Chavez and his eight-nation Bolivarian Alliance for the
Americas.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  told reporters
Jan. 6 that Ahmadinejad’s trip show he’s  “desperate for
friends and flailing around in interesting places” to find them
as international pressure builds against him.  Since 2005, Iran has opened six embassies in Latin America
and more than doubled trade with Brazil, the region’s biggest
economy. The diplomatic offensive has drawn the attention of
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who in 2009 said that Iran
is building a “huge” embassy in Nicaragua. Iranian officials
have refuted the claim.  Bolivia moved its only embassy in the Middle East from
Cairo to Tehran while Ortega has also announced plans to open
its own diplomatic mission there.  Betting on Chavez  Iran’s biggest presence is in  Venezuela . Chavez has visited
the Islamic Republic nine times, signing more than 100 bilateral
deals to support everything from a Venezuelan campaign to build
low-income homes to a joint venture to manufacture bicycles,
which Chavez jokingly referred to as “atomic” two-wheelers.  Most of the investment hasn’t gotten off the ground, said
Arnson, who last year edited a  report  called “Iran in Latin
America: Threat or ‘Axis of Annoyance?’”  For example, pledges from 2007 and 2008 respectively to
help build a $350 million deepwater port off Nicaragua’s
Atlantic coast and an oil refinery in Ecuador have yet to
materialize.  Security Threat  More worrisome are deals to help Venezuela explore for
minerals including uranium, said Jose Cardenas, a National
Security Council official under President  George W. Bush . The
two countries in 2007 also established in Caracas the  Banco
Internacional de Desarrollo , which together with its main
Iranian shareholder, Bank Saderat, is accused by the U.S. of
being a vehicle for the Ahmadinejad government’s funding of
Middle Eastern terrorist group Hezbollah.  “They’ve placed a bet on Chavez,” Cardenas, who helped
draft U.S. policy toward Cuba at the NSC, said in a phone
interview. “Venezuela has a massive banking system where you
can move billions of dollars and nobody will blink.”  Ted Piccone, a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington, said that while  Iran  “needs as many friends as
it can get” the opaque nature of its outreach in Latin America
poses a threat to U.S. security. He pointed to Argentine
prosecutors’ allegations that Iranian officials, including
Defense Minister Ahmad Vahidi, were involved in the 1994 bombing
of a Jewish center in Buenos Aires that killed 85 people as
evidence of Iran’s sinister motives.  “Could Iranian security forces be located in these
embassies?” he said in a phone interview. “It’s something that
has to be watched very closely.”  Chavez Sees Threat  Chavez, speaking on state television today, dismissed
speculation that Iran was trying to launch an attack against the
U.S. from Latin America.  “The imperial lackeys are going to say that the president
of Iran came to Caracas so that -- at 2 p.m. in the afternoon --
we could go down to the basement of Miraflores Palace and launch
missiles towards Washington or that will launch an atomic bomb
from the gardens here,” said Chavez. “We’re just having a
laugh, but we’re also on alert.”  Ahmadinejad, making brief comments carried on Venezuelan
state television before holding a private meeting with Chavez,
said that every nation had the right to be “free and
independent.”  “Iran and Venezuela are in the fight against the stingy
decadence of the hegemonic system that attacks the peoples of
the world,” Ahmadinejad said. “We’re not going to build a bomb
here to attack them. The only bomb that we will build is of
love. We love the people of the U.S. who are under the dominion
of arrogance. Our weapon is love.”  Iranian Energy Minister Majid Namjou, who will accompany
Ahmadinejad along with a group of businessmen, said a number of
deals will be signed during the current tour, including plans to
build the hydroelectric plant in Ecuador. He said Iran is
competing for the contract with China, according to comments
made to the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency .  Gulf Crisis  Ahmadinejad’s trip may be upstaged by events closer to home
after Iran threatened last month to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions
are imposed on its crude exports.  Iran’s revolutionary court sentenced Amir Mirzaei Hekmati,
an Iranian-U.S. citizen, to death for spying, state-controlled
Fars news agency said today. The court found Hekmati guilty of
collaborating with the intelligence agency of a “hostile
nation,” according to the agency.  The European Union may agree to an embargo on Iranian oil
at a meeting Jan. 30, officials said last week. U.S. sanctions
imposed last year aim to cut off dealings with Iran’s banking
system, making it difficult for consumers to buy the country’s
oil, in an effort to force Iran to abandon nuclear work that the
U.S. and allies say may be intended for weapons development.  Iran denies seeking to build atomic weapons and says it’s
pursuing nuclear technology for civilian purposes.  The threat of broader sanctions led the Iranian rial to
plunge to 17,800 per  U.S. dollar  on Jan. 2, prompting the
central bank to take measures to arrest the decline. The
official rate yesterday was 11,230 rials a dollar, according to
the central bank’s  website .  The  International Monetary Fund  estimated in September that
Iran’s economy would grow 3.4 percent in 2012 while Deputy
Economy Minister Mohammad-Reza Farzin last month said inflation
may hit 22 percent by the end of the current calendar year in
March.  Skipping Brazil  Some leaders in Latin America, who have long resented U.S.
military and economic dominance, have stood by Ahmadinejad.
Chavez has called him a fellow “gladiator of the anti-
imperialist battle” against the U.S., while Lula in 2010 voted
against United Nations Security Council sanctions on Iran and
worked with Turkey to broker a deal to swap the country’s
nuclear fuel.  Rousseff distanced herself from her predecessor’s close
ties to Iran. Shortly after her October 2010 election, she
criticized Lula’s abstention on a UN resolution condemning human
rights abuses in the country.  Tovar Nunes, a spokesman for Brazil’s foreign ministry,
said a visit by Ahmadinejad was never under consideration even
though the two countries enjoy an “active diplomatic agenda.”
Brazilian exports rose 18 percent to $2.3 billion from January
to November 2011 compared with the same period a year ago.  U.S. Sanctions  The U.S. is stepping up its monitoring of Iran’s activities
in the region. In May, it imposed sanctions on state-owned oil
company Petroleos de Venezuela SA for defying sanctions. Then in
October, it implicated an Iranian man working out of Mexico in a
plot to kill Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to Washington.  The House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee will
hold hearings as soon as this month to investigate Iranian ties
to Latin America.  Farideh Farhi, an Iran specialist at the University of
Hawaii in Honolulu, said that U.S. fears are raised every time
Ahmadinejad visits the “same four countries” and then subside
when he leaves.  “No one’s talking any more about the 400-member Iranian
embassy in  Nicaragua ,” Farhi said in a phone interview. “I
guess someone checked and there’s nothing like that there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  