-- ANC Celebrates 100 Years With Show of Political Dominance in South Africa
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-01-08T16:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/anc-celebrates-100-years-with-show-of-political-dominance-in-south-africa.html
South  Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  celebrated its 100th anniversary today,
maintaining its grip on power in Africa’s largest economy, while
battling internal rifts over leadership posts.  The occasion was marked with a rally at a packed 45,000-
seat sports stadium in Bloemfontein, in the central Free State
Province, where the party was created in 1912. President  Jacob Zuma  recounted the party’s history in a speech that lasted more
than an hour.  “The ANC has laid a sound foundation for socio-economic
development, although challenges remain,” Zuma said. “We must
bring new energy and new ideas into the kind of society we want
to build over the next few decades.”  Africa’s oldest political movement led the fight against
white segregationist rule, securing it the loyalty of the
country’s black majority, who make up 90 percent of the
population. The ANC has locked-in supporters since winning the
first all-race elections in 1994 by giving welfare grants to
more than 15 million people, about a third of the population,
and increasing access to water and electricity.  “The ANC has done everything for me,” said Agnes Motseki,
68, one of hundreds of women attending today’s rally in green
party blouses. “Our children have grants, we have houses and
electricity. Everything is very good for us. I’m ANC until I
die. We want the ANC for another 100 years.”  ‘No Competition’  The party has more than 1 million signed-up members and won
65.9 percent of the vote in the last national elections in 2009.
Its nearest rival, the Democratic Alliance led by  Helen Zille ,
won 16.7 percent.  “The ANC has got no competition,” Zwelethu Jolobe, a
political analyst at the University of  Cape Town , said in a
phone interview. “While the party is divided along factional
lines, a lot of people don’t see life outside the ANC.”  The party’s dominance masks internal rifts undermining
unity in the ANC ahead of party elections in December. The ANC’s
Youth League, which is lobbying for the nationalization of the
country’s mines and banks, is campaigning for Zuma to be
replaced by his deputy, Kgalema Motlanthe. Youth League leader
 Julius Malema , who is fighting his suspension from the party,
ridiculed Zuma in songs at an ANC rally in his home province of
Limpopo last month.  ‘Demon of Factionalism’  Rival chants in support of the two leaders were shouted at
the start of today’s rally, ceasing as proceedings got under
way. Malema, who sat on the stage alongside other ANC leaders,
drew loud cheers when he appeared on giant screens.  “We are determined to enhance the party’s moral standing
and image among the masses of our people,” the ANC said in its
annual policy statement released today.  The party will “defeat
the demon of factionalism in the ranks of the ANC.”  Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni , Rwandan leader  Paul Kagame  and Zambia’s  Michael Sata  were among heads of state
present at a gala dinner yesterday, praising the ANC as a beacon
for other liberation movements across the continent.  The South African Native National Convention was formed in
1912, uniting tribal chiefs, black leaders, churches and civil
rights groups in the fight for the rights of blacks. The group
changed its name to ANC in 1923.  The movement mounted campaigns against laws that forced
blacks from their land and compelled them to carry permits to
enter areas reserved for whites. The ANC was banned in 1960 and
began a campaign of sabotage against government targets the next
year. Most of its leadership was arrested, including  Nelson Mandela , who spent 27 years in prison, or went into exile, like
former ANC President Oliver Tambo.  ‘Beacon for the World’  Popular resistance to apartheid and economic sanctions
forced the white government to the negotiating table and the ANC
was legalized in 1990. It took power under Mandela four years
later, winning 62.6 percent of the vote.  The ANC “has been a beacon for the world in the fight
against discrimination and the struggle for freedom from
oppression,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in a letter
to Zuma, according to a copy on the government’s website. “It
is incredible to see the changes in  South Africa  that the ANC
has helped to bring about.”  Party unity began to erode in December 2007, when Zuma won
control of the ANC from  Thabo Mbeki , Mandela’s successor, with
backing from the unions and the Youth League. Mbeki was ousted
as president of the country in 2008 after a judge suggested in a
court ruling he pressured prosecutors to pursue corruption
charges against Zuma.  A group of Mbeki’s allies, led by former ANC Chairman
 Mosiuoa Lekota , then quit the ANC to form a rival party,
Congress of the People. Zuma was appointed president of the
country in May 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  