-- Anwar Supporters Rally Outside Malaysia High Court Ahead of Sodomy Verdict
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-01-08T23:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/anwar-supporters-rally-outside-malaysia-high-court-ahead-of-sodomy-verdict.html
Thousands of supporters of Malaysia’s
opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  rallied outside of Kuala
Lumpur’s  High Court  today chanting for justice ahead of a court
verdict that could prevent the politician from contesting in the
country’s next general election.  Judge Mohamad Zabidin Mohd Diah is due to rule whether
Anwar, who led the opposition to take control of five of
Malaysia’s 13 states in 2008, is guilty of sodomizing a former
aide more than three years ago. If convicted and fined more than
2,000 ringgit ($636) or jailed for more than 12 months, the 64-
year-old would be disqualified from running for parliament in
national polls due to be held by June 2013, Law Professor Shad
Saleem Faruqi said.  “My body may be in prison, but my soul is still free,”
Anwar told an outdoor rally in  Kuala Lumpur  last night.
“Tomorrow, I will say my morning prayers, and kiss all of my
family.”  Kuala Lumpur police chief Mohmad Salleh gave permission
last week for Anwar supporters to hold a peaceful rally today in
the court’s car park after meeting Azmin Ali, deputy president
of Anwar’s People’s Justice Party. Conditions were placed on the
organizers, including bans on public speaking, “Free Anwar”
banners and loud hailers except for managing the crowd,
according to the police’s Facebook page.  Early Start  More than 2,000 people had gathered outside the court by
7.45 a.m. local time with some arriving as early as 5 a.m.,
according to Bloomberg reporters at the scene. They carried
banners while chanting for justice and political reform.  Sodomy is illegal in Muslim-majority  Malaysia , even between
two consenting men. The charge could bring a sentence of as much
as 20 years in prison. Anwar didn’t run in the March 2008
national poll because an earlier corruption and sodomy and
convictions barred him from holding office until April of that
year.  The opposition chief, now an MP, faced similar allegations
in 1998 when he was sacked by then-Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad as his deputy. Anwar was sentenced to nine years in jail
for sodomy and a separate corruption charge, before being
released in 2004 after Malaysia’s highest court overturned the
sex conviction.  His latest two-year trial has been criticized by outside
observers as politically motivated. A conviction may heighten
scrutiny of Malaysia’s judicial system, with  Human Rights Watch 
saying last month the sodomy law has been used to slander the
government’s opponents.  Unifying Force  Today’s sentence will also dictate Anwar’s role in the
election process, potentially removing a figure that has united
a diverse opposition if he is jailed.  The People’s Alliance opposition coalition led by Anwar is
comprised of his People’s Justice Party, the Pan-Malaysian
Islamic Party and the Democratic Action Party. Some Pan-
Malaysian members espouse the implementation of Islamic law,
while the Democratic Action Party’s secretary-general is Penang
Chief Minister Lim Guan Eng, Malaysia’s only ethnic-Chinese
state leader.  “A guilty verdict would deprive the fractious opposition
coalition of Anwar’s unifying influence,” Johannes Lund, an
analyst at Control Risks said by e-mail ahead of the verdict.
“Anwar is likely to remain a key opposition figure, though his
leadership capacity will be limited should he be imprisoned.”  If jailed for more than 12 months, Anwar wouldn’t be able
to run for parliament again until five years after the sentence
has been served, according to Malaysia’s constitution.  Right to Appeal  “He still has a right to appeal,” said Shad in a
telephone interview from Kuala Lumpur. “The law says if the
person appeals within 14 days, then there is no disqualification
until the appeal is disposed of. If parliament is dissolved,
that changes the picture. Then the conviction carries effect and
a convicted MP would not be able to contest again.”  New York-based Human Rights Watch in a Dec. 22 report
called on Malaysia to “revoke its colonial-era law
criminalizing consensual sexual acts between people of the same
sex” and to drop the case against Anwar. Observers including
U.S. Vice President  Al Gore , former U.S. Deputy Secretary of
Defense Paul Wolfowitz and billionaire  Richard Branson  have
criticized the use of the law against the opposition chief.  Police fired tear gas and arrested more than 1,600 people
protesting in Kuala Lumpur for cleaner and fairer elections in
July. Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government tabled a Peaceful
Assembly Bill in parliament in November, banning all street
protests and allowing other kinds of outdoor rallies to be held
only with a police permit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  