-- Adelson Gives $5 Million to Pro-Gingrich PAC, Person Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-08T20:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/las-vegas-sands-adelson-said-to-donate-5-million-to-pro-gingrich-group.html
Casino executive  Sheldon Adelson , a
long-time financial backer and friend of  Newt Gingrich , has
given $5 million to a political action committee supporting the
former House speaker’s presidential candidacy, according to a
person close to the chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)   The money went to  Winning Our Future , a so-called super PAC
set up to support Gingrich, according to the person, speaking on
condition of anonymity. Such committees can take in unlimited
donations from corporations, unions and individuals. Adelson has
already donated the maximum $2,500 to Gingrich’s presidential
campaign, Federal Election Commission records show.  A spokesman for the PAC, John Grimaldi, declined to
comment.  “It’s our practice to decline comment on our donors or
contributions until such time as required by the FEC,” Grimaldi
said in an e-mail. A Gingrich campaign spokesman, R.C. Hammond,
said he couldn’t confirm the donation.  “If it’s true, it’s a tremendously generous thing for Mr.
Adelson to do and we’re very grateful for it,” Hammond said.
“It certainly helps balance the weight on one side,” where a
PAC favoring Republican rival  Mitt Romney  spent millions of
dollars in attack ads. “It can offer a counterweight to that,”
Hammond said.  Gingrich trails primary front-runner Romney in campaign
cash. Through Sept. 30, Romney, a former Massachusetts governor,
raised $32.6 million while Gingrich took in $2.9 million.  The former U.S. House speaker, who finished fourth in the
Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses after leading in the polls a month earlier,
criticized Romney today for the ads attacking him, funded by the
pro-Romney PAC Restore Our Future.  ‘Millionaire Friends’  “It is your millionaire friends giving to the PAC,”
Gingrich said during this morning’s Republican debate in
Concord,  New Hampshire . “And you know some of the ads are --
aren’t true. Just say that. It’s straightforward.”  “As you know, that is not my ad,” Romney said in
response. “I don’t write that ad. I can’t tell them how to.”  Adelson was the largest donor to Gingrich’s political
committee, American Solutions for Winning the Future, giving $7
million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group. Gingrich disbanded that
committee when he entered the race for the Republican
presidential nomination.  Adelson traditionally supports the Republican presidential
nominee, contributing to both  George W. Bush  and John McCain’s
White House campaigns. Adelson’s donation to the pro-Gingrich
PAC was reported last night by the  Washington  Post.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 