-- Australian Dollar Drops as Pimco Sees RBA Easing Amid Europe Debt Concern
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-01-09T18:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/australian-dollar-drops-amid-europe-concern-before-merkel-sarkozy-meeting.html
The Australian dollar weakened
against 15 of its 16 major peers after data showed the South
Pacific nation’s retail sales unexpectedly stagnated in
November.  The so-called Aussie fell for a fourth day after Pacific
Investment Management Co. said the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
will need to ease monetary policy. New Zealand’s dollar,
nicknamed the kiwi, was the second-best performer versus the
dollar after the leaders of Germany and  France  said the new
budget rulebook for nations of the shared currency may be done a
month early.  “The past six months have been an important reminder that
small, open economies such as Australia are not immune to the
broader global business cycle,”  Robert Mead , the head of
portfolio management in Australia at Pimco, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in an e-mailed report today.
“We think the RBA will need to ease further in 2012.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.0214 at 1:01 p.m.
New York time. It declined 0.3 percent to 78.52 versus the yen.  New Zealand ’s currency rallied 0.6 percent to 78.55 U.S.
cents and gained 0.5 percent to 60.38 yen.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  met in Berlin today to flesh out a new rulebook
for fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit that seeks
to create a “fiscal compact” for the 17-member euro area.  Retail Sales  Australia’s  retail sales (AURSTSA)  were unchanged in November, a
report from the statistics bureau showed today, compared with
the 0.4 percent gain estimated by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  “Today’s data suggests that consumers remain hesitant to
spend up, given weaker prospects for global growth, and supports
the view that the RBA will cut rates again,” Janu Chan, an
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a note
about the retail sales data.  Traders are speculating that Australia’s central bank will
lower its benchmark  interest rate  from the current level of 4.25
percent. Cash rate futures indicate the key rate will fall 0.75
percentage point by May.  Statistics New Zealand said today that the country’s
imports exceeded exports by NZ$308 million ($240 million) in
November, compared with a revised NZ$228 million deficit in
October. The median estimate of economists was for a NZ$300
million shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  