-- Australian Construction Contracts at Slower Pace on Boom in Resources
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/australian-construction-contracted-at-slower-pace-in-december-on-resources.html
Australia’s construction (AICIPCI)  industry
contracted at a slower pace last month as work related to the
nation’s resource boom partly offset weakness in residential
building, a private report showed.  The construction performance index was 41 in December from
39.6 a month earlier, a survey by the Australian Industry Group
and the Housing Industry Association released in Sydney today
showed. The result was the 19th consecutive month under 50, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  “The easing of the pace of contraction in overall activity
and in new orders across all sub-sectors serve as a glimmer of
hope that 2012 may see a return to more balanced growth across
the industry,” Peter Burn, director of public policy at the
Australian Industry Group, said in a statement.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board lowered benchmark borrowing costs by a quarter percentage
point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6 as inflation pressures eased
and risks to global growth increased. Employment in Australia
weakened last year as the currency’s climb hurt non-resource
companies and consumers saved cash.  Today’s report showed new orders rose 3.9 points to 42.5,
and a gauge of employment slid 2.7 points to 39.2 last month.
Construction of houses slumped 5.7 points to 32.9, while
apartments gained 9.9 points to 33.3, it showed.  Engineering surged 5.7 points to 51.3, a return to positive
territory, according to the report.  Investors are betting Stevens is likely to lower rates
again at the RBA’s next meeting in February to 4 percent,
interbank cash-rate futures show.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, has weakened about 8 percent from $1.1081 on July 27,
the strongest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  