-- Banks Can Breach Basel Liquid-Assets Rule During Crises
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-01-09T08:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/banks-can-go-below-basel-minimum-liquidity-levels-in-crisis-1-.html
Banks will be allowed go below
minimum liquidity levels set by global regulators during
financial crises to avoid cash-flow difficulties.  “During a period of stress, banks would be expected to use
their pool of liquid assets, thereby temporarily falling below
the minimum requirement,” the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision ’s governing board said in a statement on its website
yesterday, following a meeting in the Swiss city.  The aim of the measure, known as a liquidity coverage
ratio, is to ensure that lenders hold enough easy-to-sell assets
to survive a 30-day credit squeeze. The requirement, one of
several measures from the Basel group designed to prevent a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis, is scheduled to enter into
force in 2015.  Banks have argued that the rule may curtail  loans  by
forcing them to hoard cash and buy  government bonds . Bank
supervisors say the standard is needed to prevent a repeat of
the collapses of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) ,
which were blamed in part on the lenders running out of short-
term funding. Global regulators said  last year  that they would
amend the rule to address unintended consequences.  Liquidity Buffers  “There will be a concern nevertheless that banks won’t
want to draw down their liquidity buffers because of how such a
move may be received by the markets,” said Patrick Fell, a
director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in London. “A bank that
is seen to draw on the buffer could feel itself to be weakened
and compromised.”  Regulators must still clarify which assets banks should be
allowed to count towards liquidity buffers and how much funding
lenders should expect to lose in a crisis, the group said. Work
on the main elements of the liquidity rule should be completed
by the end of 2012, it said.  The proposal to allow lenders to draw down their liquid
assets “makes a lot of sense,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice
president at Nykredit A/S, Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank.
“Buffers that cannot be used are not buffers.”  The Basel committee will provide further guidance on when
lenders will be allowed to breach the minimum rule, and make
sure the standard doesn’t interfere with central-bank policies,
the group said.  Sound Funding Structure  The aim of the liquidity coverage ratio “is to ensure that
banks, in normal times, have a sound funding structure and hold
sufficient liquid assets,”  Mervyn King , the governing board’s
chairman, said. This should mean that “central banks are asked
to perform only as lenders of last resort and not as lenders of
first resort,” said King, who is also governor of the  Bank of
England .  The Basel committee’s criteria for judging which assets can
count towards meeting the liquidity rule don’t match up with
central banks’ rules on what securities they accept as
collateral, Berg said in an e-mail.  “There is a conflict” between the two sets of standards,
Berg said. “There has to be more flexibility in defining liquid
assets in line with the calls national central banks make in
setting their collateral rules.”  The liquidity rules were part of a package of measures
adopted by global banking regulators in 2010 to strengthen the
resilience of banks. The new rules also included tougher  capital
requirements  that more than tripled the core reserves that
lenders are required to hold.  Capital Rules  Separately, the governing board said that the Basel
committee will carry out “detailed” peer reviews of whether
nations have correctly implemented capital rules for lenders.
The assessments will include whether lenders are correctly
valuing their assets, it said. The results of the reviews will
be published, with the U.S,  Japan  and European Union the first
to undergo the exams.  Some U.S. bankers, including  Jamie Dimon , chief executive
officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., the largest U.S. lender, have
called for an overhaul of the current risk-weighting plan, which
allows banks to use their own models to assess the safety of
assets and how much capital they need to hold. Dimon has said
that the way the rules are applied could disadvantage U.S.
banks.  The proportion of risk-weighted assets to total assets at
European banks is half that of U.S. lenders, according to a
report last year by Simon Samuels and  Mike Harrison , analysts at
 Barclays Capital  in  London .  Forcing lenders to hold more capital won’t be enough on its
own to calm concerns that banks would be vulnerable if a
European government defaults on its debt, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “Any sustained improvement in bank creditworthiness will
require a resolution” of the region’s fiscal crisis, Moody’s
said in its Weekly Credit Outlook today. This would in turn
“require credible steps towards much closer fiscal integration
and increased mutual support among  member states ,” Moody’s
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  