-- Bristol Buys Inhibitex for $2.5 Billion to Compete in Hepatitis
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-08T18:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/bristol-myers-agrees-to-buy-drug-developer-inhibitex-for-2-5-billion.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  agreed to 
pay about $2.5 billion in cash to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX) , the second
maker of hepatitis C drugs to be acquired within two months as
companies jockey for position in a developing $20 billion market.  Inhibitex, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , said it will 
recommend that its shareholders accept Bristol's offer of $26 
per share, the companies said in a statement yesterday. That’s 
more than double its $9.87 closing price on Jan. 6.  The agreement is the biggest among 18 made by Bristol since
2007 in a strategy aimed at overcoming sales declines after its
$6.7 billion-a-year blood thinner Plavix loses patent protection
this year. The deal gives the New York-based company a similar
drug to one  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  gained in the $10.8 billion
purchase of  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS)  it announced on Nov. 21.  “This drug is the best chance anyone has of competing with
Gilead/Pharmasset,” Brian Skorney, an analyst with Brean Murray
Carret & Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail today. “That
explains the premium.”  Inhibitex’s INX-189 is in the second stage of testing
normally needed for U.S. regulatory approval. Pharmasset’s PSI-
7977 is in the third and final phase, and could draw $3 billion
to $5 billion in revenue for Foster City, California-based
Gilead,  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco, estimated in November.  Second-Largest Premium  The premium, of about 126 percent of its price over the
previous 20 trading days, ranks as the second-largest on record
for a biotechnology or pharmaceutical company worth more than
$500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999.
The record is Genzyme Corp.’s 2006 deal for AnorMed Inc. with a
162 percent premium.  As many as 170 million people globally carry the hepatitis
C virus, and current drugs, given through injection, can have
side effects that make therapy difficult to endure. The next
generation is designed to be taken as pills, with a higher cure
rate and fewer side effects.  “The world is moving toward an all-oral regimen for
hepatitis C, and Bristol-Myers, which is strong in antivirals,
seems like it wants to be a part of that,”  Les Funtleyder , a
health-care strategist and portfolio manager with Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York, wrote in an e-mail today.  “The deal seems a bit expensive for an early-stage
compound, but there is scarcity value,” said Funtleyder, whose
fund holds Bristol shares.  Bristol is already developing its own medicines for
hepatitis C, including a collaboration with New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  on a combination therapy with one
of its own experimental products.  Three Growth Areas  “The addition of Inhibitex’s nucleotide polymerase
inhibitor to our own promising portfolio, which includes other
direct-acting antivirals, brings additional options to develop
all-oral regimens with better cure rates, shorter duration of
therapy and lower toxicity than the current standard of care,”
said Elliott Sigal, Bristol’s head of research and development.  Hepatitis C is one of three major growth areas for Bristol,
along with stroke and immuno-oncology, he said by telephone.  “The commercial opportunity is huge,” Sigal said. “Our
goals are to be very competitive.”  Still Seeking Deals  Chief Financial Officer Charles Bancroft said Bristol-Myers
would keep looking for opportunities of all sizes.  “We’ve been pretty consistent in that we view our ‘String
of Pearls’ across different deal sizes,” Bancroft said in a
telephone interview, referring to the name given to the
company’s acquisition strategy. “We’re not really dependent on
size,” he said.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  last year won
approval for the first new therapies for hepatitis C in almost a
decade.  Hepatitis C is a viral infection, transmitted through
exposure to infected blood, that can lead to swelling of the
liver. More than 350,000 die from related illnesses each year,
according to the Geneva-based World Health Organization.  The market for medicines that work against the virus is
about $3 billion worldwide, according to  Andrew Berens , a senior
health-care analyst with Bloomberg Industries, in Skillman,  New
Jersey . It may be worth $20 billion by 2020, said Michael Kishbauch, chief executive officer of Achillion Pharmaceuticals
Inc., in a November interview.  Achillion, Idenix  Achillion (ACHN) , based in New Haven, Connecticut, and  Idenix
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX) , of Cambridge, Massachusetts, are also in
development on hepatitis C drugs. In November, Kishbauch said
his company was in discussions with potential partners and
acquirers.  Roche Holding AG, based in Basel,  Switzerland , agreed in
October to buy  Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ANDS) , another maker of
experimental medicines for hepatitis C, for about $230 million.  Bristol shares rose 33 percent in 2011 and closed 0.2
percent higher at $34.22 in New York on Jan. 6. The transaction
is expected to dilute earnings for Bristol through 2016, with an
impact of about 4 cents per share in 2012 and 5 cents per share
in 2013, according to the statement.  Tripled in Value  Inhibitex more than quadrupled in value last year, boosting
its market capitalization to $857 million as of Dec. 31.  Citigroup Inc. acted as financial adviser and  Kirkland &
Ellis LLP (1132L)  as legal adviser to Bristol, the companies said in the
statement. Credit Suisse Securities provided financial advice to
Inhibitex, while  Dechert LLP (1154L)  gave legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 