-- Cameron Pledges Vote for Shareholders on ‘Wrong’ Executive Pay Rewards
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-08T12:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/cameron-pledges-vote-for-shareholders-on-wrong-executive-pay.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said the current system of executive pay is wrong as it allows
for failure to be rewarded and promised shareholders a binding
vote on compensation decisions.  “What I think is wrong is pay going up and up and up when
it’s not commensurate with the success companies are having,”
Cameron told the British Broadcasting Corp.’s “Marr” program
today. “That’s what’s wrong, that’s what needs to change,” he
said, promising “clear transparency, in terms of the
publication of proper pay reports and binding shareholder
votes.”  With U.K. unemployment  at a 17-year high (UKUEILOR)  and the government
cutting public sector jobs as part of its austerity plan, the
Prime Minister pledged to deal with unfair levels of executive
pay that made “people’s blood boil.” A study by the High Pay
Commission, a pressure group that pushes for curbs on top
earners, found British directors’ salaries increased by 64
percent over the past decade, while the average year-end share
price of  FTSE 100 companies (UKX)  fell 71 percent.  While he noted that “government can’t tell people what
they should be paid,” Cameron said it should act “where you’ve
got a market failure.”  Some top executives were “taking money from the owners of
the companies and from pension-holders and the employees,” he
said. Cameron added that future pay rewards “would be linked to
success, not failure.”  The pledges, which Cameron announced in his New Year’s
message on Jan. 2, are an enactment of ideas floated by Liberal
Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable in September. The
average annual bonus for directors rose 187 percent, according
to the  High Pay Commission .  Binding Vote  Cameron said changes would include replacing shareholders’
advisory votes on pay with a binding vote. The move will address
the “crony capitalism” that allows underperforming executives
to reap pay rewards, he told the Sunday Telegraph in an
interview.  “We need to redefine the word fair,” Cameron told the
newspaper. “We need to try to give people a sense that we have
a vision at the end of this, of a fairer,  better economy (UKGRABIQ) , a
fairer, better society, where if you work hard and do the right
thing you get rewarded.”  Other plans by the government include keeping the top tax
rate of 50 pence for people earning more than 150,000 pounds
($231,390), the Sunday Telegraph said.  Cameron also said he would block any attempt by the
European Union to impose a financial transaction tax in the U.K.  “The idea of a new European tax, when you are not going to
have that tax put in place in other places, I don’t think is
sensible,” he told the  BBC . “So I will block it unless the
rest of the world all agreed at the same time that we were all
going to have some sort of tax.”  Labour Reaction  The opposition  Labour Party ’s business spokesman Chuka Umunna said Cameron’s proposals didn’t go far enough to curb pay
excesses.  “The Prime Minister is dragging his feet and has not given
any indication that he will implement the recommendations of the
independent High Pay Commission in full,” he said in an e-
mailed statement today. “There is no point giving shareholders
a vote on executive pay without the greater transparency needed
so they can discern the aggregate remuneration executives
receive under the complex arrangements currently in place.”  Cameron also apologized on the “Marr” program for telling
the Sunday Telegraph that facing  Ed Balls , who speaks for the
Labour Party on Treasury matters, in Parliament was “like
having someone with Tourette’s permanently sitting opposite
you.”  “I was speaking off the cuff and if I offended anyone, I
am very sorry,” Cameron told the “Marr” show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  