-- China Lending, Money Supply Growth Exceed Economist Estimates in December
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T03:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/china-december-lending-money-supply-growth-exceed-economists-estimates.html
China ’s December lending and  money
supply  growth exceeded economists’ estimates, signaling monetary
conditions may be easing as the nation’s central bank said it
must be prepared for possible shocks from the U.S. and  Europe .  New loans (CNLNNEW)  totaled 640.5 billion yuan ($101 billion) for the
month, exceeding the estimates of all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. M2, a measure of  money supply (CNMS2YOY) , rose 13.6 percent,
compared with the 12.9 percent median of 18 estimates.  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
yesterday the nation must be ready to combat possible shocks
from Europe’s debt crisis and an uncertain U.S. economic outlook,
echoing comments by Premier  Wen Jiabao . The central bank will
“very likely” follow up last month’s reduction in lenders’
 reserve requirements  with another cut this week, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. said today.  “This is better-than-expected monetary data, suggesting
monetary conditions have started to ease,” said Liu Li-Gang, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., who previously worked at the  World Bank . Liu said he
expects that the central bank may cut the reserve requirement
again before the Lunar New Year on Jan. 23. “Such easing will
help ensure a soft landing for the Chinese economy,” he said.  The  statement  posted to the central bank’s website
yesterday didn’t contain a figure for China’s foreign-exchange
reserves, which are usually released with lending and money
supply data issued at the end of each quarter.  External Shocks  Stocks in China rose. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was 1.5
percent higher at 10:53 a.m. local time. The measure lost 1.6
percent last week.  The benchmark money-market rate had the biggest weekly
 decline (CNRR007)  since November last week as the central bank refrained
from selling bills to help ease a cash shortage ahead of the
week-long New Year public holiday. The seven-day repo rate rose
19 basis points to 4.50 percent as of 10 a.m. in  Shanghai .  The PBOC said Jan. 6 it will suspend debt sales ahead of
the festival and buy securities from the market or financial
institutions to boost liquidity if needed.  Zhou yesterday said in an interview with the official
Xinhua News Agency that the global economy will face “a
string” of difficulties in 2012 as a result of the European
debt crisis, uncertainties in the U.S. and slowing growth in
 emerging markets . China must be ready to pick appropriate policy
instruments to combat external shocks, Zhou was cited as saying.  ‘Relatively Difficult’  Fighting  inflation (CNCPIYOY)  is not as urgent now as it was in early
2011, Xinhua cited Zhou as saying after a two-day meeting of
financial regulators in Beijing. The National Financial Work
meeting, which was attended by senior officials including
Premier Wen, is held every five years to form development plans
for the financial sector, Xinhua reported.  Wen last week pledged to fine tune monetary policy to
preserve growth as business conditions in the first quarter may
be “relatively difficult.” The nation’s export growth slowed
in November to the weakest pace since 2009.  China is scheduled to release data for December exports,
imports and  trade balance  tomorrow. It’s also due to issue
December inflation figures on Jan. 12 and data for annual 2011
and fourth-quarter economic growth on Jan. 17, according to the
statistics bureau.  The central bank’s data yesterday showed that December
money supply grew at the fastest pace since July. The 12.7
percent pace reported for November was the weakest since 2001.  Ease Liquidity  Lending in December was the highest monthly figure since
 April (CNLNNEW) . The median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for 575 billion yuan of loans in the month.  For the year, lending totaled 7.47 trillion yuan, according
to the statement. The central bank may target lending in 2012 of
9 trillion yuan to 9.5 trillion yuan, said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .  The central bank still needs to ease liquidity in the money
market to achieve more lending this year, Kowalczyk said. He
said there is likely to be a cut of 250 basis points this year
in the amount banks have to hold as reserves, with the first cut
before the Lunar New Year holiday. The PBOC’s previous reduction,
announced Nov. 30, was the first since 2008.  JPMorgan expects three reductions in the reserve ratio in
the first half of this year and a 15 percent increase in new
lending to 8.2 trillion yuan for the full year, Hong Kong-based
economists led by Zhu Haibin said in a note today.  Reduced Possibility  In contrast,  Societe Generale  says the central bank’s Jan.
6 announcement “significantly reduced” the probability of a
cut in reserve requirements ahead of the New Year holiday and
has pushed back its call for a reduction to later in the first
quarter. The bank is sticking to its call for four cuts totaling
200 basis points this year, Hong Kong-based economist Yao Wei
said in a note today.  Easing in monetary conditions as indicated by the December
data could reduce the urgency for further policy easing, said
 Ken Peng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas SA.  In addition to lending and money supply, the December data
showed Chinese banks added 1.43 trillion yuan of deposits in the
month. These funds largely came from the release of fiscal
deposits into the commercial banking system as government
agencies conducted concentrated spending at the end of the year,
Peng said.  A “tepid” M1 money supply growth of 7.9 percent in
December suggests that the increased bank deposits may have a
“lifting impact” on January money supply, Peng said.  In a separate statement yesterday, the central bank said it
will continue to implement prudent monetary policy this year
while maintaining policy continuity and controlling  inflation
expectations (CNCPIYOY) . It will also make adjustments more targeted,
flexible and forward looking, the central bank said.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Victoria Ruan in Beijing,
Fion Li in Hong Kong. Editors:  John Liu , Nerys Avery.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  