-- Cnooc Surges as U.S. Index Posts Weekly Gain: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-08T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/cnooc-surges-as-u-s-index-posts-weekly-gain-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in the U.S.
posted the biggest weekly gain in five weeks on prospects the
Asian nation will roll out more measures to avoid a hard landing
as Europe’s debt crisis curbs demand for its exports.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  advanced 2.8 percent last
week to 95.58 on Jan. 6 in  New York , the most since the week
ended Dec. 2.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  led gains in oil producers, after the
government raised the threshold of a windfall tax. Aluminum
Corp. of  China  Ltd. ended the week with a gain as the metal rose
the most in a month in  London , resulting in a 0.4 percent
premium over its Hong Kong-traded shares.  China will adopt measures to boost consumption this year as
it strives to meet challenges posed by a global slowdown,
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Jan. 5. The central bank
added the most funds in eight weeks to the banking system
through open-market operations, and suspended three-month bill
sales for a second week to leave more cash in the market.  “China is not landing any time soon,” Goldman Sachs Asset
Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill , who coined the “BRIC” acronym
for Brazil, Russia, India and China, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Radio Jan. 6. While each of the BRIC nations faces
challenges this year, “I don’t see any of them as being as life
threatening as many people seem to be fashionably starting to
say.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.6 percent last
week to 1,277.81 after U.S. payrolls grew in December and the
 unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest level in almost three
years. The  Shanghai  Composite Index slid 1.6 percent in its
ninth weekly loss to 2,163.40.  The Shanghai measure is trading at an estimated price-
earnings ratio of 8.9 times. That compares with 13.8 for Indian
stocks, 9.2 for Brazilian shares and 5.4 for Russian equities.  Cnooc, PetroChina  The American depositary receipts of Cnooc, the largest
offshore oil explorer in the country, gained the most in five
weeks in the last five-day session after China’s finance
ministry increased the threshold of the tax to $55 per barrel
from $40, effective Nov. 1, 2011. The ADRs surged 11 percent
last week to $194.75.  PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil producer, jumped 10
percent to $137.31.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as
Sinopec, advanced 8 percent in the week to $113.48 in New York.  Macquarie Securities Ltd., maintaining “outperform”
ratings on both Cnooc and PetroChina, raised its 2012 earnings
forecasts for Cnooc by 20 percent and the estimate for
PetroChina by 13 percent in a Jan. 6 report.  PetroChina became the top pick of Citigroup Inc. among
three large-cap China oil stocks instead of Sinopec because of
PetroChina’s “higher sensitivity” to the  tax cut  and Sinopec’s
recent outperformance, Citigroup analyst Graham Cunningham said
in a Jan. 5 report.  Policy Changes  Goldman Sachs said China’s stocks may recover by early in
the second quarter because of “more noticeable policy changes”
and liquidity in the real economy loosening to less restrictive
levels, the  U.S. bank  said in a report dated Jan. 3.  The ishares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.9 percent last week to
$35.17. The Chinese  yuan  weakened 0.2 percent in the week to
6.3095 per dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , China’s biggest solar-panel
maker, jumped the most among solar stocks on speculation more
Chinese companies may make acquisitions overseas.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) ,
the second largest, intends to buy a 33 percent stake in
Germany’s Sunways AG, it said in a Jan. 3 statement. It also
offered to purchase the remaining stake of Sunways, which has a
market value of 22 million euros ($28 million).  Suntech rose 4.1 percent last week to $2.30, the first
weekly advance in four. LDK climbed 2.1 percent in the week to
$4.28.  Spreadtrum  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a mobile-phone chip
designer based in Shanghai, slumped 28 percent last week to
$14.98, the biggest decliner among companies in the Bloomberg
measure. Its shares sank 22 percent Jan. 6 after RF Micro
Devices Inc., a U.S. maker of radio frequency components, said
demand from China-based customers weakened in the last quarter.  RF said Jan. 5 sales may fall short of estimates for the
quarter ended in December, as demand from Chinese customers for
second-generation components for entry-level handsets was below
expectations.  The selloff  “was unwarranted as people are not reading
this right,” said  Jay Srivatsa , managing director of equity
research at Chardan Capital Markets in New York on Jan. 6. “The
company is in mid-to higher-end feature type of products and the
3G business is where the company is really focused on. I expect
them to continue doing well going forward.”  China Growth  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent growth in the second quarter. Consumer prices rose 4.2
percent in November from a year ago, the slowest pace in 14
months.  China’s statistics bureau will report December consumer and
producer-price data on Jan. 12 and will release economic growth
figures for 2011 on Jan. 17, according to a timetable posted on
its website Jan. 6.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital advertising company
based in Shanghai, sank 5.4 percent to $18.63 in Jan. 6 trading,
after short-selling firm  Muddy Waters  LLC questioned an
acquisition.  The purchase by  Focus Media  of a ginseng plantation at the
Russian and North Korean border was “bizarre,” Muddy Waters
said in a  report  on its website Jan. 6. One of the selling
shareholders included at least one employee of Focus, the report
said.  Focus Media, following Muddy Waters’s report, issued a
statement to “entirely” deny the allegations. It said the
“insignificant” transaction of a regional distributor in
northeast China was “to expand the company’s display network.”  Focus will disclose more information about the transaction
this week, it added in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  