-- Corporate Profit Growth at 2-Year Low as U.S. Feels Europe Drag
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-08T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/corporate-profit-growth-hits-a-two-year-low-as-u-s-feels-drag-from-europe.html
U.S. corporations ended 2011 with the
slowest profit growth in two years as the mending economy that
lifted  Macy’s Inc. (M)  was met by a European slump that vexed
companies more tied to global sales, such as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies may have earned
 $24.74 a share (SPX)  in the fourth quarter, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg as of Jan. 6. The projected 6
percent gain is the smallest against a year-earlier  quarter (SPWPPRCT) 
since September 2009, just after the U.S. recovery began.  “Slowing global growth, some impairment of export activity
to  Europe  and perhaps even the rise of the dollar collectively
have begun to sort of work against the multinational story,”
said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-
based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion.
While growth is still “subpar,” he said he intends to invest
more in the U.S. to avoid higher international risk.  The U.S. jobless rate fell in the final four months of 2011
and economic growth may rise to 2.1 percent in 2012, the average
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The European Union
may contract by 0.2 percent, its second slowdown in four years,
and China’s 8.5 percent growth would be the lowest in 11 years.  “I’m growing more optimistic that the economic activity in
the U.S. is firming to the point that it’s durable,” he said.  Overseas demand that propelled U.S. profits a year ago may
wane as European nations trim budgets to deal with their debt
crisis and a slowdown in China hurts commodity-tied developing
nations, said Chad Morganlander, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. money
manager in Florham Park, New Jersey.  U.S. Optimism  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, plans to
release results today after markets close, the first company in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  to report. Investors will be
watching to see how the difference in economic trends in the
U.S., Europe and Asia affect companies’ earnings.  “There’s going to be a big dichotomy between U.S.
exporters and domestic-focused U.S. companies,” said Jacques Porta, a fund manager at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris, who helps
oversee about $400 million.  U.S. payrolls rose 200,000 in December, double November’s
gain.  Average jobless claims (INJCJC4)  for the four weeks ended Dec. 31
dropped to the lowest since June 2008. A measure of consumer
confidence ended 2011 at a five-month high. And manufacturers
 reported (NAPMPMI)  growth in December was the fastest pace in six months.  Global Economy  In Europe, where austerity measures are tightening and
unemployment remains at a 13-year high, data show households and
businesses are more reluctant to spend. In China, residential
property values are falling and the ruling Communist Party is
shifting focus to supporting growth rather than damping
inflation as Europe’s debt crisis threatens to curb exports.  “A pronounced deceleration of global economic growth will
bleed into earnings” for some U.S. companies, said
Morganlander, whose firm oversees more than $107 billion in
client assets. He predicts S&P profit will drop in 2012, the
first annual decline since 2008.  Philip Orlando , chief equity strategist at Federated
Investors Inc. in  New York , which oversees $355 billion, is less
pessimistic, saying the stronger  U.S. economy  probably boosted
 S&P 500 (SPX)  company earnings by about 10 percent for the fourth
quarter, and should support 6 percent growth for 2012.  “It’s not going to be a phenomenal quarter, but a nice
solid quarter,” said Orlando.  U.S. growth will help boost profits for companies that get
almost all of their revenue from home, such as retailers, said
Orlando. Macy’s had a better-than-expected holiday season and
other retailers got a boost from inventory restocking during the
fourth quarter. There is a risk that discounts to lure in
shoppers may lower profit margins, Orlando said.  International Risk  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , spurred by holiday sales of the iPad, is
predicted to report net income rose 56 percent to about $9.35
billion for the quarter ending in December, slightly higher than
earnings growth of 54 percent for the previous quarter.  Alcoa, which relies on markets outside the U.S. for about
half its revenue, said Jan. 5 it will close 12 percent of its
smelting capacity after aluminum prices tumbled 18 percent in
2011 as the economic slowdown made some smelters unprofitable.  Analysts have cut their fourth-quarter earnings  estimates (AA) 
for Alcoa in the past month to a 1-cent loss, from a projected
7-cent profit 30 days ago. The New York-based company reported
profit of 21 cents a year earlier.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the biggest computer
services provider, is predicted to post fourth-quarter  net
income (IBM)  of $5.51 billion, a 4.9 percent increase from a year ago.
The Armonk, New York-based company, which gets the majority of
its business from outside  North America , had earnings growth of
7 percent in the third quarter and 8.2 percent in the second.  Cisco Turnaround  The European slump may slow the turnaround efforts of
Cisco, the biggest maker of networking equipment, which has been
getting about a fifth of its revenue from the region. Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  said in November that order
growth in Europe was expected to slow to the mid-single digits,
down from double-digit growth in recent quarters.  The  San Jose , California-based company has reorganized its
sales force, giving it more flexibility in setting prices. That
might help Cisco overcome some customers’ reluctance to buy now,
making it a tougher competitor, said Matt Robison, an analyst in
 San Francisco  for Wunderlich Securities Inc.  What had been a year of improvement for U.S. industries
eroded and a two-year equities rally came to halt as the debt
crisis that began in Greece in late 2009 drove borrowing costs
to euro-era records in nations such as Spain and Italy. The
 International Monetary Fund  will probably cut its global growth
forecast to a level “consistent with reality,” Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  told reporters last week.  Equities Fall  The  S&P 500  lost 0.04 point to 1,257.60 in 2011, the
smallest annual change since 1947. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) 
fell 11 percent and the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  plunged 17
percent.  Fourth-quarter earnings per share for Stoxx Europe 600
companies probably declined 21 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest drop since the second quarter of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., the 6 percent earnings
growth forecast for the S&P 500 would be down from 15 percent
growth in the third quarter and 33 percent in the fourth quarter
of 2010.  S&P profit excluding financial companies is projected by
analysts to rise 6.4 percent, about a third of the  growth rate (SP5QEXFN) 
from both the third quarter of 2011 and fourth quarter of 2010.  U.S. profits are settling into more normal levels above
economic growth after the recovery from the deepest recession
since the 1930s caused earnings to jump as much as 52 percent in
the first quarter of 2010, said Gina Martin Adams, a New York-
based equity strategist for Wells Fargo & Co.  Financial Companies  Europe’s debt crisis dragged down earnings at U.S. banks,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , as
corporations shelved initial public offerings and plans to raise
capital.  Banks may fare better this year, lending more as credit-
card debt stops deteriorating and foreclosures slow, allowing
capital reserves to move back to profits, Luschini said. The  S&P
500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  dropped 18 percent in 2011, making it the
worst of the 10 industries tracked within the S&P 500.  “If we don’t see something catastrophic happen, their
earnings will continue to normalize,” Luschini said. “A lot of
bad news has been reflected already.”  JPMorgan is forecast to report net income of about $3.8
billion, a 21 percent drop from a year ago that is wider than a
3.5 percent drop in the third quarter, estimates show.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ’s earnings are predicted to rise to about $1.9 billion.  Exxon (XOM) ,  Chevron (CVX)   Higher oil prices that drove earnings in 2011 for energy
companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp., two of
the top four-weighted companies in the S&P 500, may be reversed
this year, said  Jonathan Golub , chief equity strategist for UBS
Securities in New York. Oil prices had jumped to a closing high
of $113.93 a barrel in April, fueling earnings, before dropping
to $98.83 at the end of 2011.  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, may report fourth-quarter
earnings of $9.8 billion, an increase of 6 percent from a year
earlier, according to analysts’ estimates. That’s the slowest
quarterly profit growth last year. Chevron, based in San Ramon,
California, may have climbed 24 percent to about $6.6 billion, a
lower rate of growth from the third and second quarters.  European stagnation may curb demand for the petroleum
exports that helped  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Marathon Petroleum
Corp. (MPC)  post near-record profits in the first nine months of 2011.  U.S. chemical makers such as  DuPont Co. (DD)  and  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  probably will report fourth-quarter earnings that fell from
the prior quarter and from the year-earlier period.  Fiat, Ford  Fiat SpA (F) , which will kick off earnings for European
carmakers on Feb. 1, may post a 24 percent decline in fourth-
quarter trading profit versus the third quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Western European sales may fall 6.5 percent to 13.3 million
units in 2012, said  Stuart Pearson , a Morgan Stanley analyst in
London. Carmakers “with strong balance sheets and high credit
ratings should continue to gain,” he said in a Jan. 4 note.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, may have boosted
operating profit 51 percent to 2.62 billion euros ($3.3 billion)
in the fourth quarter, according to a survey of five analysts.
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s may have risen 47 percent to 2.29 billion euros.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , and Chrysler Group LLC
finished 2011 stronger than analysts predicted, as annual U.S.
auto sales reached 12.8 million in the best year since 2008,
when GM and Chrysler sought U.S. bailouts. GM also reclaimed the
top spot in world vehicle sales from  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp.  Toyota, Nissan  Toyota, Asia’s largest carmaker, probably increased profit
even after the record floods in Thailand disrupted output as it
boosted production in other factories. The Toyota City, Japan-
based company may report  net income (7203)  of 115 billion yen ($1.5
billion) in the quarter ended Dec. 31, rising from 93.6 billion
yen a year earlier, according to the average of six analyst
 estimates (7203)  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Even with the losses from the Thai floods, global vehicle
sales definitely grew from last year with the introduction of
new models and as inventory normalized,” said Issei Takahashi,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who has a
“neutral” rating on the company.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest carmaker, may post
profit of 71.6 billion yen for the quarter, while  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) , the third-biggest, may report 73 billion yen, according to
analyst estimates. Profit at  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest automaker, probably climbed, helped by a weaker won and
a 24 percent gain in overseas sales during the quarter.  Microsoft, AT&T  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are coping with supply
disruptions related to the flooding in Thailand and will report
weaker earnings. Analysts estimate that software maker
Microsoft’s net income declined last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Intel, the world’s largest chipmaker, is
forecast to post a net income gain of 9.2 percent, less than the
17 percent increase in the third quarter.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S. phone company, will probably
post its steepest drop in  earnings (T) , excluding some costs, in
eight years when it reports Jan. 26. The company said in a  Dec.
7 filing  that the cost to subsidize the Apple iPhone for
subscribers will have “near-term negative impact on  margins (T) .”  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant operator,
may see its profit growth slow on higher wage costs. Fourth-
quarter net income may have increased 6.9 percent to $1.33
billion, slower than the 8.6 percent during the third quarter.  Restaurants “have benefited a lot from a slack labor
market,” Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone interview. “But as you
keep lapping the benefits, it’s harder to find incremental
improvements,” she said.  Airlines, Health Insurers  The six biggest U.S. airlines, led by  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , probably will have a
combined fourth-quarter profit of $126.1 million excluding one-
time items, according to the average estimates of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That’s two-thirds less than the $394.5
million group profit a year earlier as rising  fuel costs (JETINYPR)  and
weaker demand for Europe flights weigh on results.  The weak economy also has reduced the volume of medical
services, tamping earnings for drug and device makers and
hospitals. Health insurers such as  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
largest in the U.S. by sales, were part of the only major health
subgroup in which analysts surveyed have raised estimates.  ‘Beats and Raises’  “I’d expect some beats and raises,” said Sanford C.
Bernstein’s  Ana Gupte , whose estimates beat other industry
analysts, according to  data (WLP)  compiled by Bloomberg. Gupte said
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  will top estimates the most.  Drugmakers such as Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest, and
hospital companies such as HCA Holdings Inc., the biggest U.S.
operator, face grimmer prospects. In the last three months,
analyst earnings estimates were lowered for 14 of 17 large
drugmakers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. And six of
eight hospital companies saw earnings estimates lowered.  Politics in Europe and elsewhere will play a bigger role in
the markets this year as elections in the U.S., Russia, Germany
and France and changes in China will affect leadership in half
the global economy, Luschini of Janney Montgomery said.  “A change in policy behavior in one of these countries
could have a marked influence,” he said.  Until then the world economy will limp along as Europe
focuses on austerity and U.S. consumers continue to pay down
debt, capping growth below 2 percent, said Morganlander of
Stifel Nicolaus.  “Global growth expectations will continue to be revised
downward,” he said. “I would not be shocked by continuing
deterioration of earnings growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  