-- Death-by-Smartphone Threat Drives Samsung to Spruce Up Camera Line: Tech
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-01-08T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/death-by-smartphone-threat-drives-samsung-to-spruce-up-camera-line-tech.html
  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Canon Corp. (7751)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  are making every effort to keep their latest
camera models from going the way of the Flip, GPS receivers and
other victims of category killing smartphones.  The top camera makers will unveil more than a dozen new
models of inexpensive digital cameras at this week’s  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas , offering jazzed up standard
features such as water resistant photography and special
software to keep squirming children in sharp focus.  The strategy is aimed at reversing a crippling slide in
entry level digital cameras, the industry’s largest market
segment, and to carve out a profitable niche that can compete
effectively against the expanding smartphone market. To combat
improved camera technology in smartphones from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  and others, manufacturers at the show opening in Las Vegas
on Jan. 10 will, among other things, introduce models that beam
photos directly to TVs and computers.  “All manufacturers, including Samsung, need to focus on
the value proposition of a camera and what differentiates it
versus a smartphone,” Reid Sullivan, a senior vice president of
Samsung, said in an interview. The Suwon, South Korea-based
company will introduce eight models that wirelessly transmit
images to other devices.  Sales of digital cameras that fit into consumers’ pockets,
called point-and-shoots, have taken a hit as smartphones have
become adept at taking high-definition photos and recording
videos, said Liz Cutting, an analyst with researcher NPD Group
Inc. in  Port Washington ,  New York . Smartphones also make it easy
to transfer those shots and videos to sites such as Facebook and
Flickr, she said.  Sheer Numbers  “The best device is the one you have in your hands when
the moment happens that it’s worth taking a picture,” Cutting
said in an interview. Camera makers “need to prove themselves
to the consumer and stay up to snuff against a smartphone.”  The results so far show that camera manufacturers such as
 Nikon Corp. (7731) , Canon, Sony,  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  and Samsung are
being overwhelmed by sheer numbers.  Through November, 2011 U.S. retail sales of entry-level
cameras plummeted 17 percent to 12 million units from 2010, NPD
said on Dec. 26, without providing revenue figures. Sales began
to slide in 2009 as picture-taking phones improved their auto-
focus, zoom and low-light features.  Smartphone makers sold 95 million devices in the U.S. in
the same period, research firm Gartner estimates.  U.S. consumers used smartphones to snap 27 percent of their
photos last year, up from 17 percent in 2010, according to NPD
data through November. The share of photos taken with a point-
and-shoot camera fell to 44 percent from 52 percent.  Fighting Extinction  With the rise of applications downloaded directly to
smartphones and stored with inexpensive memory, digital voice
recorders, portable game players and pocket camcorders similar
to  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ’s discontinued Flip also face possible
extinction.  Sony’s newer cameras focus on taking pictures in 3-D and on
capturing and downloading “precious moments,” even in extreme
conditions such as underwater, Sony Electronics President Phil Molyneux said in an interview.  The Tokyo-based company’s follow-ons to 2011-model cameras
such as the $425 Cyber-shot DSC-HX100V and $250 DSC-T55
emphasize taking pictures quickly, with zoom lenses that capture
photos at greater distance and with more clarity than phones,
Molyneux said.  Sharp Backgrounds  Canon’s flagship point-and-shoot will be called the
PowerShot G1X, and will include the ability to prioritize face
detection of children, meaning that even the most fidgety
child’s expression will appear in focus, according to  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  Advisors.  Samsung’s DV300F, one of eight models it plans to begin
selling by March, will let users upload images and videos
directly to online sharing sites, including Facebook, Flickr,
Picasa and YouTube, and to wirelessly send images to a computer.  The DV300F, which includes a small screen on the front to
let users see self portraits, adds a feature called Motion Photo
that lets users eliminate blurry backgrounds when capturing a
moving subject in the foreground.  Samsung and other camera makers should market new models to
mothers and other people who are more likely to print digital
images by adding the ability to upload photos without attaching
them to computers, Cutting said. Easy connections for TV viewing
would be a plus, too.  “Moms are the most likely group to own and use a point-
and-shoot camera because they’re not big techies,” Cutting
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  