-- Debris Litters New Zealand Beach After Stricken Ship Rena Splits in Two
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-01-09T07:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/debris-litters-new-zealand-beach-after-stricken-ship-rena-splits-in-half.html
Shipping cargo and debris are
littering a beach on  New Zealand ’s  North Island  after Rena, the
236-meter (774 foot) container vessel stranded on a reef since
October, yesterday split into two in rough seas.  Officials were forced to close Waihi Beach on New Zealand’s
northeastern coast after containers washed ashore and some
looting was reported, New Zealand police said in a statement.
Teams are removing debris from the beach including timber, milk
powder and plastic material,  Maritime New Zealand  said in a
statement on its website.  Aerial observations showed there was little change
overnight to the Rena’s position on the Astrolabe reef, the
agency said. Both sections were about 30 meters apart, with the
rear separating after stormy weather,  Maritime New Zealand  said
yesterday. The ship ran aground on Oct. 5 near Tauranga, 100
miles (160 kilometers) southeast of Auckland.  “There is inevitably going to be a lot of mess and
disturbance for the next few days while this is cleaned up and
we would like people to use common sense and stay well away from
the debris,” National On Scene Commander Alex van Wijngaarden
said in the statement.  Twelve containers have come ashore, while defense force
personnel are using mine-clearing equipment to check for debris
in harbor channels,  Maritime New Zealand  said. Workers tagged 21
containers with buoys this morning and plan to collect them when
weather conditions improve.  Worst Oil Spill  As much as 350 metric tons of oil may have leaked from the
vessel since the grounding, according to Maritime New Zealand.
That makes it the worst oil spill the nation has experienced.  While there were no signs of “significant” spills from
the vessel over the weekend, response teams were prepared if any
releases should occur, according to the statement. Three little
blue penguins were discovered to be oiled after the break-up.  “The ship is badly damaged with the severe movement
breaking off many of the hatch covers and releasing
containers,” Maritime N.Z. salvage manager David Billington
said yesterday. While there hasn’t been a “significant release
of oil, with the Rena in its current fragile state, a further
release is likely.”  The Liberian-flagged ship, owned by Athens-based  Costamare
Shipping Co. (CMRE) , was carrying 2,171 containers and about 1,700
metric tons of  fuel oil  when it struck the reef, according to
Maritime New Zealand. The Rena was hit by seven-meter waves in
the past two days and a three-nautical-mile exclusion zone
around the vessel remains in place because of the risk caused by
drifting containers.  Hazardous Cargo  The cargo included four containers of ferrosilicon, a solid
substance that can be hazardous when in contact with water and
can emit hydrogen, the agency said.  The Rena’s master and the second officer in charge of the
navigational watch have been charged under New Zealand’s
Maritime Act for operating a vessel in a manner causing
unnecessary danger or risk, the maritime agency said in a
statement on Oct. 13.  The charge carries a maximum penalty of NZ$10,000 ($7,800)
or 12 months’ imprisonment, it said at the time.  A tanker moored alongside the Rena took off 1,000 tons of
oil since the grounding after leaking fuel had blackened beaches
in the area and killed seabirds.  Separately, a phosphate ship that broke its moorings in
rough seas at  Christmas Island , more than 800 kilometers off
 Australia ’s northwestern coast, at the weekend is breaking up,
the Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported. The Panamanian-
registered MV Tycoon, which had been loading phosphate, was
pushed against a sea wall by heavy swell and 15 crew were taken
off the ship by navy personnel, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  