-- EBay Poised to Gain 30% Chasing Amazon Without PayPal: Real M&A
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-01-09T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/ebay-poised-to-gain-30-chasing-amazon-without-paypal-real-m-a.html
Instead of running auctions for
artillery shells,  harpoons  and zen gardening kits, a faster way
for  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  to enrich its owners would be to split off PayPal.  Since John Donahoe succeeded  Meg Whitman  as EBay’s chief
executive officer in March 2008, the world’s biggest online
marketplace has returned less than 2 percent to shareholders. In
the same span, its rival  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  overtook EBay in equity
value after more than doubling to $83 billion.  While EBay is worth $40 billion, separating PayPal, its
online payments unit that is increasing sales twice as fast,
would boost the combined value of the entities by as much as 30
percent, according to data compiled by Huntington Asset Advisors
and Bloomberg. A spinoff would also let EBay finance its
transformation into an online retailer more like Amazon without
raising PayPal’s  borrowing costs (EBAY) , Morgan Keegan & Co. said.  “It may simply be better for PayPal to not be buried
inside EBay,”  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $14.5 billion
at Huntington, including shares of EBay, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s something I would hope they’ve looked at as
an exit strategy. Then that would allow you to jack up EBay.”  Alan Marks, a spokesman at  San Jose , California-based EBay,
said it has no plans to spin off the unit. He referred to a
letter Donahoe sent to PayPal employees after the division’s
former President  Scott Thompson  announced last week that he will
become Yahoo! Inc.’s CEO.  “PayPal’s vision is clear,” Donahoe said in the letter.
“PayPal had an outstanding 2011. Our strategies are set and we
have a strong, focused leadership team in place.”  Relative Value  Today, EBay lost 0.4 percent to $30.51 a share in New York.  Founded in 1995 by  Pierre Omidyar  as AuctionWeb, EBay sold
its first item -- a broken laser pointer owned by Omidyar -- for
 $14.83 . Under Whitman, who became EBay’s CEO in 1998, the
auction site grew into a $78 billion company by December 2004
before losing almost half its market value as more consumers
turned to online retailers such as Amazon and its acquisition of
Skype Technologies SA failed.  While Donahoe, 51, was hired to replace Whitman in March
2008 after revenue growth at EBay  slowed (EBAY)  for four straight
years, the stock has  appreciated (EBAY)  just 1.4 percent to $30.63
since, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the same period, shareholders of Seattle-based Amazon
were rewarded with a 162 percent increase, the data show.  While analysts say the  underlying value (EBAY)  of EBay’s separate
businesses are worth almost $39 a share, investors are
discounting PayPal’s faster growth potential because sales from
its marketplace business haven’t kept pace, according to Justin Patterson, a Nashville-based analyst at Morgan Keegan.  Lack of Credit  Revenue at PayPal, which EBay bought for about $1.18
billion in October 2002, has increased more than 75 percent in
the past 12 months versus three years ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales at EBay’s marketplace division have
risen less than 10 percent. The online payments unit now
accounts for about 40 percent of EBay’s  revenue (EBAY) , the data show.  “The growth is in PayPal,” Patterson said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not getting as much credit. There is an
inherent conglomerate discount that investors put on it, that is
not necessarily in sell-side analysts’ price targets. Spinning
out PayPal is one way to get that  valuation (EBAY)  more quickly.”  By spinning off PayPal, EBay’s shareholders could own two
businesses with a combined value of as much as $40 a share,
based on an estimate from Huntington’s Sorrentino.  “That’s a way of monetizing it for shareholders because
it’s clear the market isn’t giving them that,” he said.  More Like Amazon  Separating the two would also enable EBay to borrow money
to boost the long-term growth of its merchant-based business and
compete with Amazon without jeopardizing PayPal’s profitability.  PayPal, which relies on the short-term debt markets to
finance its operations, would have to pay a higher  interest rate 
if EBay’s  credit rating (EBAY)  was lowered.  EBay has already increased spending on branding and
technology in the past year, and started an advertising campaign
in the last three months of 2011 after marketing expenses rose
29 percent in the third quarter.  To gain more retailers, EBay also unveiled its X.commerce
platform in October that lets developers create products and
connect with merchants without requiring them to use EBay.  With PayPal, “you have a need for a high  credit rating  to
access short-term funding,” Jason Paraschac, a New York-based
analyst at  Fitch Ratings , who has an A rating on EBay’s debt,
said in a telephone interview. “The EBay marketplaces business
does not have those financing needs. As the business matures and
growth slows down, from the capital standpoint, it makes sense
to add leverage. That would negatively impact PayPal.”  Big Enough  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in  New York ,
says keeping EBay and PayPal as an integrated business makes
more sense as more consumers use mobile devices to shop and pay
for goods and services. Much of PayPal’s growth also comes from
EBay itself, because retailers that sell on the online
marketplace are required to offer PayPal as a payment option.  “You don’t want to have different accounts, different
processes -- you want to link these things together as much as
possible,” Gillis said in a telephone interview. “It also
gives you that end-to-end data on the entire transaction. If
you’re a merchant you have to take PayPal.”  With more than 100 million active accounts and the value of
processed payments approaching $30 billion in the third quarter,
 Keith Wirtz , who oversees $14.6 billion as chief investment
officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati, says that
PayPal is now big enough so it doesn’t need to rely on EBay.  ‘Muddied Up’  PayPal said last week that it will start a partnership with
 Home Depot Inc. (HD)  this year to let shoppers use the payment system
at checkout in the home improvement chain -- its first agreement
to move away from EBay’s Internet business and allow purchases
to be processed on in-store terminals.  A plan to separate PayPal would also help attract qualified
CEO candidates after the departure of its president, Wirtz said.  As an independently run financial-services company, PayPal
could gain a valuation that exceeds the earnings multiples
investors pay to own the world’s largest payments networks --San
Francisco-based  Visa Inc. (V)  and Mastercard Inc. of Purchase, New
York -- by as much as 20 percent, he said.  Applying that premium to Visa’s  multiple (V)  on its projected
earnings this year would value PayPal at more than 20 times as a
separate company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  That’s 50 percent higher than EBay’s valuation of 13.3
times  estimated profit (EBAY)  for 2012, the data show.  “PayPal’s growth rates would warrant that kind of a
premium,” Wirtz said in a telephone interview. Using PayPal
“goes well beyond the EBay act itself. If it were a public
company, you would see a valuation that’s centered on them and
not be muddied up by being within EBay. Their relationship may
be in a stage where it’s in a  shareholder’s interest (EBAY)  for the two
to separate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 