-- Merkel Meets Sarkozy to Draft EU Fiscal Rules as Part of Euro-Rescue Plan
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-09T11:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/merkel-sarkozy-return-to-work-on-euro-rescue-with-berlin-meeting-tomorrow.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President Nicolas Sarkozy plan to drive forward their
agenda for stricter budget rules as they seek to craft a master
plan for rescuing the euro over the next three months.  The euro rose as the two leaders met in Berlin to flesh out
a rulebook for budgetary discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9
summit that seeks to create a “fiscal compact” for the 17-
member euro area. At their first meeting of 2012, they also plan
to discuss a financial-transaction tax, progress on Greece’s
second bailout and a Jan. 30 European summit that will focus on
bolstering growth, the German government said.  The German and French leaders have sponsored a plan to draw
up new fiscal guidelines by March to resolve a crisis that began
in  Greece  more than two years ago. As the contagion moves to the
euro-area’s core, policy makers are struggling to persuade
investors they can contain the risk and assure the single
currency’s survival. Merkel and Sarkozy are due to hold a joint
press conference at about 1:30 p.m. Berlin time.  Fixing the crisis requires more “German largesse” through
the current bailout programs, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
European Economist Huw Pill told a conference in  London  today.
“Starting today with Mrs Merkel’s meeting with Mr Sarkozy, it’s
important we do start to see some progress.”  Euro, Stocks  The euro rose 0.3 percent to trade at $1.2754 at 12:19 p.m.
Frankfurt time. The single currency has extended its decline
against the  U.S. dollar  last year, sliding 1.5 percent so far
this year. The  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  Index declined 0.3 percent after
earlier gains.  Bond yields declined after borrowing costs for sovereign
debt climbed last week. Spanish 10-year yields declined three
basis points after rising by the most in almost 17 years last
week on concern that the government will struggle to cut budget
deficits amid the economic slowdown.  Spain ,  Italy , the
Netherlands, Austria and Germany plan to sell bonds this week,
offering a gauge of market confidence.  The meeting will be followed by a round of talks among
euro-area leaders before the next summit meeting in Brussels on
Jan. 30. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  also will visit
Berlin this week, and Sarkozy and Merkel will both travel to
 Rome  on Jan. 20 for negotiations with the Italian government.  Among the moving parts in planning to resolve the crisis
are Greek negotiations with bondholders, in their seventh month,
to cut the country’s debt load in half.  Olivier Blanchard , the
International Monetary Fund’s chief economist, said Jan. 6 that
debt reduction for Greece “could have to be larger” and the
numbers will have to be worked out.  ‘Not Good’  “The numbers are not good” for Greece, Blanchard said on
CNBC television. “There’ll have to be substantial haircuts.”  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  is due in Berlin
for talks with Merkel tomorrow, chief German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters.  The plan to provide a second Greek bailout “must be
implemented” and requires “resolute” budget consolidation by
Greece’s government, Seibert said. The blueprint backed by
European Union leaders in October remains the “clear path
forward” for Greece.  Assembling the fiscal compact, which anchors debt limits
into national constitutions and accelerates sanctions for
violators, will entail creating a framework for euro members and
other EU states to draw up rules among themselves. The refusal
by the U.K. to participate in a plan to alter EU treaties could
complicate efforts by euro-area governments seeking to use EU
institutions to police any new debt scheme.  Belgian Test  Europe’s newfound powers over national taxing and spending
will get their first test this week when the European Commission
prods  Belgium  to make deeper savings just a week into the budget
year.  Under authority granted last month, the commission on Jan.
11 will decide whether an emergency Belgian spending freeze is
enough to put the deficit on track to fall below euro-area
limits in 2012. A negative verdict would expose Belgium to
potential sanctions in a precedent-setting trial of rules.  Merkel and Sarkozy may also discuss funding for the
European bailout fund today.  Germany ’s opposition to increasing
the so-called firewall for struggling states was underscored
last week, with German lawmakers expressing their resistance to
raising the 500 billion-euro ($636 billion) ceiling for the
permanent European Stability Mechanism, scheduled to go into
effect this year.  No More  “There won’t be 1 cent more,” Markus Ferber, a European
Parliament lawmaker from the Merkel-aligned  Christian Social
Union , said at a party meeting in the Bavarian town of Wildbad
Kreuth on Jan. 5. Hans Michelbach, the ranking CSU member in the
German parliament’s finance committee, said in an interview that
“you can’t keep throwing more money at the problem, and that’s
what increasing the ceiling would mean.”  The German and French leaders will also discuss options for
introducing a financial-transaction tax after Sarkozy said that
 France  was ready to go it alone if necessary. Germany favors a
Europe-wide tax and will lobby governments to agree on such a
levy in the coming “weeks and months,” Seibert said.  Bringing the Italian premier into the fold contrasts with
the tendency by Merkel and Sarkozy to hone a Franco-German
position on crisis matters. It may mark a vote of confidence in
the unelected Monti, who has pushed through budget cuts demanded
by the EU after the resignation of  Silvio Berlusconi .  ECB Role  Comments by Sarkozy and Italian Economic Development
Minister  Corrado Passera  suggested a joint push for a greater
European Central Bank role, a move Merkel has resisted.  Europe  must have a “real central bank with the tools to do
the job on stability and liquidity in the markets,” Passera
said at a conference in Paris last week. Sarkozy said “all EU
members and institutions must meet their responsibilities.”  Europe is “slowly but surely” mastering the debt crisis,
even if a solution has taken longer than hoped, EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  told Belgian broadcaster RTBF.  “We’ll put this crisis behind us, but it has taken longer
than we hoped for,”  Van Rompuy  said yesterday. “We often acted
a bit late and our decisions were often a bit too weak. But in
most cases, we’ve worked in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  