-- Euro Touches 11-Year Low Versus Yen Before Merkel, Sarkozy Meet on Crisis
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-01-09T06:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/euro-declines-to-11-year-low-against-yen-ahead-of-merkel-sarkozy-meeting.html
The euro touched an 11-year low
against the yen before the German and French leaders meet amid
signs  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is damping the region’s
prospects for growth.  The 17-nation euro traded 0.4 percent from the least in
nearly 16 months versus the dollar ahead of a report today
forecast to show industrial production in  Germany , Europe’s
biggest economy, declined in November. Australia’s currency
dropped after a report showed retail sales unexpectedly
stagnated in November. The Philippine peso fell for a third day
before a report on exports.  “We’re going to see more ongoing political noise and
that’s really just a distraction from the bigger driver of the
euro, which is the relatively weak growth outlook,” said  Mike Jones , a currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in
Wellington. “As long as European growth underwhelms, the euro
will continue to underperform the  U.S. dollar , yen and probably
also the rest of the major currencies.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent to 97.83 yen as of 6:48 a.m. in
 London  after dropping to 97.28, the least since December 2000.
The shared currency was little changed at $1.2718 and earlier
reached $1.2666, its weakest level since September 2010. The
dollar traded at 76.93 yen from 76.97. The Australian currency
lost 0.4 percent to $1.0187.  Japan ’s markets are closed today for a public holiday.  Merkel, Sarkozy Meeting  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy meet in Berlin today to flesh out a new rulebook
for fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit that seeks
to create a “fiscal compact” for the 17-member euro area. The
talks will be followed by a joint press conference.  Spain  is scheduled to sell bonds due in 2015 and 2016 on
Jan. 12. Italy will auction securities on the same day and on
Jan. 13. Spain’s 10-year  bond yield (GSPG10YR)  climbed seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.71 percent on Jan. 6, while the
rate on similar-maturity  Italian debt (GBTPGR10)  gained four basis points
to 7.13 percent, above the 7 percent threshold that led  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts.  German  industrial production (GRIPIMOM)  probably dropped 0.5 percent
in November after an 0.8 percent increase the previous month,
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
showed before the figures are released today. That would be the
first  slide (GRIPIMOM)  since September.  ‘Steady Underperformance’  “There is legitimate concern over the path to sustainable
sovereign debt levels,” Emma Lawson, a currency strategist at
National  Australia  Bank Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a report today.
“With the U.S. data improving, and the European numbers still
soft, the euro is likely to continue its steady
underperformance.”  The dollar gained 0.8 percent in the past week, the second-
best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Figures from the Labor Department on Jan. 6 showed payrolls
in the U.S. climbed by 200,000 last month following a revised
100,000 gain in November. The  jobless rate (USURTOT)  unexpectedly fell to
8.5 percent, the lowest level since February 2009.  Confidence (SBOITOTL)  among U.S. small companies rose in December for
a fourth month, economists in a Bloomberg News poll predicted
before tomorrow’s report. The National Federation of Independent
Business’s index probably climbed to 94, the highest level since
February 2011, from November’s 92, according to the survey’s
median forecast.  ‘Fundamental Shift’  “The correlation between good U.S. data equaling a weak
dollar is beginning to break down now that we’re seeing signs of
a more sustained recovery in the U.S.,” said Bank of New
Zealand’s Jones. “There’s a clear fundamental shift in favor of
the U.S. dollar.”  Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, plans to
release results today after markets close, the first company in
the  Dow Jones (INDU)  Industrial Average to report for the quarter. The
Dow rose 5.5 percent last year, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 
was little changed. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 11 percent
and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index plunged 17 percent in 2011.  The Australian dollar weakened after a report from the
statistics bureau showed  retail sales (AURSTSA)  were unchanged in
November. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a gain
of 0.4 percent.  “The past six months have been an important reminder that
small open economies such as Australia are not immune to the
broader global business cycle,”  Robert Mead , the head of
 portfolio management  in Australia at Pimco, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in an e-mailed report today.
Pimco predicts further interest-rate cuts from the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia this year.  The Philippine peso declined for a third day before a
government report tomorrow that may show  overseas shipments (PHEXYOY) 
dropped 10 percent in November from a year earlier after a 14.6
percent decrease the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 44.220 per dollar, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  