-- Axelrod Questions Romney’s Job Creation Claims
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-08T16:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/evidence-is-lacking-that-romney-s-bain-capital-created-jobs-axelrod-says.html
David Axelrod , U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s chief political adviser, said Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  lacks evidence to support his claim of
being a “job creator.”  Romney, former chief executive of Bain Capital LLC, has
said that companies the private equity firm helped start or
manage have created more than 100,000 net jobs.  “He can’t back up that number,” Axelrod said today on the
ABC news program “This Week With George Stephanopoulos.”
“Neither he nor his campaign can furnish any evidence to
support that.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who helped found
Bain, won the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3 and is the favorite to win
the New Hampshire Republican primary on Jan. 10. Romney has
claimed his business experience sets him apart from other
candidates and may help him create more jobs. The U.S.
unemployment rate for December was 8.5 percent, the Labor
Department reported Jan. 6.  During Romney’s tenure at Bain, the firm closed stores and
took companies to bankruptcy in an effort to create wealth,
according to Axelrod.  “He’s not a job creator. He’s a corporate raider,”
Axelrod said of Romney.  Republicans are making  job creation  a top issue in the U.S.
presidential race, and they attacked Obama during a debate last
night for not doing more to boost economic growth and reduce
unemployment.  “We have to get people back to work, but we also have to
make sure that work pays,” Axelrod said. “That’s a big
distinction between us and Governor Romney.”  Axelrod also defended the president’s national security
record, saying that Obama has ended the war in  Iraq  and
authorized a raid in May that killed former al-Qaeda leader
 Osama Bin Laden .  “I’m not sure Mitt Romney would have made that decision,”
Axelrod said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  