-- Jobs Data in U.S. ‘Encouraging,’ New Fed Buying Is Unlikely, Bullard Says
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/fed-official-says-new-quantitative-easing-unlikely.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the Fed probably won’t begin a new
round of bond purchases following “encouraging” data showing
the  U.S. economy  gained 200,000 payroll jobs in December.  “Hopefully, we will keep this momentum going in 2012,”
Bullard told reporters yesterday after a speech in  Chicago .
“The tone of the data has been very strong” and the central
bank “probably could wait and see for now” before deciding
whether there is a need for more accommodation, he said.  Policy makers are divided over whether they should see if
the economy deteriorates before taking additional steps to try
cutting borrowing costs and boosting  job creation . The U.S.
economy is growing moderately amid “apparent slowing” in
global growth, with “some improvement in overall labor market
conditions,” Fed officials said last month. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.5 percent from 8.7 percent in November, figures
from the Labor Department showed last week.  “The jobs report was encouraging and I’m hopeful that this
is a harbinger of more robust activity” in the U.S. economy,
Bullard said. A third round of quantitative easing is not “very
likely right now,” and officials need to weigh the benefits and
the costs of such a move.  In addition, forecasters have been “a bit too pessimistic
about the U.S. economy,” Bullard said after speaking to the
Korea-America Economic Association. “The best forecast is the
momentum will continue.”  Delaying Expectations  The  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  plans to start releasing
officials’ forecasts for borrowing costs after the Jan. 24-25
meeting, according to minutes of the Dec. 13 gathering released
last week. That may boost economic growth by delaying
expectations for an increase in the benchmark rate from near
zero, said economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Mesirow
Financial Inc.  Bullard said he sees reason for skepticism toward the
FOMC’s decision to release officials’ forecasts for the
benchmark  interest rate .  “It is unclear to me if putting out 17 forecasts is the
best way to do it,” the St. Louis Fed president said. “We will
have ample opportunity to experiment” with this. Still, “there
are legitimate questions” on whether this is the best path.  The FOMC also has made “considerable progress” on an
inflation target, without reaching a final decision, Bullard
told reporters.  Bullard, 50, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases. He published a paper in 2010 entitled “Seven
Faces of the Peril,” which called on  the Fed (FDTR)  to avert deflation
by purchasing Treasury notes, a policy known as quantitative
easing.  New Paper  His speech yesterday is based on a paper set to be released
this month, titled “Death of a Theory.” In it, the bank
president says monetary policy works better than tax and
spending changes in protecting the economy from shocks, even
with the target for the overnight lending rate between banks
close to zero since December 2008.  “Stabilization policy should be left to the monetary
authority, which can operate effectively” with the fed funds
rate at almost zero, Bullard said. By contrast, the use of tax
and spending changes to respond to shocks over the short run
“has run its course.”  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of Arkansas and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky , Mississippi,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  