-- Giants’ Injury-Hobbled Defense Recovers for Playoff Victory Over Falcons
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/giants-injury-hobbled-defense-recovers-for-playoff-victory-over-falcons.html
The New York Giants’ defense, hobbled
by injuries this season, recovered to hold the  Atlanta Falcons ’
offense scoreless for the first time in 73 games.  The Giants beat Atlanta 24-2 in the first round of the
National Football League playoffs by shutting down the Falcons’
running attack, keeping quarterback  Matt Ryan  off balance with
two sacks and twice stopping their opponents on fourth and one
runs inside the 25-yard line.  “Our best effort so far this year,” Giants defensive
lineman  Justin Tuck  said after the game. “The last three weeks
-- do or die games for us -- we really came out and put things
together, but it still feels like we can play better.”  Atlanta’s offense failed to score for the first time since
2007, as the Falcons’ only points yesterday came on a second-
quarter safety when Giants quarterback Eli Manning was called
for intentional grounding in his end zone.  It was the fewest points allowed by the Giants in the
postseason since a 41-0 shutout of the  Minnesota Vikings  in the
National Football Conference title game after the 2000 season.
Falcons running back  Michael Turner , who led the NFC and was
third in the NFL with 1,340 rushing yards this season, finished
with 41 yards on 15 carries against the Giants.  “They did win the line of scrimmage,” Falcons coach  Mike Smith  said. “There was no doubt about that.’”  The Giants defense has battled health issues all season,
including season-ending injuries to linebackers Clint Sintim and
Jonathan Goff, defensive tackle Marvin Austin, and defensive
backs Terrell Thomas,  Bruce Johnson  and Brian Witherspoon. On
the defensive line, Tuck and Osi Umenyiora both missed time with
injuries.  ‘Ups and Downs’  “We’ve had our ups and downs,” Tuck said. “It just seems
like now we’re starting to click.”  The Giants, who had 48 sacks in the regular season, tied
with the  Baltimore Ravens  for third-most in the league, sacked
Ryan twice and had seven hurries. The Falcons’ offense, which
averaged 377 yards a game during the regular season, was limited
to a season-low 247 yards.  Atlanta was 4-14 on third down and 0-3 on fourth-down
conversion attempts.  The game began with the Giants’ Victor Cruz dropping a pass
across the middle, and both offenses struggled until the Falcons
put together a 14-play drive that started at their own 10-yard
line. It ended when Ryan was stopped on a quarterback sneak on
the Giants’ 24. It was the first of three times the Falcons had
the ball inside the Giants’ 25, only to turn the ball over on
downs each time.  Making a Statement  “We came out today and said, ‘You can’t run the ball on
us,’” Giants defensive end  Jason Pierre-Paul , who led all
defensive linemen with 86 tackles during the regular season,
said after the game. “We made a statement. Fourth-and-one,
whatever, we are going to continue to play great football.”  The last time the Falcons offense went a game without
scoring was a 31-7 loss to the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  on Nov. 18,
2007. The last playoff game in which an offense was held without
a score was the 2001  Super Bowl , when the Giants lost 34-7 to
the Ravens. Ron Dixon scored New York’s only points on a 97-yard
kickoff return.  The Giants next travel to  Green Bay  on Jan. 15 to face the
defending champion Packers in the second round. The Giants lost
at home to Green Bay 38-35 on Dec. 4. Yet in the past three
games,  New York  has allowed 30 points combined. They’re peaking
at the right time, Coughlin said.  “If we can continue to play defense like that, we can make
ourselves heard in this tournament,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  