-- Lions Gate Near Deal to Buy “Twilight” Studio
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-01-08T00:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/lions-gate-said-near-700-million-deal-to-buy-twilight-studio-summit.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  is
near an agreement to buy “Twilight” producer Summit
Entertainment LLC for about $700 million including assumed debt,
according to people with knowledge of the situation.  An accord may be announced as soon as next week, said two
people, who sought anonymity because negotiations aren’t
complete. The talks may not end with an agreement, they said.  Lions Gate , the studio behind “Saw” and the Tyler Perry
comedies, will pay more than $400 million for Summit’s equity
and assume less than $300 million in debt, one of the people
said. Summit, based in Santa Monica,  California  has been
negotiating exclusively with Lions Gate for the past week, the
people said. The studio also held talks with Tom Barrack’s
 Colony Capital LLC , which owns the the Miramax film library.  A deal would gives Lions Gate, maker of the “Saw” horror
films and the “Mad Men” TV show, the final installment in the
“Twilight” vampire movies and library rights to the first four
films, which generated $2.45 billion in global ticket sales.
Lions Gate would also add Summit’s Oscar-winning war drama “The
Hurt Locker” to its library of 13,000 films and TV shows.  Lions Gate and Summit last month resumed talks that broke
down in the past over price and control issues.  The combined company will be run by Lions Gate Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Jon Feltheimer and Vice Chairman  Michael Burns , with Summit CEO Rob Friedman running the film unit, one
of the people said. Patrick Wachsberger, Summit’s co-chairman
with Friedman, would take over international distribution.  Young-Adult Market  “Twilight” fits Lions Gate’s goal of breaking into the
lucrative young-adult market. The studio will release the first
of four planned films based on Suzanne Collins’s “The Hunger
Games” trilogy in March. Lions Gate also owns rights to the
“Chaos Walking” young-adult books by Patrick Ness.  The acquisition would produces a pay day for the owners of
closely held Summit, who formed the studio in 2007 with funding
from Merrill Lynch & Co. Last year, the company raised $750
million to finance movie making and pay a dividend to owners
including Rizvi Traverse Management LLC. Friedman and
Wachsberger also own part of Summit.  Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica , California, fell 0.5
percent to $8.41 yesterday in  New York . The company has about
$550 million in short- and long-term debt, according to  data (LGF) 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of Summit’s cash will be used to pay down its debt and
some cash will move with the company to Lions Gate, according to
the website Deadline Hollywood, which reported the terms
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  