-- Iran Able to Block Strait of Hormuz, General Dempsey Says on CBS
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/iran-able-to-block-strait-of-hormuz-general-dempsey-tells-cbs.html
Iran  has the ability to block the
 Strait of Hormuz  “for a period of time,” and the U.S. would
take action to reopen it, Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman General
Martin Dempsey said.  “They’ve invested in capabilities that could, in fact, for
a period of time block the Strait of Hormuz,” Dempsey said in
an interview aired yesterday on the CBS “Face the Nation”
program. “We’ve invested in capabilities to ensure that if that
happens, we can defeat that.”  Should Iran try to close Hormuz, the U.S. “would take
action and reopen” the waterway, said Dempsey, President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser.  Blocking the Strait of Hormuz, a strategic shipping lane
linking the  Gulf of Oman  with the Persian Gulf, would constitute
a “red line” for the U.S., as would Iranian efforts to build a
nuclear weapon, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said on the same
program.  The U.S. tightened economic sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program on Dec. 31, and the European Union is weighing a
ban later this month on purchases of Iranian crude.  Iranian Threat  Iran threatened last month to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a
transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions
are imposed on its crude exports. Iran held 10 days of naval
maneuvers east of the strait ending Jan. 3. The country plans
even bigger military maneuvers in the area next month, the
state-run Fars news agency reported on Jan. 5.  U.S. sanctions imposed last year seek to cut off dealings
with Iran’s banking system, making it difficult for consumers to
buy the country’s oil.  Iran has also started to enrich uranium at its Fordo
production facility, according to the official Kayhan newspaper.  The existence of the Fordo plant, built into the side of a
mountain near the Muslim holy city of Qom, south of Tehran, was
disclosed in September 2009, heightening concern among the U.S.
and its allies who say Iran’s activities may be a cover for the
development of atomic weapons. The  Persian Gulf  country says it
needs nuclear technology to secure energy for its growing
population.  Pressure on Iran  Continued pressure, rather than threats of air strikes, is
the best way to forestall Iran from developing nuclear weapons,
Panetta said.  While the U.S. shouldn’t “take any option off the table,“
Panetta said “the responsible thing to do right now is to keep
putting diplomatic and economic pressure on them to force them
to do the right thing, and to make sure that they do not make
the decision to proceed with the development of a nuclear
weapon.”  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum  said Jan. 1
on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he would use air strikes
against Iran unless the country dismantled its nuclear program
or allowed inspectors to verify that the work isn’t aimed at
making a weapon.  Dempsey suggested that curbing Iran’s nuclear work by
bombing its facilities would be difficult.  “I’d rather not discuss the degree of difficulty and in
any way encourage them to read anything into that,” Dempsey
said. “My responsibility is to encourage the right degree of
planning, to understand the risks associated with any kind of
military option.”  Israeli Strike  Should  Israel  decide to undertake a unilateral military
strike against Iran, the U.S. priority would be protecting
American troops in the region, Panetta said.  Dempsey and Panetta sought on CBS to provide assurances
that the new U.S. military strategy, announced last week, won’t
limit the U.S. ability to stop aggressors.  “What we’re looking to do here is not constrain ourselves
to a two-war construct, but rather build a force that has the
kind of agility” needed to adapt to any scenario, Dempsey said.
Previous U.S. war planning called for preparing to fight two
conventional wars simultaneously.  The plan was driven by the need to cut almost $490 billion
from projected Pentagon spending through 2021, including about
$261 billion through 2017. Panetta said last week the details
won’t be released until the Pentagon presents its 2013 budget
request to Congress by early February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  