-- Iran Starts Uranium Enrichment at Fordo Mountain Facility, Kayhan Reports
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-01-08T11:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/iran-starts-uranium-enrichment-at-fordo-mountain-facility-kayhan-reports.html
Iran  has started to enrich uranium at
its Fordo production facility, the official  Kayhan newspaper 
reported without saying where it got the information.  Iran will soon have a ceremony to open the site officially,
the newspaper reported, citing the head of the Iranian Atomic
Energy Organization, Fereydoun Abbasi. The Iranian nuclear chief
was cited yesterday by  Mehr News  as saying that the underground
facility “will start operating in the near future.”  The existence of the Fordo plant, built into the side of a
mountain near the Muslim holy city of Qom, south of Tehran, was
disclosed in September 2009, heightening concern among the U.S.
and its allies who say Iran’s activities may be a cover for the
development of atomic weapons. The Persian Gulf country has
rejected the allegation, saying it needs nuclear technology to
secure energy for its growing population.  In September, Abbasi said he expected Iran to inaugurate
its Fordo uranium production within six months. The plant will
produce uranium enriched to 20 percent, he said at a press
conference in Vienna. Three months later, the Obama
administration expressed concern that Iran was on the verge of
enriching uranium.  Iran has pressed ahead with its nuclear program even as
international pressure increases to prevent the Islamic republic
from building an atomic weapon.  The U.S. tightened economic sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear program on Dec. 31, and the European Union is weighing a
ban later this month on purchases of Iranian crude.  Iran threatened last month to shut the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions
are imposed on its crude exports in response to its nuclear
program. Iran held 10 days of naval maneuvers east of the strait
ending Jan. 3.       The country plans even bigger military maneuvers in the
area next month, the state-run Fars news agency reported
on Jan. 5.  Brent crude futures have risen 5 percent so far this month
to $113 a barrel.  U.S. sanctions imposed last year seek to cut off dealings
with Iran’s banking system, making it difficult for consumers to
buy the country’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  