-- Iran Navy Drills Will Practice Hormuz Strait Closing, Mehr Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-08T08:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/iran-navy-drills-will-practice-hormuz-strait-closing-mehr-says.html
Iran’s next round of Persian Gulf
naval drills will practice the armed forces’ ability to close
the  Strait of Hormuz , a lawmaker on parliament’s national
security committee was cited by  Mehr News  as saying.  The elite Revolutionary Guards Corp will start naval
exercises Jan. 27 in the Gulf with the aim of enhancing the
country’s ability to close the chokepoint into that body of
water “in the shortest possible time when the situation
requires it,” Mehr cited Esmaeil Kowsari, a member of
parliament’s National Security and Foreign Policy Committee, as
saying in a report published yesterday.  The drills are planned as tensions mount between the
country and the U.S. and European allies over its nuclear
program. Brigadier General Ahmad Vahidi, the defense minister,
said the drills will be the “greatest naval war games” to be
conducted by the elite corps, Fars news agency reported Jan. 6.  Iran  threatened last month to shut the Strait, a transit
point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if sanctions are
imposed on its crude exports in response to the nuclear program.
Concern supplies may be disrupted helped boost  oil prices , with
 Brent crude  advancing 5.3 percent last week.  Iran last week completed naval exercises by military units
outside the Strait, according to reports by Fars. The planned
Jan. 27 start for the Revolutionary Guards’ exercises is earlier
than that reported for the drills in comments by the corps’
naval commander. The exercises, called “the Great Prophet,”
will take place in February, Fars cited Admiral Ali Fadavi as
saying on Jan. 5. They will be more extensive than the Dec. 24-
Jan. 3 maneuvers by Iran’s navy in the Sea of Oman, he said.  EU Embargo  The European Union may agree to an embargo on Iranian oil
imports at a meeting on Jan. 30, officials said this week. U.S.
sanctions imposed last year aim to cut off dealings with Iran’s
banking system, making it difficult for consumers to buy the
country’s oil, in an effort to force Iran to abandon nuclear
work that the U.S. and allies say may be intended for weapons
development.  The EU and the U.S. are joined by the  United Nations  in
levying measures on Iran over the atomic program. Iran says its
nuclear efforts are for civilian purposes and to generate
electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  