-- Israel Chemicals Drops Most in Week as CEO Mozes to Retire
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-01-08T15:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/israel-chemicals-retreats-the-most-in-a-week-as-ceo-mozes-plans-to-retire.html
Israel  Chemicals Ltd. fell the most
in more than a week after the maker of fertilizer from minerals
harvested from the  Dead Sea  said Chief Executive Officer Akiva Mozes will retire after 13 years in the position.  The  shares fell (ICL)  2.5 percent, the most since Dec. 29, to
39.27 shekels by the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The  stock lost (ICL) 
35 percent last year, compared with an 18 percent decline in the
 TA-25 benchmark (TA-25) , amid concern about the regulatory environment
regarding royalties and the issue of salt harvesting.  “Mozes was a very respected manager,” Guil Bashan, an
analyst at I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in  Tel
Aviv , said today in an e-mailed note. “His departure will be a
loss.”  The company on Dec. 29 approved an agreement with the
government to pay increased royalties on potash production and
finance most of the costs to clean up salt residue, a byproduct
of potash production, at the Dead Sea. Israel, which imposed a
tax on gas and oil producers last year to boost the public’s
share of revenue from natural resources, is reassessing its
overall royalties-payments policy, TheMarker reported Jan. 3.  Mozes is the third Israeli chief executive officer to step
down this year.  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , Israel’s largest
lender by assets, said Jan. 1 that CEO Galia Maor will leave in
the second quarter after 16 years as one of the nation’s most-
prominent business leaders.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ,
the world’s largest generic drugmaker, on Jan. 2 named Jeremy Levin, a former executive at Bristol-Myers Squibb, to replace
CEO Shlomo Yanai.  ‘Very Good Year’  Third-quarter  net income (ICL)  at the Tel Aviv-based company rose
80 percent and revenue jumped 37 percent as Israel Chemicals
sold more products at higher prices. Mozes told Bloomberg TV in
October that 2011 would be a “very good year” as the company
focuses on demand from  emerging markets .  “I think transferring the responsibility to another
manager is the right thing to do after so many years at the top
job of the company,” Mozes, 65, said in a statement today. No
date was set for his retirement.  Mozes’s resignation comes as  India , the world’s third-
largest potash buyer, said on Jan. 6 that it will delay signing
new contracts to purchase the soil nutrient until July.  A decline in Indian imports may help cool a 39 percent
rally in export prices of potash from  Canada  in the past year
and potentially lower potash producers’ earnings, including that
of ICL.  “ICL is the most exposed, with over 20 percent of
shipments going to India,” Jonathan Kreizman, a Tel Aviv based
analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd., said by phone.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT)  said last week it will
extend cuts in potash output as buyers of the crop nutrient
delay purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Lerner at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net  