-- Tebow Leads Broncos Past Steelers in Overtime, Giants Win in NFL Playoffs
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-01-09T05:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/n-y-giants-beat-atlanta-falcons-24-2-in-nfl-playoffs-will-play-green-bay.html
Tim Tebow ’s 80-yard touchdown pass on
the first play of overtime gave the  Denver Broncos  a 29-23 win
against the Pittsburgh Steelers and the final spot in the second
round of the National Football League playoffs.  The  New York Giants  defeated the Atlanta Falcons earlier
yesterday 24-2, collecting their first postseason home victory
in 11 years as  Eli Manning  threw three touchdown passes.  Tebow, who had one touchdown pass and eight turnovers as
the Broncos lost their final three regular-season games, threw
two scoring passes and ran for another against a Pittsburgh
defense that had allowed the fewest points and passing yards in
the NFL. It was the first playoff win since the 2005 season for
Denver, which next faces the  New England Patriots  on Jan. 14.  “He really answered the bell,” Broncos Vice President of
Football Operations John Elway said of Tebow’s playoff debut in
a televised interview. “He came out and played great.”  Tebow finished with a season-high 316 passing yards and
completed five throws of 30 yards or more, including four during
the Broncos’ 20-point second quarter at Sports Authority Field
at Mile High in Denver. The Broncos scored a total of 33 second-
quarter points in 16 regular-season games.  “This team wanted to fight and we wanted to play another
game,” Tebow said at a news conference. “I just tried to go
out there and play hard, play fast and trust my teammates. They
make me look a lot better than I actually am.”  Winning Pass  After the Steelers erased a 20-6 halftime deficit to tie
the game, Tebow hit Demaryius Thomas with a pass over the middle
and Thomas outraced the Steelers’ secondary to the end zone 11
seconds into the overtime. It was the longest overtime scoring
play in NFL history.  “Big, big play,” Elway said. “He put it right on the
money and Demaryius took it to the house.”  Denver (9-8) entered the game as 8 1/2-point underdogs
against the Steelers, who went 12-4 during the regular season
and three years ago won their record sixth Super Bowl title. The
Broncos are 13 1/2-point underdogs against the Patriots, the top
seed in the American Football Conference.  The Giants’ win yesterday at MetLife Stadium in  East
Rutherford ,  New Jersey , sets up a Jan. 15 road game against the
defending Super Bowl champion  Green Bay Packers , who are 9-point
favorites. Also on Jan. 15, the  Baltimore Ravens  are 8-point
favorites at home against the  Houston Texans , who beat the
Cincinnati Bengals 31-10 two days ago.  In the other second-round game on Jan. 14, the  New Orleans
Saints  are 3 1/2-point road favorites against the  San Francisco
49ers  after defeating the Detroit Lions 45-28 on Jan. 7.  Giants Rush  The Giants got their first playoff win at MetLife Stadium
behind a defense that stopped the Falcons twice on fourth down
and an offense that generated 442 yards, their third-most in a
postseason game. The Giants’ 172 rushing yards was a season high
and boosted their record to 8-1 this season when they rush for
more than 100 yards.  “We played outstanding defense and that set the tone for
everything else that happened,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said.
“If we can continue to play defense like that, we can make
ourselves heard in this tournament. The second half we got going
on offense and started rushing the ball.”  The Giants scored the game’s final 24 points after the
Falcons got a second-quarter safety when Manning was called for
intentional grounding in his end zone.  Nicks Touchdowns  Hakeem Nicks caught two touchdown passes from Manning and
got the Giants on the scoreboard with a 4-yard scoring reception
with 2:47 left in the first half. Nicks also had a 72-yard
touchdown reception in the third quarter, catching a crossing
pass from Manning and racing through the Falcons’ defense to tie
the longest postseason play in Giants history.  The score boosted the Giants’ lead to 17-2 and came three
plays after their defense stopped Falcons quarterback  Matt Ryan 
on a 4th-and-1 run from the New York 21-yard line.  Manning, who led the NFL during the regular season with 18
passes of 40 yards or more, completed 23 of 32 pass attempts for
277 yards.  Brandon Jacobs  rushed for 92 yards on 14 carries,
while  Ahmad Bradshaw  added 63 on 14 runs.  The Giants allowed their fewest postseason points since a
41-0 victory over  Minnesota  in the National Football Conference
championship game following the 2000 season.  The Giants advance to play the Packers, who went 15-1
during the regular season and won 38-35 at MetLife Stadium in
Week 13 on a 30-yard field goal as time expired.  Lambeau Win  In their run to a Super Bowl title after the 2007 season,
the Giants had three road wins against division champions,
including an overtime win at  Green Bay ’s Lambeau Field.  “Our defense is playing great football right now, so
hopefully they can continue to do that,” Manning said at his
postgame news conference. “We are going to have to go score
some points, we can’t make mistakes and hopefully get off to a
faster start than we did today.”  The Broncos’ one-play winning drive came in the first
playoff game under the NFL’s new overtime rules.  While both teams would get the ball once if there was a
field goal on the opening possession, Tebow and Thomas ensured
the Steelers and  Ben Roethlisberger  wouldn’t get another chance.
Thomas hauled in the pass, stiff-armed a defender and broke free
for the winning score.  “He made a nice catch and was able to break free,”
Steelers coach  Mike Tomlin  told reporters. “The run after was
significant, not only on that play, but several instances.”  Roethlisberger had 289 passing yards and two touchdowns,
including a 31-yarder to Jerricho Cotchery with 3:56 remaining
that tied the score 23-23. Pittsburgh got to the Denver’s 45-
yard line with 29 seconds left before Roethlisberger was sacked
and the Steelers failed to get into position for a fourth field
goal attempt by Shaun Suisham.  “It’s shocking,” Steelers receiver Hines Ward said of the
Broncos’ overtime score. “We look up and the guy is running
down the field for a touchdown. It was a great comeback for us
to even take them to overtime. We just missed out on some
opportunities and plays.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  