-- N.Z. Hot Air Balloon Crash Killed 11 People
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2012-01-08T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/n-z-hot-air-balloon-crash-killed-11-people.html
New Zealand  police are investigating
why a hot air balloon hit electrical wires and crashed in flames
two days ago, killing 11 people.  At least six agencies are probing the crash with formal
identification of the bodies expected to take “several days,”
New Zealand police said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday. The
pilot and all 10 of the passengers on board are believed to be
from New Zealand, police said.  The balloon struck  power lines  and caught fire as it was
preparing to land after a 45-minute flight near Carterton, about
50 miles (80 kilometers) northeast of the capital, Wellington,
according to police. After flames erupted, a male and a female
jumped from the basket to their deaths and the craft made a
sharp ascent before crashing to the ground and killing those
still on board.  The investigation “is not a quick process and will take
some time to complete,” Wairarapa Area Commander Inspector
Brent Register said in the statement.  Four of the bodies had been removed from the scene with the
other seven yet to be moved, Register said.  The Transport Accident Investigation Commission and  Civil
Aviation Authority  are among those involved in examining the New
Zealand crash, Transport Minister  Gerry Brownlee  said.  “Experts will be looking to learn any lessons from the
investigations which have begun today which can help improve
safety for others in the future,” Brownlee said yesterday in a
 statement .  Tourism Industry   The balloon accident may damage a tourism industry that has
become one of New Zealand’s biggest export earners, partly
through highlighting outdoor activities such as bungy jumping,
ballooning and skiing.  About 17 percent of New Zealand’s  export earnings , or
NZ$9.7 billion ($7.6 billion), came from tourism in the 12
months ended March 2011, with the industry representing almost 9
percent of gross domestic product.  The accident follows recent New Zealand disasters including
a February earthquake in Christchurch that killed 181 and
subsequent aftershocks that left the nation facing a damage bill
of at least NZ$15 billion. Explosions at the  Pike River coal (PRC) 
mine in October 2010 claimed 29 lives.  The balloon accident is the biggest loss of New Zealand
life in an air accident since 1979, when an Air New Zealand
sightseeing flight over  Antarctica  crashed into Mount Erebus and
killed all 257 passengers and crew.  An accident in  1989  resulted in 13 deaths when two balloons
collided near the central Australian town of Alice Springs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  