-- New York City Opera Locks Out Singers as Director Turns to Rock and Roll
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/new-york-city-opera-locks-out-singers-musicians-imperiling-2012-season.html
Imagine opera singers accompanied by
Klezmer musicians, a rock and roll band or Yo-Yo Ma.  George Steel  can. The artistic director and general manager
of New York City Opera told unionized singers and musicians that
he wants the flexibility to present nontraditional works, giving
them less work. That demand contributed to a collapse in labor
talks and a lockout of artists a month before the company’s
first 2012 performance.  “We have canceled rehearsals until we have a deal,” Risa
Heller, a City Opera spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.
“We are taking this one day at a time.”  The company on Sunday announced a lockout affecting 47
musicians and a few dozen choristers, stage managers, directors,
assistant directors and soloists. Mediation that began on Dec.
19 by the Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service ended
Saturday at about 9 p.m. without an agreement. Members of the
 American Guild of Musical Artists  and  Local 802 of the American
Federation of Musicians  had earlier voted to authorize a strike.  The standoff imperils performances of four works scheduled
for this season and the future of the 69-year-old company that
former Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia called “the people’s opera.”
The orchestra already accepted a cut in guaranteed work to save
the opera, to 22 weeks from 29 in 2009-2010, Gail Kruvand, 
assistant principal bass and chair of the orchestra's negotiating 
committee, said in an interview. Steel now proposes about six 
weeks of work, she said.  “The diminishment of our wages is so severe,” Kruvand 
added. “We said, ‘you have to come up with a little more money.’”  Falling Pay  For choristers, average pay would tumble 90 percent to
about $4,000, said  Alan Gordon , national executive director of
the American Guild of Musical Artists. Singers were told to skip
today’s rehearsal of Verdi’s “La Traviata,” scheduled to begin
Feb. 12 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.  Steel’s pay of $324,000 excluding benefits is down 9
percent from 2009. Kruvand said the amount is just shy of the
entire orchestra’s budget, $393,000. “Our slice of the pie has
diminished greatly and his has not,” she said.  NYCO said in a statement that management “stretched every
dollar available to them to create a proposal that would suit
their economic constraints and encourage the unions to come back
to work, but the unions refused.”  Kruvand said cutting-edge programming isn’t big box office.
Most tickets went unsold for last season’s collection of 20th-
century one-acts, called “Monodramas,” she said.  “We were told by the mediator that fundraising and ticket
sales are suffering” this season, she said.  Internet Plug  Songwriter  Rufus Wainwright  has taken to the Internet to
drum up sales for his NYCO debut. On the blog “ Brooklyn
Vegan ,” he  wrote  that early ticket sales for his first opera,
“Prima Donna,” which NYCO is to present at BAM later in
February, would “boost the moral and physical prospects for
both my piece and the New York City Opera as a whole.”  The company would be “decimated” if contract negotiations
with musicians break down, the 38-year-old wrote on Jan. 4.  New York City Opera has no permanent venue after quitting
its home last year in the  Lincoln Center  for the  Performing Arts ,
next door to the  Metropolitan Opera . Since it was founded in
1943, NYCO productions have included stars such as Placido Domingo and  Beverly Sills , who ran the company from 1979 to 1989.  In November, the company renewed Steel’s contract. He took
over in February of 2009 and oversaw the departure from Lincoln
Center because he said the company couldn’t afford to stay there.  An e-mail and phone call to Heller requesting comment from
Steel weren’t immediately answered. In a statement on Dec. 1,
the NYCO said management had been talking with the unions for
months “to get their contracts in line with fiscal realities.”  Gordon of AGMA said unions “gave all they could give” in
an attempt to come to an agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 