-- Nigerian Fuel Price Strike May Disrupt Shell’s Oil Production, Close Ports
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-09T14:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/nigerian-fuel-price-strike-may-disrupt-shell-oil-production-close-ports.html
Nigerian workers began a national
strike after fuel costs more than doubled, threatening to shut
ports and disrupt output from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  in Africa’s largest crude producer.  Banks, businesses, schools and most offices were closed and
streets deserted except for protesters today in Lagos, the West
African nation’s economic center, and Abuja, the capital.  At
least 14 people were injured in the northern city of Kano, seven
of them by gunshots, after protesters clashed with police, Musa
Abdullahi, chairman of the  Red Cross  in the state, said.  The Nigeria Labour Congress and the Trade Union Congress,
the country’s biggest labor union federations, called the strike
to force President  Goodluck Jonathan  to reverse a decision to
scrap fuel subsidies. The industrial action started a day after
Jonathan said Islamic militants responsible for attacks in the
north infiltrated his government and threatened  Nigeria  with a
situation worse than the 1967-70 civil war.  “The objective is that the government must reverse the
fuel price increases before we end the strike,”  Owei Lakemfa ,
secretary-general of the Nigeria Labour Congress, said today by
phone from Abuja.  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
surged after Jonathan abolished 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4
billion) of subsidies on Jan. 1. The price had been capped at 65
naira a liter, undermining investment in refineries that forced
the nation to import about 70 percent of its fuel.  Oil Exports  So far the strike hasn’t affected the oil exports of Shell,
which has the biggest operations in Nigeria, company spokesman
 Tony Okonedo  said today by phone from Lagos. Nigel Cookey-Gam, a
spokesman for  Exxon Mobil (XOM)  Corp., which has the second-largest
oil operations in Nigeria, didn’t answer calls on his mobile
phone seeking comment.  Nigeria produced an average 2.2 million barrels of crude a
day in December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and is
the fifth-largest provider of oil imports to the U.S. At least
90 percent is pumped by Shell, based in The Hague, Exxon Mobil,
San Ramon, California-based Chevron,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in
joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp.  The two main oil unions, the Petroleum and Natural Gas
Senior Staff Association of Nigeria and the National Union of
Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers of Nigeria, have “fully
joined the strike,” and will “gradually shut down oil
production,” Babatunde Oke, a spokesman for the union known as
Pengassan, said by phone from Lagos.  Crude for February delivery trade at $100.93 at 11:23 a.m.
London time in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after rising to $102.15 earlier today. Brent oil for
February settlement was at $112.71 a barrel, down 35 cents, on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Protesters March  Thousands of protesters led by union leaders marched from
the Berger bus-stop in the south of the Abuja towards the city
center while armed riot police watched. In Lagos, marchers
headed for the governor’s office in the north of the city.  In northeastern Borno state, whose capital, Maiduguri, is a
stronghold of the Boko Haram militants and is under emergency
rule, union leaders have asked workers to stay at home and
“have decided not to embark on street protests,” Titus Ali
Abana, the state NLC leader, told reporters.  Jonathan, in a speech at a church service yesterday in
Abuja marking Armed Forces Remembrance Day, said Boko Haram,
which means “western education is a sin,” confronts Nigeria
with “a more complicated” situation than the civil war.  Nigeria’s Taliban  At least 71 people have died in bomb and gun attacks since
Christmas Day on churches in Abuja and four northern cities that
the authorities blame on Boko Haram, which draws inspiration
from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  “During the civil war, we knew and we could even predict
where the enemy was coming from,” Jonathan said.  Trading in Nigeria’s currency ground to a halt as the
strike started, said Mohammed Abdullahi, a spokesman for the
Abuja-based Central Bank of Nigeria. The naira was less than 0.1
percent weaker at 162.05 per dollar as of 12:54 p.m. in Lagos,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the  Nigerian Stock Exchange  will try to maintain
normal trading, it “may be significantly lessened and service
disruptions may occur,” the bourse said today in an e-mailed
statement.  “The stock market is trading, although volume is low,”
David Adonri, a trader and chief executive officer of Lambeth
Trust and Investment Ltd., a brokerage, said by phone from
Lagos.  Accelerating Inflation  Inflation (NGCPIYOY) , which was unchanged at 10.5 percent in November,
will probably accelerate to the “mid-teens” in 2012, Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg,
wrote in an e-mailed note on Jan. 6. Nigeria’s central bank has
raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 6 percentage points to a
record 12 percent since September 2010.  “The impact of the petrol price hikes will go beyond
simply pushing up transport costs,” Mhango said. While the
government will probably stick to its plan, it may “still bow
to popular pressure and phase out rather than simply scrap the
subsidy.”  Jonathan announced a plan yesterday to provide 15 billion
naira in zero-interest loans to help transportation companies
acquire new buses and bring down transport costs. “Whatever
pains we feel now will be transient, they will be very
temporary,” he said.  Legislative Vote  Nigeria’s House of Representatives passed a motion
yesterday urging the government to return fuel subsidies and to
allow more time for consultation on the issue.  The U.S. embassy said on its website that citizens in
Nigeria should stock up on food, water and fuel for at least
three days in case the nationwide strike shuts shops.  Air travel 
may also be disrupted, it said.  Nigerian lenders, including  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , will run limited branch services from today,
according to officials at the companies. Members of the Lagos-
based Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, such as  Nampak
Nigeria Plc (NAMPAK)  and  Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc (FLOURMIL) , will likely be
affected by the strike, the group’s president, Kola Jamodu, said
in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  