-- Nigeria Unions to Strike Over Fuel Subsidy as Jonathan Cuts Government Pay
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-08T17:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/nigeria-workers-to-proceed-with-strikes-over-fuel-subsidies-this-week.html
Nigerian (LOSDNGAT)  workers, planning to strike
from tomorrow over a recent cut in a fuel subsidy, will proceed
with the action despite assurances by President Goodluck Jonathan that he will cut the amount paid to politicians.  “The  labor movement  and its allies on behalf of the
Nigerian people reiterate that the broadcast has changed
nothing,” the Nigeria Labor Congress and Trade Union Congress
said today in a statement, referring to a speech made by the
president yesterday. “The indefinite strikes, rallies and mass
protests scheduled to commence nationwide on Jan. 9 will go
on.”  The country’s unions last week called an indefinite
nationwide strike after the government scrapped fuel subsidies
at the start of the year, causing gasoline prices to more than
double. The action may shut ports, fuel stations, banks and oil
operations in  Africa ’s largest crude producer.  Jonathan responded in a speech broadcast on state
television, saying executive-branch politicians will take a 25
percent pay cut in 2012 and reduce overseas travel. All
ministries and departments must cut costs this year, he said.  “If I were in your shoes at this moment, I probably would
have reacted in the same manner as some of our compatriots, or
hold the same critical views about government,” Jonathan said.
“But tough choices have to be made to safeguard the economy and
our collective survival as a nation.”  Jonathan abolished 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) of
subsidies on Jan. 1, promising to use the savings to boost
investment in  power plants  and roads in Africa’s most populous
nation. Nigeria imports fuel because of a lack of refining
capacity.  Nigeria’s House of Representatives in Abuja voted today in
favor of a motion urging the government to return fuel subsidies
and to allow more time for consultation on the issue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  