-- No Consensus on Chinese Stocks With Guotai Seeing 36% Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-09T07:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/no-consensus-on-china-stocks-after-plunge-with-guotai-forecasting-36-gain.html
Even after a two-year  bear market 
wiped 33 percent from  China ’s  benchmark stock index (SHCOMP) , there’s no
consensus on the direction in equity prices this year among the
nation’s biggest and most accurate brokerage firms.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  will gain 36 percent because
slowing inflation will let policy makers cut  interest rates  and
bank reserves, according to Zhang Han, a strategist at Guotai
Junan Securities Co., the only major brokerage to foresee the
slump. China International Capital Corp., led by the son of a
former premier, forecasts a “slight” drop since the economy
isn’t slowing enough to permit “aggressive” reductions in
borrowing costs, said Hao Hong, CICC’s global equity strategist.  While China avoided the global recession in 2009 and is
growing more than twice as fast as the world economy, the index
has been the worst among the 10 biggest markets in the past two
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
boosted rates and reserve requirements to curb property prices
and inflation that reached a three-year high in July. Premier
Wen Jiabao said on Jan. 3 that business conditions may be
“relatively difficult” this quarter and monetary policy will
be adjusted.  “Liquidity will improve as a result of the government’s
easing policies,” Zhang said in a telephone interview from
 Shanghai  on Dec. 21. “That’ll help stocks to rebound in the
first quarter.”  Earnings Growth  Zhang forecasts the Shanghai Composite, which tracks mostly
yuan-denominated A shares, will rise to 3,000 this year from
2,199.42 at the end of 2011. Overseas fund managers need to be
approved as qualified institutional investors to buy A shares.  Corporate earnings may rise 10 percent this year, Zhang
said. Profit growth in the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of the four largest
 emerging markets  will slow to 5 percent from 19 percent last
year, according to more than 12,000 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg as of Dec. 28.  The Shanghai Composite rose 2.9 percent at the close, the
biggest gain in three months. It dropped 1.6 percent in the
first week of trading in 2012, compared with gains of more than
2 percent for gauges in  Brazil , Russia and  India , the other BRIC
nations.  HIT Shouchuang Technology Co., a department-store owner
based in Ningbo city, was the Chinese index’s  best-performing (SHCOMP) 
stock last week with a 12 percent gain. Markor International
Furniture Co., a furniture maker located in the western city of
Urumqi, tumbled 21 percent for the worst performance.  The largest advance in the Shanghai Composite last year was
a 195 percent surge by Shanghai-based China Fortune Land
Development Co. Irico Display Devices Co., a manufacturer of
television picture tubes based in Shaanxi province, sank 66
percent, the biggest decline of 2011.  Record Low  The Shanghai gauge traded at a  record low (SHCOMP)  8.7 times
estimated profit on Jan. 5, compared with a ratio of 9.2 for
Brazil’s Bovespa Index, 5.4 for Russia’s Micex Index and 13.8
for India’s BSE India Sensitive Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which coined the term BRIC a
decade ago, said in a Dec. 7 report that economic growth for the
largest emerging nations may have peaked because of a smaller
supply of new workers.  Chinese stocks will “struggle” this year as national
 economic growth (CNGDPYOY)  exceeding 9 percent and inflation at 4 percent
won’t warrant an “aggressive” easing, CICC’s Hong wrote in a
Dec. 16 e-mail. Equities may plunge in the first half before
recouping losses later in the year, the strategist said, without
giving an index target because of company policy.  Slowdown, Volatility  ‘The theme is slowdown and volatility,’’ said Hong. “It
would be hasty to make a move now.”  Equities are on the “brink of capitulation” after more
than 100 stocks in the Shanghai and  Shenzhen (SZCOMP)  stock exchanges
plunged by the maximum daily limit on Jan. 5, Hong wrote in a
report today. He favors utility, energy, telecommunications and
consumer-staple companies.  Beijing-based  China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088) , the nation’s
biggest coal producer, trades for 9.4 times estimated profit,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shanghai-based  China United
Network Communications Ltd. (600050) , the best-performing
telecommunications stock in the CSI 300 Index last year, is
valued at 18.9 times.  Hong isn’t in the majority in the brokerage industry.
Twelve of 13 firms surveyed by Bloomberg forecast Chinese stocks
will rise this year. The nation’s equities haven’t posted three
straight years of declines since the  Shanghai Stock Exchange 
opened in 1990.  Templeton’s Mobius  China will boost domestic consumption to offset an export
slowdown and allow for faster gains in the yuan to tame
inflation,  Mark Mobius , who helps oversee about $40 billion as
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in
an e-mail on Dec. 14.  “The Chinese leadership has the organizational skills and
policies capable of ensuring that China continues to achieve the
highest gross domestic product growth of any major country in
the world,” Mobius said. He favors  consumer stocks (SHCOMP)  because they
will benefit most from rising Chinese incomes.  Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519) , the country’s largest maker of baijiu
liquor, is valued at 17.9 times profit. Net income for the
company, based in Guizhou province, is expected to rise 37
percent in 2012, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  China’s economy  has expanded at an average pace of 10.3
percent annually over the last decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Growth slowed to 9.1 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from 9.5 percent in the previous quarter as
shipments to  Europe , China’s biggest export market, slumped.
While manufacturing contracted in November for the first time
since February 2009, it expanded last month, according to China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing data.  UBS AG cut its prediction on Nov. 29 for growth in 2012 to
8 percent from 8.3 percent, while  Citigroup Inc. (C)  reduced its
forecast to 8.4 percent from 8.7 percent. Average economic
growth in the BRIC nations will slow to 6.1 percent this year
from a high of 9.7 percent in 2007, according to September
estimates by the  International Monetary Fund . The IMF estimates
global production will expand 4 percent.  Guotai’s Zhang said China’s economy will “bottom out” by
the second quarter and easing inflation will allow the central
bank to reduce interest rates for the first time since 2008.
Chinese consumer-price growth jumped to a three-year high of 6.5
percent in July before slowing to 4.2 percent in November, close
to the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.  Property Developers  The People’s Bank of China cut banks’ reserve-requirement
ratios from a record high for the first time in three years on
Nov. 30. The central bank may lower the ratios as much as four
times this year to encourage lending to small companies hurt by
a credit squeeze, Zhang said. He recommends shares of property
developers, brokerages and chemical producers.  Shenzhen-based  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Guangzhou-based Poly
Real Estate Group Co. are the nation’s largest publicly traded
property companies. Vanke and Poly Real trade at record-low
valuations of 6.5 times and 6.6 times estimated profit
respectively, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The companies’ valuations have declined the past two years
as the government introduced limits on owning property to cool
surging prices. China’s home prices fell for a fourth month in
December, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s
biggest real estate website. The decelerating economy may spur
the government to relax enforcement on property restrictions by
the second quarter, Andy Rothman, a China macro strategist at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a Dec. 22 interview.  Debt Crisis  Brokerages underestimated inflation last year, leading to
overly optimistic predictions for stocks, according to Hao Kang,
a Beijing-based  fund manager  at ICBC Credit Suisse Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $8.3 billion.  A sustained rebound for Chinese equities will depend on
whether Europe can contain its sovereign debt crisis, CICC’s
Hong said. China’s exports to the European Union rose 5 percent
in November, a quarter of the pace reported in July and August,
according to customs data on Dec. 10. The region accounts for 18
percent of Chinese exports, according to Shanghai-based Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Premier Wen said China faced “problems of weakening
external demand” in his Jan. 3 statement. China will maintain a
“prudent” monetary policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy
this year, the official Xinhua news agency reported Dec. 10.  Chinese Banks  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  forecasts Shanghai’s A shares will
rebound between 15 percent and 20 percent in 2012 after
valuations dropped to the cheapest in  Asia ,  Michael Kurtz , chief
Asian equity strategist, said at a Dec. 19 press conference in
Beijing. The brokerage favors Chinese financial, energy and
material companies.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. (601398) , the nation’s
biggest lender, and Bank of Communications Ltd., the country’s
fifth largest, trade at 6.2 times and 4.9 times estimated
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 8.4 times for financial companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.  The Chinese banks may report annual net income increases of
at least 19 percent in 2012, analyst  estimates (601328)  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “We remain positive on Chinese equities,” said
Templeton’s Mobius. “China is one of the fastest growing major
economies in the world and is expected to play a major role in
the global economy.”  --Zhang Shidong, Allen Wan in Shanghai. With assistance from
Zheng Lifei in Beijing and Bonnie Cao in Shanghai. Editors:
Darren Boey, Laura Zelenko  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  