-- Novartis Recalls Excedrin, Bufferin for Tablet Damage, Suspends Production
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-01-08T22:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/novartis-recalls-excedrin-bufferin-for-tablet-damage-suspends-production.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  said it’s voluntarily
recalling some over-the-counter products in the U.S., including
its Excedrin headache pills and NoDoz medication, because they
may contain broken or stray tablets from other products.  Novartis has temporarily suspended operations at the
Lincoln, Nebraska, plant where the products were made, the
company said in a statement today. The recall also affects its
Bufferin and Gas-X Prevention brands.  The move comes after consumer complaints “of chipped and
broken pills and inconsistent bottle packaging line clearance
practices possibly resulting in mixed tablets,” the company
said in the statement. The over-the-counter medications were
distributed throughout the U.S.  Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for the Basel, Switzerland-based
company, said she didn’t immediately have a number for the
amount of tablets and gel caps involved in the recall. She said
there hadn’t been any reports of overdoses or allergic reactions
from the stray material or broken and chipped medication. The
Lincoln facility has 620 employees and about 200 temporary
workers, Masow said.  Novartis said the recall and improvement work at the
Lincoln plant will result in a fourth-quarter charge of $120
million before tax. The facility’s products account for less
than 2 percent of Novartis Group sales, the company said. The
drugmaker had sales of $50.6 billion in 2010.  Novartis said the recall is being done with the knowledge
of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Novartis said it was recalling all lots of bottles
containing Excedrin and NoDoz with expiration dates of Dec. 20,
2014, or earlier as well as Bufferin and Gas-X Prevention with
throw-out dates of Dec. 20, 2013 or sooner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  