-- Oil Trades Near Four-Day Low as Merkel, Sarkozy Meet to Revive Euro Zone
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-01-09T13:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/oil-trades-near-lowest-this-year-as-europe-concern-counters-iran-tension.html
Oil traded near its lowest level in
four days, erasing earlier gains as German and French leaders
met in an attempt to revive growth in the euro region.  West Texas Intermediate futures in  New York  fell as much as
0.7 percent as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy met to tighten budget rules for
European governments. Oil earlier rose as much as 0.6 percent
after the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey said  Iran  is able block the Strait of Hormuz for a
period of time. Nigerian oil production was threatened by
pipeline thefts and oil worker strike.  “While geopolitical issues in relation to Iran provide oil
price support, conversely perceptions relating to the  euro zone 
are currently biased towards the risk of slower economic
activity that would result from any perceived impasse in the
conversations that Sarkozy and Merkel will have today,” said
Gareth Lewis-Davies, senior energy strategist at BNP Paribas in
London. “The prospect of weaker economic activity feeds into
the risk of lower oil demand and hence  oil prices .”  Crude for February delivery fell as much as 73 cents to
$100.83 a barrel, the lowest price since Jan. 3, on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , after rising to $102.15 earlier today. It
was at $101.53 at 1:36 p.m. London time.  Brent oil for February settlement was at $113.04 a barrel,
down 2 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark contract’s premium to New York crude was
at $11.51, the highest gap based on closing prices in almost two
months.  Berlin Meeting  Merkel and Sarkozy met in Berlin to flesh out a new
rulebook for fiscal discipline negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit.
 Spain ,  Italy , the Netherlands, Austria and  Germany  plan to sell
bonds this week, offering a gauge of market confidence. Spanish
10-year yields rose by the most in almost 17 years last week.  German industrial output declined in November as factories
in  Europe ’s largest economy produced fewer investment and
consumer goods.  Production fell 0.6 percent from October, when it rose 0.8
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a 0.5 percent drop, according to the median of 30
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the year, production
rose 3.6 percent when adjusted for working days.  Strait of Hormuz  Iran has the ability to block the Strait of Hormuz “for a
period of time,” and the U.S. would take action to reopen it,
Martin Dempsey said in an interview aired yesterday on the CBS
“Face the Nation” program.  “They’ve invested in capabilities that could, in fact, for
a period of time block the  Strait of Hormuz ,” Dempsey said.
“We’ve invested in capabilities to ensure that if that happens,
we can defeat that.”  A halt of shipping through the strait could send the price
of Brent as high as $200 a barrel for a limited period,
according to Societe Generale SA.  “A credible threat from missiles, mines, or fast attack
boats is all that it would take for tanker insurers to stop
coverage, which would halt tanker traffic,”  Mike Wittner , the
bank’s head of oil market research in New York, said in a
report. “We estimate that the probability of this very high-
impact event at 5 percent.”  The Iran situation may be bearish for the price of crude
oil, said  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities research at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Europe will turn to  Saudi Arabia  to
replace supplies from Iran, whose exports will go to  China ,
where demand is quite strong, Currie said at a conference in
 London  today. The probability of a closure of the Strait of
Hormuz is low, he said.  Nigerian Disruption  Brent oil’s premium to WTI has risen for eight consecutive
days as Nigerian production outages and strikes threaten to
reduce supplies of light, sweet crude.  “While much of the Iranian geopolitical issues are
reflected in Brent currently, very recent news of supply
disruptions to Nigerian production is supportive of Brent, given
loss of production is of similar quality to light, sweet
Brent,” said Lewis-Davies at BNP Paribas in London.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc declared force majeure, a legal
clause that allows companies to miss deliveries because of
circumstances beyond their control, on exports of benchmark
Bonny Light crude in  Nigeria  on Jan. 5 following earlier
pipeline leaks caused by oil theft. Strikes by Nigerian oil
workers scheduled today risk further cutting output from
Africa’s biggest producer. Brent’s premium rose to a record
$27.88 on Oct. 14 as the uprising in  Libya  curbed that nation’s
production.  Hedge-Fund Positions  Hedge funds increased bullish positions on WTI oil by 4.1
percent in the week ended Jan. 3, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. Open
interest advanced 3.5 percent, rising for a second week after
falling in December to the lowest since May 2007, according to
the CFTC.  Money managers raised bullish bets on Brent crude by 14,922
contracts in the week ended Jan. 3, according to data from ICE
Futures Europe in London.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 96,459 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s up 18 percent from 81,537 contracts in
the week to Dec. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  