-- Olympus May Sue Executives Over Cover-Up
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-01-09T03:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/olympus-may-sue-present-past-executives-over-cover-up.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  is preparing to sue
current and former  executives (7733)  over their roles in a $1.7 billion
cover-up of losses following an outside panel’s report into
management responsibility.  The Japanese camera maker has filed court papers seeking
several billion yen in damages, according to the Yomiuri
newspaper. It wasn’t possible to confirm the lawsuits because
today is a holiday in Japan. While Olympus spokesmen weren’t
available to comment, the Tokyo-based company yesterday said it
was considering legal action.  Olympus should seek more than 90 billion yen ($1.2 billion)
from more than 10 current and past executives, including
President Shuichi Takayama, for hiding losses over more than a
decade, according to the panel’s findings, Kyodo reported
yesterday. Former President  Michael Woodford , who was fired
after he challenged the  board (7733)  on takeover and accounting
practices, is suing the company for wrongful dismissal.  “It’s all part of the natural fallout to be expected with
each party trying to stake their positions and to protect their
legal interests,” said Eugene Tan, assistant professor of law
at the  Singapore Management University . “We’ll see suits and
countersuits taking place in the next couple of weeks, if not
months.”  Olympus rose 2.1 percent to close at 1,053 yen as of the 3
p.m. end of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Jan. 6. The
 shares (7733)  have lost 58 percent since Woodford was fired.  More Tomorrow  Olympus will announce its response to the panel’s report
tomorrow, it said in a statement to  Tokyo ’s stock exchange
yesterday. The company declined to comment on the Kyodo report,
Yoshiaki Yamada, a spokesman, said yesterday. Details of the
findings will be released tomorrow, the Yomiuri reported today.  The claims Olympus filed at the Tokyo district court were
against about 20 past and current executives, including six
sitting board members, the Yomiuri said, citing a person
familiar with the matter. The Nikkei newspaper also reported the
filing of court papers.  The company inflated fees to advisers on the $2.1 billion
acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and overpaid in
purchasing three Japanese companies with the intention of
increasing goodwill, a separate independent panel investigating
the fraud said last month. The panel said it found a culture of
“yes men” and a board that failed in its duty to stop a
“rotten” core of executives from duping auditors, regulators
and investors.  Woodford Sues  Woodford filed a case in the U.K. last week seeking damages
for the remainder of his four-year contract and additional
costs. Before being named as Olympus’s first non-Japanese
president and chief executive officer last year, the British
national ran the company’s European operations, where he won
praise from analysts for cutting costs and improving
profitability. Woodford last week said he may also sue in Japan.  The 51-year-old former CEO also abandoned efforts to regain
control of Olympus after failing to gain support from Japanese
shareholders.  Olympus’s  biggest (7733)  shareholder,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) , said after Japanese prosecutors raided the camera-
maker’s offices that it would maintain support for the company.
Southeastern Asset Management Inc., the company’s biggest
overseas stockholder, and Harris Associates LP have said the
entire board and all executives involved in the fraud must go.  The company “continues to suffer under shoddy corporate
governance and an utterly discredited board,” Josh Shores, a
London-based principal at Southeastern Asset, said in a Jan. 6
statement. “We maintain that the board should be replaced and a
new board should oversee the company’s revival.”  $5 Billion Slide  Olympus admitted in November that former Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, Hisashi Mori, who was fired as executive vice
president, and Hideo Yamada, a former company auditor, colluded
to hide losses on securities investments in the 1990s.  The company has  lost (7733)  about $5 billion of market
capitalization since firing Woodford and was forced to restate
more than five years of  earnings (7733)  last month to avoid an
automatic delisting from the Tokyo Stock Exchange after
admitting to the 13-year cover-up.  The 92-year-old company’s net  assets (7733)  fell by 105 billion
yen to 46 billion yen after the restatement, while it was still
at risk of being delisted pending a review by the TSE.  The bourse is preparing to allow Olympus to stay listed and
fine the company 10 million yen instead, the Yomiuri reported
earlier, without saying how it got the information. The TSE may
make a final decision this month, the report said.  The company, also the world’s largest maker of endoscopes,
faces criminal probes in the U.S. and U.K., as well as  Japan ,
since Woodford made the takeover payments public in October.  Olympus last week said it may hold may hold an emergency
shareholder meeting as early as March depending on the results
of the panel reviewing management at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  