-- Dozens Injured in Crush as Philippines Has Procession After Terror Warning
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-01-09T05:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/philippine-festival-vulnerable-to-attack-aquino.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
warned of a possible terrorist attack during an annual Roman
Catholic procession today that is estimated to draw as many as
nine million devotees.  “The sad reality of the world today is that terrorists
want to disrupt the ability of people to live their lives in the
ways they want to, including the freedom to worship,” Aquino
said in a hastily called briefing yesterday in Manila. Police
and the military will increase security, he said, urging people
to stay at home. At least 80 people were injured as crowds
pushed forward in a bid to touch the sculpture of  Jesus Christ 
carrying a cross at the start of the procession today, ABS-CBN
News reported.  The feast of the Black Nazarene draws one of the biggest
crowds among festivities held in the capital, Aquino said. About
3 million people had joined the procession as of 9 a.m., police
chief Nicanor Barolome told reporters in  Manila .  The Black Nazarene,  believed  to be more than 400 years old,
is paraded from the Quirino Grandstand, where Aquino was sworn
in, to the Quiapo Church in downtown Manila. As the procession
nears its end, the roads through which the crowds pass become
narrower, Aquino said. A bomb attack is one of the scenarios the
government is guarding against, he said.  ‘Very Thorough’  Manila’s 15,000 police officers will all be on duty and
will be supported by soldiers, Aquino said, adding that the
security will be “visible, very obvious and very thorough.”
All backpacks and bags will be inspected, Interior Secretary
Jesse Robredo said at yesterday’s briefing.  Six to nine people were under surveillance as police probed
the terrorist threat, Robredo said. “There are indications they
came from Mindanao, from which group we can’t say yet,” he
said.  Mindanao in the southern  Philippines  is home to the
country’s main Muslim separatist organization, the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front, and splinter groups that include Abu Sayyaf.  The government asked mobile-phone companies to temporarily
disconnect services along the route as a security measure,
Aquino’s spokeswoman Abigail Valte said by e-mail today.  The U.S. issued an “emergency message” today, advising
its citizens in the Philippines to  avoid areas  where the
procession will pass. On Jan. 7, it warned its citizens of the
risk of terrorist activity in the Philippines, saying attacks
could occur even in Manila. Aquino said his warning was
unrelated to the first of the U.S. advisories.  Sulu Alert  Authorities raided “several” suspected terrorist safe
houses in Manila and nearby Rizal province with no arrests made,
Defense Secretary Voltaire Gazmin told reporters today.
Militants with ties to the  Abu Sayyaf  group or the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front may be plotting to attack, he said.  A 15-kilometer bridge in Patikul in the southern province
of Sulu was damaged by an explosion Jan. 7, three days after a
bombing incident in another nearby town, prompting the police to
place Sulu on alert, Police Director Felicisimo Khu said in a
statement yesterday. Sulu’s Provincial Director Tony Freyra said
the Abu Sayyaf group may be behind the bombings, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  