-- Philippines Protests New ‘Intrusion’ of Chinese Vessels in South China Sea
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-01-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/philippines-protests-new-china-intrusion-in-disputed-water.html
The Philippines protested a new
“intrusion” by  China  in waters it claims to be Philippine
territory, a move that threatens to revive tensions over areas
of the  South China Sea  that may contain energy reserves.  Two Chinese vessels and a military ship were spotted on Dec.
11 and 12 “at the vicinity” of Escoda Shoal, which is within
Philippine territory, the Department of  Foreign Affairs  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday. The department on Jan. 5
“conveyed to the Chinese Embassy’s Charge d’Affaires its
serious concerns over recent actions” in the South China Sea,
it said in the statement.  Oil reserves in the South China Sea, which contains two
disputed island chains, may total as much as 213 billion barrels,
according to Chinese studies cited in 2008 by the U.S. Energy
Information Agency. The  Philippines  and Vietnam have pushed
China to redraw its maritime boundaries according to the United
Nations Law of the Sea, a move that would cost it large swathes
of its claims in the waters.  The “intrusions of the Chinese are clear violations” of
regional and global accords, Philippine Foreign Affairs
Secretary Albert del Rosario said in the statement, citing the
UN maritime law and the 2002 ASEAN-China Declaration on the
Conduct of Parties on the disputed waters.  Telephone calls to the press office at China’s Foreign
Ministry in Beijing weren’t answered yesterday. Chinese embassy
spokesman in Manila Ethan Sun didn’t returned a phone call
yesterday seeking comment.  ‘Hot and Thorny’  China continues to see “hot and thorny issues” in  Asia ,
where economic risks remain and non-traditional security issues
such as natural disasters pose “greater challenges,” China’s
Assistant Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin said in an interview
published yesterday by Xinhua News Agency.  China “respects and supports its Asian neighbors’ choices
of development paths according to their own national conditions
and insists on settling disputes via dialogue and
consultation,” Liu said in the interview.  Other Asian nations “also consider their relations with
China as one of their most important foreign relations and to
strengthen the cooperation with China is an irresistible
trend,” the report cited Liu as saying.  In November, China played down tensions with the U.S. and
proposed funding to enhance maritime cooperation in  Southeast
Asia  after President Barack Obama challenged its actions in the
South China Sea at a summit of Asian leaders.  The Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which includes
the Philippines, may be ready with a draft code of conduct in
the sea by July 2012, del Rosario said on Nov. 21.  The Philippines and Vietnam, which have awarded exploration
contracts to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Forum
Energy Plc (FEP) , reject China’s map of the sea as a basis for joint
development.  China has used patrol boats to disrupt hydrocarbon survey
activities in waters it claims, chasing away a ship working for
Forum Energy off the Philippines in March and slicing cables of
a survey vessel doing work for  Vietnam  in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  