-- Queens Park Rangers Fires Warnock as Manager After Winless Run in League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-08T19:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/queens-park-rangers-fires-neil-warnock-as-manager-of-premier-league-club.html
Queens Park Rangers fired coach Neil Warnock nine months after he led the club to promotion into
English soccer’s elite Premier League for a first time since
1996.  “This decision has been made in the best interests of the
club,” QPR Chairman  Tony Fernandes  told the club’s website.
“This is not a decision that was made lightly.”  QPR has slipped to 17th in the Premier League, one spot
above the three relegation positions, after a run of eight
league matches without a victory. It was held to a 1-1 tie at
third-tier MK Dons in the F.A. Cup third round yesterday.  West London-based QPR trails Norwich City and Swansea City,
the two other clubs that were promoted to the top division,
after it won the second-tier Championship last year. QPR’s last
win was at  Stoke City  on Nov. 19.  Warnock, 63, joined QPR in March 2010 from south  London 
team Crystal Palace and helped the Hoops avoid relegation before
leading the team to promotion a year later.  Midfielder Joey Barton, winger  Shaun Wright-Phillips  and
fullback Luke Young were among high-profile additions to the
squad since the club was bought in mid-August by Fernandes,
chief executive officer of Malaysia’s AirAsia Bhd.  Had Fernandes completed his takeover earlier it would have
been easier to acquire players who may have “given us a better
chance to succeed,” Warnock said in the club’s  statement . QPR
has won four of 20 league matches this season.  “Our recent run of poor form has seen us slip alarmingly
down the table,” Fernandes said. “The board felt it was the
right time to make a change.”  Assistant manager Mick Jones and first-team coach Keith
Curle have also left the club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 