-- Retail Sales Probably Rose in December: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-increased-as-job-income-growth-picked-up.html
Sales (RSTAMOM)  at U.S. retailers probably rose
in December as Americans bought discounted holiday items, a sign
the economy picked up heading into 2012, economists said before
a report this week.  The projected 0.3 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.2 percent advance in November, according to the  median (RSTAMOM) 
forecast of 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of
Commerce Department figures on Jan. 12. Other data may show
 consumer confidence  rose this month.  Retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  spurred demand by cutting prices
and extending hours to ensure consumers, strapped by falling
home prices and stagnant wages, shopped for holiday gifts. A
report last week showed unemployment fell to an almost three-
year low and hiring accelerated, indicating an improving job
market will give workers the means to sustain purchases.  “There is a little more momentum,” said  Michael Gregory ,
a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “We’re
ending the year in a more positive frame of mind.”  Employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice as many as
the prior month, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5
percent, Labor Department data showed Jan. 6. At the same time,
hours worked and earnings picked up.  An improving labor market helped make for a brighter
 holiday shopping season . Retail sales at stores open more than a
year may have gained as much as 4.5 percent in December, more
than previously estimated, as shoppers pursued discounts, the
 International Council of Shopping Centers  said in a statement
last week.  Online Sales  Americans also turned to the Internet for their shopping
needs. Online retail purchases rose to a record $37.2 billion in
November and December, a 15 percent increase from 2010, Reston,
Virginia-based, ComScore Inc. said in a statement Jan. 4.  Favorable weather across the U.S. may have fueled December
sales of building materials, restaurant meals and general
merchandise, economists at Credit Suisse said in a research note
to clients. The average temperature in the contiguous 48 states
was 35 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 degrees Celsius), the 34th
warmest December in 117 years, according to the National
Climatic Data Center’s  website .  Signs the economy was gathering momentum at the end of 2011
has propelled share prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed 10 percent since a recent low on Nov. 25.  Auto Sales  Meantime, auto purchases have improved. Car and light truck
sales in the U.S.  advanced (SAARTOTL)  in December at a 13.5 million annual
rate after November’s 13.6 million, the best two months since
May-June 2008, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Sales
averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the recession
began in December 2007.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. carmaker, posted a
10 percent gain in sales last month from a year earlier, and
closed out 2011 with 2.15 million light vehicles purchased, an
11 percent gain.  “We were able to end the year on, what we feel, is a high
note,” Erich Merkle, Ford’s U.S. sales analyst, said on a
conference call Jan. 4. “December was a strong number.”  Faster job growth and a pickup in wages helped put
Americans in a better mood. The Thomson Reuters/ University of
Michigan (CONSSENT)  preliminary consumer confidence gauge for January
probably rose to 71.5, the highest in seven months, from 69.9 at
the end of December, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the group’s data will show on Jan. 13.  Trade Deficit  Improved demand in the fourth quarter may have prompted
companies to import more from overseas, leading to a bigger
 trade deficit (USTBTOT) . The gap widened in November to $45 billion from
$43.5 billion a month earlier, according to the median estimate
before the Commerce Department’s Jan. 13 figures. The October
shortfall was the smallest since December 2010.  A gain in imports helped boost stockpiles in November.
Business inventories climbed 0.4 percent during the month after
a 0.8 percent October gain, according to the median estimate
before the Commerce Department’s Jan. 12 data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  