-- Romney Rivals Try to Stop His Momentum in Debate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-08T22:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/romney-rivals-work-to-stop-his-momentum-in-new-hampshire-republican-debate.html
Republican presidential rivals
questioned the electability and conservative credentials of
frontrunner Mitt Romney today during the final debate before the
 New Hampshire  primary, saying he is the sort of professional
politician he routinely criticizes.  The debate in Concord marked a departure from one held only
12 hours before in Manchester, where Romney’s opponents trained
their fire on each other as they vied to become his principal
challenger. Today, they targeted the former Massachusetts
governor, who’s trying to establish a winning streak in the
race.  “Can we drop a little bit of the pious baloney?” former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said, referring to Romney’s
assertion that he wasn’t a career politician.  The attacks this morning at a debate sponsored by NBC’s
“Meet the Press,” Facebook and the New Hampshire Union Leader
failed to rattle Romney. He countered by saying his competitors
were part of Washington’s revolving door of serving in
government and then cashing in as influence peddlers.  ‘It Stinks’  “I long for a day when instead of having people who go to
Washington for 20 to 30 years, who get elected and then when
they lose office, they stay there and make money as lobbyists,”
Romney said. “I think it stinks.”  Gingrich,  Ron Paul , Rick Santorum, and Jon Huntsman Jr.
turned their attention to challenging Romney as polls show him
with at least a 15-point lead in the race just two days before
the Jan. 10 primary.  A victory would set Romney on a path to locking up the
nomination as no candidate has won both the Iowa caucus and the
New Hampshire primary and not captured the nomination.  Huntsman, faulted by Romney during the previous debate for
his tour as President Barack Obama’s ambassador to  China , sought
to make his government service into a virtue.  “I was criticized last night by Governor Romney for
putting my country first,” he said. “He criticized me while he
was out raising money.”  Huntsman later in the day continued his broadside against
Romney on the issue of service. “Romney has a bumper sticker
that says, ‘Proud of America,’” Huntsman said after an
appearance in Hampstead. “How can you be proud of America if
you criticize serving the country?”  Overflow Crowd  At an early-afternoon event, an overflow crowd spilling out
into the parking lot greeted the former Utah governor at the
Bean Towne Coffee House and Cafe.  “This morning’s debate has more people interested in
taking a look at him,” said Chip Moynihan, who came from nearby
Hampton to attend.  Gingrich, for his part, was seeking to raise money off his
attack on Romney.  “Help me stop Romney’s pious baloney today,” he said in a
message posted on the social media network Twitter, next to a
link to his website for campaign donations.  The former speaker encountered about two-dozen protesters
outside a Mexican restaurant in Manchester where he was holding
a Hispanic town hall meeting. Some of them carried signs with
slogans such as “money out of politics” and chanted and banged
on windows. Inside the building, voters peppered him with
questions on immigration and campaign finance reform.  Gingrich began the morning debate questioning whether
Romney could get elected in a race against Obama, calling the
former  Massachusetts  governor insufficiently conservative to
draw clear distinctions with the current occupant of the Oval
Office.  ‘Moderate Record’  “There’s a huge difference between a Reagan conservative
and somebody who comes out of the Massachusetts culture with an
essentially moderate record, who I think will have a very hard
time in a debate” with Obama, Gingrich said.  Pressed on whether Romney was unelectable, Gingrich said,
“I think he would have a very hard time” getting elected.  Santorum, a former senator from  Pennsylvania , also began
the debate ready to attack Romney for his record, saying that
the positions Romney took in his 1994 Senate race against
Democratic Senator Edward Kennedy and his decision not to run
for re-election as governor of Massachusetts showed he wasn’t a
strong conservative.  In 1994, Santorum said, Romney “wouldn’t stand up for
conservative principles, he ran from  Ronald Reagan , and he said
he was going to be to the left of Ted Kennedy on gay rights, on
abortion, a whole host of other issues.”  ‘Not Bail Out’  “We want someone who’s going to stand up and fight for the
conservative principles, not bail out,” Santorum said.  Romney defended his record as governor and as a former
private-equity executive at Bain Capital LLC, saying he’d grown
increasingly conservative over the course of his career.  “The principles that I’ve learned in business and the
principles as governor, frankly, it made me more conservative as
time has gone on,” he said.  Gingrich sought to cast an unfavorable light on the
business experience Romney cites as his central qualification
for president, standing behind a web video financed by his
allies that portrays Romney as greedy and documents the
hardships experienced by workers after his firm bought their
companies.  “Bain at times engaged in behavior where they looted a
company,” Gingrich said.  Former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu said Romney has
“broad shoulders” and can weather critics’ attacks. “I think
Governor Romney is going to win New Hampshire,” Sununu told
reporters after the debate.  Pink Slip  Romney struck back in the afternoon against the claim that
his work as a private-equity executive left him out of touch
with the economic concerns of average Americans.  “I know what it’s like to worry whether you’re going to
get fired,” he told voters at a packed theater in Rochester.
“There were a couple of times I worried whether I was going to
get a pink slip.” He also contrasted Bain’s early investment in
the office supply store Staples with the portrayal of his work
by his rivals who highlight job losses that followed some of
Bain’s investments.  Romney described helping to stock shelves in the first
Staples store. “It was private sector and we were pulling
ourselves up in some respects by our boot straps,” he said.  Ad Dispute  Romney and Gingrich tangled during the morning debate over
integrity. Asked whether he considered Romney a “liar,” the
former Georgia congressman said, “Sure,” turning to Romney and
appealing to him to “calmly and directly” admit that his own
former aides and supporters had produced and financed brutal and
sometimes false television ads against Gingrich in  Iowa .  Romney retorted that by law he had no control over the ads,
adding that most of what they said was accurate.  “Anything wrong, I’m opposed to, but you know, this ain’t
beanbag,” Romney said. “We’re going to come into a campaign,
and we’re going to describe the differences between us.”  The debate double-header came as polls showed a  quickly
changing  race in New Hampshire, where voters tend to wait until
late in the game to settle on a candidate. Following last
night’s debate, Romney lost 4 percentage points, dropping to 35
percent in a Suffolk University/7News tracking poll conducted
Jan. 6-7. The survey showed that while Romney still enjoys a 15-
point lead, his advantage has fallen by 8 percentage points
since Jan. 3.  Paul was in second place according to the poll, with 20
percent, while Huntsman drew 11 percent, Gingrich had 9 percent,
Santorum had 8 percent and Texas Governor  Rick Perry  had 1
percent.  ‘Big Government Person’  Attempting to gain ground on Romney, his rivals also took a
few shots at each other. Santorum attacked Paul, who last night
called him a “big government person” beholden to lobbyists,
saying the Texas congressman is a marginalized figure whose
proposal to withdraw U.S. troops from overseas military missions
would be dangerous for the country.  “The problem with Congressman Paul is, all the things that
Republicans like about him he can’t accomplish, and all the
things they’re worried about he’ll do Day One,” said Santorum.  Perry, who is seeking to revive his prospects in the race,
once again described himself as the only “outsider” in the
contest.  “I look from here down to  Rick Santorum , I see insiders,”
he said. “The fact of the matter is Obama has thrown gasoline
on the fire, but the bonfire was burning well before Obama got
there.”  After the debate, Santorum left New Hampshire to spend the
day in  South Carolina , where his social-conservative message is
popular, voicing confidence about his chances and his debate
performance.  “We’re in a great position going to South Carolina with a
lot of momentum,” Santorum told reporters in Concord. “I think
we had a great debate today, showed the real inconsistencies and
problems that Governor Romney will have as a general-election
candidate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  