-- Romney Depicted as Corporate Raider in Pro-Gingrich Group Film
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-08T23:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/romney-depicted-as-corporate-raider-in-pro-gingrich-group-film.html
A political action committee backing
Republican  Newt Gingrich , whose presidential campaign has been
hurt by 30-second attack ads, is spending almost 30 minutes
targeting rival Mitt Romney’s record in the private sector.  The trailer for the documentary posted on a  website  calls
Romney a “corporate raider” and says he’s just like others on
Wall Street motivated by greed. The documentary, funded by
 Winning Our Future , takes aim at Romney’s argument that he
should be the Republican presidential nominee because he created
jobs in the private sector and can turn the  U.S. economy  around.
A senior adviser to the PAC,  Rick Tyler , said the documentary
will run in  South Carolina , though no date has been scheduled.  “Mitt Romney is not a capitalist,” Tyler said. “He is a
predatory corporate mugger. If you ever wonder why so many
manufacturing jobs are overseas, you need to look no further
than  Mitt Romney . He can claim thousands of jobs created, only
those jobs were created in  Mexico  and Southeast Asia.”  Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Clash at Debate  Gingrich and Romney, a former Massachusetts governor,
clashed over the documentary at today’s candidates’ debate in
Concord,  New Hampshire . Enhancing the PAC’s ability to run the
documentary is a $5 million donation the group received from
longtime Gingrich backer  Sheldon Adelson  as it tries to play the
same role for the former U.S. House speaker that the pro-Romney
Restore Our Future PAC undertook before the Iowa caucuses: go
after the poll leader.  “Somebody’s got to take Romney down,” said Tobe
Berkovitz, a communication professor at Boston University.
“Romney has so far been pretty adept at dodging the attacks
during the debates. Now there just isn’t a choice for these
other Republican candidates.”  The Adelson donation to Winning Our Future was confirmed
earlier today, on condition of anonymity, by a person close to
the chairman of the  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)   Republican political consultant  Eddie Mahe , who isn’t
aligned with any candidate, said the Adelson donation would
enable the pro-Gingrich forces to run the film time and time
again in South Carolina, the next stop for the Republican
contest after the Jan. 10 New Hampshire primary.  ‘Saturate South Carolina’  “They can buy prime time with that kind of money on every
station in South Carolina two or three times,” Mahe said.
“Clearly, they have the financial capacity to saturate South
Carolina and maybe even tough  Florida .”  A Gingrich spokesman, R.C. Hammond, said he couldn’t
confirm the Adelson donation, though he said it would help close
the fundraising gap with Romney.  “It certainly helps balance the weight on one side,”
Hammond said.  Through Jan. 5, Romney and the Restore Our Future PAC spent
an estimated $3.7 million, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG. Gingrich and Winning Our Future spent $628,640.  In December, 45 percent of all ads airing in  Iowa 
criticized Gingrich. After leading opinion polls from mid-
November to mid-December, he finished fourth in Iowa.  During today’s debate, Gingrich insisted that his side was
engaging in “fact-based campaigns” while ads aired by Romney’s
side distorted his record. Gingrich said “yes” on Jan. 3 when
asked by CBS if he was calling Romney a liar. In addition, Tyler
has said Romney’s actions were predatory.  Job Losses  Gingrich said he hadn’t seen the film, though there have
been reports on job losses after Romney’s firm, Bain Capital
LLC, bought and restructured companies. For example, Bain cut at
least 1,600 jobs at Dade Behring Inc., a Deerfield, Illinois-
based medical-testing company.  “I do think the rhetoric, Mr. Speaker, I think was a
little over-the-top,” Romney said during the debate.  “You think my rhetoric was over-the-top, but your ads were
totally reasonable?” Gingrich responded. “That’s what I don’t
understand.”  Gingrich later said, “I hope that the super PAC runs an
accurate movie about Bain. It will be based on establishment
newspapers, like the  Washington  Post, the  Wall Street  Journal,
the New York Times, Barron’s, Bloomberg News. And I hope that
it’s totally accurate and then people can watch the 27-and-a-
half minutes of his career at Bain and decide for themselves.”  ‘Story of Greed’  The almost three-minute trailer, now on a Winning Our
Future website, kingofbain.com, calls the documentary “a story
of greed” and includes interviews with people who worked at
companies taken over by Bain.  The documentary was made by  Jason Meath , president for
advertising and advocacy for Xenophon Strategies, a public
relations and advertising firm. Previously, Meath was a partner
with the political consultancy Stevens & Schriefer Group, which
worked for Romney during his 2008 presidential primary campaign.  Tyler said the PAC bought the film from Meath.  “Wall Street’s corporate raiders made billions of
dollars,” the narrator says. “This film is about one such
raider and his firm.” The film said Romney took seed money from
 Latin America  and “began a pattern of exploiting dozens of
American businesses.”  Berkovitz said that the late Senator Edward Kennedy used
similar arguments against Romney during their 1994 Senate race,
which the Democratic incumbent won.  “It is a reprise of what Kennedy used to beat Romney in
 Massachusetts ,” Berkovitz said. “Romney has gotten much more
adept at parrying these types of attacks. He’s been pretty good
during the debates answering the charge that he’s a corporate
raider and a cutback guy.”  ‘Viciously Negative’  For Gingrich, the documentary ends his pledge to run a
positive campaign, said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean at New York
University’s Wagner School.  “This is the umpteenth case of a presidential candidate
promising to remain above the fray and run a positive campaign,
then turning viciously negative once the poll numbers start to
break the wrong way,” Kersh said.  Adelson, the $5 million donor to Winning Our Future, has
been a longtime financial backer of Gingrich. He was the biggest
donor to Gingrich’s former political committee, American
Solutions for Winning the Future, contributing $7 million,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-
based research group. He already gave the maximum $2,500 to
Gingrich’s presidential campaign.  Adelson has made more than $350,000 in political donations
since Jan. 1, 2007, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. He was a financial backer of the last two Republican
presidential nominees,  George W. Bush  and  John McCain , and also
contributed to former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani’s 2008
campaign for the White House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 