-- Rooney Goals Help United Knock Manchester Rival Out of Soccer’s F.A. Cup
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/rooney-goals-help-united-knock-manchester-rival-out-of-soccer-s-f-a-cup.html
Wayne Rooney  scored twice as
 Manchester United  beat 10-man Manchester City 3-2 to reach the
fourth round of English soccer’s F.A. Cup.  Paul Scholes  made a
playing return for United.  Danny Welbeck also scored yesterday at City’s Etihad
Stadium as United eliminated the defending champion. City, which
had captain  Vincent Kompany  red-carded after 12 minutes, got
second-half goals from Aleksandar Kolarov and  Sergio Aguero .  “We knew it was going to be difficult, going 3-0 up we
maybe took our foot off the gas a bit,” Rooney told ITV. “We
had to make sure we saw the game out and thankfully we managed
to do that.”  United will travel to Liverpool in the next round. Fourth-
round matches are scheduled for the weekend of Jan. 28 and 29.  In yesterday’s other matches, Chelsea beat Portsmouth 4-0,
Sunderland defeated Peterborough 2-0, while Sheffield Wednesday
won 1-0 against West Ham.  United included Scholes among its substitutes eight months
after the former England midfielder retired. It was  announced 
yesterday the 37-year-old would rejoin the club’s playing staff
until the end of the season.  United took the lead at the Etihad Stadium on 10 minutes
with a goal from Rooney, who two days ago denied a newspaper
report that said he wanted to leave. The England striker headed
into the net off the underside of the bar from an Antonio Valencia cross.  Two minutes later, City captain Kompany was red-carded for
a two-footed challenge on Nani, even though he protested that he
won the ball.  Volleyed  City striker Aguero almost tied the match soon after with a
long-range strike that goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard had to tip
wide.  David Silva  and Aguero had further efforts for the hosts
before United doubled its advantage when Welbeck volleyed in on
30 minutes.  United held a three-goal advantage at halftime. Kolarov
fouled Welbeck and Rooney’s subsequent penalty kick was stopped
by Costel Pantilimon before the striker followed up to head in
from the rebound.  The hosts got a goal back three minutes after halftime as
Kolarov curled a 25-yard (23 meter) free kick into the top
corner of the net. On 65 minutes, Aguero scored at the second
attempt after Lindegaard blocked his first effort.  In between City’s two goals, Scholes was introduced as a
substitute for Nani to make his 677th appearance for the club.  ‘Careless Performance’  City pushed for another goal and came close in injury time
as Lindegaard parried a free kick from Kolarov before United
managed to clear.  “We made them better than they were,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told ITV. “It was a careless performance. We should
have been home and dry.”  The Independent on Jan. 7 said that an argument between
Rooney and Ferguson in December had damaged the pair’s working
relationship and may lead to the sale of the 26-year-old player
this month. The club and Rooney both issued statements denying
the claim.  It was City’s first home defeat since a Premier League game
against Everton in December 2010. United’s victory ends a run of
two straight defeats.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  told ITV that he is “sure we
will win” an appeal against Kompany’s red card.  Chelsea got four goals in the second half at Stamford
Bridge to seal its spot in the fourth round. Brazil midfielder
Ramires scored twice, with  Juan Mata  and  Frank Lampard  also
netting.  Sunderland also avoided an upset with goals from Sebastian Larsson and James McClean against Peterborough.  Sheffield Wednesday, of the third-tier League One, beat
Championship team West Ham on a late goal from Chris O’Grady.
Wednesday goalkeeper Nicky Weaver saved a penalty kick from Sam
Baldock.  Arsenal, which is aiming to tie United’s record of 11 F.A.
Cup titles, hosts Leeds in today’s match. 