-- RTS Futures Fall as European Confidence Drops: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-01-09T04:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/rts-futures-fall-as-european-confidence-drops-russia-overnight.html
Russia’s stock  futures (VEA)  fell as Euro-
area consumer confidence dropped to a two-year low, oil declined
and a former finance minister’s call for government opponents to
unify raised prospects for new protests.  Russia’s stock futures on the dollar-denominated index
expiring in March slipped 0.1 percent on Jan. 6 while the
 Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies traded in New
York lost 0.5 percent to 92.91, paring its weekly gain to 2.6
percent. American depositary receipts of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the
world’s largest natural gas producer, retreated to a one-week
low, and  OAO Mechel (MTL) , the Russian coal producer that exports to
European steelmakers, fell for a second day.  Economic confidence in  Europe , Russia’s largest trading
partner, fell to a two-year low, a sign regional demand may
weaken if the debt crisis doesn’t ease. Former Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin  on Jan. 6 urged protestors contesting last month’s
parliamentary vote to pressure the government for new elections.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is seeking to return to the
presidency in the March 4 vote.  “For Russia, Europe remains a question mark and then there
are also the country’s own political uncertainties,” John-Paul Smith, the London-based emerging-market strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG, said in an interview. “Russian stocks are cheap, but
there are structural impediments for translating that cheapness
into tangible shareholder returns. Investors are waiting to see
what policies are implemented after the election.”  Index Valuation  Capital flight from Russia may exceed $85 billion in 2011,
acting Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said in Moscow on Dec. 6,
21 percent more than an earlier forecast from the central bank
for $70 billion. Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index trades at 5.4 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies, the lowest
among the largest  emerging markets  including  India , Brazil and
 China .  Deutsche Bank has rated Russian equities “underweight”
for almost a year, Smith said.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 3.9 percent to HK$4.46 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:58
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent
today after India’s prime minister cut his economic growth
forecast and Australian retail sales missed estimates.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, slipped 0.4 percent to $27.08 on Jan. 6,
bringing its gain for the week to 1.6 percent.  Gazprom ADRs fell 1 percent to $11, paring a weekly gain to
3 percent and leaving the receipts at a 0.4 percent discount to
the shares traded in Moscow. The shares have fallen 6.5 percent
since the Dec. 4 parliamentary elections that sparked the
biggest demonstrations in Putin’s 12 years in power as Russians
protested over alleged vote fraud.  Yandex Drops  Mechel (MTLR) , which  obtained (MTL)  19 percent of its 2010 revenue from
Europe, lost 1.5 percent to $9.05 in New York, trimming its
weekly advance to 6.5 percent. The receipts closed at a 2.4
percent discount to  shares (MTLR)  in Moscow.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the operator of Russia’s most popular Internet
search engine, fell the most on the Bloomberg Russia-US 14 index
on Jan. 6, dropping 3.5 percent to $18.61, extending its decline
for the week to 5.5 percent. Liveintenet.ru, an Internet-service
provider and researcher, said Yandex’s share of the Russian
Internet search market declined in the seven days ended Jan. 6
to a daily average of 59.5 percent, compared with 60.3 percent
in the previous seven days.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PLZLY) , the country’s biggest
producer of the metal, gained 2 percent to $3.04 in  New York ,
extending the advance last week to 3.1 percent. Gold and shares
of gold producers will outperform the broader  mining industry  in
the first half of 2012, Julien Garran, an analyst at UBS AG,
said in Jan. 5 report.  Russian Holidays  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  in Moscow gained 0.6 to 1,423.70 to extend
its weekly advance to 3 percent, while the 30-stock Micex Index
added 0.4 percent to 1,440.60 for a 2.7 percent increase last
week. The  RTS Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings
in the index futures, dropped 8 percent to 37.89.  Moscow markets were open last week even as the country
observed a public holiday that extends until Jan. 10.  Russia ’s
Orthodox Christians, a majority in the country of 143 million,
celebrated Christmas on Jan. 7.  An  index (EUESEMU)  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-
nation euro area fell to 93.3 in December, the European
Commission in Brussels said on Jan. 6, as factory orders in
Germany, the region’s largest economy, dropped 4.8 percent in
November, the most in almost three years, according to the
Economy Ministry in Berlin.  Crude for February delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  declined 0.5 percent to $101.01 a barrel in electronic
trading today, following a 0.3 percent drop on Jan. 6. Brent oil
for January settlement increased 32 cents to $113.06 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Ruble Strengthens  The ruble strengthened for the first time in three days
against the dollar, extending its weekly gain as Urals crude
oil, Russia’s chief export earner, advanced. The Russian
currency rose 0.2 percent at 31.98 per dollar and advanced 0.5
percent last week. Urals crude rose 0.8 percent to $111.23 a
barrel as tensions over  Iran  spurred bets supplies of the
commodity may fall.  The Micex’s 2.7 percent gain last week compares with a 3.3
percent advance for Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index, which trades at 9.2
times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  trades at 8.9 times
estimated earnings, and the  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has a
ratio of 13.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net , or
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  