-- Shrinking China Trade Surplus May Buttress Wen Rebuff of Pressure on Yuan
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-01-09T11:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/shrinking-china-trade-surplus-may-buttress-wen-rebuff-on-yuan.html
China ’s trade surplus may narrow to
an eight-year low in 2012 as slowing external demand undermines
exports, a shift that may help the nation rebuff overseas
criticism for maintaining an undervalued exchange rate.  Bank of America Corp., Credit Agricole CIB and Haitong
Securities Co. estimate the  surplus (CNFRBAL$)  this year will slip below
$102 billion in 2005. For December, the excess shrank to $8.8
billion, according to the median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey (CNFRBAL$) , indicating an annual surplus of $147.2 billion.  The latest monthly figures are due tomorrow, before the
arrival in Beijing of U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who said last year that China’s yuan hadn’t risen fast
enough. With a prolonged crisis in  Europe , the biggest Chinese
trading partner, Premier  Wen Jiabao  may have little appetite to
accommodate Geithner’s request, analysts said.  “The dollar-yuan exchange rate could be quite close to the
equilibrium value and the room for further rapid yuan
appreciation is limited” given a shrinking trade surplus, said
Lu Ting, an economist at Bank of America in  Hong Kong . “As
China comes close to a balance of trade, political pressures
from the U.S. will have to cool eventually.”  Yuan Outlook  The yuan weakened 0.08 percent to 6.3146 per dollar as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , retreating further from a high last
month, when it surpassed 6.3 for the first time in 18 years. It
will gain 2.4 percent to 6.14 yuan per dollar by the end of this
year, compared with a 4.7 percent increase last year, according
to the median estimate of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  A diminishing surplus may damp liquidity growth, giving
China’s central bank more scope to cut banks’ required reserve
ratio. People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
yesterday the nation must be ready to combat possible global
economic shocks. JPMorgan Chase & Co. sees a further cut in the
reserve ratio as soon as this week.  China’s December lending and  money supply  growth exceeded
economists’ estimates, signaling monetary conditions may be
easing, data showed yesterday. New loans totaled 640.5 billion
yuan ($101 billion) for the month, exceeding the estimates of
all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. M2, a measure of money
supply, rose 13.6 percent, compared with the 12.9 percent median
of 18 estimates.  PBOC Move  The PBOC lowered the reserve ratio for the first time in
almost three years in December to encourage lending.
Expectations for more monetary easing escalated after inflation
cooled to the slowest pace in 14 months in November and
industrial output growth weakened.  Economic growth may slow to 8.5 percent this year, down
from 9.2 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest heavy-equipment maker,
said last month that Chinese demand for excavators will decline
in the first half of 2012 as the government prolongs a crackdown
on property speculation.  China’s  exchange-rate  management has seen it accumulate the
world’s largest currency reserves, with holdings at $3.2
trillion as of September. As the trade surplus fell and inflows
of overseas capital diminished, gains in the reserves moderated.
Quarterly growth slowed for four straight quarters through
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Reserves Stabilize  “With the gradual stabilization of foreign-exchange
reserves and close to zero current-account surpluses, China will
have more arguments to oppose  Washington ’s demand on currency
appreciation,” said Herve Lievore, an economist for  Asia  at AXA
Investment Managers in Hong Kong.  China’s import growth outpaced that of exports every month
since May as Europe’s turmoil hit. Estimates for December signal
a 19 percent drop in the trade surplus last year from 2010.
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said Jan. 5 the excess probably
dipped 13 percent to $160 billion, or 2 percent of gross
domestic product.  The  U.S. Treasury  said last month it will seek further
gains in the yuan and called the currency undervalued, while
declining to brand China a manipulator of its exchange rate.
Geithner’s visit this week is part of a trip that also features
a stop in  Tokyo , with talks scheduled to include discussions on
sanctions on  Iran  for its nuclear development plans.  Share of GDP  Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong in Hong Kong, who
previously worked at the  World Bank , sees the annual trade
surplus in a range of $70 billion to $100 billion. Credit
Agricole’s Dariusz Kowalczyk predicts the excess at $60 billion.
China’s merchandise surplus as a share of GDP rose to a record
of 7.5 percent in 2007, when the surplus hit $262.2 billion.  “Given the European debt crisis and sharp slowdown of the
European economy, China’s decline in its  trade surplus  will
likely be faster than expected,” said  Ma Jun , an economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, who rated as top China analyst and Asia
economist by Institutional Investor magazine’s 2011 poll. Ma
said the surplus may shrink to zero by 2015.  A shrinking labor force and rapid aging of the population
in a nation of 1.3 billion people will also reduce China’s
surplus, Ma said. Such demographic changes will account for
about 60 percent of the drop in the excess in the coming decade,
Ma said in his 2011 book “Locus of Money,” based on the
assumption that yuan will rise 3 percent annually against the
dollar.  Not all economists are predicting a shift to balanced
trade. BNP Paribas SA senior China economist  Ken Peng , the most
accurate forecaster of Chinese economic data in Bloomberg News
surveys in 2011, said “China would still have a structural
trade surplus, just because of the amount of migrant people
employed in the exports industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  