-- SNB Chief Hildebrand May Supply More Evidence as Politicians Give Backing
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-01-09T11:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/snb-chief-hildebrand-may-supply-more-evidence-as-politicians-give-backing.html
Swiss National Bank President Philipp Hildebrand will face questions from lawmakers in Bern today as
he seeks to end a discussion over controversial currency
purchases by his wife.  Hildebrand, 48, will submit e-mails to parliament that show
his wife acted alone in making foreign-currency trades that led
to calls for him to resign,  Der Sonntag  reported yesterday,
without saying where it got the information. SNB spokeswoman
Silvia Oppliger declined to comment.  “We need tougher rules on SNB’s board members’
transactions, and spouses should be restricted as well” said
Christophe Darbellay, head of the Christian Democratic Party and
president of the parliament panel that will question Hildebrand
from 4 p.m. in Bern. He declined to say whether Hildebrand
should stay in office.  Hildebrand on Jan. 5 expressed regret that he didn’t
reverse his wife’s transaction over $504,000 in August, three
weeks before the SNB imposed a currency cap. While the SNB
president said he didn’t know about his spouse’s order,
Weltwoche magazine reported that he had personally ordered the
transaction. An external probe commissioned by the SNB Bank
Council in December cleared what it called a “sensitive”
transaction.  The Swiss currency traded at 1.2155 versus the euro at
12:33 p.m. in Zurich, little changed on the day. It was at 95.28
centimes versus the dollar.  Government Support  Swiss President Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf, who is also
finance minister, told Swiss television in an interview
broadcast on Jan. 6 that there’s “absolutely no reason” for
the government to distrust Hildebrand. He helped contribute “to
the relatively good situation” of the economy, she said.  The Zurich-based SNB maintained borrowing costs at zero on
Dec. 15 and pledged to defend its franc ceiling of 1.20 versus
the euro with unlimited currency purchases if necessary.
Hildebrand was informed the same day of allegations after an
employee at his private bank leaked confidential data.  Susanne Leutenegger Oberholzer, a lawmaker of the  Social
Democratic Party , said today that “the central question” is
whether the SNB will be able to defend its currency policy.  Internal Investigation  “It’s important that the SNB remains in a position to
act,” said Caspar Baader, a member of the panel and a lawmaker
of the  Swiss People’s Party . “There may have to be changes at
the SNB board or the Bank Council.”  The party has already called for Hildebrand to resign,
saying he is “no longer viable” in his role. Christoph Blocher, the party’s deputy president and former justice
minister, had informed the government of the alleged  insider
trading  and sparked the internal investigation.  The SNB Bank Council said in a  statement  on Jan. 7 that the
central bank’s rulebook will be toughened and that external
auditors will review all transactions of the three board members
and their deputies in the three years through 2011. All staff
“with access to privileged information” must first get
approval from the bank’s chief compliance officer for currency
transactions exceeding 20,000 francs ($21,000), it said.  Peter V. Kunz, head of the business law department at the
University of Bern, said it’s “absolutely incomprehensible”
that the relatives aren’t included in the regulations.  ‘Problems’  “From a legal point of view, Ms. Hildebrand’s dollar trade
isn’t problematic,” he said. “From the point of view of
morality, experienced economic experts like the Hildebrands
should know that a spouse’s trades are not without problems.”  Hildebrand joined the central bank in 2003, becoming its
youngest ever policy maker, and took over as president in
January 2010. Before that he was chief investment officer at
private banks Vontobel Group in Zurich and Geneva-based Union
Bancaire Privee.  As head of the SNB, Hildebrand helped toughen financial
regulation, forcing UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to boost
capital buffers. He also lowered borrowing costs to zero and in
September introduced the first currency ceiling since the 1970s
to help protect the economy after the franc reached a record
high against the euro, trading near parity.  ‘Above Suspicion’  Kashya Hildebrand was born in Rawalpindi,  Pakistan , to a
Pakistani father and an American mother. At the age of four, she
moved to the U.S. and later worked for hedge fund Moore Capital
Management in  New York , where she met her future husband. After
moving to  Switzerland , Kashya Hildebrand focused on the art
business, opening galleries in Zurich, New York and Geneva. The
couple has one daughter and live in Zurich.  Bank Sarasin said on Jan. 3 it fired the employee who
helped pass account information to Blocher. Christoph Moergeli,
a lawmaker for the Swiss People’s Party, told Tages-Anzeiger
that it’s too late for Hildebrand to amend the damage, saying
“this man needs to go.”  Hildebrand has “brought grave indignity upon the office
and credibility of the SNB by allowing his wife to punt the
foreign-exchange market,” Tim Price, who helps oversee more
than $1.5 billion as director of investment at PFP Group LLP in
 London , wrote in a report. “Whether he or his wife is guilty of
insider dealing is beside the point. The point is that Caesar’s
wife must be above suspicion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  