-- Hungary Has No Preconditions in Aid Talks With IMF, Ready to Apply Plan
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-01-08T19:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/hungary-has-no-preconditions-in-aid-talks-with-imf-ready-to-apply-plan.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
abandoned all previous objections to a bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund , indicating his government was open
to “any kind” of  credit line  to prop up financing.  “As far a we’re concerned, there’re no preconditions
during negotiations, all issues that the involved parties deem
necessary can be debated,” Orban said in an interview with
state news service MTI today. Tamas Fellegi, the country’s chief
negotiator in aid talks, has a mandate to accept “any kind” of
credit line that strengthens the country’s market financing,
Orban said.  The IMF and the European Union broke off talks last month
on Hungary’s bid for a bailout after Orban refused to withdraw
new central bank regulation the institutions said may undermine
monetary-policy independence. The forint fell to a record
against the euro as investors speculated an IMF accord may be
delayed.  Fellegi is authorized to indicate that  Hungary  is ready to
implement the program agreed during negotiations as “it’s only
natural” that the IMF will want to see such economic policy
that “guarantees” the lender “will get its money back,”
Orban said.  ‘Agreed Conditionality’  The IMF will only continue bailout talks with Hungary when
the government is willing to accept a Stand-by Arrangement
“with agreed conditionality,”  Christoph Rosenberg , the
lender’s mission chief to Hungary said on Dec. 28.  The forint fell to a record low of 324.24 per euro on Jan.
5 and the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond to 10.1
percent by the end of the week after rising to as high as 11.34
percent on Jan. 5, according to generic prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency ended the week at 314.35 per euro.  “We want to raise the money necessary for running the
country from the markets,” Orban said. “However, we want to
send a clear message that Hungary disposes over the necessary
resources at a time when available funding is becoming more
scarce or even in the event of a significant protraction of the
euro crisis.”  Hungary lost the investment grade on its foreign-currency
debt at  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service in the past six weeks. The cost of insuring Hungarian
bonds using credit-default swaps fell to 698 basis points by the
end of the day on Friday, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)   ‘No Legal Problems’  Orban rejected last month a request from European
Commission President Manuel Barroso to withdraw the central bank
bill and a law on financial stability.  The central bank law contains “no legal problems” and
related criticism has been of political and not professional
nature, Orban said. The government is ready to accept all
recommendations on the central bank and financial stability
bills if those are “worthy of consideration” as “maintaining
or changing our earlier point of view is not an issue of
prestige for us,” Orban said.  When asked if the government is sticking to raising the
number of vice presidents and Monetary Council members despite
European Central Bank objections, Orban said nobody has so far
“proved” that the bill curbs monetary policy autonomy.  The government doesn’t plan to merge the central bank with
the financial market supervisory authority during the term of
current central bank Governor Andras Simor, Orban said.  The government will consult with the central bank on a
daily basis and will work together to ensure economic stability,
Orban said last week. The central bank, in a statement, said it
will use “available tools” to ensure economic stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  