-- Huntsman Would Have ‘Tough Time’ Voting for Paul for President
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-08T14:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/huntsman-would-have-tough-time-voting-for-paul-for-president.html
Republican presidential candidate  Jon Huntsman  said he would have a “very, very tough time” voting
for Texas congressman  Ron Paul  for U.S. president.  “He brings a lot of the extreme ends of the political
spectrum together,” Huntsman said today on  CNN ’s “State of the
Union” television program, citing Paul’s isolationist foreign
policy and support for legalizing some illegal drugs. That
means, Huntsman said, “that he is not electable in the end.”  Huntsman has campaigned heavily in New Hampshire, which
holds the first Republican primary on Jan. 10.  Mitt Romney , a
former Massachusetts governor, won the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3
and is the favorite to win in New Hampshire.  “We have to show big” in the primary, said Huntsman, a
former governor of  Utah  who served as U.S. Ambassador to  China 
under President Barack Obama. “You’ve got to make something
happen in one of the early states to prove the point that you’re
electable.”  In a Republican debate last night, Romney criticized
Huntsman’s service to a Democratic president.  Huntsman returned Romney’s criticism today, accusing him of
displaying political inconsistency.  “You run for the Senate as a liberal. You run for governor
as a moderate. You run for president as a conservative. Where
are you at the end of the day?” Huntsman said of Romney,
according to a transcript of the program provided by CNN.
“That’s a legitimate question that people have.”  At the same time, Huntsman defended his own record, saying
that “people want leadership. They don’t want party orthodoxy
exclusively.”  “That’s got to drive the core of somebody, that
consistency,” Huntsman said. “But leadership, at the end of
the day, that’s going to prove to people that we can have a new
and a better tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  