-- Chavez Says Venezuela Won’t Accept World Bank Arbitration
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-01-10T02:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/venezuela-won-t-accept-icsid-verdict-on-exxon-chavez-says.html
Venezuela will pull out of a World
Bank-affiliated arbitration panel and won’t accept any of its
rulings, including a multi-billion claim for a nationalized oil
project by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , President  Hugo Chavez  said.  The Washington-based International Centre for Settlement of
Investment Disputes, or ICSID, is considering Exxon’s claim in
one of about 20 suits filed there against the Venezuelan
government. Wichita, Kansas-based Koch Industries Inc. and
 Owens-Illinois (OI) , Inc., the world’s largest maker of glass
containers, are among other companies seeking compensation.  “We won’t recognize any decisions from the ICSID,”
Chavez, who has seized assets in the energy, mining and
telecommunications industry during his 12-year rule, said
yesterday on state television. Exxon is “seeking the
impossible, that we pay what we will never pay.”  Exxon, the world’s largest oil company by market value, was
the first to abandon Venezuela after Chavez expropriated
industry assets in 2007. The self-declared socialist
revolutionary forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures
as minority partners that year and is also in arbitration at the
 World Bank  with  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which rejected the terms.  “We’ve got to get out of that ICSID,” Chavez, 57, said
during a six-hour Alo Presidente talk show yesterday, which he
resumed for the first time since being diagnosed with cancer in
June. The South American leader on Jan. 4 said that Exxon had
been “arrogant” for demanding as much as $12 billion in
compensation for its stake in the Cerro Negro project that
produced and processed heavy crude oil.  Exxon had no comment on Chavez’s statement, spokesman
Patrick McGinn said yesterday in an e-mail.  Pulling Out  Chavez threatened to withdraw from ICSID as early as 2007.
If he follows through this time, it’s unlikely to affect
arbitrations already under way, said Michael Nolan, a partner in
the Washington office of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.  “Chavez is not going to solve  Venezuela ’s very serious
international legal problems with either speeches or even a
formal denunciation of the ICSID convention,” Nolan, who has
represented clients in arbitration with Venezuela, said today in
an e-mailed response to questions.  Exiting the arbitration panel would also require Venezuela
withdraw from some 20 bilateral investment treaties with various
countries, a process that would still give companies “many
years” to initiate claims against the government, he added.  Enforcement Measures  In a separate case, the New York-based International
Chamber of Commerce, an arbitration court, ruled last month that
state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  must pay Exxon a net
$746.9 million for the Cerro Negro nationalization.  Exxon in 2010 cut its claim to $7 billion from $12 billion,
according to PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known.
Chavez said yesterday that the country would only reimburse
Exxon for what it had actually invested in the country.  PDVSA said on Jan. 2 that it would pay $255 million in cash
for the ICC judgment, after accounting for about $300 million in
a frozen New York bank account and $191 million of Exxon debt
that it will cancel. The total amount of the  International
Chamber of Commerce  ruling was for $907.6 million, minus a $161
million counterclaim by PDVSA.  A decision favoring Exxon at the ICSID would be more
easily-enforced because it gives a successful claimant the right
to enforce against assets in third party states, Nolan said.  ‘Strong’ Enforcement  “If Exxon gets an award in the ICSID, the enforcement
mechanisms are strong,” said Nolan.  Venezuela does not expect to pay more than what the ICC
awarded Exxon last month, oil minister  Rafael Ramirez  told
reporters today in Caracas.  “The ICC has already made a decision on the Exxon case,”
said Ramirez, adding that the arbitration case with
ConocoPhillips before the ICSID was continuing.  Owens-Illinois in September filed for arbitration at the
ICSID for compensation for two bottling plants nationalized by
Chavez’s government in 2010. Other companies with claims against
Venezuela at the ICSID include  Tenaris SA (TEN) , the world’s biggest
maker of seamless steel tubes, and The  Williams Companies (WMB) , Inc.,
a natural gas services supplier located in Tulsa,  Oklahoma .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  