-- Why New Hampshire’s Gauntlet Still Matters Most: Albert R. Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-01-08T16:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/why-new-hampshire-s-gauntlet-still-matters-most-albert-r-hunt.html
If the first presidential primary
were held in California or  Texas , the likes of Tom Rath or
Claira Monier wouldn’t exist.  Rath is the head of Mitt Romney’s campaign in New
Hampshire; Monier is the co-chair of  Rick Santorum ’s quest in
the state. Between them, they’ve been through a century of
presidential primary politics and exemplify the exuberance and
grassroots reality of this contest, which turns 60 this year.  Rather than television studios or props for expensive
commercials or lavish fundraising events, retail politics rule
in New Hampshire. Men and women who aspire to the most powerful
position in the world go to town halls, early breakfasts, barber
shops, bars. They meet one on one with voters who express their
concerns and hopes for America, sometimes awkwardly, sometimes
eloquently.  These experiences offer a better political laboratory than
the Iowa caucuses.  New Hampshire  is more participatory and
there’s a longer tradition of voters taking their
responsibilities seriously.  Rath is a puckish 65-year-old whose cherubic smile masks a
sharp political mind. His first New Hampshire political campaign
was in 1964, when as a Dartmouth College freshman, he helped run
Grafton County for  Nelson Rockefeller . After each visit the
candidate would give him $20 for beer money.  Indispensable Republican  He later went on to be New Hampshire attorney general in
the early 1980s. Since then he has been central to every
Republican campaign. He’s friendly and knows everyone, from
former Supreme Court Justice David Souter to waitresses.  Although he’s backed losers, no serious Republican
presidential hopeful comes through New Hampshire without
stopping by Rath’s Concord office.  He revels in these experiences. In 1988, after  Bob Dole  won
the Iowa caucuses, Rath urged him to shock the political world
by picking Tennessee Governor  Lamar Alexander  as his running
mate, figuring the news would dominate the last week of the New
Hampshire contest and assure Dole’s victory.  The candidate refused, and George H.W. Bush went on the
attack, winning the primary and the nomination. (In the small
world of New Hampshire politics, Rath made this pitch from the
home of then-Governor John H. Sununu, the most prominent Bush-
backer.)  He makes a persuasive case for the thousands of miles these
candidates travel through the hamlets of this small state.  “As flawed and difficult and frustrating as this process
may be, it would be much more so and less human if you didn’t
have real people sitting across the table and telling candidates
how they live,” he says. “It makes the winner a better
president.”  Monier is equally effusive and upbeat, and has been at it
even longer. She started in 1960, as a college student for  John F. Kennedy . She turned Republican, and with her husband, now
deceased, became a force for  Ronald Reagan . She vividly
remembers the famous debate in Nashua in 1980 when candidate
Reagan, on the political ropes, took over by telling the editor
of the local newspaper, “I am paying for this microphone, Mr.
Green.”  “We were down to our last few bucks,” Monier recalls.
They decided to spend that money on the Nashua debate.  In 2008, she backed Romney, who she still likes, but says
she’s having much more fun in the uphill Santorum campaign.  ‘Blue Suits’  “The blue suits run the Romney campaign,” she says. “I
like being with an underdog.”  Win or lose, she also believes that New Hampshire is vital
to U.S. democracy and worries that too much emphasis has been
placed on the plethora of debates in the current cycle.  “Debates test a candidate in one way, but it’s even more
important for them to meet ordinary people who are not scripted,
who say what they think rather than what you want them to
think,” she says. “This is a form of campaigning I hope we
never lose.”  It was on display this week.  Jon Huntsman ’s town hall in
Peterborough, a Newt Gingrich session in Laconia, and Santorum’s
appearance at the Queen City Rotary Club breakfast all featured
a packed and engaged audience full of questions, most well-
informed.  Romney, the frontrunner, held a rally early on Jan. 7 in
Derry that was all speeches, and no questions. “This is bad;
he’s acting like it’s an entitlement,” complained Joan Rogers,
a retired homemaker from Plaistow who came with a question.  It’s an electorate that often creates surprises, from
bringing down President  Lyndon Johnson  with a sizeable protest
vote in 1968 to  John McCain ’s victories in 2000 and 2008. After
winning the  Iowa  caucuses four years ago,  Barack Obama  was
supposed to overwhelm  Hillary Clinton  in New Hampshire; she beat
him.  It’s likely that the outcome Jan. 10 will be determinative
in several ways:  -- The candidacies of Huntsman, who’s staked everything on
New Hampshire, and perhaps Santorum, hang in the balance. The
former Utah governor needs a solid second- or third-place
showing to credibly continue; the ex-Pennsylvania senator needs
to show that his stunning second-place finish in Iowa wasn’t a
fluke by finishing in the top three in the Granite State.  -- The vote captured by the libertarian maverick  Ron Paul 
will be revealing. If, as in Iowa, he doubles his showing in
2008 (8 percent of the vote), that can probably be a predictor
of better performances in subsequent contests.  -- Romney is expected to win easily, with 40 percent of the
vote, or more. If he falls short of that, it’s a further warning
sign of a weak front-runner; President  George H.W. Bush , while
fending off the primary challenge in 1992, won so unimpressively
that it was a harbinger of his later failings.  There may not be any better place for these challenges to
play out than in New Hampshire, long America’s political early
testing ground.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 