-- My Crazy Dare to Climb Everest Ends in Joy, Exhaustion: Travel
-- B y   E r i k a   L e d e r m a n
-- 2012-01-08T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/my-crazy-dare-to-climb-everest-ends-in-elation-exhaustion-erika-lederman.html
I’m euphoric as I scramble over the
loose boulders to the summit of Kala Patthar.  I’ve reached the highest point of the Nepal trek. This is
about 5,600 meters (18,373 feet). The sky above is crystal
clear. The summit of Everest is ahead, and it looks like the
Photoshopped backdrop on a film set.  I’m feeling smug, because I’m still not feeling any effects
from the altitude. We arrived last night at Gorek Shep, the last
village on the route to Everest Base Camp, from where this peak
appeared to be nothing more than a hill of loose brown pebbles.  I wake early this morning eager to climb, and power up the
hill. It’s steeper and longer than it had looked yesterday.
Feeling strong, I pursue the top without stopping.  And then it hits.  As I take in the inconceivable panorama and take
photographs, I suddenly have the intense desire to sleep.  Even more bizarrely, that impulse doesn’t seem strange, and
so I curl into a ball, put my head on a rock, and sleep deeply.  The adventure started months before, when I received an e-
mail asking for volunteers on a 10-woman charity trek.  “Can you imagine,” I said to my husband, “that someone
actually thinks I am capable of doing this?”  His response: “Why not?”  The U.S.- and U.K.- based charity Women for Women
International helps women in war-torn countries rebuild their
lives. It provides a new twist on the concept of philanthropic
travel. Rather than building homes, we were to drag ourselves to
the base of the world’s highest mountain over 18 days.  Charity Targets  The trek is marketed as a fitting metaphor for the lives of
many of the women the charity targets. It asks each participant
to pay their way and to commit to raising funds, in my case
10,000 pounds ($15,400).  We ran through my concerns about the fitness level and
fundraising required. I have school-age children who need
micromanaging, a house to run in the U.K., a part-time job and a
husband who is often on the road. How could I go to  Asia  for
almost three weeks during the school term?  Once again my husband’s response: “Why not?”  So I signed up. And not totally fearless, I roped in a
friend.  I walk a lot -- regularly and briskly throughout the year
on  London ’s Hampstead Heath. Summers are spent hiking in  Acadia
National Park  in  Maine . I knew I was fit.  There was little training I could do to prepare for the
altitude. At 5,364 meters, oxygen levels at the Nepal Base Camp
are about half those at  sea level  -- and we were going even
higher. (Getting to the 8,848-meter summit involves dangerous
climbing best left to professionals.)  Yak, Yeti  Women for Women  made all the arrangements outside of our
flights to and from Kathmandu, where we met and sized each other
up for the first time at the  Yak and Yeti Hotel .  It was a well-heeled group whose travel expectations most
likely include a nightly chocolate on the pillow. We ranged in
age from 28 to 52. We were French, Belgian, Norwegian, American
and English. We worked, we were stay-at-home moms, we were
married, we were single.  The trek was led by  Susan Harper Todd , who in 2004 became
the fifth British woman to reach the summit and the first to
lead an expedition there.  After a day sightseeing, we had an early start for our
flight to Lukla, where the trail begins. Regularly listed as one
of the world’s most dangerous airports, it’s not the kind of
thing you want to research before you go. The landing strip is
built into a steep incline and ends with an abrupt drop-off into
a seemingly bottomless Himalayan valley.  Sherpas, Porters  Harper Todd has a team of four Sherpas and four porters. We
were able to rely upon these men, who came to know our food and
beverage preferences, weaknesses and strengths. They carried our
duffel bags, leaving us only with a day pack. Just when you
thought you’d lost the trail, they would appear. We joked that
in that way, they were kind of like wives, or mothers.  We walked toward Monjo through the Khumbu Valley, which has
national park status and is dotted with villages. To
acclimatize, we spent nine nights making our way to Base Camp
and three nights descending.  In addition to the stream of walkers, bull and yak trains
clogged the way, making it difficult to negotiate the single
lane suspension bridges. Porters carried both food and building
supplies, such as doors or furniture. Despite their load, they
quickly passed us daypack-carrying tourists.  We spent nights in basic lodges, where we chose from a menu
of Tibetan dumplings called momos, daal bhat, a regional staple
of lentils and rice, and various egg and potato dishes. As a
group of women we were a novelty and attracted attention from
the predominantly male groups of commercial trekkers.  Buddha’s Eyes  The surrounding peaks were stunning, the trail punctuated
by brightly colored prayer wheels and stupas adorned with the
eyes of Buddha.  We quickly got into a rhythm, walking at our own pace.
While the group spread out over the trail during the day, we
always met up for lunch and the evenings. For a group of what
had been strangers, we got on exceedingly well.  We were blessed with perfect weather which allowed most of
us to trek in short sleeves. But once the sun past below the
horizon, the temperature dropped close to freezing. The
accommodation was mainly unheated and we gathered in the main
room, warmed by yak-dung fires, until it was time to crawl into
sleeping bags.  Kala Patthar is a steep and seemingly endless summit that
provides climbers with their best view.  Mountain Sickness  My sleepiness there was the first symptom of acute mountain
sickness. Afterwards, nausea and disorientation kicked in. I was
helped by powerful steroid drugs.  By morning, I felt reborn, ready to walk to Base Camp. We
all made it, taking pictures, unfurling a string of ‘prayer
flags’ made by our supporters and hugging each other.  George Mallory’s quote for wanting to climb Everest was
“because it’s there.” The critic, poet and mountaineer Al
Alvarez said that was “only half the story. The other half was
‘because you’re here’ -- where ‘you’ included the town, the job,
the hierarchies, the wife, the kids, the dog…”  The assumption that such a challenge is specific to men is
ridiculous. For me and the women who join me, the philanthropic
aspect gives us all a socially acceptable excuse to remove
ourselves from ‘here.’  Information:  http://www.womenforwomen.org   (Erika Lederman writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Erika Lederman at  elederman@compuserve.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 