-- Yemen Agrees to Grant Saleh Immunity as Arab League Seeks Peace in Syria
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m ,   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-01-08T22:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-08/yemen-agrees-to-grant-saleh-immunity-as-arab-league-seeks-peace-in-syria.html
Yemen’s unity government approved a
draft law to grant its outgoing president immunity from
prosecution as the  Arab League  urged the Syrian government to
end violence against civilian demonstrators.  The draft law, which must also be approved by Yemen’s
parliament, would grant Ali Abdullah Saleh and anyone who worked
with him in the civil service, security and military immunity
from prosecution for acts committed before the law takes effect,
the state-run Saba news agency reported.  A new Yemeni government was sworn in last month after Saleh
signed an agreement brokered by the Gulf Cooperation Council to
relinquish presidential powers in return for immunity from
prosecution. Vice President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi is running the
state temporarily and will transfer power to the opposition
party after presidential elections on Feb. 21, according to the
agreement.  Hadi hopes to transfer power smoothly, Yemen’s Prime
Minister Mohammed Salem Basindwah told Al Arabiya television in
an interview yesterday.  “The situation in Yemen is still dangerous and it needs
the Gulf States to work and help to pass obstacles that could
hinder executing” the Gulf council’s agreement, Basindwah said.  Thousands of demonstrators in the Yemeni capital Sanaa
protested Saleh’s immunity deal yesterday. They demanded that
the president and his relatives face trial for killing more than
1,000 people since the uprising demanding his ouster began a
year ago.  Syrian Violence  The Arab League once again called on the Syrian government
and armed groups to cease violence against civilians, withdraw
troops from urban areas and release political prisoners.  “The Syrian government is urged to immediately and fully
abide by its vows to execute the approved protocol in a way that
would guarantee security to Syrian civilians and does not
obstruct peaceful protests, in order for the delegation’s
mission to succeed,” the Cairo-based organization said
yesterday in a statement handed to reporters in the Egyptian
capital.  Syrian forces killed 32 people yesterday including at least
six who died when the Syrian army blasted the Damascus suburb of
Madhaya with tank shells and mortars, demolishing several
houses, Al Jazeera television reported, citing activists.  Arab League Observers  The League’s observers will continue their mission in  Syria 
as long as the government abides by the agreement, the
organization said. Arab League leader Nabil el-Arabi said
yesterday he expects to receive a full report from monitors on
Jan. 19.  “On the lights of the report to be presented on Jan. 19, a
decision will be made, after the committee meets, followed by a
ministerial meeting,” Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin
Jasim Bin Jaber al Thani said in a press conference in Cairo.
There is “no agreement to send foreigners as part of the Arab
League monitors,” he said.  Syrian anti-government fighters killed 11 members of
President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces in predawn clashes
in Daraa, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The fighting in the southern
governorate of Daraa, where the 10-month uprising against Assad
began, also injured 20, the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  