-- M&A Falls to Six-Year Low as Companies Delay Transactions
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-07-30T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/m-a-falls-to-six-year-low-as-companies-delay-transactions.html
Brazilian takeovers are tumbling
this year to the lowest level since 2007 as the outlook for
economic growth worsens and price disputes prompt companies to
postpone deals.  Mergers and acquisitions involving Brazilian firms totaled
$26 billion this year, 37 percent less than the $41.1 billion in
the same period of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Companies have announced 282 deals this year, down from 433.  “The usual due diligence on acquisitions is taking longer
than normal because the risk perception of the country and of
the global environment has worsened,” Fernando Iunes, Banco
Itau BBA SA’s global head of investment banking, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Buyers want to adjust the
price according to the new reality in the Brazilian capital
markets, and sellers don’t want to sell below a given price.”  Companies that don’t need to divest assets quickly are
delaying deals after the benchmark stock index fell 27 percent
this year through yesterday in dollar terms and the economy
expanded less than economists forecast, said Marco Goncalves,
partner and head of M&A at Grupo BTG Pactual.  Brazil ’s gross
domestic product for 2013 will probably expand 2.3 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts July 19-24. That’s
down from an average estimate of 3.4 percent in January.  On Hold  “Slower economic-growth prospects and volatility in the
currency market have affected foreigners’ valuations for
Brazilian companies,” Goncalves said, adding that the number of
deals for all of 2013 is unlikely to reach the 676 announced
last year. “A lot of entrepreneurs put their selling plans on
hold.”  BTG is the top M&A adviser so far this year, with $8.55
billion in transactions announced, while Itau BBA ranks first
based on the number of deals, with 23, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Both banks are based in Sao Paulo.  Competition is intensifying among investment banks fighting
for the smaller pool of revenue. M&A fees tumbled 54 percent to
$119 million in the first half, according to the London-based
research firm Dealogic. The figure is the lowest for the period
since 2007.  “We are living in the aftermath of the boom years, with
more distressed situations in the market,” said Luiz Muniz,
global partner and head of Rothschild’s Latin America business,
which advised on $998 million in Brazil transactions this year.
There’s more business from companies that need to “refocus
their portfolios after overly aggressive acquisition or organic-growth strategies,” Muniz said from Sao Paulo.  Consolidation Opportunity  “The local companies that are well-capitalized and with
strong balance sheets are taking advantage of this scenario to
acquire competitors and consolidate,” said Alessandro Decio Farkuh, head of M&A at Banco Bradesco BBI SA, which rose to
fourth on the advisory rankings this year from sixth in the same
period last year.  Bradesco BBI and Banco Santander SA advised JBS SA, the
world’s largest beef producer, in the biggest Brazil deal this
year, announced on June 10, when the Sao Paulo-based company
said it would purchase meat-processing plants from Marfrig
Alimentos SA for $2.73 billion.  The second-largest transaction was Belo Horizonte-based
Kroton Educacional SA’s acquisition of Anhanguera Educacional SA
for $2.21 billion. The all-stock deal created the world’s
biggest for-profit education company. Itau BBA advised
Anhanguera and a team including BTG, Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley advised Kroton.  Rebound Seen  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the world’s biggest independent merger adviser
and No. 14 among all advisers in Brazil this year, sees the
slowdown as temporary.  “Fundamentally it’s a pretty healthy balance sheet as a
country,” Kenneth Jacobs, Lazard’s chief executive officer,
said in an interview.  “My guess is they weather this,” Jacobs said. “It comes
back to this confidence thing -- you have a period that’s a
little uncertain, you needless to say are going to see a little
slowdown of people making big bets.”  The fall in the year-to-date total would be smaller if not
for the 18 percent drop in the real against the dollar since the
start of 2012, BTG’s Goncalves said. The decline decreases the
value of deals in dollar terms, he said.  The weaker real is already attracting strategic investors
to Brazil, said Luiz Felipe Costa, a partner at Sao Paulo-based
law firm Stocche, Forbes, Padis, Filizzola, Clapis Advogados. He
sees health and real estate among the most-active industries.  Private Equity  “The private-equity funds have already raised capital to
use in Brazil and, as they need to invest, they are very
active,” Costa said.  Another potential source of transactions could be companies
controlled by  Eike Batista , whose empire of commodity businesses
collapsed this year after missing production goals. Divestiture
plans already announced by Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Vale SA
may provide additional deals.  Itau’s Iunes said prospects are brighter for the second
half, which could bring volume for 2013 close to last year’s
total of $63.7 billion.  “Brazil is a big and important market,” Iunes said. “The
strategic investor will keep acquiring companies here and is
only postponing decisions a bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  