-- ‘Ready for Hillary’ Reporting More Than $1 Million Raised
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-30T15:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/-ready-for-hillary-reporting-more-than-1-million-raised.html
Ready for Hillary, a super political
action committee preparing for a potential second White House
run by the former U.S. secretary of state, will report raising
more than $1 million since forming in January.  The organization is expected to file its first disclosure
report with the  Federal Election Commission  tomorrow. It has
said it capped donations at $25,000 per person in an effort to
give the campaign more grass-roots credibility.  Hillary Clinton , 65, has said she has no plans for a second
presidential run. She also hasn’t ruled out a 2016 bid,
following her failed effort in 2008. Her actions will be closely
watched by the political community in the months ahead for any
sign of approaching a decision.  The independent fundraising tally, confirmed by a person
familiar with the organization not authorized to discuss it
publicly, was reported earlier by the  New York  Times.  The report will show the group raised $1.25 million,
including $1 million in the month of June alone, the person
said, adding that the money came from more than 9,300 donors and
three-quarters of the donations were for $25 or less.  A  survey  of U.S. voters by Hamden, Connecticut-based
 Quinnipiac University  released earlier this month showed Clinton
leading in matchups against hypothetical Republican presidential
opponents.  The poll showed Clinton ahead of New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , 46 percent to 40 percent, and U.S. Senator  Rand Paul 
of Kentucky, 50 percent to 38 percent. The survey of 2,014
registered voters was conducted June 28-July 8 with a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  For now, Clinton has said she plans to focus on early
childhood development, opportunities for girls and women, and
economic development and jobs. She’s also in the middle of a
lucrative public speaking schedule and writing a book.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  