-- 7-Eleven Adds Bento Rigor to Slurpee Appeal in U.S. Push
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-07-30T10:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/7-eleven-adds-bento-rigor-to-slurpee-appeal-in-u-s-push.html
Over the past 39 years, Toshifumi Suzuki has expanded 7-Eleven to 50,000 outlets, more than any
other retail chain. Now, at the age of 80, he says he has no
interest in retiring. He’s got too much work to do.  “I’m not thinking about it at all yet,” said Suzuki,
chief executive of Japan’s  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382) , global owner
of the home of the Slurpee.  High on Suzuki’s to-do list is a renewed focus on the U.S.,
where the chain was founded 86 years ago when a Dallas ice maker
began selling eggs, bread and milk. He opened Japan’s first 7-Eleven in Tokyo’s bayside Toyosu district in 1974 and built the
brand into Japan’s biggest convenience store chain. Then in
1991, after 7-Eleven brand owner Southland Corp. filed for
bankruptcy, he turned around and bought the mother company.  He has since expanded 7-Eleven into 16 countries, from
 Indonesia  to  Denmark . In  North America , growth has been modest,
with about 8,500 stores today versus some 7,300 when Southland
failed. Suzuki says that with the right management and expansion
strategy, that number could increase to almost 30,000.  “Our U.S. business has entered the growth stage,” Suzuki
said at the company’s headquarters, tucked in a quiet area in
Tokyo between university buildings, embassies and temples. “We
will raise the quality of stores,” he said, and acquisitions
will continue.  His 15,218 Japanese outlets sell an average of $8,000 per
day, versus about $4,500 for American stores, the company says.
Yet Suzuki insists he can’t simply clone his Japanese business
for other countries.  Beating Wal-Mart  “American 7-Eleven has to do things that satisfy American
consumers,” he said. “So I don’t tell them to do things
exactly how we do them in Japan.”  Suzuki has made his company more profitable than retail
giants  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA) , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Seven & I had an operating margin of 7.13
percent for the fiscal year ended February, while Wal-Mart had
5.93 percent and Carrefour had 2.79 percent in their latest
fiscal years.  7-Eleven Inc., the retailer’s U.S. convenience store unit,
says it expects a record operating profit of $540 million this
fiscal year, a 13 percent increase from last year. The parent
Seven & I, which also operates Ito-Yokado supermarkets in Japan
and other retail businesses, is predicting operating earnings to
rise 15 percent to 340 billion yen, a record for the third
straight year.  Not Sexy  Seven & I shares rose 2.9 percent at 3,750, the biggest
gain since July 9. That compares with a 1.8 percent gain on
 Tokyo ’s broader Topix index.  The stock has jumped 54 percent this year while rival Wal-Mart has risen 14 percent and Topix index is up 34 percent.
Three-quarters of analyst ratings on the stock are “buy,”
according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- the highest level
since 2009.  While Suzuki’s mastery of the convenience store trade is
unchallenged in Japan, some say the same doesn’t go for other
parts of Seven & I.  “The biggest challenge is the supermarket business,” said
Takayuki Kito, a consultant in Tokyo with Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants. Ito-Yokado is “facing a very difficult situation
in terms of the ability to pull in customers.”  Kito said Ito-Yokado’s biggest issue is apparel. “They
display clothing just like food or daily necessities as opposed
to selling fashion, so it’s not very sexy,” he said. Operating
profit at Seven & I’s supermarket division fell 21 percent to
25.5 billion yen for the year ended in February.  Bento Boxes  Nagano-born Suzuki, who imagined a life in politics before
starting his career, doesn’t worry about critics and says he’s
rarely hesitant to follow his instincts.  “When I first decided to bring 7-Eleven to  Japan ,
everybody said it won’t succeed and opposed the idea --
executives, university professors, consultants, all of them,”
said Suzuki, who owns a 0.57 percent stake in Seven & I valued
at about $200 million. “I knew they were wrong.”  In Japan, 7-Eleven opens stores in clusters to streamline
logistics and ensure fresher produce. The company says it only
wants outlets that it can supply from distribution centers
within three hours, and it has stolen customers from
supermarkets by offering more fresh food, bento lunches and
private label goods.  Since he entered the retail business in 1963, Suzuki has
become one of Japan’s most influential businessmen. A keen
golfer, he still regularly visits 7-Eleven stores to buy and
check merchandise.  Banking Business  “He knows how to take risks,” said Seven & I adviser
Mitsuo Goto.  Goto says many around Suzuki opposed his idea of  Seven Bank
Ltd. (8410) , a financial services unit started in 2001. Net income of
the business -- which gets almost all its revenue from fees
charged at ATMs inside 7-Eleven stores -- has jumped 40 percent
in the past five years.  Seven & I started selling online in 1999, and its Internet
business had sales of about 100 billion yen in the fiscal year
ended February. The unit, Seven Net Shopping Co., is run by
Suzuki’s 48-year-old son, Yasuhiro. Seven & I says it aims to
reach 500 billion yen in Web sales by the fiscal year ending
February 2016.  “Online has the largest growth potential,” Suzuki said.
“We have to put a lot of effort into it, or we’ll fall behind
the times.”  As for whether his son will ultimately succeed him at the
helm of Seven & I, Suzuki says only that he should “do his
thing freely” but that he doesn’t have a lock on the job.  When it’s finally time for Suzuki Sr. to move on, he said,
his goal is to give every potential successor “a chance to
prove him or herself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  