-- Achuthan Says U.S. Economy Has Faltered Since Last Recession
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-30T12:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/achuthan-says-u-s-economy-has-faltered-since-last-recession.html
U.S. economic growth has been
lacking since the last recession, said  Lakshman Achuthan , the
Economic Cycle Research Institute co-founder who maintains that
the U.S. reverted to a slump last year.  “Growth is not there,” Achuthan said, speaking on
Bloomberg Television with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. The section
of the population aged 35 to 54 “has lost almost 1 million
jobs since the recovery began,” he said.  Achuthan today reiterated his view that a recession began
last year and that data will eventually show this. In a previous
interview with Bloomberg Television on March 7 he said he was
basing his opinion on the “stall speed” in gross domestic
income in 2012, and on the weakness in indicators such as output
and income.  GDP revisions tend to be downward and can amount to as much
as 2 to 4 percentage points, he said today. He also said the
 Federal Reserve ’s actions backed his view.  You don’t have “four years of zero rates and quantitative
easing if everything is O.K.,” Achuthan, who is also chief
operations officer of the New York-based research institute,
said today. “U.S. growth in the last five years is weaker than
Japan in the lost decade.”  He also forecast that the aggregate pace of U.S. home price
gains will slow.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first
quarter of this year. Growth was held back last quarter by the
effect of cutbacks in federal  government spending  and higher
taxes that are projected to fade in the remainder of 2013,
allowing a pickup in demand that would sustain  hiring .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jana Randow at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  