-- Adoboli Loses Bid to Appeal Unauthorized Trading Sentence
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-30T11:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/adoboli-loses-bid-to-appeal-unauthorized-trading-conviction.html
Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli
lost his first attempt to appeal his conviction for causing a
$2.3 billion loss through unauthorized trading.  Permission to appeal was turned down by a London judge on
June 25, according to court records made available this week.
Adoboli is seeking a hearing to ask in person for an appeal,
which won’t happen until after Oct. 1, Michael Duncan, a
spokesman for the U.K. court system, said in an e-mail.  Adoboli was convicted in November of two counts of fraud
for causing the loss at the bank’s London unit. He argued at
trial that managers at the Swiss bank pushed him to take too
many risks and that rule-breaking at the bank was rampant. While
he admitted causing the loss, he said it wasn’t done
dishonestly. Adoboli was ordered to serve at least half of a
seven-year prison sentence.  He is serving his sentence at  Verne Prison  on the Isle of
 Portland , a small island off the south coast of Dorset,  England ,
that was once a military barracks. He has joined the choir and
taken on a volunteer role at the prison.  While the 10-member jury was unanimous in finding Adoboli
guilty of one count of fraud during the period in which the loss
was caused, jurors didn’t reach unanimous decisions on the
remaining fraud count and on four counts of false accounting.  Acquitted  He was convicted 9-1 on the second fraud charge, which
dated back to 2008, and acquitted on the false accounting
charges.  Jenna Ward, a London-based spokeswoman for UBS, declined to
immediately comment. Paul Lennon, a lawyer for Adoboli, declined
to immediately comment.  Adoboli, who worked for UBS since leaving college, was
accused of hiding the risk of his trades by booking fake hedges
and storing profits in a secret account to cover the costs of
running the bank’s exchange-traded-funds desk.  During the two-month trial, prosecutor Sasha Wass called
Adoboli arrogant, reckless and an “accomplished liar” who
“played God” with the bank’s money for the sake of his status,
ego and bonus. Lawyers for Adoboli countered that he didn’t
benefit personally from the trades and his only goal was to make
money for the bank and trading desk that he said replaced his
family.  UBS was fined 29.7 million pounds ($45.4 million) in
November by the U.K. financial regulator and told by the Swiss
watchdog it may have to increase capital levels for operational
risks after the loss from Adoboli’s trades.  At least 11 employees left the bank in the wake of the
trading loss, either through firings or resignations. That
included former Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  and the
co-heads of global equities, Yassine Bouhara and Francois Gouws.
Adoboli’s co-workers on the ETF desk --  John Hughes , Simon
Taylor and Christophe Bertrand -- all also left the bank, as did
his former managers, Ron Greenidge and John DiBacco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  