-- AECI Sees Increasing Water Chemicals Sales Propelled by Africa
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-07-30T11:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/aeci-sees-increasing-water-chemicals-sales-propelled-by-africa.html
AECI Ltd. (AFE) , South  Africa ’s biggest
chemicals and explosives manufacturer, expects sales of water-treatment chemicals to grow by more than 10 percent in 2013,
propelled by demand in sub-Saharan Africa.  “The opportunities in Africa are developing quite fast,”
Louis du Toit, managing director of AECI chemicals unit
 ImproChem (Pty) Ltd. , said in a phone interview from
Johannesburg yesterday. “We see double-digit growth on the
African Continent.”  ImproChem, a fully owned subsidiary of AECI, expects total
sales to be about 800 million rand ($81.6 million) in 2013, of
which about 500 million rand will come from water treatment, du
Toit said. About 25 percent of revenue comes from sub-Saharan
Africa, excluding South Africa.  ImproChem is expecting sales growth in Nigeria,  Ghana ,
Democratic Republic of Congo and Zambia, according to du Toit.
The company is selling chemicals to African municipalities to
treat tap water and sewage, in addition to the mining,
petrochemical, food and beverages industries. “There is enough
water available,” du Toit said. “The quality of supply is
lagging demand.”  AECI shares gained 0.3 percent to 118 rand by 1:19 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The stock has advanced 48 percent this year,
making it the eigth-best performer on the 166-member  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share Index. (JALSH)   Economic Growth  Sub-Saharan African economies are expected to grow by a
combined 5.9 percent in 2014, compared with 5.1 percent this
year, the International Monetary Fund said in a July 9 report.
This compares with a 2014 forecast of 3.3 percent in South
Africa, the continent’s biggest economy and ImproChem’s biggest
market.  AECI is planning to complete an acquisition in  Brazil  in
2013 or early next year, Chief Executive Officer Mark Dytor said
on July 24. The company is targeting acquisitions in the
chemicals industry, allowing it to broaden its revenue base and
markets. AECI acquired General Electric Co.’s  chemical and
monitoring solutions business  in South Africa and Sub-Saharan
Africa in July 2012.  “It is our strategy to grow via acquisition,” du Toit
said. “We are looking for local acquisitions in the African
continent. Should a global player come up with a possible
acquisition opportunity, we will probably be looking at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  