-- Aetna Profit Rises as Coventry Purchase Fuels Membership
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-07-30T20:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/aetna-profit-jumps-17-as-coventry-acquisition-fuels-membership.html
Aetna Inc. (AET)  said profit jumped 17
percent as the third-biggest U.S. health insurer began to see a
payoff from its acquisition of Coventry Health Care Inc. The
company raised its 2013 earnings forecast.  Net income rose to $536 million, or $1.49 a share, in the
second quarter, the Hartford, Connecticut-based carrier said in
a statement today. Earnings excluding one-time items topped
analyst estimates by 12 cents a share. Full-year profit is now
expected to be $5.80 to $5.90 a share, Aetna said. The previous
outlook was for $5.70 to $5.85.  Aetna completed its purchase of Coventry in May, part of an
effort to gear up for higher  growth  in Medicaid and Medicare,
the government insurance programs for the poor and elderly.
While that deal boosted enrollment, Aetna also benefitted from
low medical costs, mirroring better-than-estimated profit
reports turned in this month by UnitedHealth Group Inc. and
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the top two insurers.  Aetna reported “commercial and Medicaid medical costs
better than expected,” said Brian Wright, a Monness, Crespi,
Hardt & Co. analyst, in a note to clients today. “The addition
of Coventry for two months of the quarter is likely impacting
the magnitude of the increase” compared with last year.  Second-quarter revenue climbed 31 percent to $11.6 billion,
the company said. Enrollment rose 22 percent to 22 million
people.  Driven by Coventry  The quarter was “driven primarily by the Coventry
acquisition,” said Josh Raskin, a Barclays Plc analyst in  New
York , in a July 16 note to clients. “Aetna has shown very
strong results in recent quarters and Coventry’s results
similarly ran better than expected recently.”  The Coventry deal was valued at $8.7 billion when it
closed, including the assumption of $1.8 billion in debt.  Aetna’s shares declined less than 1 percent to $62.95 at
the close in New York. They have gained 36 percent this year.  UnitedHealth (UNH) , the biggest insurer, is based in  Minnetonka ,
 Minnesota , while WellPoint is based in Indianapolis.  Excluding acquisition costs, capital losses and other
items, Aetna’s earnings per share were $1.52, beating the $1.40
average of 18 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Aetna
reported earnings of $457.6 million, or $1.32, in last year’s
second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  