-- Afghan Army Can’t Go It Alone After 2014, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-30T22:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/afghan-army-can-t-go-it-alone-after-2014-pentagon-says.html
Afghanistan ’s security forces can’t
go it alone after the planned departure of U.S. combat troops at
the end of next year, the Pentagon said in its latest assessment
of the war effort.  “Substantial training, advising and assistance, including
financial support” will be needed to address “ongoing
shortages,” including the inability of Afghan security forces
to operate and sustain complex battlefield technologies, air
operations and logistics, according to the report issued
yesterday. It also cited a gap in fielding units to clear
roadside bombs, the primary killer of Afghan forces.  The report bolsters calls by top U.S. commanders for some
troops to remain in Afghanistan for years to come to train
security forces and conduct special-forces operations against
terrorists. President  Barack Obama  hasn’t decided how many
Americans should stay after next year, and the administration
hasn’t ruled out what’s called the “zero option,” removing all
troops if a long-term agreement can’t be reached in sometimes
acrimonious negotiations with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  “The insurgency remains a potent force,” although
“significantly degraded” since 2011, according to the report.  Only 28 percent of Americans say the war in Afghanistan has
been worth fighting, the least support recorded and less than
backed the war in  Iraq  at its least popular point, according to
a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted July 18 to July 21.
Results had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points.  ‘Performed Effectively’  The Pentagon’s 181-page assessment of security, economic
progress and challenges in Afghanistan, covering the six months
ended March 31, offers a largely positive assessment of trends
in turning over most security operations to Afghan forces.  The security force “has performed effectively in the
field, losing no major bases or district centers to the
insurgency and protecting the majority of the Afghan
population,” the report found. It also said insider attacks
have “declined sharply.”  Progress has been hampered by “the deeply embedded nature
of societal corruption,” the report said. In particular,
corruption within the Afghan National Security Force poses a
“major threat to the success” of the allied mission and the
“viability of the Afghan state,” according to the report.  Insurgency, Corruption  “The insurgency’s sanctuaries in  Pakistan , corruption and
the limited capacity of the Afghanistan government at the local
level will remain the biggest risks to turning security gains
into a durable and sustainable Afghanistan,” it found.  The government’s anti-corruption efforts through March 31
“have shown no substantial improvement, apart from the public
acknowledgment that large-scale corruption exists,” it said.  Pulling all U.S. troops out of Afghanistan is just one
option Obama is considering, White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said July 10.  “We’re in discussions with the Afghan government” about
options that may include a residual force after 2014, Carney
told reporters. “This is not a decision that’s imminent.”  A separate report issued yesterday by the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction also raised concerns
about the future of Afghanistan.  ‘Growing Gap’  “There appears to be a growing gap between the policy
objectives of Washington and the reality of achieving them in
Afghanistan, especially when the government must hire and
oversee contractors to perform its mission,” said John Sopko,
the inspector general.  The policy to create an effective Afghan Army, which has
185,287 troops, “will remain hollow unless  Washington  pays
equal attention to proper contracting and procurement activities
to sustain those forces,” Sopko said.  Efforts to prepare the Afghans are focused now on “the
sustainability of the force,” Peter Lavoy, the Pentagon’s
acting assistant secretary for the Asia-Pacific region, told
reporters yesterday at the Pentagon.  “Will there be some institutions, whether at the core
level or the ministerial level,” that make sure that people get
paychecks and are fed, “to make sure that fuel contracts are
developed?” he said. “These are the kind of functional skills
and capabilities that Afghans are still developing today.”  Lavoy said it will “take a period of time before they can
adequately, fully have sovereign ownership of all those skill
sets, including well beyond the 2014 date.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  