-- Afrikaners Reaping Colorado Wheat Threatened by Visa Cap
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/afrikaners-reaping-colorado-wheat-threatened-by-visa-cap.html
Albert Marais is racing against the
threat of rain. The 100-degree heat and soft wind is ideal
wheat-cutting weather, and Marais is moving fast across a
Colorado field in his  Deere & Co. (DE)  combine.  “We cut 360 acres with this one machine yesterday, that’s
a pretty good day,” said Marais, 31, working a farm east of
Aurora. “It’s flat, easy to cut out here.”  Marais and his three-man crew have come from South Africa,
following a migratory route based on harvests in each
hemisphere.  Great Plains wheat-cutting teams, once filled by U.S. farm
kids, now rely on foreigners for about one-third of the workers
who cut grain sold to Cargill Inc. and others, according to
trade group U.S. Custom Harvesters Inc. The highly skilled
itinerant workers, a little-noted component of the immigration
overhaul struggling through Congress this year, have become
essential to the nation’s  $17.9 billion  wheat crop.  “Wheat has a relatively short window to be harvested, so
you need to have enough people available at the right time,”
said Terry Kastens, a retired economics professor at Kansas
State University in  Manhattan , Kansas, who surveys combine
operators.  Proposals in both houses of Congress to impose a cap on the
number of work visas available to agricultural laborers may
leave harvesters out of luck if the quota is already filled
before they arrive for the season that begins in May.  Rural Economies  Costs would go up without the harvesters, harming rural
economies, Kastens said. One cutting crew will serve dozens of
farms, helping to keep smaller operations in business by saving
capital costs for farmers who then don’t need to buy their own
combines, he said.  Afrikaners -- South Africans of mostly European ancestry --
have a special advantage because the U.S. summer months coincide
with their winter, meaning they can harvest at home and then hit
the road. And they speak English.  They bunk with crewmates in a mobile trailer and earn a
little more than $20 an hour, hauling combines that can cost
$350,000 in semi-tractor trailers across the Plains with stops
in dozens of fields.  Work starts once the morning dew has dried and may continue
for 16 hours until nightfall makes the wheat too wet. Harvesters
work nearly continually to keep a combine moving cross-country
from farm to farm, following the fields as they mature. After
Aurora, Marais’s team was scheduled to head to Loveland, then
the Dakotas and  Kansas  to start the fall crops of sorghum,
canola, corn and peas.  Hispanic Immigration  While their numbers pale in comparison to what may be more
than one million mostly Hispanic and sometimes undocumented
immigrants in agriculture, a migrant cutter’s economic impact is
significant because of mechanization. The U.S. wheat crop was
worth almost double that of grapes, oranges and strawberries
combined in 2012, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture.   Unlike visa programs for tech workers, there’s currently no
cap on the number of visas set aside for farmworkers. That would
change under the immigration proposals pending in Congress.  South Africans are the largest contingent among the
English-speaking immigrant combiners, sending 1,122 workers to
the U.S. on H-2A visas last year, up from none 15 years earlier,
State Department figures show.  While a distant second to  Mexico ’s 61,324 visas, South
Africa outpaces Peru and  Guatemala , the next two nations on the
list of countries that provide workers under the H-2A program.
U.K., New Zealand and Australian cutters dot the crews, with
occasional harvesters from South America or Ukraine, regions
where farming can be highly mechanized.  Kansas Harvester  The wheat harvest began internationalizing in the 1990s,
when the skills required for a crew increased and the
availability of U.S. labor declined, said Jim Deibert, who
operates  JKD Harvesting Inc.,  based in Colby, Kansas.  Combines have grown more sophisticated and expensive and
longer school years have pulled U.S. students out of fields
earlier. That, and tight job markets in Plains states, have
prompted employers to turn to foreign workers, said Deibert, a
professional harvester for 42 years who started using immigrants
in 1991.  Most of his workers come through a student exchange program
with Ohio State University, though he still employs the
occasional American: “This year I have  Australia , New Zealand,
 England , Ireland -- and  Indiana . One Hoosier,” he said.  First Harvest  Marais is working with his 27-year-old brother Jannie, and
another South African on his first U.S. harvest, 29-year-old
Janus Naude. The income helps them finance their farm near
Bethlehem, South Africa, 166 miles (267 kilometers) south of
Johannesburg.  “I like  Oklahoma ,” says Jannie Marais, preparing to move
the combine to another field outside Denver. “It’s more like
back home.”  The harvesters speak English over their CB radios, in part
to reassure eavesdropping police officers (called “voet,”
meaning “foot,” in  Afrikaans  slang) who can’t understand their
language. They revert to their own language when speaking among
one another.  Most of the harvest workers come to the U.S. on temporary
H-2A visas. Employers are concerned that visa limitations
proposed in Congress may cut off their supply.  After Senate approval of a comprehensive immigration law in
June, the Republican-led U.S. House said earlier this month it
will delay consideration until this fall.  Immigration Bills  Plans to replace the H-2A program may cut into the
availability of visas for the harvesters, who all arrive around
March and April, potentially after a cap could already be
filled, said Frank Gasperini, chief executive officer of the
National Council of Agricultural Employers, a Vienna, Virginia-based trade group.  That may put the cutters at a disadvantage in a flood of
applications from workers in fresh produce who have larger
employers and more political clout because of their bigger
numbers, Gasperini said.  “If we hit the caps early in the season, then we’re frozen
out,” he said. “The cutters are really worried that the
program is going toward the needs of groups that have more
workers.”  “We’re following the rules, and we’re making the program
work as best we can for us, but the government keeps wanting to
tweak it,” Deibert said. “The guys who have been doing it
right need to be treated right.”  Rugby-team Caps  The combiners say they’ll find a way to get back for the
next harvest. Workers in Johannesburg rugby-team caps have
become part of the fabric of the Plains, where the wheat harvest
remains part of a common language, even though its accent has
changed.  “I think that without them, I might have to quit,” said
Leo Stephens, owner of Leo Stephens Harvesting based in Colby,
Kansas, and the South African crew’s U.S. boss. “I’d at least
have to cut back on my number of combines. I love having these
guys. They want to be a part of America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  