-- Magyar Telekom Sinks to Record on MSCI Concern: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-30T13:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/magyar-telekom-sinks-to-record-on-msci-concern-budapest-mover.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian
unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , fell to a record low on concern the
stock’s weighting in an index tracked by investors will be cut.  The company’s shares sank as much as 4.5 percent and traded
down 2.3 percent at 302 forint by 1:52 p.m. in Budapest, the
lowest since they were listed in 1997. The stock has slumped 11
percent in July, adding to a 6 percent drop in June and a 14
percent tumble in May.  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  is due to publish the quarterly review of its
MSCI  Hungary  Index in mid-August and a cut in the company’s
weighting may drive investment funds to sell the shares,
according to Tibor Bokor, head of telecom, media and technology
research at Wood & Company Financial Services AS. Hungarian
pharmaceutical company Gedeon Richter Nyrt., plunged the most in
four years in November when it was dropped from the gauge.  Magyar’s share price decline means “the company may be on
the edge” of being cut in the index, Bokor said by phone from
 London . “There may be some investors worrying and positioning
for that.”  Magyar Telekom lowered its guidance for earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization this year to a
9-12 percent drop from a 4-7 percent decline on June 27, citing
higher taxes and tough operating conditions at its unit in
Macedonia.  The European Commission withdrew a challenge against
Hungary’s telecommunication industry taxes at the  European Court 
of Justice, Hungarian state news agency MTI said July 23.
Hungary’s cabinet has raised a levy on phone calls and  text
messages  as part of a bid to cut the government deficit.  Four  analysts recommend  investors buy Magyar Telekom
shares, while nine have a hold rating and four say sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 