-- Al-Qaeda Backers Found With U.S. Contracts in Afghanistan
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/al-qaeda-backers-found-with-u-s-contracts-in-afghanistan.html
Supporters of the Taliban and al-Qaeda in  Afghanistan  have been getting U.S. military contracts,
and American officials are citing “due process rights” as a
reason not to cancel the agreements, according to an independent
agency monitoring spending.  The U.S. Army Suspension and Debarment Office has declined
to act in 43 such cases, John Sopko, the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, said today in a letter
accompanying a quarterly report to Congress.  “I am deeply troubled that the U.S. military can pursue,
attack, and even kill terrorists and their supporters, but that
some in the U.S. government believe we cannot prevent these same
people from receiving a government contract,” Sopko said.  The 236-page report and Sopko’s summary provide one of the
watchdog agency’s most critical appraisals of U.S. performance
in helping to build a stable Afghanistan as the Pentagon
prepares to withdraw combat troops by the end of next year.  “There appears to be a growing gap between the policy
objectives of Washington and the reality of achieving them in
Afghanistan, especially when the government must hire and
oversee contractors to perform its mission,” said Sopko, whose
post was mandated by Congress.  The Pentagon is scheduled to deliver its own Afghanistan
status report to Congress today. Its appraisal, which is months
late, will outline progress from October 2012 through March and
concerns that deal with handing over security operations to the
Afghan military.  Maintaining Oversight  The U.S. has 60,000 troops in Afghanistan, with plans to
reduce the number to 34,000 by February. President  Barack Obama 
hasn’t decided how many to keep in the country after 2014 to
train Afghan forces and engage in anti-terrorist missions.  Sopko expressed pessimism that the U.S. can maintain
effective oversight of billions of dollars in reconstruction
spending as forces are withdrawn. The Obama administration has
requested $10.7 billion in such funding for fiscal 2014 to cover
projects from improving local government to building roads and
schools.  “Unless the U.S. government improves its contract-oversight policies and practices, far too much will be wasted,”
Sopko wrote.  According to the report, Sopko’s agency “has found it
impossible to confirm” the number of contracts awarded in a $32
million program to install barricades, bars or gratings in
culverts at about 2,500 Afghan locations to prevent insurgents
from placing roadside bombs. The explosives are the biggest
killer of U.S. and Afghan troops.  ‘Hollow’ Effort  The policy to create an effective Afghan Army, which has
185,287 troops, “will remain hollow unless  Washington  pays
equal attention to proper contracting and procurement activities
to sustain those forces,” Sopko said.  He said that he is “well aware of the wartime environment
in which contractors are operating in Afghanistan, but this can
neither explain the disconnect nor excuse the failure.”  As of May 31, the U.S. had committed $30 billion for
contracts to build, train and sustain the Afghan army.  Sopko said he has witnessed the failings personally during
his first year as inspector general, including 50 meetings he
and his staff attended during his last trip to Afghanistan.  As of March, 40,315 of the personnel working under Pentagon
contracts in Afghanistan, or about 37 percent, were Afghan
locals, according to the report.  U.S. ‘Enemies’  Regarding the 43 cases of contractors with militant
connections, Sopko said the Army should “enforce the rule of
common sense” in its suspension and debarment program. “They
may be enemies of the  United States  but that is not enough to
keep them from getting government contracts,” according to the
agency’s report.  The Army’s procurement-fraud branch reviewed the 43 cases
late last year, Matthew Bourke, a service spokesman, said in a
statement. The reviewers “did not include enough supporting
evidence to initiate suspension and debarment under federal
acquisition regulations,” he said.  George Wright, another Army spokesman, said by e-mail that
cutting off the contracts based only on information from Sopko’s
office  “would fail to meet due-process requirements and would
likely be deemed arbitrary if challenged in court.”  Sopko said the Army “appears to believe that suspension or
debarment of these individuals and companies would be a
violation of their due-process rights if based on classified
information” or on Commerce Department reports.  Workshops, Training  In a report issued yesterday, Sopko said $47 million that
the U.S. Agency for International Development has spent on a
program to stabilize Afghanistan hasn’t dealt with the sources
of instability.  An audit showed that after 16 months, none of the agency’s
essential program objectives have been reached and the money
spent has mostly financed workshops and training sessions. The
project is aimed at bolstering Afghanistan’s government before
troop withdrawals planned for next year.  “It’s troubling that after 16 months, this program has not
issued its first community grant,” Sopko said. “Rather, it has
spent almost $50 million, about a quarter of the total program
budget, on conferences, overhead and workshops.”  The failure of the State Department agency to use the money
for grants has left local Afghan communities disappointed and
may feed greater instability, according to the audit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  