-- Malaysia Police Hunt Contract Killers in Bahraini Banker’s Death
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-07-30T07:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/malaysia-police-hunt-contract-killers-in-bahraini-banker-s-death.html
Malaysian police are hunting three
suspected contract killers after Hussain Ahmad Najadi, the 75-year-old founder of  AMMB Holdings Bhd. (AMM) , was shot dead in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday after a business meeting at a temple.  The Bahrain-born businessman was  gunned down  near a parking
lot outside the Kuan Yin Temple while walking with  Cheong Mei
Kuen, his 49-year-old Malaysian wife, Kuala Lumpur Police Chief
Mohmad Salleh told reporters in the capital today. They had gone
to meet someone about a property deal, he said.  Najadi pioneered business links between the Southeast Asian
nation and the Middle East, founding Arab-Malaysian Development
Bank Bhd. in 1975 with 55 percent Malaysian and 45 percent Arab
interests, according to the bank’s website. He was no longer
involved with the lender, which changed its name to AMMB in 1983
and is the country’s fifth-biggest by market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Police have “identified the shooter and another two people
who were with him through CCTV camera pictures from the temple
and surrounding area,” and have about seven witnesses, Salleh
said.  Najadi died at the scene, while his wife suffered a hand
injury and is being treated in a hospital, Salleh said. After
firing four shots, the three escaped in a taxi with a fake
license plate, he said.  Gun ownership in  Malaysia  is restricted, and holders are
required to carry licenses. Voters cited crime and social
problems as their biggest concern after the  economy  in a survey
of 1,018 people conducted in December by the Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research.  Activist, Millionaire  R. Sri Sanjeevan, the 29-year-old chairman of Malaysia’s
crime watchdog group MyWatch, is recovering in a hospital
following  surgery  to remove a bullet after being shot on July
27, the New Straits Times reported today, without citing a
motive. Sosilawati Lawiya, a cosmetics millionaire, was murdered
three years ago.  Prime Minister Najib Razak, whose coalition returned to
power with a reduced majority in May, made fighting crime a
policy priority under a government transformation program
started in 2010. The issue of serious crime will be brought up
in the next session of parliament following the recent spate of
shootings, the New Straits Times reported today, citing Najib.  AMMB Chairman Azman Hashim expressed condolences to the
family, the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Najadi “left behind a legacy of innovation which Azman
Hashim carries through,” said Johari Low Abdullah, Najadi’s
former auditor, who helped run the bank in its early days as
executive director. He was “charismatic and presented himself
well,” said Johari in a phone interview.  AMMB was unchanged in Kuala Lumpur trading at 7.94 ringgit
at 2:42 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  