-- Alcatel-Lucent Beats Estimates as Qualcomm to Buy Stake
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-07-30T15:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/alcatel-lucent-loss-widens-on-impairment-costs.html
Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU) , under new Chief
Executive Officer Michel Combes, beat analysts’ estimates as
cost cuts took hold and said Qualcomm Inc. agreed to buy a
minority stake. The stock reached a 16-month high in Paris.  The second-quarter operating profit, excluding
reorganization and impairment costs, was 24 million euros ($32
million), as sales rose 1.9 percent to 3.61 billion euros, the
Paris-based network-equipment maker said today. Analysts had
 predicted  a loss and a revenue decline.  Combes will have to deal with job cuts and asset sales in
the coming months to further his reorganization efforts at the
company, which has lost more than $10 billion since it was
created through a 2006 merger. The 51-year-old Frenchman is in
talks with more potential research partners which could, like
 Qualcomm (QCOM) , become Alcatel shareholders.  “Good progress has been made in the implementation of the
turnaround plan,” Combes said on a conference call. “A new
organization is in place, we’ve accelerated on cost savings, and
the announcement with Qualcomm shows we’re moving ahead with
technology partners like we said we would.”  The company is seeking three to five partners to buy a
combined stake of a little more than 5 percent, Combes said. He
said Qualcomm will invest well below 5 percent as part of a
joint research program to develop so-called small-cell base
stations for locations such as university campuses and malls.  ‘Good’ Earnings  The  stock  rose 14 percent to close at 1.83 euros in the
French capital, the highest price since March 2012, valuing the
company at 4.3 billion euros. It has more than doubled since
hitting a 23-year low in October.  “The earnings are good,” said Eric Beaudet, an analyst at
Natixis Securities in Paris. “Ebit is positive and better than
the consensus.”  The operating profit compares with a loss of 85 million
euros a year earlier and a loss of 202 million euros in the
preceding quarter. Net loss widened to 885 million euros from
396 million euros a year earlier. Alcatel had a 552 million-euro
impairment expense and a 194 million-euro restructuring charge.
Analysts  projected  a net loss of 280 million euros on sales of
3.48 billion euros, according to the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Since the 2006 merger, CEOs have tried to restructure
Alcatel by slashing costs and selling assets while the company
struggled to compete against  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Huawei Technologies
Co. In December, the company pledged its patents and some other
assets to get financing.  Cash Burn  In his first statements as CEO, Combes stressed the company
doesn’t have much time and has to take drastic measures.  Combes, who took over on April 1 from Ben Verwaayen, has
promised positive free cash flow and a tighter focus on the
company’s most lucrative businesses once his three-year plan to
refocus innovation budgets, cut costs and sell assets is fully
executed.  Alcatel consumed 248 million euros in free cash flow in the
second quarter. The company in the past six years has used 700
million euros of cash on average every year.  “Alcatel managed a good performance in IP and optics,
which translated into sales growth and better than expected
gross margin,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst for Exane BNP
Paribas in Paris. “This good news makes up for the poor cash
performance. I expect the boost to the shares will continue.”  Plans to sell 1 billion euros of assets and cut costs by
another 1 billion euros, detailed on June 19 by Combes, boosted
the share price by as much as 7.4 percent that day.  Asian Competition  Combes, a former  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  executive, has started
renegotiating part of Alcatel’s  debt  and plans to meet with
union representatives in the coming weeks to discuss what effect
his reorganization may have on the company’s 72,000 workforce.  Alcatel and its European competitors are battling intense
competition from Asian players such as Huawei,  China ’s largest
network-gear maker, which has said it will hire more in Europe
and is ready to outspend market leader Ericsson in research and
development.  Ericsson, the largest maker of wireless-network equipment,
on July 18 posted sales that missed estimates as competition
with Huawei for contracts to build and service phone systems
intensified. Huawei posted an 11 percent gain in first-half
sales as a push into mobile devices helped expand its lead in
total revenue over Ericsson.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  this month agreed to buy  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s share in
their six-year venture Nokia Siemens Networks for 1.7 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  