-- Half of Sleeping TSA Workers Get Little Punishment: GAO
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-07-31T15:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/half-of-sleeping-tsa-workers-get-little-punishment-gao.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  isn’t consistent in disciplining workers accused
of misconduct, penalizing some with little evidence while not
imposing minimum sanctions on others, an audit concluded.  Half of workers accused of sleeping on the job received
less than the lowest penalty called for by agency policies, the
 Government Accountability Office said  in a report released
yesterday. A House Homeland Security subcommittee is holding a
hearing today on how the agency disciplines employees.  TSA agents were accused of taking bribes from drug
traffickers in  Los Angeles  last year. Another officer, later
fired, was  shown on ABC News  denying he had a stolen iPad when
its alarm was beeping inside his house. As of last September,
the agency had fired 381 employees for stealing since 2003.  “With countless TSA misconduct cases spread throughout the
country, confidence in airport security is quickly waning,”
Representative Jeff Duncan, chairman of the subcommittee, said
at today’s hearing. “Stop with the napping, the stealing, the
tardiness and the disrespect. Earn Americans’ trust and
confidence.”  The agency has stopped short of suspending or firing agents
caught sleeping, said Duncan, a South Carolina Republican. TSA
has also limited punishment of some officers accused of stealing
to a letter of reprimand, he said.  The agency isn’t reviewing some cases of alleged serious
misconduct, including allowing people to bypass screening, the
GAO said.  Cases Overturned  TSA handles its workforce according to the highest ethical
standards, John Halinski, the agency’s deputy administrator,
said at the hearing.  “We do have people who will do stupid things,” Halinski
said. “When they do, we will hold them accountable.”  TSA has processed 56 cases alleging theft since 2010, the
GAO said. That included a 2011 incident involving a screener at
Orlando International Airport who pleaded guilty to stealing
more than 80 laptops and other electronic devices valued at
$80,000, the agency said.  From 2011 through June, TSA’s appeals board reduced or
overturned 125 of 836 disciplinary cases because charges hadn’t
been proven by preponderance of the evidence. In 34 of those
cases, the agency’s adjudicating officer hadn’t considered
mitigating factors, the GAO said.  TSA Probes  About one-third of allegations made against TSA employees
in 9,622 cases investigated between 2010 and 2012 involved
attendance and leave issues, such as unexcused absences or
tardiness, the GAO said. There were 426 cases of neglect of duty
and 384 cases of ethical violations like bribery or credit-card
abuse.  The TSA is working to implement the GAO’s recommendations,
which include better tracking outcomes of discipline cases and
ensuring policies are applied consistently, said Halinski, the
deputy administrator.  Individuals are fired immediately in cases where TSA can
prove that person is stealing, taking drugs or breaching
security intentionally, Halinski said. If the proof isn’t there
immediately, the agency follows due process and investigates, he
said.  More than a decade into its history, TSA isn’t ensuring
employee misconduct cases are being handled fairly, said
Representative Bennie Thompson, a Mississippi Democrat.  “Failing to do so leaves TSA vulnerable to claims that
punishment for misconduct could be tainted by influences beyond
the facts,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  