-- American Capital Rises After Mortgage REIT Minimizes Losses
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-07-30T21:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/american-capital-agency-rises-as-mortgage-reit-minimizes-losses.html
American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the
 second-largest  real estate investment trust that buys mortgage
debt, jumped 5.7 percent after reporting a smaller drop in its
book value than some analysts estimated.  The REIT  climbed  to $23.09 as of 4:30 p.m. in New York,
after earlier reaching $23.34. Shares of the Bethesda, Maryland-based firm had  declined  31 percent from the end of April through
yesterday, including reinvested dividends, as speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its debt buying roiled the
market for government-backed home-loan bonds.  The company, led by Chief Investment Officer Gary Kain,
suffered a 12 percent drop in its book value, a measure of its
assets minus its liabilities, during the  second quarter  to
$25.51 a share, it said in a statement yesterday after the close
of regular trading in  New York . That’s less than the decline to
$23.44 estimated by Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.  Kain said today that he added hedges against rising
interest rates, sold down holdings and shifted the firm’s
investments into less-risky assets, such as 15-year agency
mortgage securities, rather than 30-year debt.  “I would be very, very uncomfortable walking into a week
like this” with larger potential losses from increasing rates,
Kain said on a conference call with analysts and investors.  Fed policy makers are meeting today and tomorrow, and
economic data scheduled to be released later this week include
information on second-quarter U.S. growth and July employment.  ‘Off Base’  American Capital Agency’s greater defensiveness pushed down
its net interest-rate spread to 1.59 percent on June 30, from
1.71 percent on March 31, the company said. That represents the
difference between the yields on its assets after hedging, and
borrowing costs.  It’d be “off base” to consider the recent slump in REITs
that use mainly borrowed money to buy agency mortgage securities
as showing the strategy is flawed, Kain said. Even amid a
“really bad” period recently, net changes in American Capital
Agency’s book value and its dividends produced a 3.1 percent
return to investors in the 12 months through June, he said.  “The current environment proves that the agency REIT model
is in fact durable,” said Kain, whose firm disclosed that it
ended last week with assets that were eight times its equity.  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the largest mortgage REIT,
rose 0.9 percent today to $12.01 a share, after falling 23
percent from the end of April through yesterday. The New York-based company hasn’t disclosed when it plans to announce second-quarter earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  