-- Amgen Sales Top Analysts’ Estimate on Growth of Key Drugs
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-30T21:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/amgen-sales-top-analysts-estimate-on-growth-of-key-drugs.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company by revenue, reported second-quarter sales
that beat analysts’ estimates on growth of top medicines and a
one-time boost from a drug reimbursement adjustment.  Revenue increased 4.5 percent to $4.68 billion from $4.48
billion in the same period a year earlier,  Thousand Oaks ,
California-based Amgen said today in a statement. Twenty
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg averaged $4.49
billion. Profit, excluding some one-time items, was $1.89 a
share while analysts had estimated $1.74.  Investors are paying close attention to Amgen’s ability to
increase sales as some of the company’s top-selling drugs may
face competition from cheaper versions called biosimilars in the
next few years, said  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets . Amgen also is developing new products and trying to
expand its business outside the U.S. as it seeks new revenue.
Sales in the quarter included an extra $185 million from an
adjustment to Medicaid rebates, the company said.  “Amgen just reported a good quarter,”  Mark Schoenebaum ,
an analyst with ISI Group, wrote today in a note to clients.
“The ‘print’ indicates a blow-out, but there is one-time
revenue boost from a Medicaid adjustment that explains virtually
all of the revenue ‘beat.’”  Amgen declined 2 percent to $109 at 4:48 p.m.  New York  time
in extended trading after closing at $111.20. The shares
increased 29 percent this year through the close today.  Forecast Raised  Amgen raised its 2013 forecast, saying it expects total
revenue for the year to be at the upper end of $17.8 billion to
$18.2 billion, and for earnings excluding certain items to be
$7.30 a share to $7.45 a share. The company had previously
forecast earnings of $7.05 to $7.35 a share.  Net income  in the second quarter declined less than 1
percent to $1.26 billion, or $1.65 a share, the company said.
Amgen is spending more on research and development as it moves
experimental programs into later stages of testing, RBC’s Yee
said today in an interview before the results were released.  Sales of top drugs Enbrel, for rheumatoid arthritis, and
Neulasta, for patients taking chemotherapy, increased 9 percent
and 10 percent in the quarter, respectively, Amgen said.  “People will be looking at the top line as a very
important gauge,” Ravi Mehrotra, an analyst with  Credit Suisse (CSGN) ,
said in a telephone interview today before the results were
released. “But the street will also be looking for a grasp on
where the company gets its long-term growth.”  Amgen made an unsolicited offer to buy  Onyx Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (ONXX)  last month for $120 a share, Onyx said. That would value
the South San Francisco-based company at about $10 billion. Onyx
rejected the offer and said it’s working with advisers on
finding other bidders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  