-- MAN SE Profit Tumbles as European Truck Demand Declines
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-07-30T08:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/man-se-profit-tumbles-as-european-truck-demand-declines.html
MAN SE (MAN) , Europe’s third-largest maker
of commercial vehicles, reported a 67 percent plunge in second-quarter profit, burdened by extra costs for a power-plant
project and declining demand for trucks in the region.  Operating profit fell to 72 million euros ($95 million)
from 219 million euros a year earlier, the Munich-based company
said today in a statement. Revenue rose 3.6 percent to 3.99
billion euros, while orders increased 0.6 percent.  “For the time being, the environment remains difficult,”
Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said in the
statement. “Much will depend on how quickly the global economy
recovers from the uncertainties triggered by the euro crisis.”  MAN, a unit of Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , has scaled back production as companies hold off on vehicle
purchases amid recessions in Europe. Measures to protect
earnings have included reducing work shifts, cutting costs and
streamlining procurement.  New registrations of trucks above 3.5 tons declined 11.5
percent in Europe in the first six months of the year to 132,900
vehicles, industry association ACEA said on July 26. Signs that
the economy of the 17 nations sharing the euro may be recovering
include an increase in the Ifo institute’s business climate
index in  Germany  and an unexpected expansion in manufacturing in
the euro area.  ‘Pronounced’ Decline  MAN forecast full-year revenue on last year’s level and a
“very pronounced” decline in operating profit for this year.
It said it didn’t expect a “significant” recovery in the
European economy in 2013. The company reported a net loss of 43
million euros in the second quarter, narrower than the 91
million-euro deficit a year ago.  “MAN didn’t say it expects business to pick up in the
second half of the year,” in contrast to competitors including
Daimler AG and  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Commerzbank AG. The subdued outlook could be related
to some MAN investors seeking a higher price from VW, he said.  MAN  fell  as much as 27 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 85.43
euros and was down 17 cents at 10:03 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.
The shares have gained 5.9 percent this year, valuing the
company at 12.6 billion euros.  Boosting efficiency at MAN is vital for VW’s strategy of
pushing cooperation between the German truckmaker and the car
producer’s Scania commercial-vehicle division in  Sweden .  VW Offer  VW has made a low-ball initial offer to other holders of
MAN stock as part of its bid for full control. The carmaker
already owns 75.03 percent of MAN’s voting rights. It’s bidding
80.89 euros a share after a profit-transfer and domination
agreement took effect earlier this month. Investors who don’t
accept the cash offer will receive a guaranteed annual dividend
of 3.07 euros a share.  Volkswagen rearranged its truck operations’ management last
year after a six-year effort to get MAN and Soedertaelje-based
 Scania (SCVB)  to work together. Leif Oestling was promoted from his
post as chief executive officer of Scania to join VW’s
management board to help forge the alliance.  Cooperation between MAN and Scania has begun with joint
purchases of raw materials, and the cost reductions are expected
to help earnings in coming quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  