-- Man. United Eyes Modric After Missing Out on Targets: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-30T10:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/man-united-eyes-modric-after-missing-out-on-targets-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Change of Plans  Manchester United is preparing a 25 million-pound ($38
million) bid for Real Madrid midfielder Luka Modric after
realizing it’s unlikely to secure its original transfer targets,
the  Times said .  New manager  David Moyes  wanted a major signing such as
Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale or Cesc Fabregas but has become
frustrated after inquiries on all three fronts were rebuffed,
the Times reported.  Reluctant Levy  Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  will reluctantly let Bale
join Real Madrid if the Spanish club offers a world record 85
million pounds, plus another player, the  Daily Mail  said.  Levy changed his stance that Bale wasn’t for sale after the
Welshman decided on Spurs’ preseason trip to Asia he wanted to
move to Madrid, the Mail said. Levy will demand the money up
front, with defender Fabio Coentrao or winger Angel di Maria
being offered as part of the package, the newspaper said.  No Deal  Chelsea won’t entertain any bids for  David Luiz , even as
 Bayern Munich  contemplates a 34.5 million-pound offer for the
defender, the  Telegraph  said.  Luiz is not seeking a move, but if he were to be sold he’d
prefer to leave England, the Telegraph said. Barcelona is his
preferred choice, but he wouldn’t balk at Bayern, the newspaper
added.  Willing to Wait  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  won’t increase the club’s 40
million-pound offer for Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  and is
prepared wait to the end of the transfer period, the  Daily
Mirror  said.  The deal hinges on the 40 million-pound clause in Suarez’s
contract that his advisers are adamant allows him to leave
Anfield, the Mirror said.  Coming Back?  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  is desperate to bring Didier Drogba back to Stamford Bridge as a player or coach, the  Daily
Express  said.  Drogba, 35, has a year left on his contract with Turkish
club Galatasaray and Mourinho has hinted he’d love to reunite
with the striker, who spent eight seasons at Chelsea, the
Express said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  