-- Manning’s Crime: Stealing the Dirty Secrets of War
-- B y   T i m   W e i n e r
-- 2013-07-30T23:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/manning-s-crime-stealing-the-dirty-secrets-of-war.html
A military judge did the right thing
-- amazingly -- by acquitting Pfc. Bradley Manning on the charge
of aiding the enemy in the biggest leak of classified documents
in U.S. history.  The charge -- traditionally punishable by death or life in
solitary -- had been hammered home by Manning’s prosecutor. “He
was a traitor,” said Maj. Ashden Fein, “a traitor who
understood the value of compromised information in the hands of
the enemy and took deliberate steps to ensure that they, along
with the world, received it.”  No, Manning wasn’t a traitor. Nor was he a spy, though the
judge convicted him of violating the Espionage Act of 1917, a
law more commonly used to repress radical speech than to jail
secret agents. Like Daniel Ellsberg of the Pentagon Papers fame
and Edward Snowden of the National Security Agency’s military-intelligence complex, he was given the power to see deep inside
a secret world.  He found it terrifying, thrilling, mind-bending. Like them,
he decided the U.S. and the world would be a better place if the
secrets were spilled. He decided to lift the hood of history and
tinker with the engine.  At the  time  he began leaking the information, in 2010, he
was in a state of psychological and emotional crisis, wrestling
with his gender identity and his rage. Judging by his computer
chats, he found unleashing classified information liberating.
But he knew he could face execution for what he was about to do.  Security Breach  Manning was 19 when he decided to follow in the footsteps
of his father, a U.S. Navy intelligence analyst, in seeking a
military career. A tiny kid, openly gay in the days of “don’t
ask, don’t tell,” he barely made it through the U.S. Army’s
basic training in 2007. He was set to be discharged six weeks
after enlisting. But the Army took him back, sent him to its
best intelligence school, gave him a “Top Secret/Sensitive
Compartmented Information” security clearance, and shipped him
to a base outside Baghdad in 2009.  Big mistake. Manning should never have been given the keys
to the secret kingdom.  Nearly 1.2 million Americans  now hold  “Top Secret”
clearances, according to the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence. A clearance for “Sensitive Compartmented
Information” is above Top Secret; the compartments are lock
boxes opened by classified code words corresponding to thousands
of secret military and intelligence programs costing tens of
billions of dollars.  That a lowly soldier had security clearances sufficient to
snatch files about detainees at Cuba’s Guantanamo Bay camp, half
a million military field reports from Iraq and  Afghanistan , and
a quarter of a million diplomatic cables from the State
Department remains one of the more staggering facts of the case.  Manning first gave fame to WikiLeaks and the vainglorious
Julian Assange by leaking video shot from a U.S. Apache
helicopter in  Baghdad . In 2007, the chopper fired on a group of
Reuters journalists and a van of civilians, including children.
The gunner evidently mistook a video camera for a weapon. It is
soul-searing to see innocent people die. But that’s what war
looks like. Manning evidently found it so horrifying that he set
about leaking everything he could.  Manning told the military court that he wanted his leaks
“to start a public debate of the wars.” He wrote online to the
man who turned him in -- a man convicted in 2004 of hacking the
New York Times -- of his hope that they would spark “worldwide
discussion, debates and reforms.” In a few places, they likely
did. The people of Tunisia were unhappy to learn that the
profligate ruling family flew in a crate of ice cream from St.
Tropez for a sumptuous dinner with the U.S. ambassador. Soon,
the crooked dictator was gone.  Unprecedented Leaks  The State Department cables are the most interesting
material Manning leaked. Significantly, few are stamped
“secret.” They show U.S. diplomats trying to accomplish good
things in the name of the U.S. These people do hard jobs in
dangerous places and they report fascinating information; they
write well, too.  Manning knew that stealing these files was a crime; his
sentencing, which will take weeks, will likely be severe. By
volume, there never has been a leak like this: The Pentagon
Papers, a secret history of the U.S.’s role in  Vietnam  from 1945
to 1967, ran 7,000 pages; Manning copied more than 700,000
documents.  Stealing the files was illegal, but reading them is not --
not in this country. Not yet. The question is whether reading
the information they contain could damage the national security
of the U.S.  I think not. It is no secret that Guantanamo is a blot on
the honor of the country, or that innocent civilians are killed
in war, or that U.S. diplomats dine with dictators, albeit with
a long spoon.  What the files reveal is a slice of what life during
wartime was like under Presidents  Barack Obama  and George W. Bush. And understanding what war is, and what it does to people,
is dangerous knowledge.  When the Pentagon Papers were first leaked to the New York
Times, White House chief of staff H.R. Haldeman shared a
fascinating insight with President Richard Nixon. Haldeman had
been talking about the papers with another Nixon aide -- Donald
Rumsfeld -- who had said that “to the ordinary guy, all this is
a bunch of gobbledygook.”  “But out of the gobbledygook comes a very clear thing,”
Haldeman told Nixon. “You can’t trust the government. You can’t
believe what they say. And you can’t rely on their judgment. And
the implicit infallibility of presidents, which has been an
accepted thing in America, is badly hurt by this, because it
shows that people do things the President wants to do even
though it’s wrong, and the President can be wrong.”  (Tim Weiner, a former national security correspondent for
the  New York  Times, is the author, most recently, of “ Enemies:
A History of the FBI .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Weiner at  tiwein@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 