-- Cubist Buys Trius, Optimer for New Hospital Antibiotics
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-31T20:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/antibiotic-maker-cubist-buys-trius-optimer-for-hospital-drugs.html
Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST)  agreed
to buy  Trius Therapeutics Inc. (TSRX)  and  Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) 
for as much as $1.62 billion, gaining approved and experimental
antibiotics for its roster of medicines.  Cubist will acquire San Diego-based Trius for $13.50 a
share or about $707 million in cash, a premium of 15 percent
over yesterday’s closing price. Trius shareholders also will get
a contingent value right of as much as $2 for each share they
own for sales milestones, bringing the value of the deal to as
much as $818 million, the companies said in a statement.  The company also announced it agreed to purchase Jersey
City, New Jersey-based Optimer for $10.75 a share, or $535
million in cash. Cubist will give each Optimer shareholder a
contingent value right of as much as $5 for each share, based on
sales of Dificid, Optimer’s top product, raising the value of
the purchase to $801 million, the companies said.  Cubist, with revenue of $926.4 million in 2012, specializes
in antibiotics used to treat drug-resistant infections acquired
in hospitals. Chief Executive Officer Michael Bonney said the
acquisitions will help the company attain its goal of $2 billion
in revenue by 2017. If all its products are approved, Cubist may
provide four of the 10 new antibiotics the Infectious Diseases
Society of America has said the world will need by 2020, Bonney
said yesterday in a conference call with analysts.  “Each of these acquisitions is significant and valuable in
its own right,” Bonney said. “The stars just happened to align
in such a way we can do both.”  Cubist  gained  9.4 percent to $62.33 at the close in New
York, it’s highest price since September 2000.  Drug Acquisitions  With the purchases, Cubist gets Dificid, approved to combat
a diarrhea-causing infection commonly acquired in hospitals, and
Trius’s tedizolid phosphate, a medicine in late-stage trials
intended to treat staph infections resistant to the common
antibiotic methicillin. Dificid gained FDA approval in May 2011
as the first new antibiotic approved in 25 years for treatment
of infections by the bacteria clostridium difficile. Optimer
reported 2012 sales of $62.4 million for the drug.  Optimer’s  shares  fell 5.9 percent to $12.51. The purchase,
if Dificid sales goals are met, would provide a premium of as
much as 19 percent to yesterday’s closing price with the maximum
contingent value right. Trius gained 20 percent today to $14.10,
the biggest single-day increase since its shares were first sold
to the public in August 2010.  “Given Cubist’s outstanding hospital-based commercial
infrastructure and our first-hand experience co-promoting
Dificid in the U.S., we are uniquely positioned to maximize
Dificid’s full potential for the benefits of patients, hospitals
and our shareholders,” Bonney said in a statement.  ‘Strategic Fit’  Trius, he said, “is a tremendous strategic fit with
Cubist” and its experimental drug “has the potential to be an
important new tool in the infectious disease community’s battle
against resistant infections caused by MRSA.”  The two drugs are expected to eventually generate sales of
$600 million to $1 billion a year, Bonney said during the
conference call, and should add to Cubist’s profits beginning in
2015. The company will mostly use  cash  for the acquisitions --it
had $1 billion at the end of the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg -- and “will seek additional
financing” including debt, Michael Tomsicek, Cubist’s chief
financial officer, said on the conference call.  Cubist’s  top-selling drug  is Cubicin, used to combat
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA. The
medicine had sales of $859.7 million in 2012, generating about
93 percent of the company’s revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  