-- Marathon Hires JPMorgan’s Gold to Boost Emerging-Market Trading
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-30T14:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/marathon-hires-jpmorgan-s-gold-to-boost-emerging-market-trading.html
Marathon Asset Management LP, a
hedge-fund operator that oversees more than $10.5 billion of
assets, hired  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co.’s Jason Gold as it bolsters
its  emerging-markets  trading effort.  Gold, who focused on Latin American sovereign debt as a
senior trader at JPMorgan, will join Marathon in September,
according to Andrew Rabinowitz, the company’s chief operating
officer. Gold will be a senior trader based in New York and
report to Gabriel Szpigiel, a partner and senior portfolio
manager, Rabinowitz said.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment. Gold couldn’t be reached for comment.  Marathon was founded in 1998 and specializes in global
credit, including high-yield, bank, distressed and emerging-market bonds, along with structured finance, debt transactions
and real estate. JPMorgan is the second-most-active underwriter
of Latin American overseas bonds this year, managing about $7.5
billion in offerings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The volume of dollar-denominated debt from emerging-market
countries such as Russia, Mexico and  Brazil  has swelled by 69
percent since 2008 to $444.2 billion outstanding, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Emerging Markets External
Debt Sovereign Index.  The index has declined 6.4 percent this year after
returning 77 percent in the four years after 2008, as central
banks globally suppressed borrowing costs through bond purchases
to ignite economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net 
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ; 