-- Astra International Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Higher Costs
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-07-30T11:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/astra-international-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-higher-costs.html
PT Astra International (ASII) ,  Indonesia ’s
biggest automotive retailer, said second-quarter net income fell
10 percent from a year earlier as higher costs eroded profit
margins amid continued declines in commodity prices.  Net income in the three months to June 30 slipped to 4.51
trillion rupiah ($438 million) from 5.03 trillion rupiah a year
earlier. Sales fell to 47.60 trillion rupiah from 49.57 trillion
rupiah. The earnings were derived by subtracting first-quarter
figures from first-half results which Astra announced today.  The results reflect weaker revenues from the coal and palm
oil units of Indonesia’s most valuable company, at a time of
increased competition. Astra’s profit is headed for its  slowest
growth  in seven years, according to the median of analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “On the automotive side, profit margins are coming under
pressure as competition forces Astra to boost promotion spending
to maintain market share,” Leonardo Henry Gavaza, a Jakarta-based analyst at PT Bahana Securities, said before the earnings
were announced. “Fuel prices have gone up and in a few months
we will see its impact on lower car sales.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  raised subsidized fuel
prices in June for the first time since 2008, leading the
central bank to expect inflation to accelerate above 8 percent
in July, from 5.9 percent in June. Faster gains in consumer
prices may prompt  Bank Indonesia  to tighten liquidity, making it
harder for car buyers to take up loans, Gavaza said. The central
bank on July 11 raised its benchmark  interest rate  by a more-than-expected 50 basis points to 6.5 percent.  Astra’s selling expenses in the first half of the year rose
8 percent to 4 trillion rupiah, while general and administrative
expenses rose 10 percent to 4.66 trillion rupiah, the company
said in the results statement.  New Competition  Astra, which sells  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  cars and Honda Motor
Co. motorcycles, must also fend off rivals including newcomer
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  India’s biggest automaker said on July 8 it
plans to start selling cars in Indonesia in two months. Business
may slow down this year, Astra’s President Director Prijono
Sugiarto said on May 1.  Astra’s full-year net income will probably rise to 19.46
trillion rupiah from 19.42 trillion rupiah in 2012, the slowest
growth since 2006, according to the median estimate of 24
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The shares, which have fallen 15
percent this year, gained 2.4 percent today ahead of the results
to close at 6,450 rupiah.  Indonesia’s January to June domestic automotive sales rose
12 percent from a year earlier to 601,952 units while motorcycle
sales climbed 0.6 percent to 3.92 million units. About half of
cars and motorcycles in Indonesia are sold by Astra.  The company also owns 59.5 percent of  PT United Tractors (UNTR) ,
the nation’s biggest heavy equipment seller, whose businesses
include mining contracting and coal mining. Astra owns 79.7
percent of Indonesia’s largest publicly listed palm oil company,
 PT Astra Agro Lestari. (AALI)  Both units reported yesterday a 25
percent drop in their first-half revenue.  Thermal coal at Australia’s Newcastle port, the benchmark
grade for  Asia , dropped 15 percent this year to $77.10 in the
week ended July 26, according to IHS McCloskey, a provider of
coal data. Palm oil futures in  Kuala Lumpur  have lost 11 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Chatterjee at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net  