-- Australia Needs Overseas Capital in Agriculture, Minister Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-07-30T03:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/australia-needs-overseas-capital-in-agriculture-minister-says.html
Australia , the third-biggest wheat
exporter, should welcome overseas investment in its agricultural
industries to improve infrastructure and efficiency as Asian
food demand climbs, said Agriculture Minister Joel Fitzgibbon.  “If we really want to capitalize on the opportunities that
Asia offers to us, we will need a lot of capital,” Fitzgibbon
told an agricultural conference in Melbourne today. “If we want
to grow, improve our infrastructure, improve our efficiency, we
will need foreign investment.”  Companies including Glencore Xstrata Plc and Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. are targeting agricultural assets in
Australia, betting on stronger demand from Asia as living
standards rise. Indonesia will top Egypt as the largest wheat
buyer in five to 10 years,  Warren Hogan , chief economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., told the gathering.  “We cannot hope to be the main provider of food for the
growing middle class of Asia, to China, without a significant
level of additional investment,” Fitzgibbon said. “Much of
that investment will need to come from foreign sources.”  Australia’s opposition leader  Tony Abbott  last year
proposed tougher guidelines on overseas ownership of farmland,
including a register of holdings. Australia’s ruling Labor party
and Abbott’s Liberal-National opposition are split 50-50 on a
two-party preferred basis, according to the latest Galaxy poll.
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  must call an election this year.  ADM, based in Decatur, Illinois, agreed earlier this year
to acquire  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , eastern Australia’s largest grain
handler. The deal is subject to approval from Australia’s
Foreign Investment Review Board and China’s Ministry of Commerce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  