-- Lawyer Made Light of Sandusky Probe, Witness Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-30T17:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/lawyer-made-light-of-sandusky-probe-witness-says.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State University
General Counsel Cynthia Baldwin brushed aside concerns about a
grand jury investigation into former football coach Jerry Sandusky in early 2011 calling it a “fishing expedition,” the
school’s communications director said.  In a March 2011 conversation, Baldwin told Lisa Powers,
 Penn State ’s spokeswoman, that it was the fourth time a grand
jury had convened to investigate Sandusky and the school
and there was no evidence of wrongdoing, Powers testified today
in state court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “She said there was nothing to talk about and it was a
fishing expedition,” Powers said of the telephone conversation.
“She said we have nothing to say because there were no findings
yet.”  Powers testified at a hearing over charges against former
Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and two other officials over
their role in an alleged cover-up of accusations against
Sandusky, a former football defensive coordinator. Sandusky was
convicted in June 2012 and sentenced in October to at least 30
years in prison for sexually molesting 10 boys over 15 years.  Denied Wrongdoing  Magisterial District Court Judge William Wenner must decide
whether there is enough evidence to order Spanier, former
athletic director Timothy Curley and retired vice president  Gary Schultz  to trial on charges including endangering the welfare of
children, perjury and conspiracy. Spanier, Curley and Schultz
have all denied wrongdoing in the case, which is based in part
on their grand jury testimony and e-mails and documents dating
back to 1998.  Legal wrangling stalled the case against the former school
officials as defense attorneys argued the grand jury report
should be tossed because of issues with Baldwin’s alleged legal
representation. The men argued that they were led to believe
Baldwin represented them when they testified before a grand
jury. Baldwin later became a perjury witness against them.
Baldwin, a former state  Supreme Court  justice, stepped down from
the interim post at Penn State in June 2012.  Prosecutors also read into the court record Spanier’s April
2011 grand jury testimony in which he denied any knowledge of a
1998 allegation against Sandusky. Documents recovered by
prosecutors contradict that assertion as Spanier is copied on e-mails between Schultz and Curley in May and June of 1998.  The cases are Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Spanier, MJ-12303-CR-0000419-2012, Magisterial District Judge 12-3-03;
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Curley, CP-22-MD-1385-2012,
Common Pleas Court of Dauphin County; Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania v. Schultz, CP-22-MD-1386-2012, Common Pleas Court
of Dauphin County (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  