-- Maxwell’s Goes Dark as Hoboken Bar Where Nirvana Played Ends Run
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/maxwell-s-goes-dark-as-hoboken-bar-where-nirvana-played-ends-run.html
James Mastro, guitarist for the  rock
band  the Bongos, had just graduated from high school when he 
heard about a corner bar in Hoboken that was luring musicians to
the square-mile New Jersey city west of the  Hudson River .  Mastro came to Hoboken in the early 1980s and joined the
Bongos, the group that evolved from ‘a,’ the first band to play
at Maxwell’s. He even lived above the venue at 11th and
Washington Street for two years when he first moved there from
northwest New Jersey.  “It was definitely kind of what drew me to the town,”
Mastro, 53, said in an interview from The Guitar Bar, a Hoboken
music-repair shop he owns. “In a weird way, it was easier to
tell my parents I was moving to Hoboken than to  New York .”  After 35 years of hosting bands in its 200-capacity back
room, Maxwell’s, an icon of the New York-area music scene,
closes its doors tomorrow. As Hoboken evolved from a working-class neighborhood to a haven for musicians to a home for bar-hopping Wall Street professionals, club co-owner Todd Abramson
said the new residents weren’t as interested in seeing concerts
at Maxwell’s.  Hoboken’s parking regulations geared toward residents, a
hassle for customers as well as band members, also played a part
in the decision to close, Abramson said. And after more and more
clubs opened to serve the city’s growing 20-something crowd, the
bar scene came to resemble spring break in  Florida , and “that’s
a turnoff for some people,” he said.  Rock Scene  “I just felt long-term that this business was getting more
and more difficult to operate in Hoboken,” Abramson said.  The club goes the way of other venerable New York City-area
rock venues that have closed, including CBGB, the Mudd Club and
Max’s  Kansas City . CBGB, which beckoned generations of punks on
the Bowery with its graffiti-covered white awning, is now a John
Varvatos clothing store.  Maxwell’s opened in 1978 in a former shot-and-beer joint
that catered to workers in the nearby Maxwell House coffee
factory. Over the years, it hosted bands such as R.E.M.,
Nirvana, the Replacements and  New Jersey  natives the Feelies.
Parts of Bruce Springsteen’s “Glory Days” music video were
filmed there in 1985. In the 1990s, Maxwell’s was named the
“Best Club in New York -- Even Though It’s in New Jersey” by
the New Yorker magazine.  “It was just a great little club,” Mastro said. “If you
saw someone walking around town in a leather jacket, you knew
you’d see them later in Maxwell’s because there weren’t too many
people dressing like that around here.”  Hanukkah Gigs  Yo La Tengo, an independent rock band formed in Hoboken,
became known for staging Hanukkah shows there annually for nine
years. Ira Kaplan, singer and founding member of the band, said
the club was known as a place where performers were treated well
and music came first.  “Maxwell’s was less about trying to make a scene, and it
was just a place to hear great music,” said Kaplan, 56. “It
had the feeling of being more of an adjunct to our basements.”  At Maxwell’s, there was no backstage, and musicians had to
wade through the crowd to get on stage. Band members would mill
about with fans and eat at tables in the restaurant before and
after their shows. Abramson said he always tried to take good
care of the musicians, including giving them free meals.  “There’s definitely a sense of loss,” Kaplan said, “and
New Jersey is going to miss it.”  Show Groupie  Tim Gehan, 50, said he saw more than 500 shows at
Maxwell’s, including about 70 Yo La Tengo gigs. The first
artists he saw there were country rockers Butch Hancock and
Jimmie Dale Gilmore in September 1990, the same month he moved
to Hoboken.  “I remember that show like it was yesterday,” he said.  It was a weeknight and it was pouring rain, and there were
fewer than 50 people at the show, Gehan said. Half of them were
soaking wet, including the artists, he said.  “After about three songs, one of them said, ‘If you guys
would be more comfortable sitting on the floor, go ahead and do
it.’ And everybody sat down on the floor,” Gehan said. “It was
just two guys and a guitar. I was just like, ‘I love this
place.’”  Maxwell’s final concert will be an afternoon  block party 
for the community as well as indoor performances. The show will
feature the Bongos, the Individuals and ‘a,’ according to
Mastro.  Changing Times  There are still opportunities to see live music in Hoboken,
the birthplace of  Frank Sinatra . Local bars, such as Pilsener
Haus, feature regular performances by local bands. The city
hosts an outdoor concert series in the summer and last week,
Hoboken’s waterfront was a stop on  Bob Dylan ’s “Americanarama”
tour, which also featured Wilco and My Morning Jacket.  The city, portrayed as a blue-collar shipping port in the
Oscar-winning 1954 film “On the Waterfront” starring  Marlon Brando , saw its maritime industry crumble in the 1970s as
companies moved to bigger ports with deeper waters.  In recent years, builders have converted warehouses into
luxury condominiums. At  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) ’s 1100 Maxwell Place
development near the club, a 210-unit building under
construction with a 2014 completion date is already 40 percent
sold. A two-bedroom condo ranges from the high $800,000s to more
than $1.3 million.  The city is not the same as it was in the 1980s, said
Abramson, the Maxwell’s co-owner and a veteran music booking
agent. He said he will continue booking shows at  Brooklyn ’s Bell
House and is considering opening a new club in  Jersey City ,
Hoboken’s neighbor, which has a growing music scene.  People who live nearby Maxwell’s these days “are not
necessarily people who want to spend the night at a rock club,”
Yo La Tengo’s Kaplan said. “They’re as likely to be dismayed
that there’s a rock-and-roll club on their corner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  