-- Baidu Sells $1 Billion of Bonds in Largest China Sale Since May
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-30T23:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/baidu-sells-1-billion-of-bonds-in-largest-china-sale-since-may.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , operator of  China ’s most
popular search engine, sold $1 billion of five-year bonds in the
country’s largest overseas corporate bond sale in two months to
help fund the takeover of app store 91 Wireless Websoft Ltd.  The senior unsecured notes were priced to yield 3.29
percent, or 1.9 percentage points over similar-maturity  U.S.
Treasuries , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the
company’s first offering abroad since it issued $1.5 billion of
debt in November. Average borrowing costs have surged for
Chinese companies by 1.26 percentage points this year,  compared
to  a 1.09 percentage-point jump in emerging-market corporate
yields, JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data show.  The sale is China’s second benchmark issue since May as
investors gauge the extent of the slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy. While Baidu has sufficient cash to fund
its $1.9 billion acquisition of 91 Wireless as it seeks a
greater share of the country’s mobile user market, the company
went offshore for “tax efficient” financing, Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday in a report.  “The technology sector is considered more of a growth
sector than a deep cyclical sector for China,”  Michael Roche ,
an emerging-market strategist at broker-dealer Seaport Group
LLC, said by phone from  New York . “It’s still a growing field,
compared to say metals or real estate, where a company would
have had a more difficult time fulfilling their funding needs
given the economic backdrop we have in China.”  Baidu,  rated  A3 by Moody’s, or four levels above junk, also
sold five-year securities eight months ago in its debut
offering, paying just 2.27 percent, or 1.6 percentage points
over U.S. benchmarks.  Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  