-- Bangladesh Police Consider Manslaughter Charges for Rana
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-07-30T07:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/bangladesh-police-consider-manslaughter-charges-for-rana.html
Bangladesh  police are considering
charging the owner of a collapsed garment factory building with
manslaughter after the industrial disaster killed more than
1,000 people earlier this year.  “We are thinking about it seriously,” said Bijoy Krishna
Kar, assistant superintendent of police. He is investigating the
case that involves deaths of factory workers.  Sohel Rana, the owner of the eight-story complex that
collapsed in April, is among the 21 people arrested in two cases
tied to the collapse that killed 1,131 people. The investigation
will take more than two months to complete before the police
submit charges to court, Kar said.  The people arrested include Rana’s father and the former
mayor of Savar, where the garment building was located. They
also include executives of the five clothing factories housed in
the complex, where garments were made for brands owned by  Loblaw
Cos. (L)  and  Associated British Foods Plc. (ABF)   After cracks were found in the building April 23, Rana
forced workers to return to their posts and said it was safe as
it was being checked by engineers. The building collapsed a day
after. Rana was arrested after security forces tracked him to a
western border town from where he planned to flee into  India ,
and brought him back to Dhaka to face charges.  Some members of his family were also detained and a judge
ordered his assets seized.  Savar Mayor  Refayet Ullah, the former mayor of Savar, was arrested on
July 24 and held in custody by a judicial magistrate in the
capital Dhaka after his bail application was rejected, his
lawyer Sanaullah Miah said last week. He was earlier suspended
from his job for failures in monitoring building constructions.  Savar is 24 kilometers (15 miles) northwest of Dhaka, the
country’s capital.  The disaster reinforced calls in Bangladesh and elsewhere
that the tragedy should lead to lasting change.  On July 25, the Bangladeshi government, employers’ and
workers organizations signed a plan of action to improve fire
safety and construction standards in garment factories in the
countries. Key actions under the plan include assessment of
factories and strengthening labor inspections, the International
Labor Organization said.  Seventeen North American retailers, including  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , announced a five-year plan earlier in July
aimed at improving factory safety in Bangladesh. Hennes &
Mauritz AB and  Inditex SA (ITX) , Europe’s two largest clothing
retailers, signed a separate pact to improve safety.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  