-- Bank Revenues Surge on Trading Over What Fed Will Do
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-30T17:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/bank-revenues-surge-on-trading-over-what-fed-will-do.html
Diverging monetary policies are
creating ideal conditions for banks to make money from trading
currencies as  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
say rising volatility is boosting earnings.  “If there’s higher volatility, there’s higher volume and
higher opportunities for us to generate revenue,” Bernie Sinniah, the London-based global head of corporate foreign-exchange sales at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-biggest currency
trader, said in a phone interview.  Volumes in the biggest financial market jumped to a record
$5.7 trillion a day in June, according to the latest data from
CLS Bank, which operates the world’s largest foreign-exchange
settlement system.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which had
the highest revenue from currency trading in 2012, published
results today while  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  reports in the next week.  While the Federal Reserve said it plans to reduce the money
it  pumps  into the U.S. economy should a recovery take hold, the
European Central Bank is considering additional stimulus and the
Bank of  Japan  announced four months ago an unprecedented bond-buying program. The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index jumped
last month to the highest level since June 2012.  Stricter Rules  The rise in price swings should bolster banks’ profits at a
time when stricter regulations after the financial crisis
threaten earnings from other divisions. The Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision’s latest rules, known as Basel III, will
force the world’s 101 largest banks to set aside additional
capital to cushion against potential losses from businesses such
as fixed-income.  “Foreign-exchange, which isn’t a heavy consumer of risk-weighted assets or balance sheet, will become more important,”
George Athanasopulous, the co-head of global foreign exchange at
Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , which reported second-quarter earnings
today, said in an interview. “Stringent capital requirements
will reduce the footprint of businesses which rely heavily on
risk-weighted assets and balance sheet.”  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, the biggest foreign-exchange
trader, earned the most from this business in 2012 at about $2.7
billion, while Barclays in  London  received $1.8 billion,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates on June 28.  ‘Significantly Higher’  Both banks reported earnings today. London-based HSBC,
which posts results on Aug. 5, was the third-biggest recipient
of foreign-exchange revenue last year, JPMorgan estimates.  Deutsche Bank, continental Europe’s biggest lender, said
second-quarter revenue from foreign-exchange trading rose on
increased price swings and greater client activity. Overall
profit fell 49 percent to 334 million euros ($443 million), from
656 million euros in the same period a year earlier.  UBS, the fourth-largest currency trader, said that
increased volatility caused a decline in second-quarter earnings
from its foreign-exchange business.  Revenue from currencies, rates and credit fell 42 percent
to 362 million Swiss francs ($389 million), from 619 million
francs in the first three months of this year, UBS said. The
investment bank posted a pretax profit of 775 million francs,
compared with a 92 million-franc loss a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs (GS) , located in New York, said this month that
its currency-trading operation had “significantly higher”
revenue in the second quarter than in the year-earlier period.
Like most of its peers, the investment bank doesn’t break out
foreign-exchange earnings.  ‘Strong’ Activity  “Activity levels in our currency business remained strong
as clients reacted to increased volatility, particularly in
Asia,” Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz said on a
conference call with analysts.  Most banks lump earnings from their fixed-income,
currencies and commodities divisions together.  Foreign-exchange trading for Group of 10 and emerging-market nations accounted for 15 percent of fixed-income revenue,
or about $14 billion, for the 10 largest banks in 2012,
according to an estimate from analytics firm Coalition. That’s
down from 22 percent in 2011 when most rates and credit
operations lost money, Coalition said.  U.K. currency-trading volumes rose to a record $2.55
trillion a day in April, 26 percent higher than in October, the
Bank of England said yesterday, citing a twice-yearly survey.  Weaker Yen  The increase was aided by a “substantial” jump in trading
of the dollar against the yen, which more than doubled, the
central bank said. Japan’s currency has weakened 11.5 percent
against the greenback this year.  JPMorgan’s foreign-exchange volatility index surged to
11.96 percent on June 24, from 8.07 percent at the end of last
year. At 9.7, the  gauge  is now up 20 percent for the year.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke stoked the surge in volatility
when he raised the prospect of the U.S. central bank reducing
its $85 billion of monthly bond purchases later this year.  In the euro region, ECB President Mario Draghi said he
plans to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5
percent for an “extended” period, and that he’s considering
additional measures to boost the economy of the 17-nation bloc.  The Bank of Japan refrained from adding to its
unprecedented monetary stimulus earlier this month and raised
its assessment of the nation’s economy, referring to a recovery
for the first time since before a record 2011 earthquake.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest lender, said
July 25 that increased currency volatility helped boost second-quarter earnings. “Revenues from foreign exchange improved as
higher market volatility led to increased client activity,” the
Zurich-based bank said in a statement.  HSBC Report  HSBC, one of the few banks to disclose income from foreign
exchange, reported revenue of $871 million from the business in
the first quarter, compared with $746 million in the three
months ended Dec. 31. Currency trading was the biggest
contributor to revenue at HSBC’s global markets unit, the bank
said on May 7.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson singled out currencies as one of the areas “where the
markets were good” on a July 17 conference call after the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender reported a 63 percent
jump in second-quarter net income.  “For the players who are strong in foreign exchange, they
will remain strong for a long time given the high barriers to
entry,” Chirantan Barua, an analyst in London at Sanford C
Bernstein Ltd., said in a phone interview. “It’s very hard to
gain share in the international foreign exchange market for
smaller attackers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  