-- Barclays’s Absa Declines After Missing Earnings Estimates
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-07-30T16:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/barclays-s-absa-will-pay-special-dividend-after-african-deal.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , fell the most in more than a
year after first-half earnings per share missed analysts’
estimates.  The stock slumped 7 percent, the most since June last year,
to 141 rand by the close in Johannesburg. About 5.6 million
shares, or almost four times the three-month daily average,
changed hands. The six-member FTSE/JSE  Africa  Banks Index  fell 
1.7 percent.  Net income rose to 4.7 billion rand ($479 million) from
4.17 billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based lender
said in a statement today. Earnings per share excluding one-time
items rose 8 percent to 6.50 rand, less than the median estimate
of 7.08 rand by four analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Operationally this wasn’t a great result with weak
margins and poor top line growth,” Ryan Wibberley, head of
equity dealing for frontier and  emerging markets  at Investec
Asset Management, which manages the equivalent of $105 billion,
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Absa’s share price has
run hard into these results, putting on 8 percent in the last
week as the market maneuvered for the special dividend.”  Absa, the worst-performing stock on the banks gauge this
year, losing 14 percent, declared a special dividend for the six
months through June of 7.08 rand per share. Some investor
expectations had been “overly ambitious,” Wibberley said.  Revenue Disappointment  The lender’s net interest income rose 5.7 percent to 11.5
billion rand, from 10.9 billion rand a year earlier, while non-interest revenue declined 1.9 percent to 8.7 billion rand from
8.9 billion rand, according to the statement. The bank’s
revenues were “a disappointment,” Chief Financial Officer
David Hodnett told a presentation in Johannesburg today.  Absa in December said it would buy the bulk of Barclays’s
African assets in an all-share deal worth 18.3 billion rand.  The bank plans to spend 1.25 billion rand by 2015 on
branches in Africa, Chief Executive Officer  Maria Ramos  told
investors at a presentation in Johannesburg today. The bank is
on track to meet its return-on-equity target of 20 percent by
2015, she said.  “We expect mid-single digit loan growth this year and a
broadly stable net interest margin,” Absa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  