-- Barclays’s Absa Says Interested in Nigeria After African Deal
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-07-30T11:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/barclays-s-absa-says-interested-in-nigeria-after-african-deal.html
Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the Johannesburg-based lender acquiring most of parent company  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
African assets, said it’s interested in entering the Nigerian
market as it boosts its presence across the continent.  The bank needs a competitive advantage before it can enter
the country, Africa’s second-largest economy and biggest oil
producer, Absa Chief Financial Officer David Hodnett said today
in an interview in Johannesburg. The lender could take advantage
of its experience in corporate banking, he said.  Absa plans to spend 1.25 billion rand ($127 million) by
2015 on refurbishing branches in Africa, Chief Executive Officer
 Maria Ramos  told investors in Johannesburg today. The bank said
in December it would buy the bulk of Barclays’s African assets
in an all-share deal worth 18.3 billion rand.  The economy of Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with
more than 160 million people, is set to grow 7.2 percent this
year, versus an average of 5.6 percent for the rest of sub-Saharan Africa, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Absa isn’t looking at any of the nationalized Nigerian
lenders, Hodnett said separately today on a conference call.  The Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, set up by the
government to buy bad debts from banks, is seeking to sell the
lenders by next year. They were nationalized after being unable
to meet  capital requirements  following a 2008 to 2009 debt
crisis triggered by loans given to stock market speculators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  