-- Bayern Munich President Hoeness Charged With Tax Evasion
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-07-30T15:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/bayern-munich-president-hoeness-charged-with-tax-evasion.html
Uli Hoeness, the former German
national team player who is now president of Bayern Munich
soccer club, was charged with  tax evasion  after seeking amnesty
earlier this year.  Hoeness, 61, was charged today after prosecutors concluded
their probe yesterday, Andrea Titz, a spokeswoman for the Munich
criminal courts, said in an e-mailed statement today. The court
won’t release additional details on the charges because of
German secrecy laws in criminal-tax cases.  “Before the court rules on whether the trial may be
opened, no details of the charges can be communicated,
especially since there are specific secrecy obligations in
criminal tax probes,” she said.  Munich prosecutors started to investigate Hoeness for tax
evasion after he reported himself to authorities in January in a
bid for amnesty. He is the most prominent German to seek
clemency after lawmakers rejected a treaty that would have ended
the country’s practice of buying stolen Swiss bank data to
uncover tax evaders.  Werner Leitner, Hoeness’s defense attorney, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Hoeness was given a month to reply to the charges. The
court will then have to decide whether the case will proceed to
trial. That ruling is unlikely to come before the end of
September, Titz said.  Huge Folly  Hoeness told German weekly Die Zeit in an  interview  in May
that he committed a “huge folly” when he hid money in a Swiss
account. Former Adidas AG Chief Executive Officer Robert Louis-Dreyfus lent him five million euros ($6.6 million) and acted as
a guarantor for another loan of 15 million euros in 2001,
Hoeness said. He used the money to “gamble” and “speculate”
on the stock market, he said.  He later paid back the loans and kept profits from his
investment in  Switzerland  without paying taxes on them, he said.
His home, near the Tegernsee lake outside of Munich, was raided
as part of the probe in March.  Hoeness made his fortune with sausages as the founder of
the HoWe Wurstwaren KG factory that makes a version of the
famous Nuremberger Rostbratwurst. When the probe became public
in April, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  expressed her
disappointment at Hoeness’s actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  