-- BBVA May Say Profit Surged as Spanish Real Estate Costs Decline
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-30T10:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/bbva-may-say-profit-surged-as-spanish-real-estate-costs-decline.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
 Spain ’s second-biggest bank, may say quarterly profit jumped on
lower costs for covering Spanish real estate losses and one-time
gains from South American asset sales.  Net income  probably rose to 1.14 billion euros ($1.51
billion) in the three months through June, from 505 million
euros a year earlier, when it reports earnings tomorrow before
the market opens in Madrid, according to the average  estimate  in
a Bloomberg survey of nine analysts.  BBVA, led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , is trying to
rebuild earnings after the Spanish government forced lenders
last year to take one-time charges to speed up their recognition
of losses on real estate. The bank has said it will book gains
of almost 500 million euros from the sale of pension fund assets
in Colombia and Peru.  “I’m still waiting for more evidence of an inflection
point or real change of trend in Spain,”  Neil Smith , an analyst
at Bankhaus Lampe in Bielefeld, Germany, who recommends selling
BBVA shares, said in a phone interview. “There are still too
many uncertainties.”  BBVA shares have climbed 1.8 percent this year compared
with a 7.8 percent gain for the 44-company Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index and an 11 percent decline for
Spain’s biggest bank, Banco  Santander (SAN)  SA.  Spain Squeezed  Santander today said second-quarter net income jumped to
1.05 billion euros from 123 million euros a year ago as lower
provisioning costs offset declining profit in Brazil and Spain.  BBVA’s profit from Spain may fall to 169 million euros from
413 million euros a year earlier as losses at the bank’s Spanish
real estate unit drop to 283 million euros from 1.13 billion
euros, Nomura International analysts Daragh Quinn and Jaime
Hernandez said in a July 19 report.  The bank said in June that earnings from Spain would be hit
by a court ruling that means it would have to stop applying
“floors,” or clauses setting minimum  interest rates , on
mortgages.  Earnings from  Mexico , the unit that contributes the most to
BBVA’s earnings, may have risen 3 percent to 447 million euros
from a year ago, according to estimates from Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at Banco BPI SA in Porto,  Portugal .  Profit from the  bank’s business  in  South America  may fall
13 percent to 292 million euros from a year earlier, according
to Peixoto. Profit from Eurasia, a division that pools BBVA’s
businesses in Turkey and China and operations in Europe outside
Spain, may have dipped 2 percent to 279 million euros, while
U.S. earnings fell 14 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  