-- Berlusconi Wins Concession From Prosecutor at Top Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-31T08:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/berlusconi-wins-concession-from-prosecutor-at-top-court-hearing.html
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, making his final appeal against a tax-fraud
conviction, won a concession on the first day of hearings as the
prosecutor asked judges to ease the maximum sentence.  The five-year ban from public office, imposed last year by
Berlusconi’s original trial court and upheld in a first appeal,
should be reduced to three years, Prosecutor Antonio Mura said
late yesterday as he wrapped up his case at Italy’s top court in
 Rome . Mura, who spoke for more than four hours before a five-judge panel, said the conviction was valid and urged the court
to uphold it.  The case is being closely watched in Italy as lawmakers
loyal to Berlusconi, a partner in the ruling parliamentary
coalition, have threatened to bring down the government if his
conviction stands. Berlusconi’s defense team, led by Franco
Coppi, are scheduled to present their case this morning, and the
verdict could come later today. The billionaire ex-premier, who
wasn’t present at the hearing for a second day, has denied the
charges.  “It’s too early to say what happens,” Peter Ceretti, an
analyst with Eurasia Group in New York, said of Berlusconi’s
prospects following the prosecutor’s concession. “If he’s
convicted, regardless of what his sentence is, tensions are
going to increase and that’s not good for the government right
now.”  Bond Yields Fall  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 1 basis point to 4.39
percent as of 10:37 a.m. local time. The yields have risen about
60 basis points, or 0.6 percent, since a 2 1/2-year low reached
on May 2 after Prime Minister Enrico Letta enlisted Berlusconi’s
support and stitched together a three-party parliamentary
majority.  Berlusconi, 76, has won support from lawmakers and voters
over the last decade by portraying his legal battles as
persecution by judges intent on ending his political career.
Berlusconi has reigned as  Italy ’s most successful politician for
20 years even as he fought more than a dozen criminal trials.  The request for a reduction in the potential sentence was
welcomed by Coppi as he exited the courtroom. “The prosecutor
made it to defend an indefensible sentence,” Coppi told
reporters.  Four-Year Sentence  While the lower court also imposed a four-year prison
sentence, it is unlikely Berlusconi would serve any time in jail
on the tax-fraud offense, according to Andrea Castaldo, a
criminal lawyer and professor at the University of Salerno.
Italy’s effort to ease prison overcrowding and the leniency
extended to criminals over the age of 70 would probably reduce
the incarceration mandate to community service or house arrest.  Berlusconi is now also appealing convictions in separate
cases on paying a minor for sex and illegal use of wiretapping.
In the case before the top court, Berlusconi, whose wealth is
estimated by the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  at $7.3 billion,
was found to have evaded taxes in the purchase of rights to
American movies for his broadcaster,  Mediaset SpA. (MS)  He has denied
all charges against him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  