-- Billionaire Li’s Cheung Kong to Sell Mall to Fortune REIT
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-30T16:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/billionaire-li-s-cheung-kong-to-sell-properties-to-fortune-reit.html
Billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s  Cheung
Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  reached a preliminary agreement to sell a
shopping mall complex in Hong Kong to  Fortune Real Estate
Investment Trust (778)  for HK$5.85 billion ($754 million).  Fortune REIT, controlled by  Cheung Kong , will finance the
purchase of Kingswood Ginza in the city’s north by drawing from
HK$5.23 billion of new term-loan facilities and using HK$947
million raised from selling new units to investors, according to
statements to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. The trust
is listed in both Hong Kong and Singapore.  Cheung Kong and  developers  such as  Hang Lung Properties
Ltd. (101)  and Sino Land Co. have been selling commercial properties
in the past two years to make up for an apartment sales slowdown
in  Hong Kong  as the government imposed extra transaction taxes
and tightened mortgage lending to curb surging home prices.  Cheung Kong in May canceled the sale of HK$1.4 billion of
hotel rooms at the Apex Horizon project in the city’s west,
after being notified by the Securities and Futures Commission
that the sales constituted an unauthorized “collective
investment scheme.”  Hong Kong builders sold about 4,300 new residential units
in the first half, the fewest of any six-month period since the
second half of 2008, according to data compiled by realtor
Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  Fortune REIT, which has 16 malls in Hong Kong, wants to buy
more properties in the city, Justin Chiu, chairman of the REIT’s
manager and an  executive director  at Cheung Kong, said in a
July 16 briefing.  Cheung Kong’s shares fell 0.1 percent to HK$109.50 at the
close in Hong Kong yesterday. Fortune REIT’s units were
suspended and are scheduled to resume trading today.  Fortune REIT will sell 143 million new units at HK$6.82
each, raising about HK$975 million, of which HK$947 million will
fund the Kingswood Ginza purchase and HK$28 million will pay the
placement’s costs, according to a filing to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  