-- Boyd Gaming Jumps as Off-Strip Betting Aids Surprise Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-30T20:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/boyd-gaming-jumps-as-off-strip-betting-aids-surprise-profit.html
Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD) , owner of 22
casinos and racetracks across the U.S., rose the most in more
than three months as an improving market for off-Strip Las Vegas
betting helped the company report a surprise quarterly profit.  The shares rose 18 percent to $12.86 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest jump since April 24. The stock has almost
doubled this year .  Revenue in the locals market, which targets Las Vegas
residents, rose slightly during the second quarter, the first
such growth for Boyd since the first three months of last year,
according to Bloomberg Industries. Adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda,
advanced 12 percent, according to a statement.  “We’re seeing modest growth in a market that has not seen
growth,” Chief Executive Officer  Keith Smith  said on an analyst
conference call hosted by the Las Vegas-based company. “Auto
sales are up, taxable sales are up. We expect anytime for them
to start to spend more money on our business.”  Boyd broke even in the second quarter after adjusting for
items such as the sale of its Dania Jai-Alai facility in
 Florida . Analysts had forecast a loss of 1 cent, on average,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Without adjustments, net income rose to $11.6 million, or
13 cents, compared with $1 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier.
Analysts had projected a 5-cent loss.  Marketing Initiatives  Total revenue rose 20 percent to $738.7 million during the
period. Analysts had forecast sales of $741 million. The results
included Peninsula Gaming LLC, acquired in November.  Sales at off-Strip Las Vegas casinos rose to $149.7
million, from $149 million a year earlier, according to the
statement.  Boyd’s Las Vegas properties outperformed relative to
expectations, Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst Steven Wieczynski
said in a note today.  “We are particularly encouraged by the Las Vegas locals
results,” said Wieczynski, who rates the shares hold.
“Management attributed the improved performance to successful
marketing initiatives that helped drive top-line results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  