-- BP Earns $218 Million From Rosneft Stake, Less Than TNK-BP Share
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-07-30T10:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/bp-earns-218-million-from-rosneft-stake-less-than-tnk-bp-share.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the U.K. oil producer that
sold its stake in Russia’s TNK-BP in March for cash and shares
in OAO Rosneft, earned $218 million from its new shareholding,
less than half the amount it received a year ago from TNK-BP.  The Rosneft holding made up about 8 percent of the second-quarter profit adjusted for one-time items and inventory changes
of $2.7 billion that BP posted today. Its share of the Russian
state company’s output was 945,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day, or almost 30 percent of the total, BP said in a statement.  BP received 19.75 percent of Rosneft, the largest publicly
traded oil producer by output, and $12.5 billion after exiting
its TNK-BP venture with a group of billionaires.  Russian earnings were “impacted by the weakening of the
ruble over the period and the lagging effect of Russian export
duty as Urals oil prices declined,” London-based BP said.  TNK-BP contributed $452 million, or about 12 percent of BP
earnings, in the second quarter last year. BP’s share of TNK-BP
output was 1.016 million barrels of oil equivalent a day, or 31
percent of its total including  Russia  in the period.  “BP is trading current cash for future exploration
potential,” said Ildar Davletshin, an oil and gas analyst at
Renaissance Capital in Moscow. “As a Rosneft minority they will
have exposure to the Arctic and tight oil in” Siberia.  BP will get smaller dividends from Rosneft compared with
TNK-BP because it was partly paid in cash, Davletshin said.  Rosneft is exploring in the Russian Arctic and plans to tap
Bazhenov province. TNK-BP on average accounted for about a
quarter of BP’s output and a fifth of its reserves. The Russian
venture paid the company $19 billion in dividends since it was
formed in 2003. BP’s initial investment was $8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  