-- Brazilian Real Falls to Four-Year Low, Stoking Inflation Concern
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-07-30T21:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/brazilian-real-falls-to-four-year-low-stoking-inflation-concern.html
Brazil ’s real dropped to a four-year
low, adding to concern inflation will undermine efforts to
stimulate  Latin America ’s largest economy.  Swap rates rose on speculation the central bank will
maintain the pace of increases in borrowing costs even as a
report for July showed inflation slowed. The real has tumbled 12
percent in the past three months, the biggest drop among 24
emerging-market dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. The
depreciation pushes up the price of imports and threatens to
further fuel inflation, which helped spark nationwide street
protests last month.  “The central bank seems to have a blank check to combat
inflation,” Daniel Cunha, the chief economist at XP
Investimentos in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “The
fight against inflation seems to have greater weight than
economic growth.”  The currency declined 0.6 percent to 2.2825 per  U.S.
dollar , the weakest closing level since March 2009. Swap rates
on the contract maturing in January 2015 climbed 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 9.59 percent, a two-week
high.  Brazil’s central bank will remain vigilant in its effort to
control inflation even as price indexes rise at a slower pace,
the Folha de S. Paulo newspaper reported today, without saying
how it got the information. The monetary authority declined to
comment when phoned by  Bloomberg News .  The IGP-M  index  of wholesale, construction and consumer
prices climbed 0.26 percent in the 30 days ended July 20 after a
prior 0.75 percent rise, the Getulio Vargas Foundation reported
today. The median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for an increase of 0.27 percent.  Debt Auction  The Treasury sold 1.25 billion reais of inflation-linked
 bonds  due in 2018 and 2022. The five-year bonds priced to yield
4.82 percent and the nine-year debt paid 5.11 percent.  The real fell along with most emerging-market currencies on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will begin to reduce its $85
billion in monthly asset purchases. U.S. policy makers are
meeting today and tomorrow.  “There’s an expectation in relation to the monetary policy
meetings of the Fed, and that is making the dollar gain,”
 Newton Rosa , the chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos in
Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Brazil’s policy makers raised the  target lending rate  by a
half-percentage point on July 10 to 8.50 percent, the third
increase this year. The central bank said in minutes of the
meeting that it is appropriate to maintain the pace of increases
in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  The monetary authority sold foreign-exchange swap contracts
on July 26 worth $994 million to support the real, the 19th day
of auctions since May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  