-- HTC Slumps After Forecasting Sales Drop: Taipei Mover
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-07-31T06:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/htc-forecasts-eighth-consecutive-quarter-of-declining-sales.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Taiwan ’s biggest
smartphone maker, slumped to its lowest in almost eight years in
Taipei trading after forecasting an eighth consecutive decline
in quarterly sales amid intensifying competition.  The stock  dropped  6.7 percent to NT$159.50 as of the close
of trade, the lowest level since November 2005. Revenue will be
as much as NT$60 billion ($2 billion) in the three months ending
September, the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday. That missed the NT$72.7 billion average of 21
 analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  HTC may post a loss in the quarter, its first on a
consolidated basis since at least 2008, as its flagship One
handset fails to arrest a slide in sales. The smartphone maker,
which didn’t figure among the top five global producers in the
second quarter, plans to boost promotion and introduce mid-range
products to revive growth.  “While management expects this to be the trough, we do not
see any sign of a turnaround,” Laura Chen, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA, wrote in a note to clients. “We forecast a sluggish
outlook for HTC given high-end market saturation and fierce
competition in the lower-end,” said Chen, who has a reduce
rating on the stock.  HTC forecast third-quarter  operating margin  to be in the
range of nil to negative 8 percent. If it posts a negative
operating margin, it will be the first time since at least 2008
on a consolidated basis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  New Products  Gross profit margin is forecast to be in the range of 18
percent to 21 percent, HTC said in the statement. That compares
with the 23.7 percent average of 18  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  “While we have been concerned about HTC’s profitability,
we still underestimated how fast it erodes,” Pauline Chen, an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a report as she cut
the stock to underperform.  The company introduced the HTC One in the U.S. in April,
the same month  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  put its flagship Galaxy
S4 on sale. HTC strengthened promotions of its HTC One brand and
will offer mid-range products as early as end of this quarter,
Chou said, without elaborating. The company also plans a smaller
version of its flagship handset.  “We are planning to have a new range of products, trying
to stay competitive in the market,” Chief Executive Officer
Peter Chou said in a conference call yesterday. “We expect HTC
One mini will do quite well.”  Global smartphone shipments increased to 230 million in the
second quarter, Boston-based  Strategy Analytics  said last week.
While IDC said sales of smartphone rose at the fastest pace in
five quarters. HTC didn’t figure in the top five smartphone
makers in either of the two rankings by market share.  HTC lost the early momentum of unveiling its HTC One in
February prior to Samsung’s Galaxy S4 as a shortage of camera
components forced it to delay shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  