-- Cambodia’s Hun Sen Set to Extend 28-Year Rule
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-07-30T04:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/cambodia-s-hun-sen-set-to-extend-28-year-rule.html
The U.S. added to calls by
 Cambodia ’s opposition for an investigation into reports of
election irregularities a day after Prime Minister Hun Sen’s
party declared victory to extend his 28-year rule.  “We call for a transparent and full investigation of all
credible reports of irregularities,” State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.
She declined to specifically support opposition leader Sam
Rainsy’s demand for an investigative committee, saying “it’s
not about supporting one call.”  The ruling Cambodian  People’s Party  claimed victory in the
July 28 election with 55 percent of seats in the 123-member
parliament, a drop from 73 percent before the vote. Sam Rainsy
rejected the results and called for an investigation that would
include members of the  United Nations  and foreign countries.  The outcome increases political uncertainty in one of
 Asia ’s poorest countries, where stability over the past decade
has attracted companies such as General Electric Co.,  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  and DuPont Co. Sam Rainsy, who was barred from standing in
the election, ended a four-year exile on July 19 after receiving
a royal pardon for charges he says were politically motivated.  Psaki cited “systemic flaws” in Cambodia’s electoral
process, including problems in the voter registry and unequal
access to media. The National Election Committee has yet to
release official results.  ‘Proper Channels’  Cambodia’s government would support an investigation that
is done through “proper channels” based on national law,
spokesman  Phay Siphan  said by phone today. He questioned the
legality of the committee proposed by Sam Rainsy.  “They are rejecting the results because the opposition
party doesn’t get a majority in the National Assembly and saying
democracy won’t prevail unless the opposition party becomes the
ruling party,” he said. “Is that fair for Cambodia?”  Transparency International Cambodia , which sent observers
to polling stations, said that some voters couldn’t find names
on registry lists and others were allowed to cast a ballot
without proper identification. It also questioned the high
number of voters who used temporary identification papers.  “TIC is very concerned about the disenfranchisement of
citizens and suspect voting, which are consistent with the
warnings outlined by independent organizations for the past
several months,” it said in a  statement  yesterday. It also
called for an independent body to investigate election
irregularities.  The CPP won 48.5 percent of total votes, compared with 44.4
percent for the opposition, according to estimates by
Transparency International Cambodia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  