-- Canadian Dollar Falls From Month-High Before Fed Stimulus Update
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-30T21:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-before-fed-provides-stimulus-update.html
The Canadian dollar fell from its
highest level in a month on speculation Federal Reserve policy
makers may provide clues tomorrow about when the U.S. central
bank plans to slow monetary stimulus.  The currency weakened against the majority of its most-traded peers as the Fed is forecast to leave the benchmark
 interest rate  at zero to 0.25 percent and continue its $85
billion per month bond-buying program. OAO Uralkali, the world’s
largest potash producer, ended limits on production that have
underpinned prices for  Canada ’s exports of the commodity. A
report tomorrow will show Canada’s gross domestic product grew
0.3 percent in May compared with 0.1 percent the previous month,
according to a Bloomberg survey of 20 economists.  “The gradual shift here is to some sort of policy
normalization,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist
at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone from Toronto. “It’s time to
take the patient off life support as we keep saying, and just
move it to intensive care.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, fell 0.4
percent to C$1.0305 per U.S. dollar at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto.
Yesterday, the currency touched C$1.0253 per U.S. dollar, the
strongest since June 19. One loonie buys 97.04 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar has gained 2.1 percent against its U.S.
peer this month while dropping 3.7 percent this year.  Bond Yields  Canada’s 10-year benchmark government  bonds  fell, pushing
the yield up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 2.51
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 fell 15
cents to C$91.24. Yields have added seven basis points in the
past month.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.4
percent to $103.12 per barrel, the third straight decline.  The loonie fell on lower prices for potash, a commodity
that makes up about 1.5 percent of good exports in Canada,  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
wrote in a note to clients today.  A drop in potash volumes as buyers wait for the price to
drop could result in 0.1 percent off of real gross domestic
product, or 0.4 percent the annual rate, Shenfeld wrote.  A plan for a one-time transition fee to repatriate $2
trillion in foreign earnings of U.S. corporations that President
 Barack Obama  will announce today also contributed to the
Canadian dollar’s weakness,  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said in a phone interview.  Technical Levels  A technical measure approached levels that would indicate
the loonie has appreciated too far too fast. The 14-day relative
strength index for the Canadian dollar against its U.S.
counterpart touched  61.3, almost the 70 level that some traders
take as a signal a move is about to reverse course.  “The Fed will eventually start to pull back on their
program and the Canadian dollar will weaken off,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange at Bank of
Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “Our bias is to look for good
opportunities to sell the Canadian dollar on rallies.”  Jespersen recommended waiting until the loonie strengthens
to C$1.0180 per  U.S. dollar  before selling.  The loonie has gained 0.7 percent in the past month against
nine other developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has lost 1.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  