-- Capital & Counties Profit Falls as Sales Cut Rent Income
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-07-30T16:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/capital-counties-profit-declines-as-sales-reduce-rental-income.html
Capital & Counties Properties Plc (CAPC) ,
the London developer that owns most of the city’s Covent Garden
district, said first-half profit declined 21 percent as property
sales cut rental income.  Adjusted earnings before asset revaluations and one-time
items dropped to 4.8 million pounds ($7.4 million) or 0.6 pence
a share, from a restated 6.1 million pounds, or 0.9 pence, a
year ago, the company known as CapCo said in a statement today.
Net rental income fell to 32.2 million pounds from a restated
34.1 million pounds.  The rental income decline was due to sales of assets held
by CapCo’s joint venture with  Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR) , known
as the Great Capital Partnership, and a weaker performance of
its events and conference venue rental business, according to
the statement.  CapCo owns more than 50 properties in and around Covent
Garden, including Europe’s largest Apple computer store,
according to the company’s website. In 2007, CapCo started a
partnership with Great Portland Estates for developing offices
in  London ’s West End district, one of the world’s most expensive
business locations. The venture agreed to sell its last asset,
an office and residential property near Regent’s Park, last
month.  CapCo rose 12.4 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 358.2 pence in
London trading, the most since Feb. 28. The shares have gained
about 48 percent this year, the fifth-best performance among the
59 stocks in the Bloomberg EMEA Real Estate Index, which has
advanced 7.7 percent.  Values Rose  Property gains at Covent Garden helped lift net asset value
about 15 percent to 1.8 billion pounds, or 232 pence a share.
The district is seeing strong demand from retailers and 12,
including Dior and Shake Shack, signed leases in the first half,
the company said. The Covent Garden estate had a market value of
1.1 billion pounds in first half, from 952 million pounds at the
end of 2012.  CapCo plans to pay a  dividend  of 0.5 pence a share for the
first half.  “The volatility within the capital markets over the past
few months illustrates the continued uncertainty of the
macroeconomic outlook,” the company said in the statement.
“Nevertheless, demand for prime assets within central London
continues to be very strong.”  Luxury Apartments  The developer plans to continue adding homes to the Covent
Garden area, with two luxury apartment buildings under
construction and due to be sold in 2014.  CapCo, which earns most of its profit by renting out retail
and event space, is adding homes to benefit from rising prices
in London, low interest rates and U.K. government incentives to
make it easier for people to buy a residence. The company said
in a July 18 statement that it plans to build 7,500 homes at
Earls Court in the southwest corner of central London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  