-- Chief Executives’ Confidence in U.S. Economy Improves on Housing
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-07-30T13:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/chief-executives-confidence-in-u-s-economy-improves-on-housing.html
Confidence among chief executives in
the U.S. rose in the second quarter as gains in housing and
employment bolstered outlooks for the year, according to a
private survey.  The Young Presidents’ Organization index of sentiment
increased to 62, the highest since 65.1 in the first quarter of
2012, from 60.9 in the previous three months. Readings greater
than 50 signal the outlook was more positive than negative.  Forty-nine percent of respondents said the economy has
strengthened from six months earlier, up from 42 percent in the
prior quarter. Executives in the construction industry were the
most positive about economic conditions, with 65 percent saying
they had improved compared with 46 percent in the previous three
months.  “With no apparent economic headwinds for the first time in
several years and stronger-than-anticipated economic data, YPO
respondents have become slightly more optimistic about their
business prospects,” Stephen Slifer, chief economist at
NumberNomics LLC, said in a statement.  The share of respondents who expect the economy to
strengthen by the end of the year increased by 5 percentage
points to 51 percent. Thirty-nine percent of executives
anticipate adding workers over the next year, while 62 percent
forecast higher sales.  The nonprofit service organization’s findings were based on
responses from 1,765 global chief executives, including 746 in
the U.S., to an electronic survey conducted during the first two
weeks of July. By industry, 67 percent of the participants were
from the service group, 24 percent from producers and 9 percent
from construction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  