-- Chile Peso Sinks With Swap Rates on Signs of Economic Slowdown
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-07-30T18:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/chile-peso-sinks-with-swap-rates-on-signs-of-economic-slowdown.html
Chile ’s peso fell to a one-year low
and  swap rates  dropped as reports indicated a weakening economy
and central bank minutes signaled that policy makers may begin
reducing borrowing costs.  The currency depreciated 0.8 percent to 515.29 per U.S.
dollar at the close of trading in Santiago, the lowest since
June 2012. The two-year swap rate fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 4.50 percent. It earlier reached 4.48
percent, the lowest intraday level since July 17.  Minutes of the central bank’s July 11 meeting showed that
policy makers expected to start lowering rates “in the near
future” if the economy continued to slow. Economic reports
indicated that manufacturing declined more than forecast in June
and retail sales grew less than forecast.  “The minutes were predictable, but not the data,”
Sebastian Ide, the head of rates trading at  Banco de Chile (CHILE)  in
Santiago, said in a telephone interview. “What was a future
scenario is now a present case. It cements the idea that a cut
is justified. The only thing that could change that view now
would be a big inflation surprise.”  Policy makers considered what would have been the first cut
in the  target lending rate  since January 2012 before voting to
hold it at 5 percent, the minutes showed. It was the third
straight month that they considered reducing borrowing costs.  The yield on five-year fixed-rate  bonds  fell four basis
points to 5.10 percent. The  yield  on five-year inflation-linked
bonds declined two basis points to 2.21 percent.  RBS Outlook  The economic reports were “a major blow to the hawkish
case” for the central bank to avoid cutting borrowing costs,
George Lei, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote today in
a research note to clients. He recommends that investors stop
betting that the one-year swap rate will keep falling because it
already projects a 50 basis point rate cut.  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, recommended that investors use one-month
non-deliverable forwards to wager that the Chilean peso will
weaken against the Brazilian real.  Brazil ’s central bank may
raise its target lending rate even as Chile starts lowering its
benchmark, she wrote today in a research note.  Budget data published today showed that the government sold
$4.2 billion of dollars in May and June, bolstering the peso,
according to  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  Chile will
probably sell just $800 million more this year, “leaving the
path free for the peso to depreciate,” Jorge Selaive, the chief
economist of the bank in Santiago, wrote today to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  