-- China’s Largest Liquor Maker Moutai Seeks Investors, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-30T10:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/china-s-largest-liquor-maker-moutai-seeks-investors-xinhua-says.html
Kweichow Moutai (600519)  Group, the parent of
 China ’s largest white liquor maker, is among a group of state-owned companies seeking investors to help it expand and be more
competitive, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  A group of 28 companies from China’s southwestern province
of Guizhou plans to each attract at least two strategic
investors dometically or overseas by the end of 2017, according
to today’s article, which cited the province’s state-owned-assets supervision commission. Kweichow Moutai, the unlisted
parent, will be turned into a shareholding company, Xinhua
reported.  Demand for Moutai’s high-end baijiu liquor, popular at
official banquets and for gift giving, has fallen as Chinese
President Xi Jinping has pushed to curb extravagant  government
spending . A hunt for new investors by the state-owned parent
could pave the way for international companies to expand in the
country’s baijiu market, which is estimated by London-based
Euromonitor International to form 98 percent of China’s total
sales of spirits last year.  “The whole baijiu industry is entering a transformational
stage with the government clamping down on excessive spending
and extravagance,” Liu Hui, Shanghai-based analyst at  Capital
Securities Corp. (6005) , said over the phone. “Moutai is likely
looking for strategic partners to help improve its management
expertise, and to beef up its low and mid-priced product
offerings.”  The government austerity campaign will weigh on earnings
growth at Chinese liquor makers and their profits will rise less
than 20 percent this fiscal year, UBS AG analyst Wang Peng said
at a Shanghai briefing on July 17.  The Guizhou companies are looking to attract investors who
have financial and technical strengths and human resource
talents, which will help them improve their competitiveness and
expand the market for their products, according to the Xinhua
article.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest liquor company,
controls part of Chinese white spirits maker Sichuan
Shuijingfang Co.  Li Hongfang, a spokesman for the group’s Shanghai-listed
Kweichow Moutai Co., couldn’t immediately comment to the report.  Slowdown  Moutai, which sells 106-proof liquor, said on April 18
sales rose 19 percent to 7.17 billion  yuan  in the first quarter,
the slowest growth since the third quarter of 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy  expanded 7.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the second straight deceleration, according
to data from the statistics bureau.  Most Chinese provinces reported first-half growth below
annual targets that in some instances were already lower than
last year’s goals, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg News .
Guizhou was the poorest province in China, according to China’s
National Bureau of Statistics, citing the latest GDP per capita
statistics available in 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  