-- Columbia Removes Reference to Student Reported as Bo’s Son
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-30T09:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/columbia-removes-reference-to-student-reported-as-bo-xilai-s-son.html
New York ’s  Columbia University 
removed a reference to a student named Bo Guagua from its 
website after reports said he was the son of former Chinese 
Politburo member Bo Xilai, indicted this month for corruption.  A search for the name yesterday returned a record for a
student identified as Bo Guagua and an e-mail address for him.
It was no longer available on the university’s website today
after the New York Times reported that Bo Xilai’s son had
enrolled at  Columbia Law School  and was expected to begin
studies this fall, citing a family associate and a person from
Beijing with “high-level contacts.”  An online Columbia student directory accessed yesterday
showed a student named Bo Guagua enrolled to study law and
graduate in 2016. That student listed Bo Kuangyi as the name he
preferred to be known by. A 2009 article by the Southern Weekend
 newspaper  cited the younger Bo as saying Bo Kuangyi was a name
his grandfather had given him.  E-mails sent to Bo Guagua’s address given on Columbia’s
website weren’t responded to. The university said in an e-mailed
reply to questions that under applicable law and as a matter of
university policy it doesn’t comment on its applicants and
students.  Murder Conviction  A charismatic former party secretary of Chongqing,  Bo Xilai 
was charged with corruption, abuse of power and accepting an
“extremely huge” amount of bribes this month in the Communist
Party’s most serious political scandal since the 1989 Tiananmen
Square protests. His wife, Gu Kailai, was convicted last August
of murdering a British businessman Neil Heywood.  Bo Guagua attended Britain’s elite Harrow School and Oxford
University, fueling speculation about the family’s wealth. Last
year he graduated with a master’s degree in public policy from
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government,
university records show.  The son of one of the original revolutionaries who founded
Communist  China , Bo Xilai is part of the so-called princeling
class whose families are tied together through decades of shared
experiences, alliances and patronage. His extended family built
a fortune of at least $136 million, Bloomberg reported in April
2012.  Seeking to dispel claims that he lived an extravagant
lifestyle, Bo Guagua said his education was funded by
scholarships and his mother’s savings, according to an April
2012 statement published in the Harvard Crimson student
newspaper.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  