-- Comcast’s NBC Said to Reach $2.1 Billion in Ad Contracts
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-30T21:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/comcast-s-nbc-said-to-reach-2-1-billion-in-ad-contracts.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC broadcast
network reached $2.1 billion in advertising commitments for the
TV season starting in September, about 17 percent more than a
year earlier, a person with knowledge of the contracts said.  The commitments amount to more than 80 percent of NBC’s ad
inventory for the season, said the person, who sought anonymity
because the contracts are private. Ad rates on average rose 7
percent to 8 percent from a year ago, the person said.  For the first time, NBC’s so-called upfront advertising
commitments were negotiated alongside sister cable networks,
including USA, the person said. The  company  airs the Winter
Olympics in Sochi,  Russia , from Feb. 6 to Feb. 23 on NBC and
several of its cable outlets.  The big draws this year for NBC are “The Voice” and
“Sunday Night Football,” as well as the new programs “The
Michael J. Fox Show” and “The Blacklist,” the person said.  The portfolio approach resulted in longer negotiations than
CBS, Fox and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC. The total for NBC is
separate from the cable and digital operations, the person said.  NBC’s commitments met the estimate of Jaison Blair, an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York .  Last year, NBC negotiated about $1.8 billion in advance
commitments for about 80 percent of its inventory, with rate
increases averaging 5 percent to 6 percent, the person said.  Fox Sales  Fox broadcast network, part of  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ,
garnered $1.75 billion in advance commitments, about 10 percent
less than a year earlier due to lower ratings, a person said in
June. The contracts represent about 80 percent of its inventory.
Fox airs 15 hours a week of prime-time shows compared with 22
hours at  CBS (CBS)  Corp.’s network, ABC and NBC.  CBS, the most-watched U.S. TV network, neared $2.7 billion
in upfront ad commitments, representing potentially 70 percent
to 80 percent of its inventory, a person with knowledge of the
situation said last month. The network was averaging 7.5 percent
to 8.5 percent higher rates, the person said.  ABC recently completed advance sales for the next TV
seeason, according to a person with knowledge of the situation
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The network is
averaging 7 percent to 8 percent higher rates, said the person,
who declined to discuss other details.  NBCUniversal’s upfront commitments may be discussed when
Comcast reports second-quarter results tomorrow. Comcast, based
in Philadelphia, plans to hold a conference call to discuss
results at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable system, fell 1.6 percent to
$42.71 at the close in New York. The shares have climbed 14
percent this year. NBC’s upfront commitments were reported
earlier by the  Los Angeles  Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  