-- Consumer Confidence Index in U.S. Fell to 80.3 in July
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-07-30T17:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/consumer-confidence-index-in-u-s-decreased-to-80-3-in-july.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined in July from a five-year high as higher borrowing costs
and gasoline prices tempered Americans’ outlook for the economy,
even as their assessment of current conditions improved.  The Conference Board’s  index  decreased to 80.3, the second-highest level since January 2008, from a revised 82.1 the prior
month, the New York-based private research group said today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists  called  for a
reading of 81.3. Another report showed home prices rose in May
by the most in more than seven years.  While consumers’ outlook dimmed, a measure of their views
of current conditions rose to a five-year high as employers
stepped up hiring, and more Americans said they planned to buy
homes, cars and appliances.  “If you ask someone how things are right now, they’re all
saying it’s better to an extent they haven’t in quite some
time,” said Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance
Macro Research LLC in  New York , whose forecast of 80.5 was
closest in the Bloomberg survey. “The labor situation is
improving and consumers have more intentions to buy major things
like homes and autos. To me, that’s good news.”  Stocks climbed as companies from Eastman Chemical Co. to
Herbalife Ltd. Raised their forecasts for full-year profit and
investors awaited results from the  Federal Reserve ’s two-day
meeting that ends tomorrow. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 0.2 percent to 1,688.49 at 1:02 p.m. in New York.  Home Prices  The housing market gained momentum in May, another report
showed today. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in
20 cities climbed 12.2 percent from May 2012, the biggest 12-month gain since March 2006, after advancing 12.1 percent a
month earlier, a report showed today in New York. The median
projection in a Bloomberg survey called for a 12.4 percent
increase.  Historically low borrowing costs and an improving job
market are boosting demand for residential property and driving
prices up. The rise in home values is also bolstering household
finances, which may spur  consumer spending , the largest part of
the  U.S. economy .  “We continue to look forward to upward momentum” in the
housing market, said  Anika Khan , a senior economist at  Wells
Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , a subsidiary
of the largest U.S. mortgage lender.  Improving consumer confidence is “a big factor in bringing
buyers back into the housing market,” Daniel Fulton, chief
executive officer of  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , said in a July 26
conference call.  More Timber  The U.S. real-estate investment trust that manages 20.6
million acres of timberlands in  North America  is  poised  to
increase revenue by 16 percent this year, analysts estimate. The
lumber supplier expects both pricing and domestic log activity
to pick up.  While housing will help the economy advance in the second
half of this year, some global markets continue to struggle.
Most Chinese provinces reported first-half growth below annual
targets that in some instances were already lower than last
year’s goals, underscoring the breadth of the nation’s slowdown.  Seventeen of 30 provinces and provincial-level cities said
January-to-June expansion trailed 2013 targets, compared with 14
of 31 in last year’s first half, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Estimates for U.S.  consumer confidence  ranged from 77 to
85.5 in the Bloomberg survey of 75 economists. The measure
averaged 53.7 during the recession that ended in June 2009.  Confidence Measures  The figures follow the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final  index  of consumer sentiment, which rose to the
highest level in six years as Americans’ views of their finances
improved. Bloomberg’s  Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index matched its highest
level in more than five years during the week ended July 21.  The Conference Board’s measure of  expectations  for the next
six months decreased to 84.7 from 91.1. The gauge of  present
conditions  improved to 73.6 this month, the highest since May
2008, from 68.7 in June.  More Americans said jobs are  currently plentiful  -- 12.2
percent in July, the most since September 2008, compared with
11.3 percent a month earlier.  Buying plans also improved, helped in part by the pickup in
housing. The share of people who expect to purchase a major
appliance rose to 50, the highest on record. The most Americans
in nine months said they planned to buy an automobile, while
home-buying plans were the strongest since November.  Labor Market  An improved labor market has helped boost confidence levels
that plunged during the biggest recession since the end of World
War II. Employment climbed by 202,000 a month on average in the
first six months of this year, up from 180,000 in the second
half of 2012, Labor Department data show.  Fed officials, who meet today and tomorrow, forecast in
June that the jobless rate will fall to 6.5 percent to 6.8
percent in the fourth quarter of 2014. Unemployment in June was
7.6 percent.  Job gains, along with cheaper borrowing costs, are
emboldening consumers to consider large purchases such as
vehicles and homes. New cars and trucks sold in June at the
fastest pace since 2007, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  A rebound in housing helped move trucks off dealer lots as
sales of new homes rose last month to the highest level in five
years, indicating stronger residential construction is spreading
throughout the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  