-- Soybeans Fall to 17-Month Low as Rain Aiding Crop; Grains Rally
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-30T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/corn-recovers-as-34-month-low-attracts-investors-soybeans-drop.html
Soybeans fell to the lowest since
January 2012, as rain in the Midwest and more forecast for
August boosted U.S. yield potential. Wheat and corn futures rose
on speculation that demand will improve after prices slid.  Some fields from  Kansas  to Illinois received as much as 2
inches (5.1 centimeters) of  rain  in the past 24 hours, boosting
soybean crops after the area  received  as little as 25 percent of
normal precipitation since June 30, government data show. Rain
may relieve stress in dry fields from Nebraska to Wisconsin
beginning Aug. 1, World Weather Inc. said in a report today.  “Concerns about dry soils are easing,” Ben Buckner, a
market analyst for  AgResource Co.  in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “The overall weather can’t get any better
for soybean yield potential.”  Soybean futures for delivery in November dropped 1.4
percent to close at $12.03 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after touching $12, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Jan. 31, 2012.  Soybeans have fallen 15 percent this year compared with a
32 percent drop in corn as the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
forecast domestic production of both crops would rise to records
after drought damaged reduced harvests last year.  March soybean futures rose to a premium of 2.56 times more
than March corn futures on July 24, the highest for the March
continuation contract since June 2010, exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “A lot of today’s selling in soybeans was profit taking on
the spread,” Buckner said. “There was too much weather premium
in soybeans relative to corn.”  Grains Rally  Wheat futures rose on speculation that U.S. grain supplies
are becoming more competitive with other exporting nations,
Buckner said.  Japan , the largest buyer of U.S. wheat, agreed to resume
purchasing the western-white variety, lifting a two-month ban
imposed after the discovery of an unapproved gene-altered crop
in  Oregon . Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat importer, is
tendering for the grain today, its fourth state purchase this
month.  China  also has stepped up acquisitions of U.S. supplies
as prices in Chicago slumped to a 13-month low.  “There is a little bit of a bullish case you can make for
wheat, in terms of extra demand coming on,”  Dave Norris , an
independent grain broker in Harrogate,  England , said in a
telephone interview today. “Japan, Egypt and China are a bit
supportive.”  Wheat futures for delivery in September advanced 0.6
percent to $6.5525 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest gain since
July 19.  Corn futures for delivery in December increased 0.9 percent
to $4.775 a bushel in Chicago, halting a six-session, 5.5
percent slide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  