-- Critics Are Wrong About the Medicare Payment Board
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-07-30T14:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/critics-are-wrong-about-the-medicare-payment-board.html
For Medicare, this has been a summer
of good and bad news. On one hand, the program’s costs continue
to rise remarkably slowly. So far this fiscal year, they have
gone up by only 2.7 percent in nominal terms, the Congressional
Budget Office  reports .  On the other hand, opposition to the Independent Payment
Advisory Board -- created as part of the Affordable Care Act --
continues to mount. And opponents continue to mischaracterize
the whole point of the board.  What they seem not to understand is that the board is
needed mostly so that that Medicare can continue to encourage
slower growth in costs.  One reason costs have been rising so slowly is that systems
for paying hospitals and doctors are changing. We’re moving away
from the old fee-for-service plan and toward paying for value in
health care -- and we’re making the shift more rapidly than
expected.  Redesigning the payment system is a fundamentally different
approach to containing costs. The old way was to simply slash
the amounts that Medicare pays for services. And here is where
the criticism of the Independent Payment Advisory Board becomes
somewhat Orwellian.  The point of having such a board -- and here I can perhaps
speak with some authority, as I was present at the creation --
is to create a process for tweaking our evolving payment system
in response to incoming data and experience, a process that is
more facile and dynamic than turning to Congress for
legislation.  Medicare Experiments  In particular, as Medicare experiments with accountable
care organizations, bundled payments and other new strategies,
the agency will inevitably need to make adjustments. Questions
will come up, such as: How should the payments to doctors,
hospitals and other providers be changed to reflect what is
learned about the quality of care they provide? How much should
the penalties or bonuses be? Is it better to have hospitals face
all the costs associated with patient (as in an accountable care
organization) or only the costs incurred during a specific
episode of care (as in bundled payments)?  As even preliminary answers come in, the Independent
Payment Advisory Board is supposed to make the adjustments,
allowing Medicare to move as smoothly and quickly as possible
toward an improved system for rewarding value in health care.
Congress could never act so nimbly.  With that in mind, consider the  recent attack  on the
Independent Payment Advisory Board in the Wall Street Journal by
Howard Dean, the former chairman of the Democratic National
Committee. His critique begins by claiming that the board “is
essentially a health-care rationing body,” even though the
legislation specifically states that the board is not allowed to
make any recommendations that would ration care.  He goes on to argue that the board would use a bureaucratic
rate-setting process to bluntly lower payments. Which is exactly
what Congress does today. The board, in contrast, is mostly
meant to navigate -- outside the political realm -- the two-steps-forward and one-step-back process of testing new payment
structures.  Dean correctly notes that the board is not expected to save
money over the medium term. This is not, as he implies, because
it would engage in ham-fisted rate-setting. It is because the
board is not meant to act until Medicare costs grow more rapidly
than certain thresholds. The present slowdown makes it
increasingly unlikely that cost growth will exceed those
thresholds over the coming decade.  Care Rationale  Next, Dean argues that “If Medicare is to have a secure
future, we have to move away from fee-for-service medicine,
which is all about incentives to spend more, and has no
incentives in the system to keep patients healthy.” Bravo! But
what he fails to grasp is that the core rationale for the board
is exactly to accomplish this shift.  Dean seems to think that Congress will be perfectly able to
fine-tune Medicare’s shift away from fee-for-service payment,
despite there being nothing in its 50-year record of legislating
on Medicare to support such a belief.  The slowdown in health-care costs is a promising sign that
efforts to move away from fee-for-service are working. But it’s
still early in the game, and the next steps, taken in response
to lessons learned, will need to be careful ones. That’s why the
Independent Payment Advisory Board was created, and why it
should not be eliminated.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 