-- Crude Drops to Three-Week Low as U.S. Growth May Slow
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-30T19:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/crude-drops-to-three-week-low-as-u-s-growth-may-slow.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to the lowest level in almost four weeks before a government
report that may show slowing U.S. economic growth.  Futures trimmed a monthly advance that would be the biggest
since August. U.S. gross domestic product probably expanded at a
1 percent annualized rate in the second quarter, compared with
1.8 percent in the previous three months, according to a
Bloomberg survey before data are released tomorrow. Confidence
among U.S. consumers declined more than forecast in July. WTI’s
discount to Brent widened to a three-week high.  “There is concern about the  U.S. economy ,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “People are expecting some of the
numbers this week to not be so great, and are getting very
nervous about demand in the second half of the year.”  WTI for September delivery declined $1.47, or 1.4 percent,
to $103.08 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest settlement since July 3. The volume of all futures traded
was 5.9 percent below the 100-day average for the time of day at
2:37 p.m. Prices are up 6.8 percent in July, set for a second
monthly gain.  Brent for September settlement slid 54 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $106.91 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 30 percent below the 100-day
average. The European benchmark’s premium over WTI rose to
$3.83, the widest since July 9. WTI rose above Brent on July 19
for the first time since 2010.  Spread Narrows  The gap between the two benchmarks has narrowed from more
than $23 earlier this year as improved pipeline networks and the
use of rail links eased a North American supply glut created by
rising production of crude from shale formations.  “People are worried about tomorrow’s GDP number and oil
demand,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the Price
Futures Group in  Chicago . “We’ve had a pretty big rally. There
is concern about whether these  price levels  are sustainable.”  The Commerce Department will release its report on second-quarter GDP tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . Investors are
watching to see whether Federal Reserve policy makers, who
started a two-day meeting today, will begin reducing the central
bank’s monthly bond buying and what form any further stimulus
will take.  “You are definitely seeing some profit-taking ahead of
tomorrow’s GDP,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist
at commodities trading firm Iitrader.com in Chicago. “The bears
are in control now.”  Consumer Confidence  The Conference Board’s  index  of U.S.  consumer confidence 
decreased to 80.3 in July from 82.1 a month earlier, data from
the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median projection in a Bloomberg survey was 81.3.  The Labor Department is scheduled to report on U.S.
unemployment Aug. 2. The  rate  stayed at 7.6 percent in June.
Unemployment has been above 7 percent since November 2008.  “People are looking at macro pictures here,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in Houston. “We
saw consumer confidence is lagging.”  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably fell by 2.45 million barrels
last week to 361.7 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s
Energy Information Administration report.  Gasoline Inventories  Gasoline inventories dropped by 1.5 million barrels and
distillates rose by 450,000, according to the survey.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in Washington is due to
release separate inventory data after 4:30 p.m. local time
today. The industry group collects information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm, for its weekly
survey.  The Bloomberg survey also showed that refineries may have
reduced their operation rates by 0.2 percentage point. The
utilization rate dropped to 92.3 percent in the week ended July
19, the EIA said last week.  “The fear is that refinery runs are going to be cut
back,” Larry said.  Crude also slid as the dollar strengthened against its
rivals, reducing oil’s investment appeal. The Bloomberg U.S.
Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against 10 leading
currencies, gained as much as 0.4 percent.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 22.3 percent, compared with 21.2 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 493,593
contracts as of 2:40 p.m. It totaled 428,816 contracts
yesterday, 35 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  