-- CSN Is Only Hope for ThyssenKrupp Americas, Nucor Says
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-07-30T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/csn-is-sole-bidder-for-thyssenkrupp-americas-nucor-says.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s only hope to sell
its unprofitable Americas steelmaking unit is  Brazil ’s  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , the chairman of former bidder  Nucor
Corp. (NUE)  said.  “We’re out,  U.S. Steel (X)  is out, Mittal and Nippon are
out,” Nucor’s Dan DiMicco said in a July 29 interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York, referring to a joint offer
made by Luxembourg’s ArcelorMittal and Japan’s  Nippon Steel &
Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401)  The Brazilian company, known as CSN, “is
their only hope, and they can’t get that deal done,” DiMicco
said.  ThyssenKrupp has spent more than a year trying to dispose
of the unprofitable Americas plants. Chief Executive Officer
 Heinrich Hiesinger  is selling them as waning demand from the
auto and construction industries and competition from China
weakens prices and squeeze profit margins. The Wall Street
Journal reported July 25 that negotiations with CSN, Brazil’s
third-largest steelmaker, had failed.  ThyssenKrupp is in “advanced negotiations with a leading
bidder on the disposal of Steel Americas,” Stefan Ettwig, a
spokesman for the Essen, Germany-based company, said by phone
yesterday. “We are also in talks with other interested
parties.”  CSN was the leading bidder for the unit, people with
knowledge of the matter said in May. ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s
largest steelmaker, will have to accept less than the $3 billion
it was said to be seeking in May for a unit with a book value of
3.4 billion euros ($4.5 billion), DiMicco said. ThyssenKrupp
recorded a 3.6 billion-euro writedown on the unit in December
and a 683 million-euro writedown in May.  “If they could get a billion and a half, they’d do that
deal,” said DiMicco.  Waning Demand  U.S. Steel Corp., ArcelorMittal and Sao Paulo-based CSN
declined to comment. CSN fell 5.9 percent to 6.67 reais in  Sao
Paulo  yesterday, the biggest decline since April 2.  ThyssenKrupp owns 73 percent of a steel plant in the state
of  Rio de Janeiro . Vale SA, the world’s largest  iron-ore 
producer and a supplier to the plant, owns the rest. The German
company built the Brazilian facility, with a capacity of 5
million metric tons a year to supply steel slabs to its mills in
Alabama and Germany.  ThyssenKrupp intended to produce low-cost slabs in Brazil
and sell flat carbon steel from its U.S. plant for high prices.
Since the plans were made, labor costs in Brazil increased, the
country’s currency appreciated against the dollar and iron-ore
prices rose.  Missing Parts  Iron ore rose as high as $158.90 a metric ton in February
from a 2010 low of $117.60, according to data compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd., as Vale, Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest exporters, scrapped a 40-year custom
of pricing supplies in 12-month periods and replaced it with
quarterly contracts. The price, which is based on transactions
in the port of Tianjin, China, has since fallen to $130.90.  DiMicco, the 63-year-old former chief executive officer of
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Nucor, compared ThyssenKrupp’s
U.S. steel plant to a sports car with missing parts.  “It’s a Ferrari all right, without the engine, without the
wheels, without the brakes,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  