-- Cucumber Beer-Maker Treatt Toasts Investor Exit With Plant Spree
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-30T05:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/cucumber-beer-maker-treatt-toasts-investor-exit-with-plant-spree.html
Treatt Plc (TET) , the U.K. supplier of
mango oil to the Body Shop, is considering the biggest
investment splurge in its 127-year history as Chief Executive
Officer Daemmon Reeve seeks to unshackle the company from family
owned traditions.  The producer of flavors and fragrances will seek investor
backing for a new flagship site at its Bury St. Edmunds, England
headquarters that in a “worst-case” scenario will cost 12
million pounds ($18 million), Finance Director Richard Hope said
in an interview. Six plants on the site could be merged and
equipment dating back to the 1970s replaced, he said.  The potential investment marks a new era for Treatt after
the exit of Hugo Bovill, whose family had run and owned a stake
in the company since 1924. The Bovill family sold their combined
29.07 percent stake on July 10 to a group of institutional
investors, removing the threat of an outright takeover and
unleashing pent-up growth plans.  “Hugo would never have done this: it would have been -- in
his mind -- gambling the shop,” Hope said during the interview
conducted in Reeve’s office, where wafts of orange oil from
nearby distillers permeate the air. “His approach was take the
dividend and keep going as you are. But in the end you die like
that.”  The influx of new investors means Treatt will undertake a
formal consultation process for their U.K. modernization plan,
Hope said.  Takeover Averted  Treatt, established as an ingredients trader in 1886,
initially attracted interest from suitors in a sale process
advised by  Grant Thornton . Yet the Bovill family and ally
Bjornstad and Jendal A/S of Norway opted to sell holdings
topping 30 percent to the funds.  Their exit follows Hugo Bovill’s replacement as CEO and a
disagreement over strategy that together thrust the company into
the investor limelight against a backdrop of heightened food-ingredient acquisitions by peers including  Symrise AG (SY1)  and
 Frutarom Industries Ltd. (FRUT)   Treatt has now increased the number of investor roadshows
to three from one. Its shares jumped 16 percent on May 28 after
announcing that sales for the month touched a record and the
third quarter was looking “very strong.” It was a timely jump
in value that left any potential acquirer facing a resurgent
market value of 60 million pounds after a rise of about 50
percent in Treatt shares this year.  Based on average premiums and a share price hovering close
to 600 pence, buyers would have needed to bid 800 pence to get
negotiations going, and there are other private companies that
are easier targets, Hope said.  New Look  Reeve, appointed CEO in August 2012, is bringing a new look
to the company. His ascension came after an overhaul of U.S.
operations, which he’s replicating in the U.K., now Treatt’s
most profitable operation.  With a new CEO, “2013 isn’t the year to disappoint,” Hope
said.  Though the planned investment to modernize British
operations is a “big number” for Treatt, compared to the 5.5
million pounds that analysts expect, it wouldn’t be “ball
breaking,” said Hope, who has been at the company for 10 years.
Accompanying the new plant are improvements in pricing, services
and efficiency.  “We’ve not been good at business retention in citrus oil,
it’s been akin to having a bath with the plug open,” said Hope.
“We’re quite good at winning new business, but the next year
the business would go away again on price and not managing the
customer properly.”  That’s all changing with a greater emphasis on innovation
and tapping into new trends, such as fruit-flavored beers, tea-laced drinks, flavored milkshakes and low-calorie alcoholic
beverages, trends that tend to start in U.S. before filtering to
 Europe .  IFF, Firminech Hires  Treatt, which has hired executives from  International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (IFF)  and closely held Firminech, “hasn’t
even scratched the surface” of the beverage market, according
to Hope. It supplies Blue Moon Brewing Co. and provides the
cucumber essence in Cigar City Brewing’s Cucumber Saison ale,
yet doesn’t disclose the majority of its mainstream clients that
make everyday products found on supermarket shelves.  Profit is already rising, and Hope said he’s confident
about the 6 million pounds in pretax profit estimated for this
year, rising to 6.75 million pounds next year.  “Fragrance gets hit when the economy turns, especially at
the high end, but we don’t care where people eat and drink our
ingredients at the Ritz, or through Lidl, it doesn’t make any
difference as it’s still got a Treatt ingredient,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at  
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  