-- TD Bank to Take Quarterly Charge for Weather-Related Claims
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-30T20:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/td-bank-to-take-third-quarter-charge-for-weather-related-expense.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s
second-largest lender, expects a third-quarter loss in its
insurance division of as much as C$290 million ($282.6 million)
due to severe weather claims.  TD will take a charge of about C$418 million, or 45 cents a
share, for flood-related costs in Alberta and Toronto and
increased general insurance claims, the Toronto-based lender
said today in a statement.  There will be a “modest decline” in insurance earnings
from the 2012 level of C$600 million, TD said in the statement.
Without the charges, third-quarter insurance earnings were
expected to be C$130 million to C$180 million, the bank said.  “We think this is a good business,” Chief Executive
Officer Ed Clark, 65, said in a conference call. “But is it
absolutely essential to our franchise? Probably not. Are we a
better bank because we have this? Yes.”  TD slipped 1.9 percent to C$87.22 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
most in 13 months. The shares have advanced 4.1 percent this
year, the third-best  performer  on the eight-company Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  The flooding in  Alberta  on June 20 and in Toronto on July 8
will have an impact of C$125 million after reinsurance from car,
home, and evacuation claims. TD also set aside C$93 million to
cover loan losses in its real estate portfolio and about C$292
million in claims reserves for its general insurance business.  ‘Significant Challenges’  “We did not expect these charges to be as large,” Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said in a
note to clients. TD Bank relies on its insurance unit for 8
percent of total earnings, he said.  The  insurance industry  in Canada is facing “significant
challenges” from catastrophic events related to weather change
and fraudulent auto insurance claims in Ontario, Clark said. TD
will make “tweaks” to its property and casualty underwriting
rather than exiting the business, he said.  All of the banks will report some negative impact from this
summer’s severe weather,  Robert Sedran , an analyst at  CIBC World
Markets  in Toronto, said in a note to clients. TD has the
largest exposure to the auto insurance market so other lenders
will face limited expenses for those products, he said.  Ontario reformed insurance regulations to offer drivers
basic auto insurance to help lower premiums in 2009.  The RBC insurance unit’s losses from flooding in Alberta
and Ontario are “not material,” Tanis Feasby, spokeswoman for
the lender, said in an email statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  