-- Delay of U.S. Health law Mandate to Cost $12 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-30T19:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/delay-of-u-s-health-law-mandate-to-cost-12-billion.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
give employers a year before they’re required to provide health
insurance for workers will cost taxpayers $12 billion, the
 Congressional Budget Office  said.  The health law will now cost $1.375 trillion through 2023,
an increase of $12 billion since May, the CBO said in a letter
to members of Congress. The government will lose $10 billion in
penalties that companies would have paid next year for not
providing employee health plans, and taxpayers will spend $3
billion more on subsidies for workers who instead will buy
coverage in new marketplaces called exchanges.  The White House announced the delay on July 2, in response
to a lobbying effort from business groups. The Affordable Care
Act requires companies with 50 or more workers to offer health
insurance to their workers or pay fines of as much as $3,000 per
employee if they don’t. Now, companies don’t have to provide
coverage until 2015.  “Some large employers that would have offered health
insurance coverage to their employees in 2014 will no longer do
so as a result of the one-year delay of penalties for those that
do not offer affordable coverage,”  Douglas Elmendorf , the
director of the CBO, wrote in the letter.  The costs of the delay were offset by about $1 billion
because of “small changes,” CBO said, including an increase in
income tax collections from people who don’t get coverage at
work. The value of employer-provided health insurance isn’t
taxed, while workers who get higher pay to buy insurance on
their own would have to pay income tax on that compensation.  Even with the mandate’s delay, the health law is projected
to reduce the deficit, the CBO said, because of lower Medicare
spending and other provisions that offset the cost of new
coverage. The CBO said May 15 that repealing the law would cost
the federal government $109 billion, a figure it didn’t update
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  