-- Detroit Retirees Say Bankruptcy Panel Must Be Independent
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-30T22:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/detroit-retirees-say-bankruptcy-panel-must-be-independent.html
Detroit  should be barred from any
role in setting up a committee to represent retired public
employees who may face benefit cuts in the city’s $18 billion
bankruptcy, two groups of ex-municipal workers said.  The organizations of retired police officers, firefighters
and general workers also said in a court filing they oppose
allowing any current city employees or union officials to sit on
the proposed retiree committee. When the city filed bankruptcy
it asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes to authorize the
U.S. Trustee to establish a committee that would represent the
interests of about 20,000 retired city employees.  “The unions will face a conflict of interest were they to
attempt to represent both the interests of the their members,
who may desire favorable terms for their continued employment
and future benefits, and their former members, retirees, who are
concerned with their current vested retirement benefits,” the
groups said in the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit.  Under Chapter 9 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which governs
municipal bankruptcies, unsecured creditors, such as retirees or
unsecured bondholders, don’t automatically have a right to form
a committee. In a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, which is used by
companies, a committee is usually formed to represent unsecured
creditors.  Detroit emergency manager Kevyn Orr said in an interview
last week that a retiree committee is needed because, unlike
union members or bond investors, the former workers don’t have a
strong organization backing them. He said the other groups don’t
need a court-approved committee to help them.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  New York  at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  