-- Detroit Bankruptcy Judge Proposes March 1 Plan Deadline
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-30T19:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/detroit-bankruptcy-judge-proposes-march-1-plan-deadline.html
Detroit ’s plan to cut its
$18 billion in debt would be due March 1 if the city survives an
effort by creditors to throw it out of bankruptcy, according to
a schedule proposed by the judge in the case.  The proposed timetable filed today by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Steven Rhodes sets the trial over Detroit’s eligibility to be in
bankruptcy for October, earlier than the city’s emergency
manager, Kevyn Orr, has suggested. He has proposed filing
pretrial briefs on the issue in November.  After today’s proposal was reported, Detroit limited-tax
general obligations maturing in April 2014 traded at about 96
cents on the dollar, the lowest since February, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The most debt exchanged hands since
March 2012. Ambac Assurance Corp. insures the securities. Prices
plunged on similar bonds that are due in April 2018, according
to the data.  Orr has said he wants to get Detroit out of bankruptcy by
September 2014, the same month he could be removed from his post
by the city council. He and  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder , who
appointed him, both said in interviews last week that their
deadline would be difficult to meet.  “Based on what’s happened in other large Chapter 9 cases,
it can take several months or maybe even over a year just to
resolve eligibility questions,” said Patrick Darby, a
bankruptcy attorney in Birmingham,  Alabama , at Bradley Arant
Rose & White LLP who represents Jefferson County.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on July
18 after decades of decline left it unable to pay its debts and
provide needed services. Public pension funds have said the
filing, which could bring cuts in benefits, violated state law.  The judge said he will solicit comments on his proposed
timetable at an Aug. 2 hearing.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  