-- Deutsche Bank’s Krause Defends Off-Balance-Sheet Lending Policy
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-07-30T12:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/deutsche-bank-s-krause-defends-off-balance-sheet-lending-policy.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Financial
Officer  Stefan Krause  defended issuing off-balance-sheet loans
to clients, saying the practice is common among securities
firms.  The transactions, which Bloomberg News first reported on
July 11, are “offered by banks internationally as part of
normal course of business,” Krause said on a call with analysts
today. The impact of the loans is “negligible” for Deutsche
Bank’s capital ratios and the portfolio has never been
“material” since 2008, said Krause, without elaborating.  Deutsche Bank, continental Europe’s biggest bank, is
seeking to reassure stakeholders potential losses on the
transactions don’t pose a threat amid concern the accounting
practice obscures the deals’ continuing risk. The loans for
clients that have included Italy’s bailed-out lender  Banca Monte
dei Paschi di Siena SpA  and  Banco do Brasil SA  were among 395.5
billion euros ($524 billion) in assets that Deutsche Bank
excluded from its balance sheet in the first quarter by
offsetting them with equivalent liabilities, a person with
direct knowledge of the practice told Bloomberg News.  “Any hiding of loans to faltering banks would be
particularly explosive as Deutsche Bank already has the highest
debt ratio among major banks,” German Green Party member
 Gerhard Schick , also a member of the Bundestag finance
committee, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “These
deals aren’t only dangerous for investors, but also for the
taxpayers, who would have to stand in in the case of financial
difficulties because only little liable capital is available.
The public has an interest to quickly get the results.”  Off-Book  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, reported a 49 percent
decline in second-quarter profit today, partly due to higher
provisions for legal expenses. Krause, 50, said the company will
cut assets by 250 billion euros “over time” to help reduce the
bank’s leverage.  The bank’s balance sheet was 1.58 trillion euros at the end
of June, when taking into account adjusted assets and the
standards of  Europe ’s latest capital requirements. Under
international financial reporting standards, or IFRS, total
assets were 1.9 trillion euros. The amount of offset assets that
aren’t included in the balance sheet fell to 322 billion euros
at the end of June, representing 17 percent of the reported
total.  Deutsche Bank relied on what it called “no-balance-sheet
usage” to keep loans off its books, documents for the Monte
Paschi and state-controlled Banco do Brasil deals show.  ‘Enhanced Repos’  In a typical secured borrowing, a bank lends cash it
already has, recording the outlay as an asset on its balance
sheet. In exchange, it gets collateral that it holds until the
loan is repaid. In the transactions the bank also dubbed
“enhanced repos,” Deutsche Bank was able to sell the
collateral, Krause said today, and settles them with cash.
Deutsche Bank hedges the “risk inherent in the collateral by
selling a credit default swap,” he said.  The sale of securities linked to the collateral in effect
moves the risk that the loan wouldn’t be repaid onto its trading
book and away from public scrutiny, according to accountants who
reviewed the documents for  Bloomberg News .  Clients benefit by sharing in the proceeds from the CDS
sales and by paying “reduced” interest on the borrowings,
according to Krause. Under IFRS rule IAS 32, which requires
certain financial instruments to cancel each other out should
obligations be settled simultaneously or net throughout the life
of the deal, Deutsche Bank “has the obligation to account for
the net receivable or payable,” Krause said.  Total netted trading liabilities, which include enhanced
repos, are about 0.5 percent of the bank’s total net trading
liabilities, Krause said.  The loan documents and other published information don’t
show how Deutsche Bank’s bets fared or whether regulators were
aware of the accounting.  Sven Gebauer, a spokesman for German financial regulator
Bafin in  Frankfurt , said confidentiality prevented him from
commenting on specific companies or transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  