-- Dollar Set for Monthly Loss Before FOMC; Aussie Near 3-Year Low
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-31T06:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/dollar-heads-for-monthly-loss-against-most-peers-before-fomc.html
The dollar is set to close out a
monthly loss against most of its major peers as investors await
the  Federal Reserve ’s policy statement today for signals on when
it may curb bond buying that tends to debase the currency.  The dollar was 0.3 percent from a six-week low against the
euro before U.S. data forecast to show slowing growth in gross
domestic product and employment. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said earlier this month that any reduction in stimulus would
depend on the economy’s performance. The pound traded near the
lowest in four months against the euro before policy decisions
from the  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  tomorrow.
 Australia ’s dollar approached its lowest in almost three years.  “The market has been looking for some kind of a
continuation of the cautiousness that Chairman Bernanke has been
signaling over the last two weeks in the statement itself,”
 Valentin Marinov , head of European Group-of-10 currency strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “ From that point of view, I guess we may be close
to the lows” for the dollar, he said.  The greenback slipped 0.1 percent to 97.89 yen as of 7:49
a.m. in London from yesterday, set for a 1.3 percent monthly
decline. It traded at $1.3244 per euro from $1.3263 yesterday,
when it touched $1.3302, the weakest since June 20. The shared
currency fell 0.3 percent to 129.67 yen from 130.01. For the
month, the euro was poised for a 0.5 percent climb versus the
yen and 1.8 percent advance against the  U.S. dollar .  The pound slid 0.1 percent to 87.119 pence per euro after
reaching 87.127, the weakest since March 13. Sterling slipped
0.2 percent to $1.5205 from yesterday, when it dropped 0.7
percent.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, was at 1,028.23 from 1,026.81
yesterday. It dropped to 1,021.21 on July 29, the weakest since
June 19.  Hiring Slows  U.S. gross domestic product probably grew at a 1 percent
annualized rate from April through June, compared with 1.8
percent in the previous three months, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
Commerce Department data today.  A separate poll forecast that a report from the ADP
Research Institute today will show employers added 180,000 jobs
this month, less than the 188,000 in June.  Bernanke said on June 19 that policy makers would taper
their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this year and end it
around mid-2014 if the economy performed in line with their
expectations. He told lawmakers on July 17 that the central
bank’s asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course,”
and could be reduced or expanded as economic conditions warrant.  ‘Message Adjustment’  “The Fed has done a lot of message adjustment in the last
month, and there is an argument that it has done enough,” Greg Gibbs, a Singapore-based senior currency strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, wrote in an e-mailed research note.
“Changing the key phrases in the FOMC statement may be reaching
too far in pre-setting its policy guide-path and trying to
manipulate market expectations,” he said, referring to the
 Federal Open Market Committee .  In  Europe , the Frankfurt-based ECB will leave its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 0.5 percent tomorrow, according to
all but one of more than 60 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
BOE will keep its bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds
($571 billion) and its key rate at a record low 0.5 percent,
separate surveys showed.  Forward Guidance  At the previous meeting of the BOE’s Monetary Policy
Committee, officials signaled that they would keep interest
rates at a record low for longer than investors had been
betting. The analysis of providing forward guidance to be
published in the Inflation Report on Aug. 7 will include an
assessment of intermediate thresholds.  In Europe, “forward guidance is in its infancy relative to
the U.S. but we expect it to put a cap on the respective
currencies versus the USD,”  Chris Walker , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Barclays Plc in London, wrote in reference to the
euro and pound.  Barclays entered a short euro-dollar trade with a target of
$1.28, according to a note to clients yesterday.  The euro has gained 0.6 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes of 10
developed-nation currencies. Sterling has fallen 1.4 percent
over the period.  Aussie Decline  The Aussie fell for a third day amid speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut borrowing costs next week.
Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday the inflation outlook
provided room for further policy easing, prompting a 1.6 percent
slide in the currency.  It lost 0.5 percent to 90.15 U.S. cents after dropping to
90.08 cents, the least since July 12 when it touched an almost
three-year low of 89.99.  Stevens is “very happy with a lower Australian dollar, and
I think he’s going to continue using that as a policy tool,”
 Chris Weston , the chief market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in
 Melbourne , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “August is
certainly a date that they’re going to cut.”  IG expects the South Pacific nation’s currency to drop to
85 cents in 12 months, according to Weston. The median estimate
of analysts in a Bloomberg survey is for 88 cents by the end of
June next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  