-- Donald Mulvihill, Goldman Manager Who Started Funds, Dies at 56
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/donald-mulvihill-goldman-manager-who-started-funds-dies-at-56.html
Donald J. Mulvihill, a  Goldman Sachs (GS) 
Group Inc. managing director who started the firm’s asset-management business in  Japan  and created tax-focused funds in
the U.S., has died. He was 56.  He died on July 19 at Loyola University Medical Center in
Maywood, Illinois, 15 months after being diagnosed with
leukemia, according to his wife, the former Jill Kane. A
resident of Glen Ellyn, Illinois, he retired from New York-based
Goldman Sachs on July 1.  In a 33-year career with Goldman, the fifth-biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets, Mulvihill became a specialist on pension and
retirement planning, introducing new investment products in the
U.S. and Japan.  “Don will be remembered not only for his commercial
contributions, but also for his commitment to our people,”
Timothy J. O’Neil and Eric S. Lane, co-heads of Goldman’s
 Investment Management  Division, wrote in a company e-mail on
July 19. “Don was known throughout the firm for his kindness
and thoughtfulness. He has been, and will continue to be, an
inspiration for us all.”  As president of Goldman Sachs Asset Management Japan Ltd.
from 1992 to 1997, he dealt first-hand with Japan’s “lost
decade” of recessions following the collapse of the nation’s
asset bubble in 1990.  In 1995, after “years haggling” with Japan’s finance
ministry, he won licenses for Goldman Sachs to operate
institutional portfolios and mutual funds under one roof,
according to a Forbes magazine article. Within two years,
Goldman Japan’s assets under management rose to $10 billion from
$1.5 billion, Forbes reported.  Customized Products  In a 1997 Bloomberg News interview in  Tokyo , Mulvihill said
two keys to the firm’s success in Japan were serving the brokers
who distributed funds and customizing funds for Japanese
investors.  “I think we’ve been creative in product design,” he said.
“We decided early on that Japanese investors would be more
likely to buy a fund that invested in foreign assets from a
foreign firm such as ourselves, rather than investing in
Japanese assets, so the first six funds we offered all invested
in foreign markets.”  The Goldman Sachs Da Vinci Fund was among the most
successful of the early products, he said.  Mulvihill returned to the U.S. in 1997 and became a
managing director, working in the firm’s  Chicago  and  New York 
offices, his wife said yesterday in an interview.  Defying Convention  As product manager for the bank’s tax-efficient investment
unit, he helped introduce funds including, in 2005, the  U.S.
Equity Dividend and Premium Fund , designed to generate cash for
retirees when equities were flat.  “Conventional ways of thinking say that when you turn 65,
you have to start loading up on bonds and getting out of the
stock market, but entering retirement you still have a very long
horizon and you need growth,” Mulvihill said, according to
 Money Management Executive , a trade publication.  Until 2008, Mulvihill also ran the Goldman Sachs  Structured
Tax Managed Equity Fund. (GCTAX)   His last job was co-chief investment officer of Goldman’s
Quantitative Investment Strategies group. He was responsible for
Customized Beta Strategies, which tailors investments to a
particular client’s appetite for risk.  Donald Joseph Mulvihill Jr. was born on Nov. 19, 1956, and
raised in Westchester,  Illinois , a suburb of Chicago. He was the
oldest of five children of Donald J. Mulvihill, a high school
principal in the Chicago public school system, and the former
Therese Buckley.  International Economics  He received a bachelor’s degree in economics and government
from the  University of Notre Dame  in 1978 and an MBA in finance
and international economics from the  University of Chicago  in
1982.  He began his career with Goldman Sachs in 1980 in Chicago,
moving to New York in 1985 to manage money-market and fixed-income portfolios and to London in 1991 to work on international
investment management, according to a biography prepared by the
bank.  Following 18 months in  London , he moved to Japan to lead
asset management operations.  Survivors include his wife of 27 years; their children,
Ruth, 21; Ellen, 20; and Daniel, 18; his sisters, Mary Ellen
O’Neill, Kathleen Walsh and Julie Loftus; and his brother,
Michael.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  