-- Drax First-Half Earnings Fall 22% After U.K. Starts Carbon Tax
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-30T07:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/drax-first-half-earnings-fall-22-after-u-k-starts-carbon-tax.html
Drax Group Plc (DRX) , operator of the
U.K.’s largest coal-fired power station, said first-half
earnings fell 22 percent following the introduction of a tax on
carbon emissions.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to 120 million pounds ($184 million) for the
six months ended June 30 from 154 million pounds a year earlier,
according to a statement today from the North Yorkshire-based
utility.  “We are investing significant capital this year and next
to transform our business, with earnings during this period
impacted by the increasing costs of carbon,” Dorothy Thompson,
chief executive officer of Drax, said in the statement. First-half capital investment reached 138 million pounds.  In a bid to boost investment in low-carbon power the U.K.
government on  April 1  introduced a tax on fossil fuels used in
the generation of electricity. The so-called carbon floor price
sets a minimum rate of 16 pounds a ton of carbon dioxide for
companies such as Drax that emit the polluting greenhouse gas.  The shares rose 2 percent to 644.50 pence as of 8:10 a.m.
in London. Drax is up 18 percent this year.  Drax plans to spend as much as 700 million pounds turning
three of the six units at its site in Selby to burn biomass by
2016. The first was converted in April and it plans to convert
the second to burn wood chips by the middle of next year and the
third in 2016. It spent 106 million pounds in the first half on
its biomass conversion program.  “As we move beyond this investment phase and replace
substantial quantities of coal with sustainable biomass, we are
confident that we will deliver attractive returns for our
shareholders,” Thompson said. The incentives the government
plans to offer low-carbon generators under its Electricity
Market Reform potentially provide “additional options to
support future unit conversions,” she said.  The government on June 27 published the proposed prices it
plans to pay low-carbon generators for their power under the
EMR. Electricity from biomass conversion may be eligible to
receive 105 pounds a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  