-- Health Management Credit Swaps Decline; WellPoint Issues Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-30T21:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/health-management-credit-swaps-fall-wellpoint-plans-bond-sale.html
Credit-default swaps tied to  Health
Management Associates Inc. (HMA)  fell to the lowest level in six years
as  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  said it agreed to acquire the
company.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  sold $1.25 billion in bonds.  Five-year credit swaps tied to Health Management tightened
35.1 basis points to a mid-price of 134.9 basis points as of
3:30 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by data
provider CMA, which is owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  The
contracts are at the lowest level since 2007.  Community Health , the second-largest U.S.  hospital chain ,
agreed to buy Naples, Florida-based Health Management for $3.9
billion in cash and stock.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk was little
changed as investors await the results from the  Federal
Reserve ’s two-day policy meeting.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.5 basis
point to 75.8 basis points at 4:40 p.m. in New York, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index is down 11.3 basis
points in July, heading for its first monthly decline since
April.  “The market is still sensitive to what the Fed says,”
Jody Lurie, a credit strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC,
said in a telephone interview from Philadelphia. “The initial
shock that corporates would drop because rates would rise
dramatically” has tempered slightly, she said.  Asset Purchases  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The Fed will maintain the pace of its bond buying when it
concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting
tomorrow, according to 54 economists in a July 18-22 Bloomberg
survey. The central bank will trim its monthly asset purchases
to $65 billion in September from $85 billion, according to half
the economists surveyed.  WellPoint, the second-biggest U.S. health insurer, sold
$650 million of 2.3 percent, five-year notes to yield 100 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $600 million of
5.1 percent bonds due in January 2044 at a spread of 145 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Spreads  WellPoint plans to tender for $600 million of debt, which
includes portions of six of its securities maturing from 2017 to
2040, the Indianapolis-based company said today in a statement
that also cited the offering. The notes are rated Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the data show.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt widened
0.4 basis point to 128.1 basis points, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index declined 0.9 basis point to 371.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 0.3 basis point to 552.8 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  