-- EDF Rises on Better-Than-Expected Profit, Outlook: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-30T07:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/edf-rises-on-better-than-expected-profit-outlook-paris-mover.html
Electricite de France SA  jumped the
most in three weeks after beating first-half earnings estimates
and raising its full-year target.  The  shares rose  as much as 6.6 percent in Paris trading,
the biggest intraday increase since July 9, to 21.57 euros. More
than 90,000 shares changed hands in the first 45 minutes of
trading, about half the average daily volume over the last three
months.  Europe’s biggest power generator raised its forecast for
2013 profit growth after cold weather and higher
hydroelectricity output drove  first-half results  higher.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will grow at least 3 percent, excluding its Italian
Edison unit, EDF said today. The utility previously expected
Ebitda to hold steady or rise no more than 3 percent.  EDF earnings are “excellent,” Julien Desmaretz, an
analyst at Bryan, Garnier & Co. wrote in a note. Looking ahead,
the utility will benefit from higher French tarifs in the second
half, he said.  Ebitda rose 6.9 percent in the first half to 9.7 billion
euros ($12.9 billion), beating the 9.24 billion-euro median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income
advanced to 2.9 billion euros from 2.78 billion euros.  “The first half-year 2013 was marked by good operating
performance,” Chief Executive Officer Henri Proglio said in the
statement. Growth was driven by results in EDF’s home market as
the winter was colder than usual, driving up market prices,
while hydropower output expanded 25 percent. EDF also reported a
“favorable outcome” of arbitration on gas contracts in  Algeria 
between Edison and Sonatrach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  