-- EDF Writing ‘Last Chapter’ on Nuclear in U.S., Piquemal Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-07-30T13:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/edf-writing-last-chapter-on-nuclear-in-u-s-piquemal-says.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF)  reached a
deal with  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  for a possible exit from atomic
operations in the U.S. after six years of declining fortunes
that cost the biggest operator of nuclear plants 2 billion euros
($2.7 billion).  “This will be the third and what I hope is the last
chapter of our U.S. adventure with Constellation,” Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Piquemal said today in Paris.  U.S.
nuclear writedowns totaled 2 billion euros from 2009 to 2012, he
said.  EDF bought half of Constellation Energy Group’s nuclear
business for $4.5 billion in 2009 when the French utility was
headed by  Pierre Gadonneix . The state-owned former French
monopoly was seeking to develop a new reactor at Calvert Cliffs
in Maryland. The attraction of building atomic reactors in the
U.S. has since faded amid a boom in shale output that lowered
the price of natural gas.  Under today’s agreement, EDF will have a  put option  that
would allow the sale at “fair value” of its 49.99 percent
share of Constellation Energy Nuclear Group from January 2016 to
June 2022, according to a statement. EDF will delegate the
operational management of Constellation’s five nuclear plants to
Exelon and get a $400 million exceptional dividend from
Constellation.  “Right now we are not a seller,” Piquemal said today when
asked about the current value of the Constellation stake.
Declining to give an estimate, he said the value would increase
through savings and operating improvements.  More Favorable  “Exelon will take on the risks of a nuclear operator which
works because being French that’s something we don’t have the
right to do,” he said. The deal “gives us an exit if we decide
that is what we want from 2016 in a price environment that I
hope will be more favorable than today.”  EDF’s purchase of Constellation followed a deal in 2008 to
buy British Energy Group for 12.5 billion pounds ($19 billion)
to gain control of nuclear plants in the U.K. and sites on which
to develop new reactors.  The French utility expects to be able to make a decision on
pushing ahead with development of the U.K. EPRs by the end of
the year, Proglio said today.  Constellation operates three nuclear plants in  Maryland  and
 New York . EDF signed a deal for a joint venture with
Constellation Energy in 2007 that was for new reactors in the
U.S. and  Canada . EDF is now developing reactors in Normandy in
 France  and in  China .  EDF wants to develop renewable energy and coal export
businesses in the U.S. as well as research and development,
Piquemal said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  