-- Egypt Stimulus Plan Won’t Compromise Budget Gap, Minister Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-30T06:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/egypt-stimulus-plan-won-t-compromise-budget-gap-minister-says.html
Egypt ’s interim government will
complete payments of long-due debts to contractors and restart
stalled building projects, as it seeks to revive the economy
amid political unrest that has killed dozens this month,
Planning Minister Ashraf El-Arabi said.  The measures won’t widen the  budget deficit , El-Arabi said
in a telephone interview yesterday. The government may increase
public spending in the second half of the fiscal year that ends
in June 2014, he said.  The interim government took power after the July 3 ouster
of President Mohamed Mursi, which triggered weeks of protests
that have left more than 100 people dead, mostly his Islamist
supporters. The cabinet inherits an economy stuck in the worst
slowdown in two decades, and the biggest budget deficit in the
 Middle East  relative to output.  “There is no contradiction between the goal of addressing
the budget deficit and stimulating the economy,” said El-Arabi,
who also served under Mursi. “One priority is to pay back
what’s due to contractors, and this in itself can be a stimulus.
The budget deficit is also very important and is being discussed
in detail.”  Growth may slow to 2 percent in 2013, near the lowest level
since 1992, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
budget deficit may widen to 12 percent of economic output,
according to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Mursi’s government, in power for a year, repaid contractors
3.8 billion Egyptian pounds ($543 million) as of June 30 and the
interim government is reviewing how much remains due, in order
to schedule payments, El-Arabi said.  The government also plans to reallocate existing resources
to revive public projects “that have stalled after being 75
percent or 80 percent completed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  