-- Einhorn Trades Bullion for Miners Amid Stock ‘Free Fall’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-30T20:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/einhorn-trades-bullion-for-gold-miners-on-stock-free-fall-1-.html
     July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Greenlight Capital Re Ltd., the
reinsurer that counts hedge-fund manager David Einhorn as
chairman, traded bullion for gold miners in the second quarter
as stocks in some of the companies slumped more than the metal.  “During the gold selloff in the quarter we sold a small
amount of gold to take advantage of opportunities in gold-mining
stocks that were in free fall,” Einhorn said today in a
conference call to discuss results at the Cayman Islands-based
reinsurer. “Overall, we modestly increased our exposure to this
area, and our view towards gold has not changed.”  The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold and Silver Index of 30
miners plunged 34 percent in the three months ended June 30,
compared with a 23 percent drop for bullion traded in New York.
Einhorn has said central banks’ stimulus efforts will fuel
inflation and increase the value of the metal.  The latest trade echoes a bet he made in 2011 when he cited
a “substantial disconnect” between the price of gold and
mining companies. In that instance, he cut holdings of bullion
and bought into the Market Vectors Gold Miners ETF.  The reinsurer had $50.5 million of commodities at the end
of the second quarter, compared with $90.3 million on March 31,
according to a regulatory filing late yesterday. The cost basis
for the investment fell to $41.8 million from $59.9 million.  The “decrease in commodities was due to a decline in the
price of gold combined with the disposal of a portion of our
physical gold holdings,” according to the filing.  Mining Writedowns  Gold-mining companies have announced at least $15 billion
of writedowns in the past two months after the precious metal’s
declines.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , the second-largest gold
producer, reported a surprise quarterly loss last week driven by
impairments on the value of two Australian mines and stockpiles.  The Philadelphia index of miners has gained 10 percent this
month, compared with the 8.3 percent advance in bullion. Gold
futures for December delivery slipped 0.4 percent to $1,324.80
an ounce at 1:44 p.m. on the Comex in New York.  Einhorn makes both long and short bets on stocks for
Greenlight Re, which helps insurance companies shoulder risk in
exchange for premiums that he can invest. The portfolio includes
wagers that Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. will fall and
that Apple Inc. will gain. He said another of his investments,
 General Motors Co. (GM) , will extend its rally.  “General Motors’ North American business continues to
improve even as it is still in the early stages of a substantial
product-refresh cycle,” Einhorn said. “With the recent launch
of the new pickup trucks, we believe GM is poised for rapid
earnings growth later this year.”  Pickup Trucks  The redesigned Chevrolet Silverado pickup and Impala are
among the 18 new or refreshed GM vehicles in the U.S. this year
that will transform the automaker’s lineup into one of the
newest in the industry from one of the oldest.  The pickup is among GM’s most profitable vehicles and the
Impala last week received Consumer Reports’s highest rating
among all sedans, marking the first time in at least 20 years
that a U.S. automaker has outscored all Japanese and European
competitors in that segment.  Greenlight Capital Re said late yesterday that second-quarter profit was $28.5 million, compared with a net loss of
$36.1 million a year earlier, on higher sales and investment
income. The reinsurer advanced 4.5 percent to $27.01 today, the
biggest one-day gain since 2011. The stock has climbed 17
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  