-- Elementis Has Cosmetics Boost as Ranks Built With Croda Hire
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-30T11:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/elementis-gains-cosmetics-boost-as-ranks-built-with-croda-hire.html
Elementis Plc (ELM) , a British supplier of
specialty chemicals, said growth in personal-care ingredients
based on its clay-technology and natural oil products is
continuing in the second half.  Elementis reported a 10 percent decline in first-half
operating profit, yet the London-based company predicted an
improved final six months of the year. Sales from its personal-care operations supplying ingredients to enhance the feel and
performance of moisturizers jumped 23 percent.  “I can’t promise that it will be 23 percent growth again
in the second half, but it should be healthy,” Finance Director
Brian Taylorson said today in a phone interview.  Elementis is reaping the rewards of hiring executives from
personal-care companies and suppliers, including one from  Croda
International Plc. (CRDA)  Technologies based on Elementis’s hectorite
clay and applied in industrial coatings are now being
transferred to the personal-care market, Taylorson said.  Shares of Elementis advanced as much as 7.7 percent to
250.5 pence, the biggest intraday advance for five months. They
traded at 245.7 pence as of 11:20 a.m. in  London , valuing the
business at 1.13 billion pounds ($1.73 billion).  Elementis’s value is being enhanced by this week’s takeover
of  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) ’s competing rheology business by
Altana AG for $635 million, Taylorson said. Antitrust hurdles
prevented Elementis from taking part in the process though it
“would have loved” to own the asset, he added.  Upbeat Outlook  Elementis’s first-half sales declined to $388.2 million
from $401.3 million, weighed down by a maintenance shutdown at a
chromium division. Operating profit slipped to $72.8 million
from $80.7 million.  Taylorson said Elementis is on track to meet analysts’
estimates for the year, adding that an increase to $80 million
in operating profit in the second half “would be a big jump.”
The average of analysts estimates collected by Bloomberg
predicts an advance to about $154 million in earnings this year,
from $142.7 million in 2012.  Elementis is seeking to leverage its rare hectorite mineral
deposit in  California , a white clay that’s the basis of many of
its additives for moisturizers as well as high-performance
coatings and oil and gas drilling solutions. The acquisition of
Fancor in 2009 provided natural oils with nutritional benefits
for face creams.  “We’re benefitting from being a small niche player” in
personal care, Taylorson said. “We’re also benefitting from
bringing in some guys last year who are more immersed in the
sector than we have been and are coming with ideas and
opportunities that are accelerating the business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  