-- Telenet’s Profit Tops Estimates as Mobile-Customer Gains Slow
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-07-30T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/telenet-s-profit-tops-estimates-as-mobile-customer-gains-slow.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ,
reported second-quarter earnings that beat analyst estimates
after reducing promotions that curbed subscriber growth.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and share-based remuneration rose 11 percent to 216.3 million
euros ($286.3 million), the Mechelen, Belgium-based company said
today in a statement. That surpassed the 210.8 million-euro
average of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue of 408
million euros missed analysts’  projections  amid slowing
subscriber gains and free video-on-demand vouchers handed out
after a network outage in February.  Telenet added 49,900 mobile-phone customers in the quarter,
the fewest in a year, as competitors cut their prices and the
cable operator reduced handset subsidies to focus on more
profitable acquisitions. Its fixed-line bundled products got a
makeover in July, modeled after its King & Kong mobile rate
plans, that should help drive revenue growth per subscriber and
revive the switchover of the remaining analog viewers to digital
TV services.  “The move directs Telenet more toward the high-end
customer, with the cheapest triple-play bundle at 61.45 euros a
month,” Thomas Deschepper, an analyst at KBC Securities, wrote
in a note to clients. “A repricing of the high-end Kong offer
could also be in the offing since it is somewhat outpriced by
rivals.”  Embargo Break  Telenet gained as much as 1.25 percent on Euronext Brussels
and traded 15 cents higher at 36.64 euros by 5 p.m. local time.
The earnings report was published ahead of the planned release
time because of an embargo break that led the Belgian regulator
to halt trading in the shares.  The cable operator maintained its  forecasts  for the year,
which includes stable free  cash flow . Telenet generated 100.5
million euros of cash available for payouts or buybacks in the
six months through June, a 13 percent drop from the same period
a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  