-- Most Emerging-Market Stocks Advance With Chinese Lenders
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-30T21:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/emerging-stocks-gain-as-china-injects-liquidity-rupee-drops.html
Most emerging-market stocks advanced
as Chinese lenders gained after the central bank added money to
the financial system. OAO Uralkali, the world’s largest potash
producer, posted the biggest decline since 2008.  More than 400 shares rose and 357 retreated in the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index, which lost less than 0.1 percent to
953.65. Citic Securities Co. gained 2 percent in  Shanghai , while
 Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  jumped 2.8 percent in Istanbul after
being named a top pick by Citigroup Inc. Uralkali tumbled 19
percent in Moscow after saying the end of its trading agreement
with competitor Belaruskali may trigger a 25 percent plunge in
potash prices.  Brazil ’s real sank to a four-year low.  Stocks in developing nations climbed 1.4 percent in July,
poised for the steepest monthly increase since December.  China ’s
central bank conducted reverse-repurchase operations for the
first time in five months, helping alleviate a cash squeeze that
drove the benchmark interbank lending rate to a four-week high.
U.S. policy makers are meeting today and tomorrow.  “People are still trying to figure out the China puzzle,”
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman
of Holland & Co., said in a phone interview from  New York . “It
looks like the Chinese authorities are doing enough to satisfy
people that were optimistic we weren’t going to have a hard
landing. And there’s no question the Fed meeting is front and
center around the world.”  Biggest Gain  Consumer discretionary shares led gains among  10 groups  in
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, while commodity companies
retreated. The broad measure has slumped 9.6 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent jump in the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nation gauge  trades  at 10 times projected earnings,
lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 0.2 percent to $39.24. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
added 0.6 percent to 23.21.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell for a second day as steelmaker
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA led commodity producers
lower. The real declined 0.6 percent to 2.2825 per  U.S.
dollar , the weakest closing level since March 2009.  The Micex Index lost 0.8 percent as Uralkali slumped as
much as 25 percent, leading the Moscow Exchange to halt its
trading. OAO Acron, a Russian fertilizer producer, tumbled 9.8
percent, while OAO PhosAgro,  Europe ’s largest phosphate-fertilizer producer, retreated 8 percent.  ‘More Bullish’  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index jumped
2 percent after Citigroup said in an e-mailed note today that
it’s “more bullish” on banks given valuations after a recent
selloff. The lira gained as Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci
said the currency is “far” from being overvalued. Benchmark
stock gauges in the  Czech Republic , Hungary and  Poland  advanced.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose for the first time in
five days, adding 0.7 percent, while the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
added 0.3 percent. Citic Securities helped drive the biggest
gain in a week for a measure of financial shares.  Indian stocks retreated, with the benchmark index posting
its longest losing streak in almost four months, after the
central bank cut its growth forecast and kept  interest rates 
unchanged. The rupee slid 1.8 percent.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  