-- Energy Recovery Wins Supply Deal for Desalination Site
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-07-30T16:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/energy-recovery-wins-supply-deal-for-carlsbad-desalination-plant.html
Energy Recovery Inc. (ERII) , a clean-technology provider for the water industry, will supply power-saving equipment to a California desalination plant that will be
the largest in the Western Hemisphere.  The project will use 144 devices that recycle pressure used
to force salt water through membranes, saving the Carlsbad
facility as much as $12 million annually, San Leandro,
California-based Energy Recovery said in a statement today. The
units are expected to ship by the end of this year to IDE
Technologies Ltd., the engineering firm contracted by project
developer Poseidon Resources Group.  “It’s an economic slam dunk -- the payback on our pressure
exchangers is less than three months,” Tom Rooney, chief
executive officer of Energy Recovery, said in an interview. He
declined to say how much each unit cost. The company has sold
more than 14,000 worldwide, he said.  Energy Recovery is providing similar technology to a
desalination plant in  Chile  and last week won a contract to
retrofit a facility in Spain. As water scarcity becomes a bigger
issue, there will be “sustained high interest in
desalination,” said Su Gao, a water analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “Energy Recovery is moving in the right direction of how
the desalination game should be played, as we consider energy
intensity to be one of the biggest barriers in developing
desalination projects,” Gao said.  IDE, co-owned by  Israel Chemicals (ICL)  and  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , has
a $500 million, 30-year contract to provide maintenance with
Poseidon, which began site work earlier this year. The facility,
about 33 miles (53 kilometers) north of San Diego, will create
an estimated 50 million gallons of drinking water a day after
it’s completed in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  