-- Merck Second-Quarter Profit Falls as Generics Erode Sales
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-30T20:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/merck-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-diabetes-drug-sales.html
Merck & Co., the second-biggest U.S.
drugmaker by sales, reported net income plunged 49 percent after
sales of its asthma drug Singulair dropped because of generic
competition.  Net income fell to $906 million, or 30 cents a share, from
$1.79 billion, or 58 cents, a year earlier, the  Whitehouse
Station , New Jersey-based company said today in a statement.
 Earnings (MRK)  excluding one-time items of 84 cents a share beat by 2
cents the average of 16 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue dropped 11 percent to $11 billion, hurt by an 80
percent decline in sales from Singulair, which lost patent
protection in the U.S. in 2012 and in  Europe  in February. The
company said full-year sales are forecast to be 5 to 6 percent
less than in 2012 at current exchange rates. Growth has stalled
as Merck’s experimental osteoporosis therapy odanacatib and
sleep drug suvorexant faced regulatory delays.  “The fact they posted weaker sales and took sales guidance
down is going to be entering investors’ minds,” Judson Clark,
an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said in a telephone interview
today. “It’s not ideal.  Merck fell less than 1 percent to $48.05 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The stock has gained 17 percent this year.  Investors Eager  “Investors are eager to see a return to growth,” said
 Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. who has a
neutral rating on the stock. The diabetes drug is facing
competition from drugs by Eli Lilly & Co., Johnson & Johnson,
and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  Rubin predicted that without a rebound in sales, or a major
strategic shift at Merck, that the stock would likely be stuck
near its current price.  Singulair generated $281 million in the second quarter,
Merck said.  In April, The company replaced its head of research and
development, Peter Kim, with  Roger Perlmutter , who led research
at Amgen Inc. Merck is developing drugs in cancer and
Alzheimer’s, though those therapies are still years away from
the market.  No Major Changes  The company will adjust its research and development to
improve efficiency, Perlmutter said on a conference call today.
“Our expectation is there aren’t going to be big, enormous
changes,” he said.  The company’s prospects look shaky in the short term, said
 Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said
earlier this month.  “Following the delay in odanacatib and more recently the
lowered 2013 guidance, a ’crisis in confidence’ has been
building that makes the near-term story with Merck
challenging,” he said in a July 15 note to clients. “The
longer-term financial outlook for Merck looks reasonable but not
great.” Suvorexant, a sleep drug, was this month rejected by
U.S. regulators, though the agency said it may approve the drug
at lower doses.  As a result, the company’s stock is relatively cheap, said
 Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group in New York. “There are pipeline catalysts,
it’s just people aren’t optimistic about them,” he said in a
video message to clients before today’s results. “That’s what
creates the reasonable risk-reward. And I get why investors
aren’t optimistic -- they’ve swung and missed on everything in
the last two years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  