-- Erste CEO Says He's Hopeful Hungarian Bank 'Ordeal' Over
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-30T13:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/erste-ceo-says-he-s-hopeful-hungarian-bank-ordeal-over.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl said Hungarian political leaders
recognize that further pain for the country’s banks would also
hurt its economy.  As Prime Minister Viktor Orban heads into elections next
year, he needs lenders to foster growth, Treichl told analysts
in a conference call today. Vienna-based Erste owns Hungary’s
second-biggest lender, which widened losses last quarter and
will continue to lose money until next year because of high
banking taxes and levies imposed by Orban and due to losses from
bad debts, Treichl said.  “There is a growing awareness in Hungary that enough is
enough and a further move against the financial system would not
only hurt the financial system but the country overall,”
Treichl said. “The government wants the country to grow and
they know they need the banking system. So, I’m quite hopeful
that the ordeal is over.”  After taking power in 2010, Orban introduced Europe’s
highest bank levy, banned foreign-currency mortgage lending and
introduced an early repayment plan that forced banks to take
losses on those loans.  The measures made lenders unprofitable, contributed to a
plunge in lending, and were among the reasons  Hungary  lost its
investment-grade credit rating. Orban now plans to help the
remaining borrowers of mostly Swiss-franc home loans ahead of
the election. He said last week he didn’t plan a “Blitzkrieg”
on the banks again, and Treichl said messages he had received so
far sounded more reasonable.  The International Monetary Fund expects the amount of
credit commercial lenders have in the economy to fall to 15
trillion forint ($66.5 billion) by the end of the year, a 14
percent decline since end-2009, it said in a report in March.  In the same period, Erste’s loan book has shrunk in euro
terms to 5.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion), from 7.3 billion
euros.  ‘Common Solution’  “It appears the government is willing to discuss the issue
with the banks and to find a common solution,” Treichl said.
“If nothing changes to that, the likelihood is that it will be
a long-term viable plan that doesn’t hurt the banks or the
economic performance of the country.”  Erste, the second-largest Hungarian lender by assets,
competes with Hungarian market leader OTP Bank Nyrt, and units
of other foreign banks, including  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , Bayerische
Landesbank,  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Treichl cautioned that talks with the government about the
mortgage plan aren’t finished yet and his stance on Hungary may
still change if it becomes clear to him that he isn’t welcome.  “In the long run, if you have an operation in a country
where politicians make clear to you that they don’t want you to
be there, at one point in time you have to exit,” Treichl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  