-- Erste Profit Misses Estimates as Interest Income Drops
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-30T06:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/erste-profit-misses-estimates-as-interest-income-drops.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , the Austrian
lender that’s eastern  Europe ’s third-largest bank, reported
second-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates as lending
revenue declined more than expected.  Net income rose 17 percent to 125 million euros ($166
million), the Vienna-based bank said in a  statement  today, less
than the 138 million-euro average estimate in a  company survey 
of 18 analysts. Net interest income, its main revenue source,
dropped 9.4 percent to 1.19 billion euros, missing all estimates
in the company poll. Results were skewed by one-time items in
both the quarter to June 30 and the same period a year earlier.  “This is a satisfactory result considering an operating
environment that has become increasingly challenging for banks
which do exactly what politicians and regulators would like them
to do, i.e. taking deposits from and lending to real
customers,” Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said in the
statement.  Erste is facing declining revenue as central and eastern
European economies, where the bank trails only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , remain mired in recession or
slow growth. Treichl has pledged to expand earnings by turning
around his Romanian unit this year.  The bank cut its earnings  outlook  when it announced a 661
million-euro sale of new shares concluded  this month . It now
expects pre-provision operating profit to decline 5 percent this
year as the slide in revenue outpaces cost cuts and a reduction
in bad-debt charges.  Romania, Hungary  Erste reported a second-quarter profit in  Romania , helped
by a 128 million-euro tax credit and ending a stretch of eight
straight quarterly losses as bad debt in the Black Sea nation of
20 million ballooned to 30 percent of its loan book. Erste paid
six times book value when it agreed to buy Banca Comerciala
Romana, the nation’s biggest lender, for 3.75 billion euros in
2005 and has made several writedowns since.  In  Hungary , Erste’s losses widened in the quarter, mostly
on additional tax charges. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s
government is seeking ways to cut the stock of mortgages
denominated in Swiss francs, which may cause further losses at
the country’s banks. Erste Bank Hungary is the second-biggest
lender in the neighboring country, trailing OTP Bank Nyrt.  Erste shares have dropped 4.4 percent this year in Vienna
to close at 22.85 euros yesterday, underperforming the 8.4
percent rise in the 44-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index . The stock trades at 0.67 times book
value, less than the 0.83 average for the Bloomberg Europe
 index’s members .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  