-- EU Patent Court, Victoria’s Secret: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-30T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/eu-patent-court-victoria-s-secret-intellectual-property.html
The European Commission proposed
changes to rules on court jurisdiction to prepare the way for a
specialized European patent court, according to a commission
 statement .  The court would have specialized jurisdiction in patent
disputes, enabling parties to avoid having to litigate a case in
as many as 28 different national courts.  In February, the court was established under an agreement,
and now the EU wants to provide clarification about how the
union’s jurisdictional rules will work within the context of the
court.  The commission asked  member states  to ratify the Unified
Patent Court Agreement as soon as possible, so that the court
can become operational and that unitary patents can be issued.  In the U.S., the Washington-based  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the Federal Circuit was established by Congress in 1982 to
provide consistency in appeals of patent disputes. Patent
disputes are still tried in courts of general jurisdiction
around the nation.  The EU’s Unified Patent Court will be a single specialized
patent court, with local and regional presence around the
European Union, according to the statement.  Teva Plan to Safeguard $4 Billion Drug Endangered by Ruling  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s plan to switch
patients to a longer-acting version of its Copaxone treatment
suffered a setback as a U.S. court ruling gave the $4 billion
drug less than a year of patent protection.  Teva wants to move as many as half of the multiple-sclerosis patients taking daily Copaxone injections to a three-times-weekly version of the medicine. A decision by the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to invalidate a 2015
patent may allow generic competitors such as Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  to lure away
patients with cheaper copies as early as next year, said  Marc
Goodman , an analyst at UBS AG.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , markets a 20-milligram
Copaxone injection, which generates more than five times the
revenue of its second-best-selling branded drug, Treanda. A
longer-acting, 40-milligram dose of Copaxone was effective in
lowering relapse rates in MS patients compared with a placebo in
a late-stage trial last year.  Because Teva expects the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
to approve the long-acting version by early 2014, the extra year
without generic competition would be key to moving its patients
to the higher dosage.  In its July 26 ruling, the Federal Circuit ruled that the
invalidated patents didn’t clearly outline what Teva claimed was
invented. There are ambiguities that make it unclear what
molecular weights were used to develop the product, the court
ruled.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Sandoz Inc.,
2012-1567, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court cases are Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc. v. Sandoz Inc., 08-cv-7611 and 09-cv-8824, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Victoria’s Secret, Thomas Pink Sue Each Other Over Trademarks  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Thomas Pink unit and
 L Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s Victoria’s Secret are at odds over Victoria’s
Secret’s “pink” trademarks.  Victoria’s Secret is seeking a judicial declaration that it
doesn’t infringe the Thomas Pink marks, according to a complaint
filed July 24 in federal court in Columbus, Ohio. Victoria’s
Secret, a retailer of lingerie, said it began using “Victoria’s
Secret Pink” on a range of its products aimed at college-aged
women.  The company said it also devotes a section of its website
to “Pink Nation,” an online community to which it provides
special offers and events. Additionally, Victoria’s Secret said
more than 3 million fans have downloaded “Pink Nation”
applications for their mobile phones.  Thomas Pink, a seller of luxury shirts and blouses sued
Victoria’s Secret for trademark infringement in the U.K. in May.
The lingerie company said in its pleadings in U.S. court that it
brought its suit to “clarify the rights of the parties,
allowing them to continue the peaceful coexistence that has been
in place for many years.”  Victoria’s Secret, based in Reynoldsburg,  Ohio , said that
the two companies began communicating about their respective
trademarks in 2005. Although their stores in  London  are close to
each other, Victoria’s Secret said that as far as it knows,
Thomas Pink never experienced “even a single instance of
consumer confusion” with respect to the two companies’
trademarks.  The lingerie company asked the court to declare that it
isn’t infringing the Thomas Pink trademarks or competing
unfairly with the shirt maker.  The case is Victoria’s Secret Stores Brand Management Inc.
v. Thomas Pink Ltd., 2:13-cv-007333, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  The Gap Accuses India’s Green the Gap of Infringing Trademarks  The Gap Inc. (GPS) , the San Francisco-based specialty clothing
company, is in a trademark battle with an Indian recycling
company, Agence  France  Presse  reported .  Green the Gap  received a demand letter from the Gap,
accusing the recycling company of infringement and trying to
hitch a ride on San Francisco company’s fame, according to AFP.  Vimlendu Jha, founder of Green the Gap, told AFP the
company’s name was intended to promote the idea of upcycling
trash and adding value to junk by creating new and useful
products.  The Gap, which is reported to be planning to open stores in
 India  in 2014, told AFP it wouldn’t comment on pending
litigation.  South African Agricultural Group Fears French ‘Rooibos’ Mark  The  South African Rooibos Council , an agricultural advocacy
group that promotes an herbal tea made from the  Aspalathus
linearis  plant, has asked French authorities to clarify the
effects of the registration of the “Rooibos” trademark in that
country, the U.K.’s Guardian  reported .  “Rooibos,” the common name for the plant, is grown
exclusively in  South Africa  and generates 600 million South
African rand ($613,000) in sales each year, according to the
Guardian.  The agricultural group is concerned about a trademark
application filed by a French company, Compagnie de Trucy, and
is afraid that this move could threaten South African companies’
ability to sell Rooibos tea in France, the newspaper reported.  The Rooibos Council ultimately seeks a protected geographic
name indicator akin to those enjoyed by Champagne, Darjeeling
tea, Basmati rice and Columbian coffee, according to the
Guardian.  ‘The Game’ Abandons ‘Rolex Records’ Name After Rolex Protest  A rap performer known as “The Game” has backed down in
his efforts to name his new record label “Rolex Records,” the
HotNewHipHop.com website reported.  The performer said in a statement that after a six-month
legal battle with the Rolex Group, “we lost and had to fully
change the name of the label and its logo away from the likeness
of Rolex’s crown” trademark, according to the website.  Instead, his label will be named “The Firm,” and “The
Game” will be chief executive officer, he said in his
statement.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Russian Pirate Group Protests New Law, Calls for Content Boycott  The head of  Russia ’s Pirate Party has called for a consumer
boycott of all copyrighted content in the month of August as a
protest against that country’s new anti-piracy law, Russia’s RT
network  reported .  The new law, which goes into effect Aug. 1, is focused on
video content, and allows websites to be blocked within 72 hours
of a report of copyright violations, according to RT.  Pavel Rassudov, chairman of the Pirates’ Party of Russia
asked the public not to go to the movies or to buy movies online
during the month of as a protest, RT reported.  Rassudov also said that at least 200 Russian websites will
go dark on Aug. 1 to show their opposition to the new law,
according to RT.  For more copyright news, click here.  ----With the assistance of  Susan Decker  in Washington and David
Wainer in Tel Aviv. Editors: Fred Strasser, Mary Romano  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 