-- Euro-Area Economic Confidence Jumps to Highest in 15 Months
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e
-- 2013-07-30T09:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/euro-area-economic-confidence-jumps-to-highest-in-15-months-1-.html
Economic confidence  in the euro area
improved for a third month in July, reaching the highest in 15
months and adding to indications the 17-nation currency bloc is
emerging from a  record-long recession .  An index of executive and consumer sentiment rose to 92.5
from 91.3 in June, the European Commission in Brussels said
today. That is the highest reading since April 2012 and matched
the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 economists.  Europe’s economy is showing increasing signs of revival
after six quarters of contraction. Euro-area manufacturing
expanded this month for the first time in two years and
economists estimate gross domestic product stopped shrinking in
the three months through June and will return to growth this
quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  “It is very reassuring to see an element of improvement
coming through,” said Victoria Clarke, an economist at Investec
Securities  London . “We still have quite a long way to go to 
get back to pre-crisis levels.”  The euro was higher against the U.S. dollar after the
confidence data, trading at $1.3270 at 11:28 a.m. in Brussels,
up 0.1 percent on the day. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index was little
changed at 299.04.  Renewed Growth  The push toward renewed growth has been driven by Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, where business confidence improved for
a third month in July, the Ifo institute said on July 25. Data
today from Spain showed that the recession in the fourth-biggest
euro-area economy eased in the second quarter, lending support
to the government’s prediction of a recovery in the second half.  Germany ’s Daimler AG, the world’s third-largest maker of
luxury vehicles, forecast gains in second-half earnings as new
models spur purchases. Daimler on July 24 forecast industrywide
demand in western Europe will show “gradual improvement” in
the second half as sales seem to have “bottomed out.”  Manufacturers across the currency bloc have increased their
capacity utilization to the highest in more than a year, today’s
report showed. An indicator of capacity usage at euro-area
factories increased to 78.3 percent for the current quarter, the
highest since the second quarter of 2012, the commission said.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi earlier this
month took what he called an “unprecedented” step and told
investors that interest rates in the euro area would stay low as
the economy struggles, lending is weak and inflation pressures
remain subdued. The ECB’s  benchmark rate  is at a record low 0.5
percent.  Jobless Rate  Unemployment in the euro zone probably stayed at a record
12.2 percent in June and is projected to move higher in coming
quarters, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists. The
jobless rate will reach 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter and
average 12.3 percent next year, a monthly poll shows.  Draghi said euro-area domestic demand later this year and
in 2014 “should be supported by the accommodative monetary-policy stance as well as the recent gains in real income owing
to generally lower inflation.”  Consumer-price growth  has been
below the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling for five months.  Renault SA,  France ’s second-biggest carmaker, last week
reported unexpected growth in first-half profit as labor-cost
cuts and higher vehicle prices more than offset slumping sales.
Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent SA today reported second-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  