-- Ex-Penn State Officials Face Trial Over Sandusky Response
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-30T21:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/ex-penn-state-officials-face-trial-in-case-tied-to-sandusky.html
Three former  Pennsylvania  State
University officials were ordered to stand trial on charges they
conspired to cover up allegations of sex abuse against ex-football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Magisterial District Judge William Wenner in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, today ordered former President Graham Spanier, 65,
ex-Athletic Director Timothy Curley and Gary Schultz, a retired
vice president in charge of university police, to face trial on
charges including endangering the welfare of children,
conspiracy and perjury.  The men allegedly kept silent on abuse claims against
Sandusky, including an eyewitness account of a 2001 incident. A
formal arraignment is set for Sept. 20, according to court
records.  “It’s a tragic day for Penn State,” Wenner said before
ruling to hold all charges against the men for trial.  Wenner’s decision came on the second day of a hearing that
featured testimony from witnesses including former Penn State
assistant football coach  Mike McQueary , two secretaries for
Schultz, the school’s communications director and computer
forensic specialists. The April 2011 grand jury testimony of
Spanier was also read into the court record.  McQueary testified yesterday that he told Curley and
Schultz he had seen Sandusky with what appeared to be a 10-year-old boy in a locker room shower in February 2001. Both were
naked and Sandusky had his arms around the boy at waist level,
McQueary said. McQueary said he definitely conveyed to them that
the incident appeared to be sexual in nature.  Denied Knowledge  Neither Curley, 59, nor Schultz, 63, reported the incident
to law enforcement or attempted to learn the identity of the
boy, identified in a grand jury report as Victim 2. In grand
jury testimony in 2011, Curley, Spanier and Schultz all denied
that the incident was sexual and said it was described to them
as “horseplay.” Spanier denied knowledge of an earlier
allegation in 1998, when Sandusky was accused of touching
another boy inappropriately in a shower.  “This was not a trial. This was a preliminary hearing,”
Timothy K. Lewis, an attorney for Spanier said after the ruling.
“We maintain that Dr. Spanier is innocent of all charges
against him.”  Tom Farrell, an attorney for Schultz, said a trial could
come as early as March.  Inconsistent E-Mails  “We’ll make our arguments then,” Farrell said, adding
that e-mails in the case weren’t consistent with what McQueary
reported.  McQueary’s testimony changes every time he testifies,
Caroline Roberto, an attorney for Curley, said.  McQueary testified during a December 2011 preliminary
hearing for Curley and Schultz on initial charges of perjury and
failing to report child abuse. Yesterday, in addition to
repeating his account of the 2001 abuse incident, McQueary added
that late head football coach Joe Paterno criticized the school,
saying it “screwed up” the Sandusky probe.  “I was stunned when I heard his testimony relating to Mr.
Paterno,” Roberto said. Paterno died in January 2012 so there
are no witnesses, she said.  The cases are Pennsylvania v. Spanier, 12303-CR-0000419-2012, Magisterial District Judge 12-3-03; Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania v. Curley, CP-22-MD-1385-2012, Common Pleas Court
of Dauphin County; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Schultz, CP-22-MD-1386-2012, Common Pleas Court of Dauphin County
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  