-- Texas A&M, Utah Football Players Die in Triple-Fatality Crash
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-07-30T19:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/texas-a-m-utah-football-players-die-in-triple-fatality-crash.html
Texas A&M  University defensive
lineman Polo Manukainiu,  University of Utah  football player
Gaius Vaenuku and a junior high school student died when their
sports utility vehicle overturned on a New Mexico highway.  Manukainiu, 19, was a redshirt freshman at A&M, while
Vaenuku, 18, was an incoming freshman defensive tackle at  Utah ,
according to a police report and information from the two
schools. The third person killed was Andrew Uhatafe, 13, a
student at Euless Trinity Junior High School in Euless, Texas,
in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, the police said. The two older
victims were graduates of Trinity High School; everyone in the
vehicle was from Euless.  Two others in the vehicle, driver Siaosi Uhatafe and Salesi
Uhatafe Sr., his father, were transported to a hospital in San
Juan, New Mexico, with minor injuries, according to a New Mexico
State Police report. The driver, also a freshman football player
at Utah, was the only person wearing a seatbelt.  The SUV was on the way back to  Texas  from Utah when the
accident occurred at 6:52 p.m. local time yesterday north of
 Albuquerque . Police said the vehicle, southbound on U.S. Route
550 in Sandoval County, started drifting toward the passenger
side. The driver overcorrected, causing it to roll over several
times, according to the report. The victims were dead when
police arrived.  In a final posting on Twitter,  Manukainiu  wrote: “22 hour
drive back to Texas on no sleep. Oh my.”  Coaches React  “We lost a terrific young man,” Texas A&M football coach
Kevin Sumlin said in a press release. “Polo was loved by his
teammates and coaches. Anyone who came in contact with him was
struck by his sense of humor and smile. My heart aches for his
mom and family members.”  “Everyone who knew Gaius is heartbroken today,” Utah
football coach Kyle Whittingham said in a release. “He was the
kind of young man who lit up a room and his future in football
and life had no boundaries. Words cannot express our devastation
over the loss of Gaius.  Texas A&M quarterback and Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel posted this message on Twitter: “Heart hurts waking up
to news about Polo. I think I speak for everyone on our team
when I say we love you brother you will be missed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  