-- MF Global Unit Sues 11 Banks Over CDS Market
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-30T17:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/mf-global-unit-sues-11-banks-over-cds-market.html
MF Global Capital LLC sued  Bank of
America Corp .,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and nine other financial
companies, claiming they were part of a plot to unlawfully
restrict the market for trading credit-default swaps.  The complaint, filed by a unit of bankrupt MF Global
Holdings Ltd. yesterday in federal court in  Chicago , is at least
the fourth such suit accusing swaps dealers of conspiring to
control the market for information about the instruments and
their trading, in violation of federal antitrust laws.  “The effect of these activities has been to decrease
competition in the CDS market among defendants,” according to
the complaint. “As a result, defendants’ customers were forced
to pay inflated bid/ask spreads, which cushion the profits of
the defendants while harming their CDS customers.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  The value of outstanding over-the-counter derivative
contracts traded in the U.S. was $583 trillion at the end of
June 2010, according to the complaint. About $30 trillion in
swaps are traded annually.  Damages Estimate  Damages sustained by the MF Global unit and other members
of a proposed class of individuals and entities that bought or
sold swaps from the defendants since October 2008 are estimated
to be in the tens of billions of dollars, according to the
filing.  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, said she couldn’t immediately
comment on the allegations. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  Also named as defendants in the case are the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association , a trade group representing
participants in the over-the-counter  derivatives market , and
London-based Markit Group Ltd., a financial-information company
partly owned by the defendant banks.  While not named as a defendant in the case, New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank , is accused of being
a co-conspirator. Also named as a co-conspirator is the
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , which together with the banks
owns ICE Clear, a clearing facility for swaps contracts.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase, declined
to comment.  ‘Efficient Way’  The defendants have allegedly blocked efforts to create a
swaps exchange and, in the absence of one, “market participants
have no efficient way to find other non-dealers that want to
trade the same CDS,” MF Global alleged.  The first such case was filed May 3 by a suburban Cleveland
sheet-metal workers union. A second complaint was filed in
Chicago federal court earlier this month, while a third was
filed in federal court in Manhattan days later.  The Washington-based federal Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation has been asked to consolidate the suits
before U.S. District Judge Milton Shadur in Chicago.  MF Global Holdings, the New York-based parent company of
brokerage MF Global Inc. and of MF Global Capital, filed for
bankruptcy in 2011.  The case is MF Global Capital LLC v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
13-cv-05417, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  