-- Fed Decision-Day Guide From QE Tapering Guidance to Dissents
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-30T17:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/fed-decision-day-guide-from-qe-tapering-guidance-to-dissents.html
Here’s what to look for when the
 Federal Open Market Committee  releases a statement at 2 p.m.
tomorrow after a two-day meeting in Washington. Unlike last
month, the policy-making panel will not release economic
forecasts, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will not be briefing the
press afterwards.  -- Possible clarification in the statement on the likely
path of the Fed’s  bond buying , currently $85 billion a month.
Bernanke said in a news conference on June 19 that the central
bank may begin reducing the pace of purchases “later this
year” and may end the program about the middle of 2014,
assuming the economy performs as forecast by the Fed. By the
time the program ends,  unemployment  will be around 7 percent,
Bernanke said. The rate was 7.6 percent in June.  “We are looking for the FOMC to formalize a version of the
guidelines for tapering QE laid out by Chairman  Ben Bernanke ,”
 Julia Coronado , chief economist for North America at BNP Paribas
in New York, wrote in a research note. The statement will
probably say that the committee expects to begin trimming the
purchases later this year; that the reduction will come in
“measured steps” if the economy continues to improve and
inflation rises closer to the Fed’s target; and that the program
will end when unemployment is around 7 percent, she said.  -- An emphasis from the FOMC that it expects to pursue
accommodative policy for the foreseeable future, even after the
committee concludes its so-called quantitative easing program,
according to Neal Soss and  Dana Saporta , economists at Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York. The FOMC has kept its benchmark
 interest rate  near zero since December 2008.  Economist Survey  -- No change in the pace of bond purchases. None of the 54
economists surveyed by Bloomberg July 18-22 expected the FOMC to
begin paring asset purchases at the meeting ending tomorrow.
Half predicted a dial-back of the program to $65 billion per
month in September.  -- An acknowledgement that low inflation has been more
persistent than expected, which would “would be seen as dovish,
as would a more explicit commitment to defend their inflation
target from below,” according to a research note from Bank of
America Corp. in New York. The Fed’s preferred price gauge
showed that inflation was at 1 percent in May, compared with the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  -- Renewed dissents from St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  and Kansas City’s Esther George, according to  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New
York. Bullard has repeatedly voiced concerns about low
inflation, while George has said the Fed’s record accommodation
risks leading to financial imbalances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  