-- Fed Seeks Comment on Stress-Test Guidance for Midsize Banks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-07-30T23:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/fed-seeks-comment-on-stress-test-guidelines-for-midsize-banks.html
U.S. regulators are seeking comment
on proposed stress-test guidelines for about 70 of the nation’s
 midsized banks  as more lenders face an annual check on their
ability to withstand a financial shock.  Lenders with assets of $10 billion to $50 billion such as
 First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG)  and units of  American Express
Co. (AXP)  or UBS AG could be subjected to the tests, outlined in a
statement released by the regulators today. The  Federal Reserve ,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency said their guidance would account for differences
such as risk profile and “business mix.”  The guidelines are tied to a test regimen established by
the Dodd-Frank Act to improve the safety of the banking system
after its near collapse in 2008. Banks with more than $50
billion in assets already undergo the yearly exams, while mid-sized firms were given an extension until March 2014. Unlike the
ones run by the Fed on the 18 largest firms, these tests would
be self-administered.  “Companies must assess the potential impact of a minimum
of three macroeconomic scenarios -- baseline, adverse, and
severely adverse on their consolidated losses, revenues, balance
sheet (including risk-weighted assets), and capital,” according
to the proposed guidance. “Companies should apply each scenario
across all business lines and risk areas so that they can assess
the effect of a common scenario on the entire enterprise.”  FDIC statistics show 72 institutions in this asset
category, including American Express Bank FSB. The public
comment period on the proposal ends Sept. 25.  The Fed gave passing marks to 17 of 18 banks in March,
saying those companies could withstand a deep recession while
maintaining the capital at the regulatory minimum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 