-- Fed Tapering Shows Power of Tusk’s First Surplus: Poland Credit
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-07-31T08:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/fed-tapering-shows-power-of-tusk-s-first-surplus-poland-credit.html
Poland  will probably record its
first quarterly current-account surplus next month, a lure for
investors as the European Union’s biggest eastern member shifts
its economy to focus on exports.  The  current account , the broadest measure of payments
balance in an economy, registered a surplus of 574 million euros
($762 million) in May after April’s record 714 million-euro
figure, the first back-to-back positive outcome since the
central bank started publishing the data in 2000. That helped
lower the extra yield on nation’s dollar bonds to 129 basis
points over Treasuries, the least in two months, JPMorgan Chase
& Co. indexes showed yesterday.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government is relying less on
consumers to drive the economy amid the worst slump in more than
a decade. While domestic demand will probably recover as the
outlook brightens, some parts of the improvement in the current
account may be sustained, central bank  Marek Belka  told
 lawmakers  July 24. The finances supported the zloty’s 2.1
percent gain against the euro in July, the biggest advance among
24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “I read it as quite positive” because “the current
account gap was one of the key weaknesses of the country,”
Viktor Szabo, who helps oversee more than $10 billion in
emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in  London ,
said by e-mail yesterday. “In the tapering world it’s all about
external financing, or the lack of it.”  Quarterly Surplus  The amount of surplus in April and May should ensure the
balance of payments will be positive in the second quarter of
the year, Grzegorz Ogonek, an economist at ING Groep NV’s Polish
unit, said in a phone interview yesterday. Polish exports rose
8.2 percent from a year earlier in June to 12.9 billion euros,
according to an e-mailed estimate today from the state-owned
Export Credit Insurance Corporation.  This should help narrow the annual  current account deficit 
to 2.55 percent of economic output this year, the least since
2005, from 3.3 percent in 2012, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 32 economists. Poland’s central bank
will release current account data for June on Aug. 12.  Pick Countries  The narrowing in the gap comes as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 the U.S. central bank may reduce
its monthly purchases of $85 billion of assets this year and
phase them out by the middle of 2014. The near-zero borrowing
costs have driven investors to look for higher-yielding bonds in
emerging-markets, including Poland.  As the monetary stimulus may soon be withdrawn “investors
start to differentiate” and they’re picking countries that
“have less financing needs, meaning a current account
surplus,” Peter Schottmueller, who helps manage the equivalent
of $17 billion in emerging-market and international debt at Deka
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , said by e-mail yesterday.  Turkey , which recorded a  current-account deficit  of 6
percent of economic output last year, has taken steps in recent
weeks to support the lira to stem foreign-investment outflows.  Poland’s domestic market of 38 million consumers has helped
prop up economic growth in past years, making the country less
dependent on exports compared with its regional peers  Hungary 
and the  Czech Republic . Yet with its economy in the deepest
slowdown in more than a decade, Poles cut back on spending,
leaving sales abroad to support expansion.  Export-Shy  Poland has “a lot of small and medium-sized companies
which shy away from exports because it involves extra cost and
risk,”  Andrzej Bratkowski , a member of the central bank’s
Monetary Policy Council, told reporters in Warsaw yesterday.
“The improvement could be sustained because once companies make
an effort to reach new markets, they tend to stay.”  Exporters cut their dependence on the euro area to 51.9
percent last year from 54.1 percent in 2011 as Poland’s main
trading partner plunged into recession, according to data from
Warsaw-based statistics office released on July 29. Their sales
to  Russia  grew to 5.3 percent from 4.5 percent.  “The surplus results in part from the cyclical nature of
the Polish economy,” Radoslaw Bodys, chief economist at PKO
Bank Polski SA, said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “When
the recovery comes, the deficit will deepen again.”  The zloty weakened 0.3 percent to 4.2410 against the euro
at 10:07 a.m. in Warsaw, dropping for the second day. Polish
domestic bonds returned 4.1 percent in euros this month, the
best performance after  Greece , among 26 global markets tracked
by indexes compiled by European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg.  The additional yield on Poland’s 10-year zloty bonds over
German bunds rose three basis points to 239. Credit-default
swaps, contracts insuring the nation’s debt against non-payment,
rose one basis point to 89, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We could continue to see the surplus on the current
account for several months to come,” ING’s Ogonek said. “With
the recovery in the euro area, the demand will continue to come
from abroad while the domestic consumption lags.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ; 