-- Fiat Lowers Chrysler Target as Europe Loss Narrows
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-30T13:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/fiat-profit-rises-as-spending-cuts-narrow-european-losses.html
Fiat SpA (F)  lowered its profit forecast
for Chrysler Group LLC, shifting the Italian carmaker’s focus to
reducing losses in  Europe  as the key to meeting full-year
targets.  Chrysler’s 2013 operating profit may miss an earlier
forecast by as much as 13 percent as Fiat’s U.S. unit spends
money on rolling out new models such as the Jeep Cherokee. The
Turin, Italy-based company today stuck to its group profit
forecast for the year after cost cuts narrowed losses in Europe.  “Chrysler, which used to be the strength of the group and
Fiat’s main competitive advantage versus its European
competitors, is carrying the negative news,” said Vincenzo
Longo, market strategist at IG Group in Milan.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who also
runs Chrysler, has scaled back investments in new mainstream
models for Europe with the region’s car market mired in a six-year slump. Fiat’s car sales in Europe dropped 10 percent in the
first half, worse than the 6.7 percent industry-wide decline. To
become more global, Fiat is seeking to buy the remaining shares
in Chrysler and merge with the U.S. carmaker.  Chrysler today forecast operating profit of $3.3 billion to
$3.8 billion, compared with a previous target of about $3.8
billion. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company predicted
deliveries of about 2.6 million vehicles, compared with an
earlier range of 2.6 million to 2.7 million.  Fiat  fell  as much as 4.8 percent to 6 euros before the
shares trading in Milan were halted. The stock has surged 58
percent this year, valuing the company at 7.5 billion euros ($10
billion).  ‘Flawless Execution’  “The timing of product launches and capacity increases
causes this year’s performance to be biased to the second
half,” Marchionne said in Chrysler’s statement. “A continued
aggressive drive for excellence and flawless execution will be
essential to attain the targets we’ve set for ourselves.”  Chrysler’s damped prospects countered better-than-expected
second-quarter earnings. Trading profit, or earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time items, increased 8.7 percent to
1.03 billion euros, Fiat said today in a statement. The figure
beat the 931 million-euro average of four analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 3.7 percent to 22.3 billion
euros.  The lowered Chrysler forecast “reduces the credibility”
of Fiat’s 2013 targets, said Sascha Gommel, an analyst with
Commerzbank AG.  Steady Forecast  Fiat stuck to a forecast for 2013 trading profit in a range
of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros, up from 3.81 billion
euros last year. The Italian manufacturer will probably report
3.83 billion euros of trading profit this year, according to the
average of 11 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg before
second-quarter results were released.  A merger with Chrysler would allow Fiat, which also owns
the Alfa Romeo, Maserati and Ferrari brands, to tighten
cooperation with Chrysler and its Dodge and Jeep nameplates.
Fiat relies on Chrysler to sustain its profit amid losses in
Europe. Net income rose to 142 million euros from 32 million
euros a year earlier. Without Chrysler, Fiat would have posted a
loss of 247 million euros in the second quarter.  Fiat’s loss in Europe narrowed to 98 million euros from 138
million euros a year earlier. Competitors also showed signs of
improvement.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which is closing three production
facilities in the region, cut its European losses to $348
million in the second quarter from $404 million a year earlier.  Italian Investments  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s European unit, which plans to shut a
factory in  Germany , lost $110 million before interest and taxes,
compared with a deficit of $394 million a year earlier. The
European operations were helped by $400 million in cost
reductions, the company said last week.  The Italian carmaker plans to end losses in Europe by 2016.
Instead of shutting additional factories in Italy, after closing
one in Sicily at the end of 2011, Marchionne plans to fill
underutilized plants with more upscale models, such as the
Maserati Quattroporte sedan and the Alfa 4C sports car.  Those investments may be at risk. Marchionne earlier this
month threatened to move production of new Alfa Romeo models
abroad as  Italy ’s labor rules hamper its ability to compete.
Fiat has put new projects in the country on hold as it pushes
Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government to adopt reforms that
help manufacturers with clearer work rules after Fiat’s labor
contracts suffered a setback in Italian courts.  VEBA Stake  To merge with Chrysler, Fiat first has to buy the 41.5
percent stake owned by the United Auto Workers’ retiree health-care fund, or VEBA. The two sides are in court disputing the
price for a portion of the shares Fiat is seeking to purchase by
exercising options it holds.  The Italian carmaker has yet to take possession of 10
percent of Chrysler shares that it’s seeking after exercising
three options while a judge in  Delaware  considers how much Fiat
should pay for the initial tranche.  Fiat is “not close” to an agreement with VEBA and it
“remains available” for talks, Marchionne said today on a call
with analysts, adding that Chrysler is working on the initial
public offering process as requested by the trust. “I have no
positive news to tell you” on a Chrysler buyout, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  