-- Fiat Fails to Get Judge to Put Price on Chrysler Shares
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-07-31T19:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/fiat-fails-to-get-judge-to-set-value-of-chrysler-shares.html
Fiat SpA (F)  failed to persuade a judge
to set the value of some Chrysler Group LLC shares now owned by
a union health-care fund, delaying a plan to combine the two
companies.  Delaware  Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons rejected
Fiat’s request to find that a call-option agreement covering at
least 54,000 Chrysler shares valued the stock at more than $139
million. The decision clears the way for the case over the
 United Auto Workers  retiree trust’s Chrysler holdings to go to
trial. Parsons ruled in Fiat’s favor on several claims affecting
the value of the shares held by the trust, known as VEBA.  While the agreement applies to more than 270,000 shares the
trust received when Chrysler emerged from bankruptcy in 2009,
yesterday’s decision pertains only to some of that stake. The
ruling may slow Fiat’s push to acquire the shares, along with
the UAW’s entire Chrysler portfolio of 676,000 shares, or 41.5
percent of the carmaker, as part of a plan to transform the two
regional carmakers into a global auto producer.  Fiat officials haven’t shown the union fund “is required
to deliver the shares in return for Fiat’s payment of $139.7
million,” Parsons said in the decision. “It would be premature
for me to enter an order requiring” the fund to hand over the
shares, the judge said.  ‘Remaining Issues’  “Fiat looks forward to resolving the few remaining issues
in the litigation through the discovery requested by the
court,” the Italian carmaker said in a statement today. Fiat
“remains confident that those residual issues will also be
resolved in its favor.”  The court’s decision may push Fiat and the union’s trust to
find an agreement on the shares and end a dispute over the value
of the holding that’s gone on for about a year.  “While the court did not require that VEBA deliver the
shares, we view the ruling as positive for Fiat and likely to
help an out-of court agreement,” said Philippe Houchois, an
analyst at UBS in  London , who estimates Fiat may pay $4 billion
euros to buy out Chrysler.  Fiat shares fell as much as 2.65 percent in Milan and
closed at 5.99 euros. The stock has risen 57 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 7.46 billion euros
($9.9 billion).  Unifying Companies  Marchionne, who runs both Fiat and Chrysler, has spent the
past four years seeking to unify the companies so they can
better compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  A fully integrated automaker would feature the
mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge brands, along with
the high-end  Maserati  and  Ferrari  lines.  As part of the unification effort, Marchionne wants to
acquire the trust’s Chrysler holdings. Fiat now owns about 58.5
percent of Chrysler. Chairman John Elkann has said Marchionne
put on hold the effort to buy the union’s stake while awaiting
Parsons’s ruling.  Marchionne, discussing Chrysler’s first-quarter results on
an April 29 conference call with analysts, said if an agreement
is reached with VEBA on its stock, Fiat could close that
transaction “in short order.”  Chrysler Forecast  Fiat executives lowered their profit forecast for Chrysler
earlier yesterday, shifting the Italian carmaker’s focus to
reducing losses in  Europe  as the key to meeting full-year
targets. Chrysler’s 2013 operating profit may miss an earlier
forecast by as much as 13 percent as Fiat’s U.S. unit spends
money on rolling out new models such as the Jeep Cherokee.  Marchionne told analysts yesterday Fiat is “not close” to
an agreement with VEBA over the value of the shares and it
“remains available” for talks.  Fiat bought a stake in Chrysler in June 2009 after the U.S.
carmaker sought bankruptcy-court protection from creditors and
accepted more than $8 billion in financing help from the U.S.
and Canadian governments.  Only 40 percent of the UAW’s Chrysler holdings were subject
to the call-option agreement at issue in the  Delaware Chancery
Court  case. The union, one of Chrysler’s largest creditors, got
the shares as part of the resolution of claims in the carmaker’s
bankruptcy.  As part of Chrysler’s Chapter 11 reorganization, the union
healthcare fund wound up with a 41.5 percent stake in Chrysler
as well as promissory notes in exchange for taking on retirees’
claims.  800,000 Retirees  The UAW’s  Retiree Medical Benefits Trust  provides
healthcare services to more than 800,000 retirees and their
dependents, according to the trust’s website. It’s the largest
nongovernmental purchaser of retiree health services in the U.S.  Patricia McCarthy, a spokeswoman for the fund, declined to
comment on yesterday’s ruling.  Fiat’s review of the first bloc of union shares available
for purchase pegged their value at about $140 million, according
to court filings. The union trust countered that its
calculations found the bloc was worth as much as $342 million.
Both sides are seeking to use the first bloc as a value guide
for the rest of the union’s stake.  The stock agreement, created to avoid disputes over the
value of the trust’s shares, “has led to substantial
disagreement” over what the stock is worth, Parsons said. “The
value of this dispute potentially could exceed a billion
dollars,” he said.  In his decision, the judge focused on the call-option
agreement’s formulas for valuing 54,154 of the UAW’s Chrysler
shares. That stock represents the first portion of the more than
270,000 shares covered by the agreement, according to court
filings.  Valuation Formulas  The formulas are based, in part, on Chrysler’s reported
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for the four most recent financial quarters, minus the
carmaker’s “net industrial debt” as listed in its most recent
financial statement, according to court filings.  The UAW argued in court papers that Fiat shouldn’t include
promissory notes from the bankruptcy in Chrysler’s debt
calculations. The notes don’t meet the call-option agreement’s
definition of “borrowed money” and improperly lowered the
carmaker’s value, the UAW contended. That adversely affected the
value of the trust’s shares, the union said.  Parsons rejected those claims and backed Fiat’s arguments
that the notes met the definition of borrowed funds and were
properly included in the debt calculations.  The language of the agreement makes clear that
“indebtedness for borrowed money includes the notes,” he said.
The judge’s decision is likely to affect the value of VEBA’s
shares and may reduce what Fiat ultimately pays for them.  Disputed Items  Other provisions of the agreement’s stock-value formulas
are still at issue, Parsons said. The judge added that Fiat and
the union must provide more information on those sections of the
pact before he can rule on them.  “Discovery is necessary to determine the correct way to
calculate or interpret the other items in dispute,” he said.  Parsons also said he may not have the legal right to
evaluate the fund’s claims that Fiat’s valuation of the shares
violates U.S. government rules on handling of employee
retirement benefits.  “I seriously question whether the court has subject-matter
jurisdiction to hear and decide questions” about exceptions to
rules promulgated by the U.S. Labor Department, the judge said.  The case is Fiat North America LLC v. UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust, 7903, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  