-- Food-Grain Harvest in India Seen at Record on Monsoon Rainfall
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-07-30T09:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/food-grain-harvest-in-india-seen-at-record-on-monsoon-rainfall.html
Monsoon-sown grain production in
 India  may climb to a record this year as the best start to the
rainy season since 1994 spurs rice and corn planting,
potentially easing inflation in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  The production of crops from corn to rice and barley may
exceed the all-time high of 131.3 million metric tons in the
2011-2012 season and last year’s 128.2 million tons, Tariq Anwar, junior agriculture minister, told reporters in  New Delhi 
today. Farmers planted rice, oilseeds, cotton and sugar cane in
74.8 million hectares (184.8 million acres) as of July 26, about
18 percent more than the same period a year earlier, according
to data from the Agriculture Ministry.  A bigger harvest may help tame inflation and revive India’s
economic growth from a decade low, while adding to a global
grain glut that’s pushed the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
eight agricultural commodities down 18 percent this year. The
stronger than expected monsoon has not yet softened food
inflation as much as it should have, the  Reserve Bank  of India
said in a statement today. The consumer inflation quickened to
9.87 percent in June, according to official data.  “We can expect there to be a moderation in food inflation
on account of a good monsoon,” said  Madan Sabnavis , chief
economist at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. “While overall
agricultural growth may exceed last year’s levels on account of
good rains, there could be specific pressure on lentils and
oilseeds as excess rains may damage the crops.”  Farmer Dependence  Rains were 17 percent more than a 50-year average at 506.7
millimeters (19.95 inches) between June 1 and July 29, according
to the  India Meteorological Department . That’s the most since at
least 1994, according to data from the bureau. The country
received 32 percent more rains than the average in June.  Agriculture accounts for about a fifth of  India’s economy ,
while 55 percent of the farm land does not have access to
irrigation and more than 235 million farmers depend on rain for
growing crops.  Soybean output may climb from all-time high of 14.7 million
tons in 2012-2013, while corn harvest may increase from 22.2
million tons, said J.S. Sandhu, the nation’s agriculture
commissioner. There are no reports of adverse impact on crops
because of excess rains, Sandhu said.  “More than 95 percent of the crop has been planted already
and the crop is shaping up well,” said Rajesh Agrawal, a
spokesman for the Soybean Processors Association of India. “The
only worry is that it has been raining continuously in many
areas and we are waiting now for some sunshine.”  Soybeans were planted across 11.7 million hectares as of
July 26, up 16 percent from a year earlier, according to the
 Agriculture Ministry . Corn area increased 25 percent to 7.1
million hectares, while cotton planting rose 8 percent to 10.5
million hectares.  “There has been timely rain all over and cotton planting
has been better than last year,” said A. Ramani, secretary of
the  Indian Cotton Federation , which represents 350 spinners,
ginners and traders. “This will ensure that the yield is higher
and we could have a better crop this time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  