-- Genworth Profit Rises 86% on Mortgage Insurance
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-30T22:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/genworth-profit-rises-86-on-mortgage-insurance.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the best-performing insurer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this year,
said earnings increased 86 percent as the unit that backs U.S.
home loans reported a second straight profit.  Second-quarter net income rose to $141 million, or 28 cents
a share, from $76 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier,
Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth said today in a statement.
Operating profit, which excludes some investment results, was 27
cents a share, missing the 29-cent  average estimate  of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Tom McInerney has overseen a 78
percent share  rally  since starting on Jan. 1 and putting in
place a plan to secure the company’s investment-grade credit
 rating . The insurer is benefiting from a rebound in the U.S.
housing market and is cutting expenses while raising premiums
for long-term care coverage.  “The choice of Tom McInerney as CEO pointed to the need
for operational improvement at the company’s core businesses,”
 Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC, said before the earnings
release. “The turnaround has been very significant, and now
it’s just a question of sustainability.”  Genworth fell 5.7 percent to $12.60 at 5:36 p.m. in  New
York  following today’s announcement. Its rally since Dec. 31 has
bested the 18 percent gain of the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Mortgage Insurance  Operating profit at the U.S. mortgage insurer was $13
million, compared with a $25 million loss a year earlier. Before
reporting positive results in the three months ended March 31,
the unit had been unprofitable since 2007.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$29.76 a share from $32.90 at the end of the first quarter.
Holding-company cash stood at about $1 billion, compared with
about $955 million on March 31.  At the unit that guarantees home loans in  Australia ,
operating profit rose to $55 million from $44 million a year
earlier. Canadian  mortgage-insurance  profit advanced to $43
million from $41 million.  “They have been the twin pillars of strength for the
company through and after the credit crisis,” Palmer said.
“There’s a certain degree of nervousness about those businesses
right now, given the fact that the housing markets in Australia
and  Canada  to some appear extended.”  McInerney, 57, replaced Michael Fraizer, who stepped down
May 1, 2012, after Genworth shelved a planned initial public
offering of its Australian mortgage insurer. Chief Financial
Officer Martin Klein had been acting CEO.  Workforce Reductions  Genworth said last month it would cut 400 jobs amid
pressure from low  interest rates . The reductions will help the
company save $80 million to $90 million a year, and costs tied
to the firings were expected to be about $15 million to $20
million in the second quarter, the company said.  Genworth has units that back mortgages and sell long-term
care coverage and  life insurance . The insurer invests in bonds
and other assets to back future payouts, and low interest rates
have pressured investment results.  Mortgage insurers led by  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  have surged
this year on bets they can increase sales as the U.S. government
scales back its role in the housing market and more people
purchase homes. MGIC last week reported its first quarterly
profit since 2010. The companies, which cover losses when
homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs,
suffered when  home prices  crashed amid the financial crisis.  Credit Grade  Genworth avoided a downgrade to junk at Moody’s Investors
Service by isolating its U.S. mortgage insurer this year, while
Standard and Poor’s has a negative outlook on its BBB-rating,
citing a need to improve operating results. McInerney has said
the company needs to boost its credit grade before returning
capital to shareholders.  Long-term care operating profit climbed to $26 million from
$14 million, Genworth said.  McInerney said in February that he’s focused on improving
results from long-term care, after fourth-quarter profit at the
unit dropped 75 percent. Genworth is working with regulators to
increase rates for the coverage that helps pay for home-health
aides or residence in nursing homes, he said.  Insurers including  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  retreated from long-term-care coverage as rising costs and
low interest rates pressured results from the business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  