-- Ghana May Hold Key Rate at 16% Awaiting Eurobond Proceeds
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-07-30T09:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/ghana-may-hold-key-rate-at-16-awaiting-eurobond-proceeds.html
Ghana ’s central bank will probably
keep its  key  interest rate  on hold as proceeds from a sale of
Eurobonds and loans for cocoa purchases boost dollar reserves,
giving the regulator room to support a weaker currency.  The  Bank of Ghana  will maintain the policy rate at 16
percent tomorrow, according to seven of eight economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. Andrea Masia, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Morgan Stanley, predicts an increase of 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percentage point. The decision will be announced
at about 11:00 a.m. in Accra, the capital.  The currency of the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer
declined 7.8 percent against the dollar this year amid increased
demand from manufacturers and traders for the U.S. currency in
the import-dependent economy. Policy makers unexpectedly
increased the key rate by one percentage point at its May
meeting to help stabilize the currency and curb inflation, which
reached 11.4 percent in June.  “The key concern in Ghana is the pressure on the cedi,”
 Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank
Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “The recent Eurobond issuance and the cocoa
syndicated loan proceeds expected later this year will enable
the Bank of Ghana to temporarily smooth some of the foreign-exchange imbalances.”  Cocoa Harvest  The bank is expected to swap cedis with the government for
the $750 million raised in its Eurobond sale last week. It’s
also targeting $1.2 billion from the Ghana Cocoa Board in
September, when the regulator signs an annual trade-finance loan
to buy the beans from farmers.  Ghana’s economy shrank 3.1 percent in the first quarter
from the previous three months as industry output contracted
amid months of electricity blackouts. Growth is forecast at 8
percent this year by the  Finance Ministry , faster than the sub-Saharan African outlook of 5.6 percent estimated by the
 International Monetary Fund .  The cedi was unchanged from yesterday’s close at 2.0650 per
dollar by 9:18 a.m. in Accra.  “The central bank would like to strike a healthy balance
between inflation and growth,” Collins Appiah, executive
director of asset management at NDK Financial Services Ltd. in
Accra, said in a phone interview. “With the Eurobond proceeds,
the bank can meet fluctuations in the  exchange rate  to curb the
impact on inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  