-- Gutierrez Says Immigration Overhaul ‘Economic Imperative’
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-07-30T12:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/gutierrez-says-immigration-overhaul-economic-imperative-.html
Former U.S. Commerce Secretary
Carlos Gutierrez says an overhaul of immigration law is
imperative if the U.S. is going to compete in world markets.  “This is good for the country, it’s good for the
economy,” Gutierrez said in an interview today with  Tom Keene 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” program. “This is an
economic imperative. This is not a political issue.”  He said a lot of Republicans support changes in immigration
law and “unless we fix the legal system, we’re always going to
have a dysfunctional system.”  The Senate in June passed a measure on a 68-32 vote, with
14 Republicans voting in favor, for the biggest rewrite of U.S.
immigration law in a generation.  The legislation has encountered broad opposition from House
Republicans, who oppose a provision creating a path to
citizenship for about 11 million undocumented immigrants now in
the U.S. The bill also includes $46.3 billion for better
securing the border with Mexico.  Many Republicans in the House say they prefer a piecemeal
approach requiring proof that border-security measures are
working before lawmakers consider any form of legal status for
undocumented immigrants.  House Speaker  John Boehner , Republican of  Ohio , is delaying
consideration of a bill until later this year, a decision that
may push any final compromise measure into the 2014 mid-term
election season.  Republican Effort  Gutierrez, 59, was born in  Havana , Cuba, and rose to become
chairman of  Kellogg Co. (K)  before joining the Cabinet of President
 George W. Bush . He’s joined President  Barack Obama , together
with business, labor, law enforcement leaders and religious
groups, to press for Republican support to revise immigration
laws.  “Immigrants are what add the energy and the vitality and
the competition to our economy -- it’s always been that way and
it’s that way now,” the former commerce secretary said.  He speculated that some Republicans resist changes because
of unfounded fear.  “There’s a little bit of xenophobia. There’s a little bit
of ‘We don’t know these people, who are they?’” Gutierrez said.
“We shouldn’t be afraid. We’ve been assimilating immigrants
since we became a nation.”  Gutierrez has organized a super-PAC called Republicans for
Immigration Reform. With an eye on the 2014 midterm elections,
 Republican Party  leaders are trying to reconnect with Hispanic
voters after Obama captured 71 percent of their vote, helping
fuel his second-term victory.  Agriculture Workers  The key issue in favor of revamping immigration law is an
economic one, he said.  In agriculture, he said, if there were more immigrant
workers, farmers say they’d be able to plant more, create more
distribution centers and perhaps export.  “We don’t have enough workers,” he said. “If we get this
right, what an advantage we’ll have versus the rest of the
world. Think about Japan and Russia and others.”  “Everyone should be understanding that this is economic.
Without this we can’t grow.”  Gutierrez is currently vice chairman of the Albright
Stonebridge Group, a Washington-based strategic advisory firm
that helps companies, associations and foundations navigate
commerce, political and regulatory problems in the U.S. and
overseas. The firm’s chairman is  Madeleine Albright , former
secretary of state in the Clinton administration.  Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican who helped write
the Senate’s immigration bill, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
interview that the Republican Party “will never win a national
election unless we get a larger proportion of the Hispanic vote
than we have in the last two elections.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  