-- Ibovespa Futures Advance as Report Shows Slower Brazil Inflation
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-30T12:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/ibovespa-futures-advance-as-report-shows-slower-brazil-inflation.html
Ibovespa  futures  advanced, a sign
the equity gauge may rise for a third time in four sessions,
after a report showed  Brazil ’s inflation slowed, easing concern
that rising prices will curb the economic recovery.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
market value, may move after posting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  may
be active after Banco Santander SA raised its recommendation on
the steelmaker to buy from the equivalent of sell.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August added 0.1
percent to 49,235 at 9:16 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . The real slid 0.3
percent to 2.2744 per dollar. Brazil’s IGP-M index of wholesale,
construction and consumer prices rose 0.26 percent in the 30
days ended July 20, after a prior reading of 0.75 percent, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation reported. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had  forecast  an increase of 0.27 percent.  “We expect the indicator to remain on a downward path
through September, owing to the high comparison base for
inflation in the same period of last year,” Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts including Nilson Teixeira wrote in a report e-mailed
to clients before the price report was released.  The Ibovespa slumped 19 percent this year through
yesterday, wiping out $228 billion from the  value  of Brazilian
stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil’s
benchmark equity gauge trades at 12.3 times analysts’  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with 10.4 for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 4.39 billion
reais yesterday, which compares with a daily average of
7.66 billion reais this year through July 26, according to data
 compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  