-- ICBC May Complete Standard Bank London Deal This Year, Sky Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-07-30T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/icbc-may-complete-standard-bank-london-deal-this-year-sky-says.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  may this year complete talks started in 2012 to buy
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ’s London-based commodities and foreign
exchange trading divisions,  Sky News  reported.  ICBC,  China ’s biggest lender, resumed talks in recent weeks
after putting them on hold for “several months,” the U.K.-
based broadcaster said on its website yesterday, citing an
unidentified person close to the situation. The negotiations
were paused pending the transfer of political power in the Asian
nation this year, Sky said.  The “reignited” talks with Johannesburg-based Standard
Bank are at a “detailed stage,” Sky said. The deal may be
similar to the one planned seven months ago, with ICBC initially
buying a 60 percent stake in the units, with an option to
increase its holding, it said.  ICBC, the South African bank’s largest  shareholder , and
other Chinese  lenders  are expanding abroad as the growing number
of Chinese companies in overseas markets boosts demand for
offshore services amid tougher competition at home. The
commodities and foreign exchange stake would further cement ties
between the banks.  State-controlled ICBC’s overseas expansion began in
December 2006 when it acquired 90 percent of PT Bank Halim
 Indonesia , followed by a 79.9 percent stake in Macau’s Seng Heng
Bank Ltd in 2007.  In March 2008, ICBC bought 20 percent of  Standard Bank ,
Africa’s largest, for $5.4 billion, in the biggest overseas
acquisition by a Chinese bank. ICBC purchased 80 percent of the
South African lender’s Argentine assets last year.  Chinese banks including ICBC are also seeking to profit
from the country’s demand for precious metals and other
commodities. A stake in the Standard Bank unit could build on
the full membership ICBC won earlier last year in the London
Bullion Market Association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Joshua Fellman
in  New York  at   jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  