-- ICL Plunges Most in Five Years on Uralkali Shift: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-07-30T09:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/icl-plunges-most-in-five-years-on-uralkali-shift-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  plunged the
most in almost five years after  OAO Uralkali (URKA)  said global potash
prices may fall about 25 percent as it quit a trade venture and
plans to boost shipments independently.  The shares tumbled 15 percent to 30.18 shekels, the biggest
intraday decline since November 2008, at 11:59 a.m. in Tel Aviv.
Israel Corp., which holds a 52 percent stake in the maker of
fertilizers, dropped 17 percent to 1,744 shekels. The two stocks
led declines on the benchmark TA-25 Index, which fell 1.2
percent to 1,209.24.  “The development comes as a surprise which will bring down
potash prices to levels that will also hurt Israel Chemicals’
profitability,” Ilanit Sherf, an analyst at Psagot Investment
House in Tel Aviv, said today by phone. “Uralkali’s exit from
the trade venture may also induce more competition and put
further pressure on prices.”  Spokesmen at ICL or Israel Corp. were not immediately
available for comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  Uralkali’s cooperation with Belorusian potash producer
Belaruskali reached “a deadlock” after the government in Minsk
canceled their joint trader’s exclusive right to export the
country’s potash and Belaruskali made independent deliveries,
Uralkali said in a statement. The Russian potash producer will
switch exports to its own trader, Uralkali Trading, from the
joint venture, Belarusian Potash Co., known as BPC.  “The potash price may fall below $300 a ton after the
change in our trading policy,” Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner told reporters today by phone.  Uralkali plans to run at full capacity after changing
trading policy and will boost output to 13 million tons in 2014
from this year’s 10.5 million tons, Baumgertner said. The
producer will extend its first-half supply contract with  China 
for the remainder of 2013, meaning it will ship as much as
500,000 tons more potash to China by the end of the year,
Baumgertner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  