-- Life Technologies to Develop Food-Safety Tests for FDA
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-30T20:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/life-technologies-to-develop-food-safety-tests-for-use-by-fda.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  is enlisting  Life Technologies (LIFE)  Corp. in an effort
to improve food safety, signing a five-year agreement to develop
efficient ways to spot deadly E. coli and Salmonella bacteria.  Life Technologies will create tests to detect and identify
pathogens in the  food supply  using genetic material provided by
the agency, the Carlsbad, California-based company said in a
statement. It will also devise new approaches to food testing
that the agency can evaluate for potential future use.  The Obama administration has been slow to enact the 2011
Food Safety Modernization Act, proposing regulations just this
year to protect the public. The law stemmed from outbreaks and
poisonings in cookie dough, spinach, jalapenos and other foods
that killed at least nine people and sickened more than 700 in
2008 and 2009. Total cases of food-borne illness were unchanged
last year from 2006-2008, stalling previous declines.  “The FDA will call on us, particularly when it comes to
developing rapid detection kits,” said Nir Nimrodi, vice
president and general manager for  food safety  and animal health
at Life Technologies, in a statement. “This agreement allows
them to have new rapid track and trace products for rapid
identification of food-borne contaminants.”  Life Technology rose less than 1 percent to $74.66 at 4
p.m.  New York  time, after rising 70 percent in the past 12
months.  The venture between the FDA and Life Technologies will lead
to the creation of real-time tests that can be used to quickly
detect specific strains of E. coli and Salmonella. They will
also genetically sequence bacteria, then analyze the results for
use in future tests. The whole genome sequences will be included
in the National Institutes of health Genbank and shared with the
food safety research community.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  