-- High Crop Prices and Insurance Seen Causing Catastrophe
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-07-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/high-crop-prices-and-insurance-seen-causing-catastrophe.html
Sustained high prices for corn,
soybeans and wheat combined with record U.S. crop-insurance
payouts are encouraging farmers to plow fragile lands and put
ecosystems at risk, an environmental advocacy group said.  Northern Plains counties have seen the highest conversion
of animal habitats and erodible lands into cropland,
Environmental Working Group said today in a study of U.S.
planting patterns from 2008 to 2012. About 5.3 million acres of
fragile lands and 1.9 million acres of wetlands were plowed, the
group said, an area slightly larger than Massachusetts.  “This is an ecological catastrophe that’s happening really
fast,” said Craig Cox, director of the group’s office in Ames,
 Iowa . “We need to at least take steps to mitigate this.”  High corn and soybean prices and record crop-insurance
indemnities from companies including  ACE Ltd. (ACE)  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , all tied to last year’s U.S. drought, may push farmer
profits this year to a record  $128.2 billion , the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said in February. Government subsidies
to reduce producer risk have come under fire from lawmakers in
this year’s debate over adopting a new five-year law authorizing
federal farm programs.  The environmental group, which used satellites to track
changes in  land use , found  North Dakota ,  South Dakota  and
 Minnesota  accounted for 39 percent of all wetland conversion,
while more than half of fragile lands were plowed in a swath
across 10 states from the Great Plains to western Corn Belt
regions.  Sage Grouse  Along with improving soil and providing habitat for
potentially endangered species such as the sage grouse and
lesser prairie chicken, such lands also absorb farm chemicals
and hold back rivers that have been rising and receding more
dramatically with  climate change , Cox said.  U.S. corn growers planted  97.4 million acres , the most
since 1936, the USDA said in a report last month. Production of
the nation’s most-valuable crop has expanded north and west.
Minnesota passed Illinois and Nebraska to become the second-biggest corn-producer after Iowa last year, in part because of
the drought, while North Dakota’s corn crop more than doubled in
value last year to  $2.9 billion .  Meanwhile, enrollment in the government’s largest
environmental conservation program, which pays farmer to idle
fragile land,  has declined  20 percent to 29.5 million acres last
year from 36.8 million in 2007 while crop insurance programs
have reached a record  $17.4 billion  as of July 22. Crop
insurance indemnities that protect farmers from losses encourage
the plowing, Cox said.  Corn, Soybeans  Bob Young, chief economist for the  American Farm Bureau
Federation  in Washington, said higher prices are the chief
reason for greater production while insurance may play some
role. The trend may be waning this year as higher yields and
acreage have pushed down prices for corn, soybeans and wheat at
least 13 percent, Young said.  Increased planting will continue as long as crop prices
dictate it, Young said. In the Northern Plains, most acreage
changes have come from switching from wheat, which requires less
water, to more-intensive corn and soybeans, he said.  More cultivation doesn’t mean significant environmental
damage, he said. “It’s not about whether a whole field comes
into production, it’s about what happens to the critical part of
the field,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  