-- IMF Advises U.A.E. to Cut Energy Subsidies as GDP Growth Slows
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-07-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/imf-advises-u-a-e-to-cut-energy-subsidies-as-gdp-growth-slows.html
The United Arab Emirates may need to
reduce energy subsidies to help mitigate risks of fluctuating
oil prices and allow Dubai to cut its debt, the International
Monetary Fund said.  Subsidies in the second-biggest Arab economy, which holds
about 6 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, accounted
for 5.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2012, IMF estimates
show. Abu Dhabi and Dubai, the country’s two biggest emirates,
are planning a gradual “consolidation in their non-oil balances
through 2017,” the fund said.  “Fiscal consolidation will be driven by restraint in
capital expenditure in the context of solid economic growth,”
the IMF said. “It should also be supported by reductions in
energy subsidies, which would create fiscal space while
improving energy efficiency.”  Countries in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council have
boosted spending on subsidies and public-sector wages as they
seek to stave off the political unrest that spread through other
parts of the Middle East. The IMF’s recommendation to the U.A.E.
follows similar advice to Saudi Arabia this month.  “Limiting further wage bill increases would support the
objectives of maintaining flexibility of the budget and making
private sector employment more attractive for nationals,” the
IMF said of the U.A.E.  Slowing Growth  The U.A.E.’s economic growth may slow to 3.4 percent this
year from 3.9 percent in 2012, according to economists’
estimates on Bloomberg. The budget surplus will stay little
changed at 5.65 percent of GDP. About 80 percent of the nation’s
revenues are generated by hydrocarbon-related industries, IMF
data show.  The fund also recommended that Dubai, which almost
defaulted on debt in 2009, should consider increasing charges on
real estate to avoid “overheating” in the market and boost
revenue. It urged authorities to ensure that the execution of
major projects be “gradual and structured” to limit risk-taking by already indebted state entities.  Dubai has unveiled projects with a value of at least $40
billion this year while providing few details on how they would
be financed. The emirate has about $142 billion of debt
outstanding, equal to 102 percent of GDP, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  