-- Al-Qaeda Translator Says Prosecutors Frightened Jury
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-07-30T19:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/imprisoned-al-qaeda-translator-cites-speech-freedom-in-appeal.html
Lawyers for a man sentenced to 17
1/2 years in prison for translating al-Qaeda materials on the
Web argued to overturn the conviction, saying prosecutors
improperly frightened the jury with images of the Sept. 11
attacks.  P. Sabin Willett, an attorney for Tarek Mehanna, told a
U.S. Court of Appeals in  Boston  today that prosecution
references to the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Center in  New York  were “overwhelmingly prejudicial” to
the jury.  Jurors saw 28 images of the towers’ collapse and heard
mention of videos of five beheadings by Islamic radicals, while
 Osama Bin Laden , the deceased al-Qaeda leader, was brought up 17
times, he said.  “The purpose of the evidence was to frighten the jury and
it worked,” Willett told the three-judge panel.  The judges said they would rule later.  U.S. District Judge George O’Toole imposed the sentence in
April 2012 after Mehanna, 30, was convicted of conspiring to
give material support to al-Qaeda. Prosecutors sought a 25-year
sentence, saying the materials he translated from Arabic into
English included a manual titled “39 Ways to Serve and
Participate in Jihad.”  U.S. Circuit Judge Bruce Selya said that while each
reference to terrorism may have been proper during the trial,
the appeals court must weigh total effect of the references.  ‘Horrible Crimes’  “Terrorism sparks emotions in all of us; it’s a horrible
crime and it’s important we stick to the rules of evidence when
it comes to speaking about it,” Selya said. “This is a hard
case. We’ll try to be very careful in this case.”  The government alleged that Mehanna, a pharmacy-school
graduate, traveled to  Yemen  in 2004 to seek training so he could
kill American soldiers in  Iraq . After failing to get the
instruction, he edited and translated recruitment materials for
al-Qaeda, the U.S. said.  Justice Department attorney Elizabeth Collery said today
that e-mail evidence refuted the defendant’s argument he had
gone to Yemen as a scholar.  “The government certainly has a right to show this
defendant’s intent,” Selya said in reference to Mehanna’s trip
to the Arab nation.  ‘Unpopular Expression’  Mehanna’s lawyers, as well as groups including the  American
Civil Liberties Union  and the  National Association of Criminal
Defense Lawyers , also argued that government efforts to
“prohibit unpopular expression” by Mehanna violate the U.S.
Constitution’s right to free speech and warrant reversal of his
conviction.  Prosecutors disputed that contention.  “The evidence amply established that Mehanna engaged in
propaganda activities in coordination with, or at the direction
of, a foreign terrorist organization,” the government said in
its appeal brief. “Mehanna was not convicted for any activity
protected by the First Amendment.”  His lawyers claimed in court filings that the judge
incorrectly told the jury he could be convicted for political
speech if it had been coordinated with al-Qaeda. They also said
that the judge used the wrong guidelines in imposing the
sentence.  Marathon Bombing  Federal investigators have said that the Marathon suspects,
who allegedly killed three people in the April 15 terrorist
bombing, learned about making bombs from the online magazine
Inspire, which is affiliated with al-Qaeda. They, like Mehanna,
were identified by prosecutors as radical Islamists.  Mehanna, who wasn’t present at the oral arguments today,
lived in Sudbury,  Massachusetts , with his family. He earned a
doctorate from the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health
Science where his father, Ahmed, an immigrant from  Egypt , is a
professor, according to court records.  Ahmed Mehanna told reporters after the hearing that he was
optimistic about the appeal after hearing the judge’s comments.  “I feel good but I’ve lost faith in the justice system,”
the father said.  The appeals case is U.S. v. Mehanna, 12-01461,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the First Circuit (Boston). The lower-court case
is U.S. v. Mehanna, 1:09-cr-10017, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 