-- Independent Scotland Needs Means to Match Welfare Aims, IFS Says
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-07-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/independent-scotland-needs-means-to-match-welfare-aims-ifs-says.html
Scotland ’s aging population is
likely to push up benefit spending faster than in the rest of
Britain and may mean that in the event of independence the
country will not be able to afford to reverse some benefit cuts
made since 2010, according to the  Institute of Fiscal Studies .  Benefit spending per head was 2 percent higher in Scotland
than in Britain as a whole in the financial year ending 2012,
with spending on disability benefits 22 percent higher, the
London-based group said in a report today. Spending on housing
benefits, child benefit and tax credits was lower than average.
Total spending on benefits that year was 17.2 billion pounds
($26.2 billion), or about 30 percent of all  government spending ,
the IFS said.  “Reversing the benefit cuts even partially would entail
larger cuts to other spending, increases in taxes or a slower
path of  deficit reduction ,” the IFS said. “Major reforms to
the system would likely either cost substantial sums of money or
create large numbers of losers, many of whom are likely to have
low incomes.”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  told lawmakers last
month that an independent Scotland would  reverse  a U.K. tax on 
empty rooms in social housing in the first year of independence. 
That would cost 50 million pounds a year and treat social 
housing tenants more generously than those in the privately 
rented accommodation, according to the report.  The Scottish population is forecast to get older more
quickly than Britain as a whole as it already has
proportionately more older people and fewer children, the IFS
said.  “In the longer term, Scotland’s projected more rapid aging
is likely to push up benefit spending more quickly than in the
rest of the U.K., putting Scotland’s public finances under
substantial pressure,” the IFS said in the report.  Scotland is holding a referendum on independence in
September 2014 and the affordability of pensions and other
welfare payments has become an increasing issue in the campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  