-- India’s Nifty Futures Climb Before Central Bank Policy Meeting
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-07-30T01:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/india-s-nifty-futures-climb-before-central-bank-policy-meeting.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may rally from a three-week low,
before the central bank meets today to review monetary policy.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery rose 0.3
percent to 5,893.5 at 9:44 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index slid 0.9 percent to 5,831.65 yesterday, the lowest
close since July 10. The S&P BSE Sensex fell for a fourth day,
the longest losing streak in two months. The gauge has added 1
percent this month. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index
of U.S.-traded shares lost 0.3 percent.  The Reserve Bank of India will leave the benchmark
repurchase rate unchanged at 7.25 percent for a second
consecutive meeting, according to 31 of 32 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey, while 29 of 30 expect the reserve ratio to
remain unchanged at 4 percent. RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao ,
whose term ends in September, raised two interest rates and
drained liquidity this month to stabilize the rupee after the
currency weakened to a record low.  “All eyes are on the RBI policy,” Kishor Ostwal, managing
director at CNI Research Ltd., said by phone. “While no change
in rates is expected, the tone and tenor of the policy will be
keenly watched. Till then we will see stock-specific action
based on newsflow and quarterly results.”  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  may report today quarterly net
income of 7.24 billion rupees ($122 million), according to the
median estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  may announce profit of 25 billion rupees for the
three months ended June 30, according to 31 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Inflation Risks  Subbarao maintained interest rates at the last policy
meeting in June, citing persistent inflation risks, after
cutting the  repurchase  rate three times this year to spur an
economy that grew at the slowest pace in a decade in the year
ended March 31.  The Sensex ended a four-week rally last week after the RBI
tightened banks’ access to cash on July 23 to steady the
currency. The moves should not be seen as indicating a
forthcoming major shift in monetary policy, Raghuram Rajan, the
Finance Ministry’s chief economic adviser, said on July 25.  Four of the 13 Sensex members that have posted earnings so
far for the June quarter missed analyst estimates. About 27
percent of companies in the measure missed forecasts for the
three months ended March, and 43 percent in the quarter through
December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has gained 0.9 percent this year and  trades  at
13.8 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 10 times.  Global funds  bought a net $49.1 million of local shares on
July 26, taking this year’s net purchases to $12.3 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. They have sold $1 billion of Indian
stocks this month, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by
Bloomberg, extending June’s $1.8 billion sell-off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  