-- India’s Rupee Drops to One-Week Low Before RBI Policy Decision
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-30T04:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/india-s-rupee-drops-to-one-week-low-before-rbi-policy-decision.html
India ’s rupee fell to the lowest
level in a week as investors speculate on the direction of
monetary policy before a review today, with a depreciating
currency threatening to stoke inflation amid slow growth.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will keep its benchmark
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent when it announces its decision
at 11 a.m. in Mumbai, according to 31 of 32 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. One predicts a cut to 7 percent. Steadying the
rupee has become the policy priority and more steps are needed
to curb the nation’s current-account deficit, the RBI said in an
economic review yesterday. The authority tightened liquidity
this month as the currency fell to a record low.  “Lowering rates, which is needed for the policy mix, will
be delayed by the currency weakness,” said  Patrick Bennett , a
strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  Hong Kong .
“The best thing for the rupee right now is stability, and I
think the RBI will not want to confuse the markets more by
changing rates today.”  The rupee declined 0.3 percent to 59.6100 per dollar as of
9:52 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 59.7250 earlier, the weakest
level since July 23, after plunging to an unprecedented 61.2125
on July 8. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the
greenback against 10 major counterparts, rose 0.2 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 28 basis
points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 12.04 percent.  Rupee Stability   The RBI has raised two  interest rates , restricted lenders’
access to funds and curbed trades in currency derivatives this
month to check exchange-rate swings. Global funds cut holdings
of Indian debt by $8.9 billion since May 22, when the U.S. first
signaled it could pare stimulus, leaving the rupee vulnerable to
a current-account gap that official data shows widened to a
record 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March 31.  Technical charts indicate the rupee will resume its drop
toward a never-before-seen 63.50 per dollar,  Niall O’Connor , a
New York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
research report yesterday. A weaker currency could stoke
inflation as India imports 80 percent of its oil.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.5 percent to
61.03 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.4 percent to 60.86. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  