-- India Central Bank Holds Rates in Push to Stem Rupee Plunge
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-30T12:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/india-s-central-bank-holds-rates-in-push-to-stem-plunge-in-rupee.html
India ’s central bank left interest
rates unchanged and said increases in borrowing costs earlier
this month to stem the rupee’s slide will be reversed in a
measured way as the currency stabilizes.  GovernorDuvvuri Subbarao kept the benchmark  repurchase
rate  at 7.25 percent, the  Reserve Bank of India  said today. All
except one of 32 analysts in a Bloomberg News  survey  predicted
the decision, with one expecting a cut to 7 percent. The review
is the last scheduled before Subbarao’s term ends in September.  Subbarao raised two rates July 15 and has capped cash
injections into the banking system and tightened lenders’
reserve ratios to curb the supply of rupees, joining nations
from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  in fighting currency weakness. Costlier
credit could hamper a government push to revitalize investment
and revive growth from a decade low,  State Bank  of India said.  “From a growth-inflation trade-off, the central bank is
now more concerned about the macro-financial stability of the
economy,” said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc.  The rupee weakened 1.8 percent, the most in more than a
month, to 60.485 per dollar at the close in Mumbai. The yield on
the 7.16 percent government bond due May 2023 rose to 8.26
percent from 8.13 percent yesterday. The S&P BSE Sensex index
slid 1.3 percent.  ‘Calibrated Manner’  The rupee, down 12 percent in the past six months, has been
hurt by a record current-account deficit and the prospect of
reduced U.S. monetary stimulus, which has spurred capital
outflows from  emerging markets . The central bank’s steps have
contributed to a climb of about 1.2 percent in the currency
since it touched a record low July 8.  “The recent liquidity tightening measures by the  Reserve
Bank  are aimed at checking undue volatility in the foreign
exchange market and will be rolled back in a calibrated manner
as stability is restored to the foreign exchange market,
enabling monetary policy to revert to supporting growth with
continuing vigil on inflation,” the central bank said in its
 statement  in Mumbai today.  India has had to “forfeit some monetary policy discretion
to address external sector concerns,” it said.  Sovereign Bonds  The Reserve Bank has reservations about issuing foreign-currency sovereign bonds to garner capital inflows as such debt
may compromise financial stability, Subbarao said in a press
briefing. At the same time, these matters will be discussed with
the government and all options on the table will be considered,
he said.  The monetary authority has a sufficient arsenal to contain
currency volatility, he said, adding India is fairly resilient
and that the nation does not need an International Monetary Fund
loan.  Interest rates  will “come down in future but not until
such time as volatility in exchange rates is contained,” the
governor said.  Subbarao this month increased the marginal standing
facility rate and the bank rate by 200 basis points to 10.25
percent. That contrasts with 25 basis-point repurchase rate cuts
in January, March and May each to spur growth. The marginal
standing facility and bank rates were held today.  Without the risks stemming from the trade imbalance and
rupee weakness, India’s current situation would have provided
“a reasonable case for continuing on the easing stance,” the
Reserve Bank said.  Economic Outlook  The central bank estimated  gross domestic product  may
expand 5.5 percent in the fiscal year through March 2014,
compared with an earlier projection of 5.7 percent. Wholesale-price inflation is largely moving in line with a prior forecast
of about 5.5 percent for the period, it said.  The Reserve Bank said it will seek to “condition the
evolution of inflation” to 5 percent by March 2014.  Wholesale-price  inflation  in  Asia ’s third-largest economy
accelerated to 4.86 percent in June. Consumer-price growth
quickened to 9.87 percent.  The biggest risk to the economic outlook “stems from the
external sector” and a  current-account gap  that remains above
the sustainable level of 2.5 percent of GDP, the Reserve Bank
added. The shortfall was 4.8 percent of GDP in 2012-2013.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has raised taxes
on gold imports to try and curb the deficit. It has also eased
restrictions on foreign investment in a bid to woo inflows and
revive growth.  The current-account gap will narrow significantly this year
and the administration is looking at more steps to attract
stable financing for the imbalance, the  Finance Ministry ’s Chief
Economic Adviser Raghuram Rajan said in  New Delhi  today.  Currency depreciation threatens to raise costs for Indian
companies facing at least $20 billion in overseas debt
repayments in the coming year. The Reserve Bank’s foreign
reserves slid to $279.2 billion by July 19 from about $295
billion at the start of 2013, indicating dollar sales to support
the rupee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  