-- Infineon May Take Time to Meet Profit Target on Dresden Plan
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-07-30T16:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/infineon-lifts-sales-forecast-as-revenue-climbs-in-all-segments.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  reported
better-than-expected profit after boosting sales of chips in
industries from automotive to power management. Europe’s second-biggest semiconductor maker said it won’t reach a profit target
in the “short term” as it expands production in Dresden.  Earnings before interest and taxes, which Infineon calls
segment result,  fell  7.1 percent to 117 million euros ($155
million) in its third quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier.
That compared with analysts’ 104.7 million-euro average estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. The profit margin on that basis was 11.4
percent, from 12.7 percent a year earlier.  Infineon is pioneering production from larger-diameter
wafers, which the company has said will help it manufacture 2.5
times as many chips from each slice. Increasing production in
Dresden of chips cut from 300-millimeter silicon wafers will
mean “it will take some time” to reach the Neubiberg, Germany-based company’s target for a 15 percent margin, Chief Executive
Officer Reinhard Ploss said on a conference call.  “There are some concerns with regards to margin expansion
going into 2014,” said Thomas Becker, an analyst at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG who recommends buying Infineon shares.
“From a top-line perspective 2014 should be a year which will
meet market expectations, though since they are close to a full
utilization level, clearly investment levels need to rise as
well.”  Reversing Gains  The stock fell 4.1 percent to close at 6.70 euros in
 Frankfurt , after rising as much as 4.8 percent following the
earnings report. It has gained 9.3 percent this year, giving
Infineon a market value of 7.2 billion euros.  Sales in the three months through June rose 11 percent from
the previous quarter to 1.02 billion euros, in line with the 1
billion-euro analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter sales will be about 1.05 billion euros,
while the profit margin will be about 13 percent, Infineon said.  In April,  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  forecast
sales for the quarter through June that may top some analysts’
estimates. Dallas-based Texas Instruments cited strengthening
demand from manufacturers of automotive and industrial parts,
while Santa Clara, California-based Intel is betting on server
chips to offset a slump in sales of personal computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  