-- Iran Seen Able to Process Bomb-Grade Uranium Next Year
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-30T22:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/iran-may-achieve-nuclear-breakout-capability-in-mid-2014.html
Iran may achieve the “critical
capability” to process low-enriched uranium into material for a
nuclear weapon without detection by international inspectors by
mid-2014, according to a report by a research group.  Iran would reach this capability by acting on plans to
install thousands of additional enrichment centrifuges at its
Natanz and Fordow sites, according to  David Albright , a former
nuclear inspector, and Christina Walrond of the Washington-based
Institute for Science and International Security.  Preventing Iran from achieving the capability to break out
from nuclear safeguards will require international efforts to
limit the number and type of centrifuges built by the nation,
according to the report issued yesterday.  “Although increasing the frequency and type of inspections
at the enrichment plants is important, it is by no means
sufficient to prevent Iran from achieving critical capability,”
according to the analysts.  President  Barack Obama  has said the U.S. will prevent Iran
from acquiring nuclear weapons. America and other world powers
are seeking an initial agreement halting Iran’s production of 20
percent enriched uranium -- one processing step short of
weapons-grade -- and removing the stockpile of such medium-enriched uranium so that it can’t be diverted for weapons.  Enrichment Focus  The institute’s report focuses instead on Iran’s production
of low-enriched uranium, usable as reactor fuel for power
generators, which may be further enriched to bomb grade given
time and sufficient centrifuges. Albright and Walrond cited
scenarios in which current safeguard measures would be
insufficient to detect quickly an Iranian decision to divert
enough low-enriched uranium to make weapons-grade material for
one or more nuclear weapons.  “Breakout times at critical capability would be so short
that there simply would not be enough time to organize an
international diplomatic or military response,” the analysts
said.  Iran’s leaders have said its nuclear program is for
civilian purposes. U.S. intelligence agencies have assessed that
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  hasn’t made a decision to
produce a bomb, though the nation is developing its capability
to do so.  Enrichment facilities in Fordow, near the holy city of Qom,
and Natanz, 130 miles southeast of Tehran, are run by Iran and
monitored by the  International Atomic Energy Agency . Iran says
the 20 percent enriched uranium, which has been of the most
immediate global concern, is being processed to provide fuel for
a research reactor used to produce medical isotopes.  The institute’s report says monitoring alone isn’t enough
and that international negotiations should press for a halt to
installation of additional centrifuges and set a cap on the
total number and capabilities of those production devices.  The report also raises the possibility that  Iran  may be
building another enrichment facility that it hasn’t declared to
international monitors and that would provide an alternative
route to a breakout nuclear-weapons capability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  