-- Isagen Surges as Colombia Courts Duke for Stake: Bogota Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-07-30T17:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/isagen-surges-as-colombia-courts-duke-for-stake-bogota-mover.html
Isagen SA (ISAGEN) , the operator of
 Colombia ’s largest hydropower plant, rose to a record after the
governnment said it was courting buyers including  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  for its majority stake in the electricity company.  Isagen gained 1.8 percent to 2,770 pesos at 12:43 p.m. in
Bogota, the highest price on a closing basis since the
government sold a portion of its stake in an initial public
offering in 2007.  Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters
yesterday that the government will auction off its 57.66 percent
Isagen stake for a minimum of 2,850 a share, valuing the holding
at 4.5 trillion pesos ($2.4 billion). Potential buyers include
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Duke and France’s  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,
Cardenas said today on Caracol Radio.  The new operator of Isagen must have “ample experience in
electricity generation and a lot of financial muscle that allows
it to contribute to the growth of the company, improve its
operations and offer lower energy costs to Colombians,” the
 Finance Ministry  said in a statement.  Duke and GDF Suez officials declined to comment.  Medellin-based Isagen is Colombia’s third-largest
electricity producer, with six  power plants  and a generating
capacity of 2,212 megawatts, according to its  website . The San
Carlos plant on the Guatape River in central Colombia is the
country’s largest hydroelectricity producer, accounting for
about 56 percent of the company’s capacity.  Cardenas said a first auction for Isagen shares that will
start in a month and last 60 days will be open to a restricted
group of bidders including company employees. A second round of
bidding would be open to the energy companies, Cardenas said.  CUTS:
Colombia will offer shares at a minimum of 2,850 pesos each at
an auction in one month, Cardenas said yesterday. That would
value the government’s stake at 4.5 trillion pesos ($2.4
billion), Cardenas told reporters in Bogota. The government
wants to raise 5 trillion pesos or more for its stake, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  