-- MIT Report Faults Neutrality Toward Swartz in Internet Case
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-07-30T20:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/mit-report-questions-neutrality-toward-aaron-swartz-in-web-case.html
The Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, while maintaining a “neutral” stance toward the
prosecution of Internet activist Aaron Swartz, failed to live up
to its commitment to the free exchange of ideas, a report found.  MIT didn’t take into account that Swartz was a “well-known
contributor to Internet technology,” according to today’s
report, led by professor  Hal Abelson . Swartz killed himself in
January as he awaited trial on charges he broke into the
school’s network to download millions of research articles.  The university, which prides itself on promoting openness,
and the U.S. Justice Department have faced criticism for their
roles in pursuing Swartz, considered a hero by many in the
movement to make information available for free. The law used to
pursue him was “poorly drafted” when “applied to modern
computing,” according to the report.  “MIT’s position may have been prudent, but it did not duly
take into account the wider background of information policy
against which the prosecution played out and in which MIT people
have traditionally been passionate leaders,” the report said.  While the report presents an opportunity to “learn and
lead” on questions of open access, intellectual property and
ethics, it also dispels myths about the case, L. Rafael Reif,
MIT’s president, said today in a letter posted on the school’s
website. Two days after Swartz’s suicide, Reif asked Abelson, a
computer-science professor who has been a prominent advocate of
maintaining free access to software, to lead the review.  ‘A Whitewash’  “It makes clear that MIT did not target Aaron Swartz, we
did not seek federal prosecution, punishment or jail time, and
we did not oppose a plea bargain,” Reif said. “I am confident
that MIT’s decisions were reasonable, appropriate and made in
good faith.”  The MIT administration will conduct a review of polices on
electronic records and convene a group of student, alumni,
faculty and staff this fall to explore the issues raised in the
report, Reif said.  Swartz’s girlfriend Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman, called
MIT anything but neutral in the case. The school’s lawyers gave
prosecutors access to witnesses and evidence while refusing
access to Swartz’s attorneys, she said.  “All MIT had to do was say publicly, ‘We don’t want this
case to go forward,’” Stinebrickner-Kauffman said. “MIT’s
behavior throughout the case was reprehensible, and this report
is quite frankly a whitewash.”  MIT’s ‘Failure’  In a blog posting, Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard Law School
professor and Internet activist, faulted MIT’s position of
neutrality, saying it had intervened in an earlier case,
involving an MIT student, and that it could have told
prosecutors that Swartz was authorized to have access to the
research under the school’s open-access policies.  “‘Neutrality’ does not justify failing to pick up the
phone, and telling the prosecutor, ‘Hey, in fact, his access was
authorized,’”  Lessig said . “Maybe it wouldn’t have mattered.
Maybe the prosecutor would have stayed the course. But then that
would have been (yet another) failure of the prosecution, not
MIT’s.”  On a conference call with reporters, Abelson said the
inquiry was conducted independently of the MIT administration
over more than six months. Those working on the 180-page report
interviewed about 50 people, including members of law
enforcement, Swartz’s lawyers and MIT faculty, and reviewed
10,000 pages of documents, he said.  ‘Full Account’  “We tried to give a full account of the facts,” Abelson
said. He and his colleagues sought to avoid judgments “so
people can reach their own conclusions.”  Until his arrest in January 2011, MIT was unaware that
Swartz was the person downloading information, according to the
 report .  The university didn’t issue a statement about Swartz’s
prosecution or advocate on his behalf, contrary to the wishes of
his family and legal team and two faculty members, the report
said.  Swartz’s father, Robert, a consultant to the MIT Media Lab,
asked the school to make a “settlement” with his son, similar
to one reached with the organization that maintained the digital
library of academic articles he had downloaded. Swartz
complained that his son’s defense team couldn’t get assistance
from MIT, such as access to documents and employees, and the
university violated his rights by turning over items to the
government, the report said.  Father’s Plea  “Why are you destroying my son?” Robert Swartz said in a
meeting with MIT officials in September 2011, according to the
MIT review.  In an e-mailed statement, Robert Swartz said the report
showed that MIT, which had “a moral obligation to advocate in
the legal case against Aaron,” made “numerous mistakes that
warrant further examination and significant changes.” He said
he welcomed Reif’s call for further review and asked to
participate himself.  The school remained silent because of “the good-faith
belief, based on private conversations with the lead
prosecutor” that it would make no difference and could make
matters worse for Swartz, according to the report.  An MIT attorney told the lead prosecutor on June 21 that
“some people at MIT would be likely to view the prosecution
negatively,” according to the report. An outside lawyer for MIT
told the lead prosecutor in August 2012 that the government
“should not be under the impression that MIT wanted a jail
sentence for Aaron Swartz.”  Before the 26-year-old Swartz hanged himself, the MIT
community “paid scant attention” to the case and few expressed
concern about the prosecution or the questions it raised about
the free exchange of information.  “We as a community failed to live up to the high standards
that MIT has set for itself in the past,” Abelson told
reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  