-- Itau Earnings Match Estimates as Loan Provisions Decline
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-07-30T20:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/itau-earnings-match-estimates-as-loan-provisions-decline.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA,  Latin
America ’s largest bank by market value, said second-quarter
profit rose 1 percent, matching analysts’ estimates as
provisions for bad loans declined 20 percent.  Recurring net income, which excludes one-time charges,
climbed to 3.62 billion reais ($1.6 billion), or 73 centavos a
share, from 3.59 billion reais, or 72 centavos, a year earlier,
the Sao Paulo-based bank said today in a  regulatory  filing. That
compared with the average estimate of 3.61 billion reais in a
Bloomberg  survey  of eight analysts.  Itau, led by Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal, 58,
reduced provisions as stricter lending standards lowered the
number of Brazilian borrowers paying their debts late. Loans at
least 90 days overdue, a signal of future write-offs, dropped to
3.4 percent nationwide in June, the lowest level since July
2011, the central bank  said  last week.  “Management has been positioning the bank for a slower-growth environment by reducing the risk profile of the loan
book,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts including  Mario Pierry  wrote
in a report to clients today. “Asset quality looks well under
control.”  Itau’s provisions dropped to 4.91 billion reais in the
second quarter from 6.14 billion reais a year earlier and 4.94
billion reais in the previous three months, according to the
filing. The lender expects to post provisions at the lower range
of its 2013 estimate of 19 billion reais to 22 billion reais,
Rogerio Calderon, an executive vice-president at the bank, told
reporters on a conference call today.  Lower Risk  The bank’s credit strategy is to focus on lending “with
lower risk and larger volume of guarantees,” the company said
in its earnings statement.  Itau’s delinquency rate declined to 4.2 percent in the
second quarter from 4.5 percent in the first quarter and 5.2
percent a year earlier. The book of loans expanded 8 percent to
467.5 billion reais from a year earlier. Itau cut its 2013
credit growth estimate to 8 percent to 11 percent from 11
percent to 14 percent.  “Delinquency rates will continue falling in the second
half, though the improvement will be at a slower pace,”
Calderon said on the call.  Itau rose 0.8 percent to 29.22 reais at 5:10 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , compared with a 1.3 percent drop for  Brazil ’s Ibovespa
benchmark index. The shares  fell  3.7 percent this year.  ‘Radical Change’  The company “implemented the most radical change in credit
mix toward more secure lending” among major Brazilian banks,
Banco Safra SA analysts including Francisco Kops wrote in a
report July 16.  Brazilian non-performing loans have peaked at Banco
Santander SA,  Spain ’s biggest lender, CEO Javier Marin said in a
webcast presentation today. Banco Bradesco SA, Latin America’s
second-biggest bank by market value, said last week that its
second-quarter provisions for bad loans declined 9.2 percent to
3.09 billion reais from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  