-- ITG Starts Posit Alert Trading in Mexico in Latin America
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-30T11:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/itg-starts-posit-alert-trading-in-mexico-in-latin-america.html
Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) ,
which in 1987 started one of the earliest U.S. venues for
matching stock orders away from an exchange, has expanded its
platform to  Mexico .  ITG’s Posit Alert will provide fully electronic bulk
trading in Mexico as the company expands the product into Latin
America, according to a press release today. Known as a block
crossing system, it will anonymously match large buy and sell
orders between money managers.  The move by ITG highlights efforts by U.S. trading firms to
expand into international markets as volume drops at home, with
the average daily number of shares traded falling to 6.4 billion
this year from about 9.8 billion in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mexico is the fourth new country for
Posit Alert in the past year, and New York-based ITG plans to
eventually offer the product in Brazil.  “We’re trying to complete every relevant global market,”
 Jamie Selway , managing director and head of electronic brokerage
and sales at ITG, said in a telephone interview.  Selway said there are about five more markets that ITG
would like to make available on the platform. ITG expects most
of the trading of Mexican stocks to be in companies in the
financial, basic material, energy and consumer cyclical
industries.  Dark Liquidity  Mexico permits trades of local companies’ shares to be
executed in the “dark,” or without revealing the identity of
the buyers and sellers. ITG said firms use POSIT Alert to
maximize their chances of finding liquidity and reduce the
market impact of their trades.  “It’s the only Latin American country to allow dark
liquidity to exist,” said Danielle Tierney, an analyst at
Boston-based Aite Group, in a phone interview. “The product to
first capture that need is going to be very important and will
have a foothold in the region.”  That foothold could help if  Brazil  changes its rules to
permit dark trading, said Tierney, though she added there are no
indications such changes are imminent.  Mexico is the second-largest stock market in Latin America,
with a total equity capitalization of $518.5 billion compared
with $973.7 billion in Brazil and $20.1 trillion in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexico’s IPC Index is
down 7.7 percent this year, compared with a 19 percent decline
in Brazil’s Ibovespa.  International Growth  Selway said ITG would like to expand Posit Alert to Brazil
once regulations allow. The company started Posit Alert for
 Indonesia  in August 2012,  Malaysia  in December and  Singapore  in
May. ITG  booked  about 64 percent of its revenue in the U.S. last
year, down from about 75 percent five years ago, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Posit Alert’s system matches institutions seeking to carry
out large trades, an increasingly rare occurrence in today’s
U.S. market where the average trade size is about 300 shares,
according to data from ITG. Average trade size on Posit Alert in
the U.S. was 32,000 shares in May, according Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. The Posit platform accounted for 0.73 percent of
average U.S. daily trading volume that month, said Rosenblatt,
and 30 percent of that volume was Posit Alert.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  