-- Lithuania GDP Gains 3.7% as No. 2 EU Growth Pace Set to Slow
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-07-30T13:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-30/lithuania-gdp-gains-3-7-as-no-2-eu-growth-pace-set-to-slow-1-.html
Lithuania ’s  economic  expansion fell
short of analysts’ estimates as the Baltic nation struggles to
maintain the European Union’s second-fastest growth pace.  Gross domestic product grew 3.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier after a 3.5 percent gain in the
previous three months, the  statistics office  in the capital,
Vilnius, said today by e-mail. The median estimate of four
economists in a Bloomberg survey was 4.2 percent. GDP rose a
seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent from the first quarter.  A slowdown may put at risk Lithuania’s goal of adopting the
euro in 2015 by complicating government efforts to reduce the
 budget deficit  below the required limit of 3 percent of GDP,
according to the central bank. Lithuania’s economy is on the
verge of deceleration as weak  consumer confidence  and investment
are compounding deteriorating demand in  Russia  and other key
export destinations in  Europe , according to DNB ASA and SEB AB.  “More challenges than opportunities loom,” Vilija Tauraite, SEB’s chief Lithuania economist in Vilnius, said by e-mail. “After outstanding results earlier, it’s getting harder
and harder to squeeze out more of the same growth.”  The yield on Lithuania’s euro-denominated bonds due 2018
rose to 2.634 percent from 2.602 percent at 2:10 p.m. in
Vilnius. The cost to insure state debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose two basis points to
126, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Euro Adoption  Lithuania is set to become the last of the three Baltic
countries to join the euro region, with  Estonia  making the
switch in 2011 and  Latvia  winning approval this month to become
the 18th country in the currency union on Jan. 1, 2014.  The  EU forecasts  the economies of Latvia, Lithuania and
Estonia this year will grow 3.8 percent, 3.1 percent and 3
percent, respectively, the fastest in the 28-member bloc. The
Baltic countries also led the EU in 2012 with expansions of 5.6
percent in Latvia, 3.7 percent in Lithuania and 3.2 percent in
Estonia.  “Lithuania’s expansion in the second half of this year
will be much slower,” Jekaterina Rojaka, DNB’s Baltic
economist, said by e-mail. “Last year’s record harvest is
unlikely to repeat, the base for export statistics is
unfavorable, domestic consumption is lethargic, the job market’s
clearly unbalanced and the investment drought is continuing.”  The Finance Ministry projects GDP growth will slow to 3
percent in 2013, while the central bank forecasts 2.8 percent
expansion.  The statistics office is due to release a breakdown of
second-quarter GDP data on Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  